 The benefits  
of diversification
2015
Annual Report & Accounts
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC Contents
01
 
Group overview
 02 Mining royalties explained
	 0 3	 A n g l o 	 P a c i fi c 	 a t 	 a 	 g l a n c e
 04 Our royalty portfolio
 06 Chairman’s statement
08
 
Strategic report
	 0 8	 C h i e f 	 E x e c u t i v e 	 O ffi c e r ’s 	 s t a t e m e n t
 10 Our strategy
 12 Market overview
 14 Our business model
 17 Business review
 26 Key performance indicators
 27 Financial review
 30 Principal risks and uncertainties
 34 Corporate social responsibility
36
 
Governance
 36 Corporate governance report
 37 The Board
 40 Nomination Committee
 41 Audit Committee
 44 Remuneration Committee
 45 Directors’ remuneration report
 59 Directors’ report
 61 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
62
 
Financial statements
 62 Independent auditor’s report
 65 Consolidated income statement
 66 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
 67 Consolidated and Company balance sheets
 68 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
 69 Company statement of changes in equity
	 70	 C o n s o l i d a t e d 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 o f 	 c a s h 	 fl o w s 	 a n d	
C o m p a n y 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 o f 	 c a s h 	 fl o w s	
	 71	 N o t e s 	 t o 	 t h e 	 c o n s o l i d a t e d 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s
107
 
Other information
107  Performance measures
107 Shareholder statistics
108 Directory Our aim
To develop as a leading international diversified royalty 
company with a portfolio centred on base metals and bulk 
materials.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC (‘Anglo Pacific’, the ‘Company’ or  
the ‘Group’) is the only listed company on the London Stock 
Exchange focused on royalties connected with the mining of 
natural resources. Our strategy is to build a diversified portfolio  
of royalties and metal streams, focusing on accelerating income 
growth through acquiring royalties in cash or near-term cash 
producing assets.
It is an objective of the Company to pay a substantial portion of 
these royalties and metal streams to shareholders as dividends.
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
GROUP OVERVIE W
01
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 A mining royalty is a non-operating interest in a mining project that 
provides the royalty holder with the right to a proportion of revenue, 
profit or production.
Historically, royalties originated as a result of the sale of a mineral 
property, allowing the seller to retain some ongoing economic 
participation in the property. However, an increasing number of 
royalties are now created directly by operators and developers as  
a source of finance. A royalty holder is not generally obligated to 
contribute towards operating or capital costs, nor environmental  
or reclamation liabilities.
Types of royalties
The Group’s royalties are mostly revenue or 
production-based royalties. Typically, these royalties 
are either Gross Revenue royalties or Net Smelter 
Return royalties, each of which can be described  
as follows: 
GRR : Gross Revenue royalty 
A GRR entitles the royalty holder to a fixed portion  
of the gross revenues generated from the sales of 
mineral production from a property. In calculating  
a GRR payment, deductions, if any, applied by the 
property owner to reduce the royalty payment are 
usually minimal, and GRRs are therefore the simplest 
form of royalty to account for and implement.
GRR examples in royalty portfolio on page 5
NSR : Net Smelter Return royalty
An NSR entitles the royalty holder to a fixed portion  
of the net revenues received from a smelter or refinery 
from the sales of mineral production from a property, 
after the deduction of certain offsite realisation costs. 
Typical realisation costs include those related to 
transportation, insurance, smelting and refining. These 
deductions are generally higher in base metals mines 
due to the semi-finished product, such as concentrate, 
often being produced at the mine site, when compared 
to precious metals mines, which produce a nearly-
finished product on site.
NSR examples in royalty portfolio on page 5
Primary versus secondary royalties
Primary royalties are entered into between a royalty 
company and the property owner directly, where the 
property owner grants a royalty to the royalty company 
in return for one or more up-front cash payments from 
the royalty company. In contrast, secondary royalties 
are existing royalties that are acquired from a third party 
with no payment made to the owner of the underlying 
property.
Metal Streams
A metal stream is an agreement that provides, in 
exchange for an upfront payment, the right to purchase 
all or a portion of one or more metals produced from a 
mine, at a price determined for the life of the stream. 
Streams, whilst providing similar outcomes for Anglo 
Pacific, are not royalties because they do not constitute 
an interest in land and there is an ongoing cash 
payment required to purchase the physical metal. 
However, a stream holder is not ordinarily required to 
contribute towards operating or capital costs, nor 
environmental or reclamation liabilities. 
GROUP OVERVIEW
Mining royalties explained 
02
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
FTSE 350 MINING INDE X VS ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP  
2010 - 2015
AFFORDABLE AND  
MAINTAINABLE DIVIDENDS
 
Anglo Pacific at a glance
 · Listing: London Stock Exchange (primary) and Toronto  
Stock Exchange (secondary)
 · 149% increase in royalty income in the year
 · 34.5% reduction in overheads in the year
 · 11 principal royalty assets across five continents
 · Over 82% of royalties by value, across five commodities, in production
 · Considerable production upside potential within the portfolio most  
noticeably with Narrabri and Salamanca
 · Net assets at December 31, 2015 of £162.0m
02.01.16 02.01.15 02.01.14 02.01.13 02.01.12 02.01.11 02.01.10
DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO OF ROYALTIES
COMMODIT Y E XPOSURE 
31/12/2015
Coking coal  48.4%
Thermal coal 24.5%
Iron ore  8.2%
Gold  8.2%
Uranium  2.3%
Other  8.5%
GEOGRAPHIC E XPOSURE 
31/12/2015
Australia  79.3%
Brazil 7.7%
Spain 3.6%
Canada 1.8%
Other  7.5%
Dividend per share 
(p)
0
50
100
150
200
Rebased  
to 100
11 12 13 14 15
9.75
10.20 10.20
8.45
7.00
STAGE OF PRODUCTION 
31/12/2015
Producing  82.8%
Development 2.4%
Early stage 14.8%
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
GROUP OVERVIE W
03
FTSE 350 Mining Anglo Pacific Group
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 GROUP OVERVIEW
Our royalty portfolio
PRODUCING
OUR AIM
To develop as a leading international 
diversified royalty company with  
a portfolio centred on base metals  
and bulk materials.
6 PRODUCING ROYALTIES
Over 82% of the royalty portfolio by  
value are in production and 93% of the 
portfolio are located in well established 
mining jurisdictions.
KESTREL
NARRABRI
MARACÁS MENCHEN
PILBARA
DUGBE 1
11
4
SALAMANCA
GROUNDHOG
6
3
OUR PRINCIPAL ROYALTIES
1
2
5
EL VALLE-BOINÁS/CARLÉS (‘EVBC’)
FOUR MILE
7
8
AMAPÁ & TUCANO
9
10
RING OF FIRE
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
04
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 DEVELOPMENT ROYALTIES
EARLY-STAGE ROYALTIES
PRODUCING
PRODUCING ROYALTIES
Royalty  Commodity Operator Location Royalty rate Balance sheet  
     and type classification
1
 
Kestrel  Coking coal  Rio Tinto Australia 7 – 15% GRR
 1
 Investment 
      property 
2
 
Narrabri Thermal &  Whitehaven Australia 1% GRR Royalty 
  PCI coal Coal   intangible
3
 
Maracás Vanadium Largo Brazil 2% NSR Royalty 
 Menchen  Resources   intangible
4
 
El Valle-  Gold, copper  Orvana  Spain 2.5 – 3% NSR
 2
 Royalty  
	 B o i ná s /C a r l é s	 &	 s i l ve r	 M i n e r al s	 	 	 	 fi na n ci al 
 (‘EVBC’)     instrument
5
 
Four Mile  Uranium Quasar Australia 1% NSR Royalty 
   Resources   intangible
6
 
Salamanca Uranium Berkeley Spain 1% NSR Royalty 
   Energia    intangible
7
 
Groundhog Anthracite Atrum Coal Canada 1% GRR or Royalty 
     US$1.00/t intangible
8
 
Amapá & Iron ore Zamin Ferrous Brazil 1% GRR
 3 
Royalty 
 Tucano  /Beadell   intangible 
   Resources
9
 
Pilbara Iron ore BHP Billiton Australia 1.5% GRR Royalty 
      intangible
10  Ring of Fire Chromite Cliffs Natural Canada 1% NSR Royalty  
   Resources    intangible
11  Dugbe 1 Gold Hummingbird Liberia 2 – 2.5% NSR
 4
 Loan
 5
 
   Resources
1. Kestrel: 7% of value up to A$100/tonne, 12.5% of the value over A$100/tonne and up to A$150/tonne, 15% thereafter.
2. EVBC: 2.5% escalates to 3% when the gold price is over US$1,100 per ounce.
3. Tucano: 1% GRR is only on iron ore and other non-precious metals (other than copper). The Company is also entitled to royalties  
over a number of concessions governed by a joint exploration agreement between Zamin and Beadell. The royalty rate for these  
royalties is either 0.7% or 1% depending on the concession.
4. Dugbe 1: 2% except where both the average gold price is above US$1,800 per ounce and sales of gold are less than 50,000 ounces,  
in which case it increases to 2.5% in respect of that quarter. 
5. This becomes a royalty upon the operator entering into a mineral development agreement with the government of Liberia.
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
GROUP OVERVIE W
05
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 GROUP OVERVIEW 
Chairman’s statement
Such growth could have been stronger but for the 
impact of continuing falls in commodity prices which 
directly affected our royalty income and led to certain 
non-cash impairments and revaluation adjustments 
totalling £32.5m (2014: £43.4m) leading to an overall 
loss before tax of £30.5m (2014: loss £42.4m).  
This resulted in a basic and diluted loss per share of 
14.06p (2014: 42.09p). Due to the large number of 
valuation and non-cash items included in the Income 
Statement, we also present an adjusted earnings 
measure as outlined in note 11 to the accounts.  
This measure more closely reflects the performance 
within management’s control. Adjusted earnings per 
share were 2.47p (2014: loss of 1.97p).
Dividends
Our review of our dividend policy twelve months  
ago, in conjunction with the Narrabri acquisition,  
was underpinned by financial projections based on 
consensus forward prices at the time. The subsequent 
volatility in commodity prices coupled with a significant 
reduction in the forward consensus pricing outlook, 
both of which are above and beyond what we had 
anticipated, have more than offset the benefits of a 
significant reduction in costs along with production 
outperformance at Narrabri. We stressed last year  
that a dividend policy had to be both affordable and 
appropriate and in the current circumstances believe 
an amended policy is necessary. Consequently, as 
advised in our trading update statement of January 28, 
2016, we are recommending a final dividend for the 
year ended December 31, 2015, of 3p per share.  
Longer term, however, we retain our target of paying 
dividends of at least 65% of adjusted earnings (as 
defined in note 11) with a medium term minimum 
annual dividend of 6p per share.
Royalty portfolio
In reviewing our current royalty portfolio, it is 
particularly encouraging to note that, despite the 
ongoing turmoil in the mining sector in general and 
commodity prices in particular, all of the Group’s 
royalties that were in production in 2014 remain in 
production and continue to generate royalty income. 
We are, all the more determined to ensure that any new 
royalty or streaming acquisition meets our exacting 
investment requirements, as described in our strategy 
on pages 10 to 11. This approach has resulted in no  
major acquisitions being made following Narrabri and 
many of the opportunities presented to us during the 
year being discarded. However, we are confident that 
more attractive opportunities will arise during 2016  
and beyond as the cost of capital in the sector 
continues to increase and the Group continues to 
progress a number of potential opportunities.
Details of our current portfolio are shown on  
pages 04 to 05. It is worth highlighting the particular 
performance of our Narrabri royalty. When the royalty 
was purchased permitted production levels were 
8Mtpa, and Whitehaven Coal, the operator, has now 
obtained permission to increase this to 11Mtpa and  
is ramping up production towards this higher level. 
Lower commodity prices did however reduce the 
carrying value of certain of the Group’s royalty assets  
in the period, although impairment charges of £4.4m 
were considerably lower than the £25.3m recognised in 
2014. The largest adjustment was to the carrying value 
of Kestrel which showed a valuation deficit of £27.2m  
as a result of revisions to long term coking coal prices, 
although there was a tax shield associated with this 
deficit of £8.2m.
2015 has seen the beginnings of a turnaround in the fortunes  
of Anglo Pacific. Our royalty income has doubled from £3.5m  
to £8.7m as our Narrabri acquisition contributes for the first time  
and mining at Kestrel begins to return to our royalty lands.  
This, coupled with a significant reduction in our operating expenses 
following a stringent review of our cost base, has led to a return  
to profitability at operating level with an operating profit of £2.1m 
(2014: operating loss £2.8m). 
06
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Board
2015 has seen further changes to the Board. As advised 
last year, Anthony Yadgaroff retired from the Board  
on December 31, 2015 after almost 13 years’ service.  
I should like to thank him again for his hard work, 
diligence and sage advice during that period. 
In anticipation of Anthony’s retirement, we appointed 
Patrick Meier to the Board on April 30, 2015. Patrick has 
over thirty years of experience in investment banking, 
most recently with RBC Capital Markets, with specialist 
knowledge of the mining sector. He has already had a 
significant impact on the workings of the Board.
Our Strategic Report
Our 2015 Strategic Report, from pages 08 to 35, was 
reviewed and approved by the Board on March 22, 2016.
Outlook
2016 onwards should be a period of sustained organic 
growth for Anglo Pacific as production at Kestrel moves 
increasingly into our royalty lands while that at Narrabri 
continues to ramp up towards the increased permitted 
levels. In addition, the continuing challenges facing the 
mining sector are bringing and will continue to bring 
further opportunities for the Group. We believe that our 
ability to be innovative and imaginative in our approach 
to these opportunities will bear fruit in the year ahead.
In conclusion, I should like to thank all Directors and 
staff for their continued diligence and hard work during 
what has been another challenging year.
W.M. Blyth
Chairman
March 22, 2016
PRODUCING PRODUCING
ROYALT Y INCOME MORE THAN  
DOUBLED IN 2015 
We have seen our royalty income more 
than double in the year as Narrabri 
contributes for the first time
ATTRACTIVE OPPORTUNITIES
The cost of capital in the industry 
continues to increase, which should 
present attractive opportunities
GROUP OVERVIE W
07
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Challenging environment
The mining sector continues to face difficult times 
which we have not been immune to over the previous 
year. However, Anglo Pacific remains well placed to 
acquire attractive new royalties. We have a good 
platform of five producing royalties with Kestrel, 
Narrabri, Maracás Menchen and EVBC providing 
improved royalty flows in 2015, together with Four Mile 
producing maiden royalty receipts in February 2016. 
Our royalty income grew strongly last year and we 
expect further significant growth during 2016 and 
beyond. We have a strong balance sheet with little debt 
and we continue to carefully monitor costs and make 
reductions wherever possible. We believe these 
challenging times for the mining sector will provide 
opportunities for the Company to identify attractive 
new royalties which will enhance the lifespan and 
diversity of our existing portfolio.
The Narrabri mine continues to perform well, with 
production for the year ending December 31, 2015 
reaching 8.3Mt, well in excess of the original design 
capacity of 6Mtpa. We are encouraged that Whitehaven 
Coal has recently received approval to increase 
production to 11Mtpa from 8Mtpa which should lead to 
increased royalty income from the mine despite 
reduced commodity prices. In addition, the potential to 
expand operations into Narrabri South provides further 
upside to this royalty. Additionally, during the past year 
production at Kestrel has increasingly moved into our 
royalty area and updated tonnage sales forecasts from 
Rio Tinto, which we receive as part of our information 
rights, confirm previous guidance that 60-65% of 
Kestrel coal production will be within the Group’s 
royalty area during 2016. This should lead us to report a 
further increase in royalty income in 2016.
Despite these positive aspects, we have not been 
immune to the declines which have beset commodity 
prices over the past year. Though our income grew, this 
growth would have been even more impressive had the 
price of thermal and coking coal not declined by 
between 15% and 25%. In addition, the indiscriminate 
selling which has affected commodity stocks has also 
impacted our share price, to an extent that we trade 
well below our net asset value per share, at a very high 
dividend yield. Ordinarily such a yield would suggest to 
the market a further dividend cut. However, we have 
now made the cuts we believe are necessary to protect 
our balance sheet at this time, subject to ongoing 
market conditions being relatively stable. 
Dividend levels
Provided prevailing market conditions are maintained 
and with further growth in royalty income expected 
throughout this year, we believe an annual dividend 
level of 6p per share going forward should be close to 
being covered during 2016 and covered in 2017. We 
hope that the market will recognise the 6p level as a 
base from which we will grow. It remains a continuing 
policy of the Company to pay a substantial proportion 
of royalties to shareholders as dividends, and our 
long-term target dividend continues to be 65% of 
adjusted earnings (as defined in note 11 to the financial 
statements).
Positioned to take advantage  
of opportunities
We recognise the attractive opportunities present in 
the market at this time and are determined not to let 
these prospects pass without obtaining some high 
quality, attractive royalties. However, the cost of equity 
remains too high at our current share price to access 
accretive deals funded entirely by equity. In contrast, 
our cost of debt remains significantly lower which will 
enable the Group to complete smaller acquisitions as 
they arise. 
We are very mindful of the risks of debt in a highly 
cyclical industry; however, at times like this, nearer the 
bottom of the commodity price cycle than at the top, 
sensible use of debt is appropriate. Accordingly we 
expect to utilise our borrowing facilities in the first 
instance to finance acquisitions and where the 
opportunities are larger, we anticipate syndicating 
these investments with third parties in return for royalty 
and fee related income, or a mixture of both. We have 
been progressing such discussions for many months 
and a number of supportive institutional investors have 
expressed interest in funding larger deals.
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
08
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
I am pleased to report that, following completion of the Narrabri 
royalty acquisition in early 2015, the Group has experienced strong 
growth in royalty income during 2015 which it expects to continue 
during 2016. We believe the Group’s strategy is now beginning to 
bear fruit. We are now seeing investment opportunities with well 
positioned counterparties which have not been as 
freely available in recent years. The cost of capital in the 
mining space has risen, suggesting that counterparties 
may be more willing to engage with us at the returns we 
require, rather than pursuing the traditional equity and 
debt options. 2015 has seen several measures being 
announced by mining operators to strengthen their 
balance sheets. Streaming, in particular, has been a 
popular source of finance as conventional capital 
markets remain subdued. We believe that this trend  
is likely to continue in the short term to enable 
refinancing and in the longer term to facilitate growth. 
Alternative financing has the added benefit of reducing 
onerous compliance testing and reporting, which is 
attractive when attempting to reduce gearing levels 
and maintaining credit ratings. 
Upside exposure
Though we have had significant write-downs over 
recent years, we wish to highlight the important upside 
contained in the portfolio that is not reflected in its 
reported carrying value, as an increasing portion of our 
assets are not held at fair value. A key criteria we look 
for when acquiring royalties is the upside potential.  
This can take the form of accelerated production, as is 
occurring at Narrabri, or an increase in reserves and 
resources, as has occurred at Salamanca. Both of these 
events have the potential to increase the value of the 
underlying royalty. 
Outlook
Coal
A continuing concern for Anglo Pacific over the past 
year has been the negative sentiment associated with 
coal. Despite some perceptions in the UK, we believe 
that many countries, particularly in south-east Asia, will 
continue to rely on coal to fuel their growth. It is far 
more realistic to push for cleaner, high quality, less-
polluting coals than adopting a broadly held negative 
attitude towards all coal. I am pleased to report that  
this is precisely the area we had targeted for royalty 
exposure. Narrabri produces some of the cleanest  
and lowest polluting coal with low ash content which 
attracts a premium compared to the benchmark, 
precisely for these virtues. That said, we remain keen  
to reduce our overall coal exposure, unless we can 
generate very high returns, and we have identified 
uranium as an alternative commodity to coal on the 
energy side. We already have two uranium royalties 
within our portfolio and see this as a preferred 
commodity under our investment criteria.
Costs
Cost reductions have been a major focus in this new era 
for the mining sector and we recognise this new reality. 
Our central costs have always been relatively low as the 
business operates from a small single office with 11 
employees. We are pleased that we have been able to 
reduce the Company’s year-on-year costs, excluding 
provisions for non-cash share based payments, by 
34.5% from £4.9m in 2014 to £3.2m in 2015. On an 
inflation adjusted basis, we believe our costs are roughly 
unchanged over five years. Anglo Pacific operates on a 
very conservative basis and we continue to have the 
capacity to run a much larger portfolio with the current 
infrastructure.
Currency
As a result of our main sources of royalty income being 
received in Australian dollars which require translation 
to pounds, the continued weakening of the Australian 
dollar against the pound over the past two years has 
had an unfavourable impact on the Group’s reported 
income. 2016 has seen a weakening of the pound, 
which if sustained should benefit the Group’s results  
in 2016. 
Growth
Following payment of the interim dividend in February 
2016, the Group currently has over £4.0m in cash and 
headroom under our revolving credit facility subject to 
continued covenant compliance and our facility terms 
(as per note 23). Although we do not expect a rapid 
turnaround in the sector in the foreseeable future, we 
are beginning to see opportunities due to protracted 
periods of subdued capital markets in the mining 
sector. Despite the considerable capital outflows 
recently seen from the sector, we are actively seeking 
to deploy capital in a countercyclical fashion to take 
advantage of the current favourable market conditions. 
J.A. Treger
Chief Executive Officer
March 22, 2016
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
09
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 During 2015, the Group continued to progress towards achieving its 
strategy through the completion of the Narrabri royalty acquisition  
and identification of a number of royalty and streaming opportunities  
to pursue in 2016 that fit our stringent investment criteria.
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our strategy
AIM
To develop as a leading international diversified royalty 
company with a portfolio centred on income producing 
base metals and bulk materials royalties and streams
Achieving our aim through the acquisition of both primary 
and secondary royalties, together with metal streams
STR ATEGY
Executing the strategy will result in additional cash 
producing royalties, a substantial proportion of whose 
cash flows will be paid to shareholders as dividends
GOAL
Achieving strategy 
through acquisitions 
which satisfy these 
criteria
• Established natural resources jurisdictions
• Long-life assets
• High-quality and low-cost assets
• Near-term producing assets
• Production and exploration upside potential
• Strong operational management teams
• Diversification of royalty portfolio
CRITERIA
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
10 ESTABLISHED NATURAL RESOURCES  
JURISDICTIONS
The Group continues to review potential 
business opportunities globally and in 
order to manage its risk profile, intends  
to focus predominantly on mines in 
established, relatively low-risk mining 
jurisdictions, primarily those in North 
America, South America, Europe and 
Australia. As at December 31, 2015,  
92.5% of the Group’s existing assets  
were based in such jurisdictions.
LONG-LIFE ASSETS
Long mine life assets can provide long-
term revenue, which in turn can 
contribute to ensuring that acquisitions to 
replace depleted royalties and maintain 
cash flows are not required on a regular 
basis. Three of the royalties in the Group’s 
existing portfolio are over mines that have 
reserves of 20 years or more.
HIGH-QUALIT Y AND LOW-COST ASSETS
The Group is also focused on ensuring that 
new royalties are over high-quality and 
low-cost operations. This helps ensure 
longevity of cash flows by reducing the 
risk of mining operations ceasing to be 
economically viable. Within its existing 
portfolio, the Group has exposure to low 
cash cost assets in the Kestrel and 
Narrabri mines. Both Kestrel and Narrabri 
operate in the lowest quartile on the cost 
curve in comparison to similar mines. 
NEAR-TERM PRODUCING ASSETS
The Group is seeking to grow its royalty 
income beyond the existing organic 
growth profile of its current royalty 
portfolio by investing in producing or 
near-term producing assets.
PRODUCTION AND E XPLORATION  
UPSIDE POTENTIAL
The Group seeks to acquire royalties 
where it may benefit from improvements 
made to the scale of mining operations. 
Any increases in production can result in 
higher royalty payments, without 
requiring the Group to contribute to the 
cost of expanding or optimising the 
operation. Royalties can also benefit from 
exploration successes that lead to 
enlarged economic reserves. Increased 
reserves can extend a mine’s life or 
facilitate an expansion of the existing 
operations, potentially providing higher 
revenue over a longer period.
STRONG OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT  
TE AMS
Strong operational management teams 
are integral to delivering a successful 
project and to optimising the value of a 
mine and, therefore, a royalty or stream. 
The Group’s current royalty portfolio 
includes mines operated by highly 
experienced management teams.
DIVERSIFICATION OF ROYALT Y  
PORTFOLIO
The Group is seeking to build a diversified 
portfolio of royalties across a variety of 
different commodities and geographic 
locations to reduce dependency on its 
cornerstone royalty, Kestrel.
The Group’s target portfolio would result 
in an increased exposure across various 
base metals and bulk materials. The Group 
may also selectively pursue royalties in 
energy commodities, such as uranium and 
oil and gas, as well as other commodities, 
such as platinum group metals and 
precious stones.
THE GROUP’S INVESTMENT CRITERIA E XPL AINED...
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
11 STRATEGIC REPORT 
Market overview
The Directors believe 
that protracted 
periods of subdued 
capital markets 
financing activity, 
against the backdrop 
of a low commodity 
price environment, 
have led to materially 
increased demand 
for alternative 
sources of financing, 
including royalty and 
stream financing. 
2015 proved to be a challenging 
period for the global metals and 
mining industry as commodity 
prices continued to decline and, as 
a result, accessing capital via the 
conventional channels of equity 
and debt remained difficult for the 
industry as a whole. 
Global mining equity issuance 
during 2015, was around 
US$20.0bn, representing just  
40% of 2010 issuance levels.  
Equity financing has become an 
increasingly scarce and dilutive 
option. The 48.6% decline of the 
FTSE 350 Mining Index in 2015 
highlights the impact that the low 
commodity price environment has 
had not only on the smaller cap 
mining companies, but also on the 
largest global mining operators. 
Many of these companies have 
recently announced balance sheet 
strengthening initiatives in an  
effort to reduce gearing levels  
and protect credit ratings. 
Metals and mining debt financing 
transactions have also proved 
challenging in recent years, and 
have become increasingly 
characterised by companies 
undertaking balance sheet 
strengthening measures. Most of 
the debt issuances in 2015 were to 
refinance or restructure existing 
debt, resulting in few new sources 
of finance. Notably, the Bloomberg 
World Mining Index net debt to 
EBITDA ratio rose from 1.8x on 
December 31, 2014, to 4.1x one year 
later. The Company believes this 
significant rise serves to underline 
the necessity of debt reduction 
measures as cash flow becomes 
increasingly constrained across  
the industry. This is demonstrated 
by investment grade metals  
and mining debt issuance of 
approximately US$18.5bn in 2015, 
which is roughly half of the five-year 
high of US$35.3bn raised in 2012. 
Mining equity issuances
(US$ billions)  
Source: Dealogic
Mining high yield bond 
issuances
(US$ billions)  
Source: Dealogic
11 12 13 14 15
15.3
13.3
7.1
8.3
6.2
40.1
19.8
16.4
17.0
11 12 13 14 15
20.3
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
12
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 2015 was a record year for streaming transactions, with the trend 
continuing in the first quarter of 2016
Announcement date  Buyer Vendor Asset Upfront Proceeds 
    (US$ million)
February 26, 2016 Franco Nevada Glencore Antapaccay $500
November 3, 2015 Silver Wheaton Glencore Antamina $900m
October 7, 2015 Franco Nevada Teck Resources Antamina $610m
August 5, 2015 Royal Gold Barrick Gold Pueblo Viejo $610m
July 9, 2015 Royal Gold Teck Resources Carmen de Andacollo $525m
March 2, 2015 Silver Wheaton Vale Salobo $900m
Financing provided by the royalty 
and streaming industry has grown 
considerably in recent years. In 
2015, the role of royalties and 
streams as an alternative financing 
source has gained prominence 
against the backdrop of reduced 
access to capital from more 
traditional sources such as the 
public equity, public debt and bank 
lending markets. During 2015, more 
than double the number of royalty 
and streaming transactions were 
announced relative to 2014 with 
the total transaction value 
increasing by more than 300% from 
approximately US$1.2bn to 
approximately US$4.8bn. Notably, 
six transactions with upfront 
proceeds greater than US$500.0m 
were announced during the past 
twelve months, highlighted in the 
table below, primarily as a result of 
major mining companies 
monetising precious metals 
by-product streams from core 
operations. 
Almost all of the royalty and 
streaming transactions announced 
recently were related to precious 
metals, highlighting the industry’s 
continued focus on 
disproportionately channelling 
investments into this segment. With 
a number of companies currently 
rumoured to be running streaming 
processes, the major streaming 
companies may struggle to meet all 
of the demand in the market. This 
has the potential to increase the 
range of opportunities available to 
Anglo Pacific as companies in need 
of financing may have to look 
outside of the traditional precious 
metals segment in order to attract a 
greater set of buyers. 
The most recent of these 
transactions was the US$500.0m 
gold and silver stream with 
Glencore announced by Franco 
Nevada, which some commentators 
believe resulted in an internal rate 
of return close to 10%, almost 
double the average return that 
streaming companies have been 
obtaining. This transaction and 
those completed in 2015 
demonstrate, in our view, the 
increasing cost of capital in the 
mining sector in general and 
perhaps also indicate a scarcity of 
capital in the precious metals 
streaming space.
With the major streaming 
companies likely to remain focused 
on competing for the larger 
precious metals royalties and 
streams, Anglo Pacific should be in 
a good position to compete for 
non-precious royalties and streams, 
potentially generating higher yields 
than have traditionally been seen 
on precious royalties.
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
13
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT
Our business model
Lower risk through 
top-line, revenue 
participation in 
mining companies 
Lower volatility 
through commodity 
and geographic 
diversification 
Exposure to 
increases in 
mineral reserves 
and production 
Exposure to 
commodity price 
upside
Creating value for our 
shareholders
GENERATING LONG-TERM CASH RETURNS
The Group is seeking to grow its 
portfolio of cash-generative royalties 
and streams by investing in producing  
or near-term producing assets with long 
mine lives. Given the relatively low 
overhead requirements of the business, 
the Group believes cash flow to 
shareholders can be maximised through 
economies of scale, which would allow 
for growth in the portfolio without 
significantly increasing our cost base.
Revenue-based royalties limit the Group’s direct exposure to 
operating or capital cost inflation of the underlying mine 
operations, as there is no ongoing requirement for the Group to 
contribute to capital, exploration, environmental or other operating 
costs at mine sites. 
The Group is seeking to build a diversified portfolio of royalties 
across a variety of different commodities and geographic locations. 
Investing in royalties across a wide spectrum of commodities and 
jurisdictions reduces the dependency on any one asset or location 
and any corresponding cyclicality. A fully diversified portfolio can 
help to reduce the level of income volatility, stabilising cash flows 
which contribute towards investment and dividend payments.
Royalty holders generally benefit from improvements made to the 
scale of a mining operation. Exploration success, or lower cut-off 
grades as a result of rising commodity prices, can serve to increase 
economic reserves and resources. Increased reserves will extend a 
mine’s life, or facilitate an expansion of the existing operations. Any 
subsequent increases in production will generally result in higher 
royalty payments, without the requirement of the royalty holder to 
contribute to the cost of expanding or optimising the operation. 
Royalties and streams provide exposure to underlying commodity 
prices. The Group expects to benefit from a rising commodity  
price environment, with the upside feeding through to increased 
royalty receipts.
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
14
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Creating value for our 
counterparties
Source of liquidity 
for holders of 
existing royalties
We serve as a 
partner to the 
mine operator 
An alternative  
form of financing  
to conventional 
equity, which can 
be an expensive 
form of finance
Flexible financing 
structures to suit 
the mine operator, 
often structured  
as non-debt 
instruments, 
therefore do not 
impact on credit 
ratings
PRIMARY ROYALTIES
SECONDARY ROYALTIES
VALUE 
CREATION
PARTNERS
Royalties and streams reduce the upfront 
capital required to fund the development 
of a project. These are generally 
structured as asset (or even by-product) 
specific, often leaving the remaining 
assets of the operator unencumbered  
for raising additional finance.  
Compared to the issuance of new equity, royalties and streams  
do not depend on the prevailing state of the capital markets but  
are rather the result of bilateral negotiations. The issuance of new 
equity can also serve to dilute existing shareholders, particularly 
during periods of depressed share prices. Furthermore, as royalties 
and steams are asset specific, the reduction in the upside for 
existing shareholders can be limited to a certain mine or product.  
Royalties and streams do not typically levy interest, nor do they 
typically require principal repayments or have a maturity date.  
More importantly, unlike conventional debt arrangements where 
interest payments tend to start immediately or are capitalised until 
cash payments can be made from a project’s cash flow, most 
royalties are payable only once the project comes into production 
and is generating sales. In addition, many forms of debt, such as 
project finance, include restrictive covenants and may require 
commodity price hedges to be put in place. These are not only 
typically costly in terms of fees, but can also limit the miner’s 
exposure to upside in the prices of their core commodities. 
The value of a royalty is realised over the duration of the mine life. 
Often royalty owners may have a need to free up cash in order  
to recycle capital. There is a limited secondary market for royalties 
and Anglo Pacific can be a source of valuable liquidity for private 
royalty holders.
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR COUNTERPARTIES
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
15
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 PRODUCING
INCREASED ROYALT Y PRODUCTION
Despite the difficulties faced by the 
wider mining industry, all of our 
income generating royalties remain 
in production.
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
16 STRATEGIC REPORT
Business review
Producing royalties 
Kestrel, Coking coal, Australia 
What we own
Kestrel is an underground coal mine located in the Bowen Basin, Queensland, 
Australia. It is operated by Rio Tinto Limited (‘Rio Tinto’). The Group owns 50% of 
certain sub-stratum lands which, under Queensland law, entitle it to coal royalty 
receipts from the Kestrel mine. 
The royalty rate to which the Group is presently entitled is prescribed by the 
Queensland Mineral Resources Regulations. These regulations currently stipulate 
that the basis of calculation is a three-tiered fixed percentage of the invoiced value  
of the coal as follows:
Average price per tonne for period  Rate
Up to and including A$100  7%
Over A$100 and up to and including A$150 First A$100  7% 
  Balance  12.5%
More than A$150 First A$100  7% 
  Next A$50  12.5% 
  Balance  15%
Performance
The Group received royalty income of £3.6m from Kestrel during 2015, compared  
to £1.7m in 2014. The significant increase in royalty income in 2015 was due to 
increased Kestrel production within the Group’s private royalty land.
In accordance with Anglo Pacific’s Kestrel information rights, the Group estimates 
that 60-65% of mining at Kestrel will be within our royalty lands during 2016 (H1 
2016: 30-35% and H2 2016: 85-90%), increasing to over 90% during 2017.
Valuation
The Kestrel royalty was independently valued at A$167.6m (£82.6m) and accounts  
for 42% of the Group’s total assets as at December 31, 2015 (2014: A$223.0m; 
£117.1m; 59%). The value of the land is calculated by reference to the discounted 
expected royalty income from mining activity, using a discount rate of 7%.
The independent valuation has been undertaken by a Competent Person in 
accordance with the Valmin Code (AusIMM, 2005), which provides guidelines for  
the preparation of independent expert valuation reports. The Group monitors the 
accuracy of this valuation by comparing the actual cash received to that forecasted.
The fall in fair value is largely due to the decline in coking coal prices, partially offset 
by a weakening of the Australian dollar.
Brisbane
Rockhampton
Townsville
Cairns
KESTREL
Q U E E N S L A N D
Coal royalty valuation
£m
Coal royalty income
£m
11 12 13 14 15
166.0
171.0
131.4
117.1
82.6
11 12 13 14 15
32.0
11.0
9.9
1.7
3.6
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
17
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Brisbane
Sydney
Canberra
Newcastle
N E W S O U T H
Q U E E N S L A N D
W A L E S
NARRABRI
Salvador
Petrolina
Vitória de
Conquista
MARACÁS PROJECT
S T A T E O F B A H I A
B
R
A
Z
I
L
STRATEGIC REPORT
Business review
continued
Narrabri North  
Longwalls
Area already 
mined
NARRABRI 
SOUTH 
POTENTIAL 
EXPANSION 
AREA
Producing royalties 
continued 
Narrabri, Thermal Coal, Australia 
What we own
In March 2015, the Group acquired a royalty interest in the Narrabri coal project,  
a low cost thermal coal and pulverised coal injection (‘PCI’) coal mine located in  
New South Wales, Australia, operated by ASX-listed Whitehaven Coal Limited 
(‘Whitehaven’). The Narrabri royalty entitles the Group to royalty payments equal  
to 1% of gross revenue on all coal produced from within the area covered by  
the Narrabri royalty. The Narrabri royalty includes the Narrabri mine, and the  
Narrabri South project.
The Narrabri mine has scope to materially increase production over the short  
and medium term. Whitehaven estimates Narrabri to have a reserve based  
mine life of 25 years, and the potential to extend production thereafter with the 
development of Narrabri South.
Performance
Under the terms of the royalty sale agreement, the Group was entitled to all royalties 
from January 1, 2015, and as a result the Group received royalty income of £3.2m 
during 2015 from Narrabri. During the calendar year 2015, Narrabri set an annual 
production record of 8.3Mt run of mine (‘ROM’). 
On December 10, 2015, Whitehaven announced that the New South Wales 
Government’s Department of Planning and Environment had granted Whitehaven 
approval to increase annual production from 8Mtpa to 11Mtpa, and to install a  
400 metre wide longwall face at the Narrabri mine. The 400 metre wide longwall  
face is expected to initially increase ROM coal production by an estimated 750Ktpa.  
The first 400 metre wide longwall panel is expected to come into production in  
the first half of calendar year 2017.
On February 5, 2016, Whitehaven announced it intends to extend the Narrabri  
North longwall panels in the Narrabri South area, and that work to integrate Narrabri 
South into existing operations at Narrabri North had commenced. This has the 
potential to significantly increase Narrabri North’s mine life beyond current 
Whitehaven estimates of 25 years. Drilling to convert Narrabri South resources to 
reserves is scheduled to occur during Whitehaven’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2017.
Valuation
The Narrabri royalty is classified as a royalty intangible asset on the balance sheet.  
As such, this asset is carried at cost less amortisation and impairments and does not 
benefit from any valuation uplift resulting from the positive developments in the year 
as described above. Royalty intangible assets are amortised when commercial 
production commences, on a straight line basis over the expected life of the mine.
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
18
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Salvador
Petrolina
Vitória de
Conquista
MARACÁS PROJECT
S T A T E O F B A H I A
B
R
A
Z
I
L
Maracás Menchen, Vanadium, Brazil
What we own
The Group has a 2% NSR royalty on all mineral products sold from the area of  
the Maracás Menchen project to which the royalty interest relates. The project is 
located 250km south-west of the city of Salvador, the capital of Bahia State, Brazil 
and is 99.97% owned and operated by TSX Venture Exchange listed Largo Resources 
Limited (‘Largo’). 
Performance
The Group received its maiden royalty receipts from Maracás Menchen in Q1 2015, 
following the commencement of vanadium pentoxide (‘V
2
O
5
’) production on August 
2, 2014. Largo continued to ramp up production at the Maracás Menchen mine 
towards nameplate production capacity of 9,634t of V
2
O
5
 per annum throughout 
2015, resulting in royalty income of £0.6m for the Group, from production of 5,840t 
of V
2
O
5
 for the year ended December 31, 2015.
Largo announced that it had achieved commercial production on October 1, 2015, 
and also achieved new daily production records in Q3 2015 of 27t and 29t of V
2
O
5
, 
representing 102% and 110% of nameplate capacity respectively. Despite these 
records, Largo announced that it is undertaking several critical optimisation projects 
on the plant aimed at addressing ongoing variances in daily production rates, such 
that production capacity is achieved more consistently.
Largo has issued guidance for 2016 production levels of between 9,195t and 10,195t 
of V
2
O
5
. Under the terms of the royalty sale agreement, the Group is required to  
pay a further US$1.5m once production reaches an annualised rate over a quarter of 
9,500t. Given the production guidance issued by Largo, the Directors consider it 
probable that this production milestone will be achieved possibly in the next 18 to  
24 months and as such the Group has recognised both an asset and corresponding 
liability for this additional payment, as set out in note 25 to the financial statements.  
A further payment of US$1.5m would be payable if production reaches an annualised 
rate over a quarter of 12,000t, however, based on the current guidance the Directors 
do not consider this probable and as such no liability has been recognised.
Valuation
The Maracás Menchen royalty is classified as a royalty intangible asset on the balance 
sheet. As such, this asset is carried at cost less amortisation and impairments. Royalty 
intangible assets are amortised when commercial production commences, on a 
straight line basis over the expected life of the mine.
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
19
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Madrid
Cáceres
Zamora
SALAMANCA
S
P
A
I
N
Bilbao
Santander
León
Gijón Aviles
S
P
A
I N
EL VALLEBOINÁS/CARLÉS
STRATEGIC REPORT
Business review
continued
Producing royalties 
continued 
El Valle-Boinàs/Carlés (‘EVBC’), Gold, Copper  
and Silver, Spain 
What we own
The Group has a 2.5% life of mine NSR royalty on the EVBC gold, copper and silver 
mine owned by TSX-listed Orvana Minerals Corp (‘Orvana’). EVBC is located in the  
Rio Narcea Gold Belt of northern Spain and was previously mined from 1997 to 2006 
by Rio Narcea Gold Mines. The royalty rate increases to 3% when the gold price is 
over US$1,100 per ounce.
Performance
The Group received royalty income of £1.2m from EVBC during the past year.  
This compares to £1.7m received in 2014. 
On December 18, 2015, Orvana announced EVBC production for the 12 month 
period ending September 30, 2015 of 53,733oz of gold (2014: 62,957oz), 166,744oz 
of silver (2014: 156,977oz) and 6.1Mlbs of copper (2014: 5.6Mlbs). Orvana also 
announced EVBC production guidance for the 12 month period ending September 
30, 2016, of 43,000oz to 48,000oz of gold, 120,000oz to 130,000oz of silver, and 
4.5Mlbs to 5.0Mlbs of copper. 
During 2015, production at the El Valle mine was impacted by a number of challenges 
including dewatering, power and maintenance issues together with a transition from 
contractor mining to owner/operator mining. However from August 2015 onwards, 
the production level at El Valle reached previously achieved production and 
development rates. Orvana continues to focus on productivity improvements, 
infrastructure upgrades and costs reductions at the mine and expects to implement 
solutions to some of the on-going challenges the mines faces during its fiscal year 
2016 (ending September 30).
At the end of February 2015, the Carlés mine was placed on care and maintenance. 
Orvana has stated its intention to leave the Carlés mine on care and maintenance 
while it reviews alternative mining methods, or until the price of gold becomes more 
sustainable for the mine. 
On February 3, 2016, Orvana announced its FY2016 first quarter production results 
for EVBC. The mine produced 13,893oz of gold (Q1 FY2015:15,276oz), 1.2Mlbs of 
copper (Q1 FY2015: 1.85Mlbs) and 43,431oz of silver (Q1 FY2015: 43,946oz).
On February 3, 2016, Orvana announced a new Mineral Resource at the Villar  
Zone of the El Valle mine, and at the nearby La Brueva Zone, in-line with Orvana’s 
previously announced plans to increase the EVBC Reserves and Resource estimates. 
Valuation
The EVBC royalty is classified as an available-for-sale equity financial asset within 
royalty financial instruments on the balance sheet. As such, the asset is carried  
at fair value by reference to the discounted expected future cash flows over the life  
of the mine. 11 12 13 14
0.6
1.6
4.0
1.7
1.2
15
EVBC Royalty Income
£m
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
20
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Madrid
Cáceres
Zamora
SALAMANCA
S
P
A
I
N
Adelaide
Port Augusta
S O U T H A U S T R A L I A
FOUR MILE
Four Mile, Uranium, Australia
What we own
The Group has a 1% life of mine NSR royalty on the Four Mile uranium mine in South 
Australia. Four Mile is operated by Quasar Resources Pty Ltd (‘Quasar’). 
Performance
The Four Mile uranium mine was previously a joint venture between Quasar (75%) 
and ASX-listed Alliance Resources Limited (‘Alliance’). On September 18, 2015, 
Alliance announced the completion of the sale of its 25% interest in the joint venture 
to Quasar. 
Production commenced at Four Mile in 2014 with the intention to produce 2.8Mlbs  
of uranium ore concentrates in 2015. All production in 2014 and 2015 was stockpiled.  
As a result, the Group did not receive any royalty income from Four Mile in 2015.
In February 2016, the Group received maiden royalty receipts of £0.1m from Four 
Mile, following the commencement of sales by Quasar.
Valuation
The Four Mile royalty is classified as a royalty intangible asset on the balance sheet. 
As such, this asset is carried at cost less amortisation and impairments. Royalty 
intangible assets are amortised when commercial production commences, on a 
straight line basis over the expected life of the mine.
Development royalties
Salamanca, Uranium, Spain
What we own
The Group has a 1% life of mine NSR royalty on the Salamanca uranium project located 
in Spain and operated by ASX-listed Berkeley Energia Limited (‘Berkeley’). The project 
consists of four main deposits (Retortillo, Alameda, Zona 7 and Gambuta) and is 
located in the Salamanca Province, Spain, approximately 250km west of Madrid.
Performance
On July 20, 2015, Berkeley announced that the Nuclear Safety Council had issued a 
favourable report for the grant of the Initial Authorisation of the proposed process 
plant to be built at Retortillo, as a radioactive facility, the first in a three-step process 
required to authorise the plant for operation. On October 21, 2015, Berkeley 
announced the receipt of all the European Union, National, Regional and Provincial 
level approvals required for the initial infrastructure development of the Salamanca 
project. These represent major milestones in advancing the project towards first 
production, with the Environmental License and the Mining License already granted 
at the Retortillo deposit.
On October 7, 2015, Berkeley announced that following an infill drill program at Zona 
7, the mineral resource estimate for Zona 7 was updated for an increase in resource 
grade, an increase in resource pounds and the upgrade of almost 90% of the Inferred 
Resource to the Indicated category.
On November 4, 2015, Berkeley announced an updated pre-feasibility study (‘PFS’) 
on the Salamanca project that now includes the updated Zona 7 deposit. Its inclusion 
in the updated PFS has increased the mine life from 11 to 18 years and reduced 
operating costs from US$24.60 to US$15.60 per pound of uranium produced during 
steady state operations, which should make it amongst the lowest cost producers in 
the world, once developed. 
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
21
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Vancouver
B R I T I S H C O L U M B I A
Stewart
Prince George
Edmonton
GROUNDHOG
During 2016, Berkeley expects to conduct additional exploration drilling at 
Salamanca to test a number of drill targets located within 10km of the approved 
processing facility and where historical drilling has intersected high grades of 
uranium without being fully advanced.
Valuation
The Salamanca royalty is classified as a royalty intangible asset on the balance  
sheet. As such, this asset is carried at cost less amortisation and impairments.  
Royalty intangible assets are amortised when commercial production commences, 
on a straight line basis over the expected life of the mine.
Groundhog, Anthracite, Canada
What we own
The Group retained a royalty on the Groundhog anthracite project located in 
north-west British Columbia, Canada, following its disposal of the related mining 
licenses in 2014 to the project’s operator, ASX-listed, Atrum Coal NL (‘Atrum’).  
The royalty entitles the Group to the higher of 1% of gross revenue on a mine  
gate basis or US$1.00/t from coal sales.
Performance
In 2014, Atrum announced the results of a Supplementary PFS for a 5.4Mtpa ROM 
underground mine. Based on inputs on pricing from Wood Mackenzie, the project 
generated a post-tax NPV10 (nominal) of approximately A$1.7b, on a capex of 
US$596m and FOB production cost including royalties of US$86/t.
Exploration activities in 2015 focussed on consolidating knowledge of the two key 
economic targets, Discovery B seam and the lower, Duke E seam. Atrum is currently 
finalising a new PFS study which includes underground mines in these target 
horizons, and low cost highwall options.
Atrum announced on February 26, 2015, that it had signed non-binding 
memorandums of understanding for offtake with Japanese counterparties for 
anthracite produced from the Groundhog North Mining Complex. In March 2015, 
Atrum signed a binding equipment finance agreement with China Coal Technology  
& Engineering Group Corp (‘CCTEG’) for the supply and finance of anthracite mining 
equipment to facilitate development at the Groundhog North project. Stage one of 
the equipment finance package is valued at US$100m and includes the supply of 
mining equipment required to complete the initial small scale mine and subsequent 
mine wall development for the full scale mine.
Valuation
The Groundhog royalty is classified as a royalty intangible asset on the balance  
sheet. As such, this asset is carried at cost less amortisation and impairments.  
Royalty intangible assets are amortised when commercial production commences, 
on a straight line basis over the expected life of the mine.
STRATEGIC REPORT
Business review
continued
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
22
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Vancouver
B R I T I S H C O L U M B I A
Stewart
Prince George
Edmonton
GROUNDHOG
Salvador
Recife
São Luís
Belém
AMAPÁ  TUCANO
B R A Z I L
Amapà & Tucano, Iron Ore, Brazil
What we own
Amapá
The Group has a 1% life of mine GRR on all iron ore and other non-precious minerals 
produced from the Amapá Iron Ore System (‘Amapá’) in northern Brazil, owned and 
operated by Zamin Ferrous Limited ('Zamin'). Amapá consists of the mine in Pedra 
Branca do Amapári and the port in Santana, which are linked by a railway. The mine 
has not resumed commercial production since it was suspended in mid-2013 
following the port incident. Prior to production being suspended it was producing  
a mix of sinter feed, pellet feed and spiral concentrates. 
Tucano
The Group has a 1% life of mine GRR on all iron ore and other non-precious metals 
(other than copper) produced from the Tucano project, owned by ASX-listed Beadell 
Resources Limited (‘Beadell’). Tucano was acquired by Beadell in 2010 and is located 
adjacent to Amapá in northern Brazil. Tucano is focused on gold mining, with first 
gold being poured in 2012. However, it also has the capacity to produce an iron ore 
concentrate from the tailings created by its gold processing plant. Any iron ore 
produced can be sold to Zamin pursuant to an off-take agreement for 500Ktpa of 
~65% Fe concentrate.
The Group is also entitled to royalties over a number of concessions governed by  
a joint exploration arrangement between Zamin and Beadell.
Performance
Operations at Amapá remained suspended throughout 2015, with Zamin attempting 
to restructure its finances to fund the rebuilding of the Santana port. In light of the 
continued suspension of operation at Amapá, together with further declines in iron 
ore prices, the Directors have recognised a further impairment charge of £2.8m 
during the year, reducing the carrying value of the Amapá royalty to £1.8m as at 
December 31, 2015.
Valuation
The Amapá and Tucano royalties are classified as royalty intangible assets on  
the balance sheet. As such, these assets are carried at cost less amortisation and 
impairments. Royalty intangible assets are amortised when commercial production 
commences, on a straight line basis over the expected life of the mine.
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
23
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 Thunder Bay
O N T A R I O
RING OF FIRE
STRATEGIC REPORT
Business review
continued
Perth
Karratha
Port Hedland
PILBARA
W E S T E R N
A U S T R A L I A
Early-stage royalties
Ring of Fire, Chromite, Canada
What we own
The Group has a 1% life of mine NSR royalty over a number of claims on the Black 
Thor, Black Label and Big Daddy chromite deposits, owned by TSX-listed Noront 
Resources Limited. (‘Noront’), in the Ring of Fire region of Northern Ontario, Canada.
Performance
On April 28, 2015, Noront completed its acquisition of the claims on the Black Thor, 
Black Label and Big Daddy chromite deposits from Cliffs Resources Limited (‘Cliffs’). 
These claims are adjacent to Noront’s Eagle’s Nest nickel-copper-platinum group 
element and Blackbird chromite deposit. 
Noront intends to complete a strategic plan and preliminary economic assessment 
for the development of the newly acquired chromite deposits during 2016. Whilst 
Noront’s acquisition of these deposits is considered very favourable by the Group,  
the timeline to production remains unclear and chromite prices remain under 
pressure. As a result the Directors have recognised a further impairment charge of 
£1.6m during the year reducing the carrying value of the Group’s Ring of Fire royalty 
to £3.1m as at December 31, 2015.
Valuation
The Ring of Fire royalty is classified as a royalty intangible asset on the balance sheet. 
As such, this asset is carried at cost less amortisation and impairments. Royalty 
intangible assets are amortised when commercial production commences, on a 
straight line basis over the expected life of the mine.
Pilbara, Iron ore, Australia
What we own
The Group has a 1.5% life of mine GRR over three exploration tenements in the 
central Pilbara region of Western Australia, owned by a wholly-owned subsidiary  
of BHP Billiton Limited (‘BHP Billiton’), which is dual-listed on the LSE and ASX.
The tenements, covering 263km
2
, host a number of known iron occurrences, 
including the Railway deposit. The tenements are supported by extensive rail 
infrastructure including the rail lines from Rio Tinto’s West Angelas and Yandicoogina 
mines and BHP Billiton’s rail line serving its current operations at Mining Area C,  
which lie immediately to the east of the Railway deposit.
Performance
The Pilbara royalties are over undeveloped tenements of BHP Billiton’s iron ore 
operations in Western Australia.
Valuation
The Pilbara royalty is classified as a royalty intangible asset on the balance sheet.  
As such, this asset is carried at cost less amortisation and impairments. Royalty 
intangible assets are amortised when commercial production commences,  
on a straight line basis over the expected life of the mine.
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
24
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 DUGBE 1
Monrovia
Greenville
L I B E R I A
Perth
Karratha
Port Hedland
PILBARA
W E S T E R N
A U S T R A L I A
Dugbe 1, Gold, Liberia
What we own
The Group entered into a royalty financing agreement with AIM-listed Hummingbird 
Resources PLC (‘Hummingbird’) in December 2012 in relation to Hummingbird’s 
Dugbe 1 gold project in Liberia. In exchange for US$15.0m, payable in three tranches 
of US$5.0m, the Group is entitled to a 2% life of mine NSR royalty from any sales of 
gold mined within a 20km radius of a specified point in the Dugbe 1 Resource.
Performance
On July 10, 2015, Hummingbird announced that it had has signed a 25 year mineral 
development agreement (‘MDA’) with the Government of Liberia for the Dugbe Shear 
Zone which contains the Dugbe project. Hummingbird is currently in the process of 
optimising an ongoing definitive feasibility study on the project in order to unlock 
further value of this large-scale development opportunity. 
Valuation
The advances made to Hummingbird under the royalty financing arrangement are 
classified as non-current receivables and carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
25
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 STRATEGIC REPORT
Key performance indicators
2.47p 
ADJUSTED EARNINGS  
PER SHARE 
(p)
Adjusted earnings per share 
reflects the profit which 
management is capable of 
influencing. It disregards any 
valuation movements caused 
by short-term commodity 
price fluctuations along with 
any non-cash impairment or 
similar charges.
It also adjusts for any profits or 
losses which are realised from 
the sale of equity instruments 
within the mining and 
exploration interests as these 
are determined based on 
market forces outside the 
control of the Directors (see 
note 11 for further details).
0.4x 
DIVIDEND COVER
(x)
It is a policy of the Group  
to pay a significant portion  
of its royalty income as 
dividends. Just as important  
as maintaining the dividend,  
is maintaining the quality of 
the dividend. Dividend cover  
is calculated as the number  
of times adjusted earnings per 
share exceeds the dividend  
per share.
In any period where there is  
an adjusted loss, the dividend 
cover will be reported as nil.
£45.0m 
ROYALT Y ASSETS ACQUIRED
(£m)
The Group’s strategy is to 
acquire cash or near-cash 
producing royalties which will 
be accretive and in turn enable 
dividend growth. The above 
chart shows how much the 
Group invested in royalty 
acquisitions in each period. 
14
18.96
1.9
0.9
0.8
0.4
28.4
16.2
45.0
8.69
8.39
-1.97
2.47
0.0
6.9
6.3
11 12 13 15 11 12 13 15 11 12 13 14 15 14
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
26
APG12 | AR15 | 22.03.16 | FRONT - Proof 6 2015 saw Anglo Pacific make considerable progress in growing its royalty income, which should mean that 2014 will, in hindsight, have 
been the lowest point for the Group's income both historically and looking forward. Equally as encouraging was the significant reduction  
in overheads reported in the year, resulting in a £6.2m increase in adjusted earnings in the year to £4.0m (2014: loss £2.2m). The results  
for the year would have been even stronger but for the continued declines in commodity prices experienced in 2015, leading to further 
revaluation losses and impairment charges, as described below. The Group is proposing to revise its annual dividend level from the 
previous 8p per share to 6p per share. It is envisaged that this level will be maintained in the immediate future, subject to commodity 
prices remaining at their current level.
Income statement
Royalty income
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Kestrel 3,614 1,657
Amapá – 174
El Valle 1,246 1,650
Like-for-like royalty income 4,860 3,481
Narrabri 3,217 –
Maracás Menchen 606 –
Total royalty income 8,683 3,481
Total royalty income in the year was £8.7m, more than double the £3.5m reported in 2014. 
Royalty income, on a like-for-like basis, for the period was £4.9m, compared with £3.5m in 2014. The increase was driven by a greater 
proportion of overall production, 49%, mined from within the Group's royalty land at Kestrel. This was broadly in line with our expectations. 
The proportion should increase to between 60-65% in 2016 based on the forward-looking information which Rio Tinto provide to us, and 
the expectation is for this to increase to 90% during 2017. The full benefit of this increased production was offset somewhat by further 
declines in the price of coking coal throughout the year. At EVBC, a combination of lower gold prices and production led to income being 
24% lower in the period at £1.2m.
The Group earned £3.8m of income from its two recent royalty acquisitions during the year. The majority of this was associated with the 
Narrabri royalty which the Group acquired in March 2015, but was entitled to income from January 1, 2015. The mine operator, Whitehaven, 
announced a record level of production for 2015 which was comfortably in excess of the level of production assumed at the time of 
acquisition although, similar to Kestrel, the decline in the coal price during the year reduced some of the benefit of this excellent 
production achievement on the Group’s reported income.
The other source of additional income in 2015 was initial receipts from the Group’s Maracás Menchen royalty which was acquired in June 
2014. Although the Group is pleased with the production progress which the operator, Largo, is making, the vanadium price has fallen by 
over 70% since the royalty was acquired which has significantly reduced the royalty income being reported. 
Operating expenses
In addition to reporting a significant increase in royalty income in the year, the Group is also pleased to report a considerable reduction in 
its operating costs in the year.
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Staff costs (excluding share-based payments) 1,937 3,057
Professional fees 418 834
Other costs 865 1,024
3,220 4,915 (34.5%)
Non-cash share-based payments 840 609
Operating expenses 4,060 5,524 (26.5%)
This reduction of 34.5%, excluding non-cash share-based payments, followed an increased focus on cost control in light of the impact 
of falling commodity prices on overall profitability. A large portion of the reported reduction in costs in 2015 can be attributed to certain 
positions being vacated during the year which were not replaced. Furthermore, there was a significant reduction in bonus provisions in 
the current year. Management has identified other areas where there is the potential to reduce costs further in the year ahead without 
impacting on the day-to-day business of the Group, and intends to implement these. 
Taxation
Current tax in the year amounted to £1.0m (2014: £1.4m), largely representing the payment of withholding taxes. No corporate tax was 
paid in the current year due to the utilisation of carried forward tax losses. The Group still has significant carried forward tax losses which 
it expects to utilise in the coming years and which in turn should help to reduce the effective tax rate in the short-term.
Financial review
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
27
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERN ANCE STR ATEGIC REPORT Earnings per share
All of the above results in an increase to adjusted earnings for the year ended December 31, 2015 of £6.2m to £4.0m (2014: adjusted loss  
of £2.2m) which results in an adjusted earnings per share of 2.47p (2014: loss of 1.97p). See note 11 for a detailed calculation of adjusted 
earnings per share. 
The income statement also includes non-cash charges relating to amortisation, impairment and fair value adjustments, along with 
a corresponding deferred tax credit.
The amortisation charge in 2015 relates to the Group’s Narrabri, Maracás Menchen and Four Mile royalties, which are accounted for 
as intangible assets, all of which came into production during the year. The amortisation charge in 2014 related to the Amapá royalty. 
As there has been no production from this mine since mid-2013, amortisation was suspended in 2015 until such time as production 
recommences.
Other fair value adjustments reflected in the income statement include the revaluation of the Kestrel royalty and impairment charges 
relating to both mining and exploration interests and royalty intangibles net of the corresponding deferred tax allowance. These items  
are discussed in more detail in the balance sheet section below. 
Allowing for these charges, the Group reported a loss after tax of £22.6m (2014: £47.6m) which equates to a loss per share of 14.06p 
(2014: 42.09p). 
Balance sheet
The Group’s reported net assets increased from £161.3m at the beginning of the year to £162.0m at December 31, 2015. Although a small 
increase, there were some large movements during the year which largely netted off, as illustrated in the table below.
Net asset value £’000
Pence per 
share (p)
At January 1, 2015 161,250 138p
Narrabri acquisition 44,971
Royalty impairments (4,414)
Amortisation (2,573)
Kestrel valuation (net of deferred tax) (24,114)
Dividends (11,901)
Other (1,236)
At December 31, 2015 161,983 95p
The addition of the Narrabri royalty in March 2015 for £45.0m, including acquisition costs, was the Group’s largest ever royalty acquisition. 
This was funded by way of share issue. Although this increased net assets considerably, the benefit of this was largely offset in 2015 by the 
impact of falling commodity prices on the carrying value of the Group’s other assets. 
Kestrel is included on the balance sheet at fair value and remeasured at each report date. There is also a corresponding deferred tax 
liability recognised on this revalued amount. The net reduction on the balance sheet in the period relating to Kestrel was £24.1m. This 
comprised a decrease in its fair value of £34.5m, largely due to a revision to the long term coal price as outlined in note 14, partially offset 
by a decrease in the associated deferred tax liability of £10.3m. .
Impairment
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Amapá 2,793 8,414
Ring of Fire 1,621 –
Isua – 15,288
Bulqiza – 700
Cresso – 222
Total royalty related impairments 4,414 24,624
Impairment of mining and exploration interests 930 4,873
Other – 1,352
Total impairments 5,344 30,849
The Group’s royalty intangibles decreased by £10.6m in the period. Of this amount, £4.4m related to impairment provisions made in 
accordance with our accounting policy, caused by further falls in commodity prices and revising estimated production commencement 
dates, both of which impact on the expected future discounted cash flows. £2.8m of the provision related to the Amapá royalty whereby 
further falls in the iron ore price along with continued delays in rebuilding the port infrastructure have resulted in a further delay to the 
expected restart date. Pricing revisions also led to a further provision of £1.6m in relation to the Ring of Fire royalty.
The Group’s intangible royalties, as described above, are amortised upon the commencement of production. The amortisation charge of 
£2.6m in the period included Narrabri, Maracás Menchen and Four Mile. Furthermore, as a considerable portion of the Group’s assets are 
held in an Australian structure, there was a £3.6m translation loss at the reporting date. 
Financial review
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
28
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT The Group’s net asset value per share was 95p at December 31, 2015 (2014: 138p). Even allowing for the 2015 interim dividend paid in 
February 2016 of 4p per share, the net asset value is at a considerable premium to the share price of 58p at December 31, 2015. 
It is worth highlighting that positive developments at certain of the Group’s royalties during the period have, we believe, increased the 
value of these assets to the Group, although this is not reflected on the balance sheet. The following are some examples of this:
• Narrabri: the exceptional operating performance at Narrabri in the period, along with Whitehaven’s announcement that they had 
received a permit to increase production to 11Mtpa from 8Mtpa has the effect of accelerating production, therefore increasing revenue, 
beyond the level which the Group had factored into the acquisition price. This acceleration and enhancement of production brings 
forward income which increases the present value of the royalty. 
• Berkeley Energia: have made considerable progress advancing their uranium project in Spain. Recent drilling has produced some very 
encouraging results suggesting a near doubling of the resource. As the Group had only priced the royalty based on the original Zona 7 
deposit, the additional reserves which were unknown at the time, represent additional value. 
Under IFRS these royalties are accounted for as intangible assets which requires them to be carried at cost and amortised over the life of 
mine once production commences.
Cash flow and borrowings
Cash flows generated from operations in the period were £1.5m compared to £3.0m in 2014. Although this seems at odds with the 
increase in royalty income reported in the period, this is largely due to timing differences. Royalty income for Q4 in any one year is not 
received until the following month. As such, the income is recognised in the income statement but not in the cash flow statement. 
Income in Q4 2014 (£0.1m) is included in the 2015 cash flow whereas the income for Q4 2015 (£2.9m) is not.
As part of the Narrabri royalty acquisition the Group entered into a US$30.0m three year secured revolving credit facility for working 
capital purposes. At December 31, 2015 the Group had net debt of £1.8m. The Group’s cash position was enhanced by the recovery  
in full, upon maturity in December 2015, of the C$5.0m loan which it had provided to Laramide Resources Limited. 
The Group retains its 16.67% equity holding in Berkeley Energia which increased in value considerably in the second half of 2015. 
This holding was included on the balance sheet at December 31, 2015 at US$£7.2m, being the market value at that point in time. 
Although the preference is to retain this stake, it does provide a further source of liquidity. 
The single largest outgoing which the Group has is its dividend. This was uncovered in terms of free cash flow in 2015. Due to a lower 
commodity price outlook, which is outside the control of management, the Directors are proposing a slight reduction in the final dividend 
from 4p in the prior year to 3p, making a full year payment of 7p per share for 2015. The 3p half yearly payment is intended to remain 
unchanged in the short term, subject to any deterioration in the Group's financial prospects. At 6p per share, the annual dividend should  
be much closer to being covered in 2016 with full cover achieved from 2017 onwards. 
Financial prospects for the year ahead 
Although further declines in commodity prices reduced the overall level of income being reported in the year, the Group was very pleased 
with the underlying production performance achieved by the royalty operators. In spite of a difficult year for the mining sector, all of the 
Group’s income generating royalties remained in production. With the proportion of production from Kestrel expected to increase to 
60-65% in 2016, along with the Narrabri ramp up and initial royalty receipts from Four Mile, the Group expects to report a higher level of 
royalty income over the next twelve months, subject to commodity price stabilisation.
Foreign exchange also has the potential to increase reported revenue in 2016. The pound has weakened somewhat against the US and 
Australian dollar in the first few months of 2016. Should this trend continue, the Group’s results would benefit from foreign exchange as 
most of its income is received in Australian dollars with the underlying pricing in US dollars.
The organic growth within the portfolio, along with plenty of financial headroom under the Group’s revolving credit facility and a 
continued focus on costs, mean that the Group remains in a strong financial position for the year ahead. 
25
20
15
10
30
5
8.8
15.7 6.3 0.0 8.7 0.0 (6.6) (5.6) 1.8 0.0 (11.5) 8.8
5.3
3.7
1.7
7.5 (4.3)
(3.7)
(0.8)
(0.6)
(11.9)
5.7
Opening Royalty
receipts
Cash 
generated 
from 
non-royalty 
assets
Non-core
asset 
disposals
RCF 
drawdown
Royalty 
acquisition 
net of equity 
raise
Admin  
costs
Tax, FX 
and other
Finance 
costs
Dividends Closing
2014
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
29
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERN ANCE STR ATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties
Background
The Board undertook a comprehensive review of risk during the year. This review involved the Directors completing a risk 
questionnaire which required them to rank each risk on the Group’s risk register and to identify any risks which they 
considered significant that were missing from the report. The results were compiled and presented to the Board in 
November 2015, which resulted in some changes to the principal risks as described below.
Following another challenging year for the mining sector which has seen even the largest global mining companies 
initiate measures to strengthen their balance sheets, the Board, led by the Audit Committee, has dedicated considerable 
time to analysing the risks and opportunities that this presents. For Anglo Pacific, further declines in commodity prices 
and the Company’s share price provided further focus for the Board to carefully consider the risks facing the Group in 
being able to execute its strategy. This exercise was performed in conjunction with a wider analysis of the Group’s 
prospects in voluntarily complying with provision C2.2 of the 2014 Combined Code, which requires a statement on 
viability to be made in the annual report, including the determination and consideration of a stress tested ‘severe but 
plausible’ scenario.
Risk appetite and viability
The underlying work involved in making a positive statement on viability, in accordance with C2.2 of the Combined Code, 
involves articulating the risk appetite of the Board in executing the Group’s strategy. Although the Group refreshes its risk 
register on a regular basis, further quantitative analysis was included in the current year to enable the Board to consider in 
more detail the risks and mitigations so the net risk could be evaluated against the Group’s risk appetite. In accordance 
with the Code, this exercise also considered an additional downside scenario which attempted to determine at what point 
strategic intervention would be required under a ‘severe but plausible’ case in order for the Group to remain viable. 
This analysis was performed for a three year period, consistent with the Group’s medium term planning horizon and the 
term of its borrowing facility.
Although the ultimate success of Anglo Pacific will depend on its ability to continue to add value enhancing royalties and 
streams to its portfolio, the focus of the viability statement is on the existing business of the Group and the ability of the 
current royalty portfolio to generate sufficient cash to meet the Group’s outgoings, including the dividend. Under our 
‘severe but plausible’ case, this results in the Group drawing down further on its borrowing facilities as income reduces. 
The Directors’ risk appetite is therefore capped with reference to an acceptable and supportable level of borrowings 
relative to the Group’s income profile over the next three years on a ‘severe but plausible’ basis.
Conclusion
The outcome of the Board’s risk assessment resulted in the following revisions to the principal risks as follows:
2014 Risks 
1. Commodity price risk
2.  Achieving investment 
projections
2014 risks combined  
into one risk
1.  That the current portfolio 
will not generate sufficient 
cash
Operational
3. Dependence on operators No change 2. Dependence on operators Operational
4.  Financial covenants 
associated with 
secured debt
2014 risk expanded to  
include refinancing risk
3.  That the Group fails to meet 
its obligations under its 
secured borrowing facility 
and is unable to refinance
Operational
4.  That royalty financing 
continues to be in demand
Strategic
5.  That the Group cannot 
finance royalty and 
streaming opportunities
Strategic
6.  That the reputation of coal 
will deteriorate and impact 
on its appeal as an 
investment proposition
Strategic
Revisions in 2015 2015 Risks Description
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
30
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks
Risk
Risk
Risk
Possible Cause
Possible Cause
Possible Cause
Mitigation
Mitigation
Mitigation
Unmitigated risk
Unmitigated risk
Unmitigated risk
Taking into account the quantitative analysis performed around each risk identified above and having tested these 
scenarios under a ‘severe but plausible’ set of criteria, the Directors conclude that they have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment. 
That the current 
portfolio will not 
generate sufficient 
cash
The Group expects the current 
portfolio to generate a certain 
level of income, largely driven 
by increased mining at Kestrel 
within the Group’s land and 
continued production upside 
at Narrabri. 
• Further falls in commodity 
prices
• Unexpected production 
issues at Kestrel and/or 
Narrabri
• Reduction in Queensland 
royalty rate
• Foreign exchange risk 
(discussed separately below)
The Group has little ability to 
influence the quantum of 
royalties it receives post 
acquisition as it does not 
hedge its commodity 
exposure, nor can it influence 
the royalty rate at Kestrel.
The Group is exposed to 
commodity price volatility, 
although unlike mine 
operators its cost base is 
flexible and fully within its 
control. 
Dependence on 
operators to remain  
in production
The Group depends on mine 
operators to remain in 
production in order to earn 
royalty income.
This will require the underlying 
operations to remain 
economically viable and for 
the operator to remain a 
going concern. 
• Project becomes 
uneconomic due to falling 
commodity prices and is 
placed on care and 
maintenance
• Operator gets into financial 
difficulty through 
over-leverage (covenant 
pressure, refinancing risk) or 
inability to access capital to 
meet capex requirements 
The best way the Group can 
mitigate against operator 
reliance is to continue 
diversifying its source of 
income and reducing its 
reliance on any one operator, 
which in the past has been 
Rio Tinto at Kestrel. The 
acquisition of the Narrabri 
royalty was an example of 
such diversification.
The last twelve months has 
been as tough a period as any 
in recent times for the mining 
sector, yet all of our royalties 
which were in production in 
2014, or acquired since, 
remain in production, showing 
the resilience of the operators 
and reflecting their position at 
the lower end of the cost 
curve.
That the Group fails  
to meet its obligations 
under its secured 
borrowing facility
The Group’s borrowings are 
secured and subject to certain 
financial covenants, the 
failing of which could impact 
on the ability of the Group to 
continue to run its business 
independently.
The decline in commodity 
prices since the facility was 
entered into has also 
increased the refinancing 
risk upon maturity. 
• Breach of financial covenant 
associated with a reduction 
in royalty income (via 
commodity price declines 
or production disruption)
• Further deterioration in 
market conditions 
impacting on the Group’s 
ability to refinance
Detailed cash flow forecasts 
provide timely warning of any 
upcoming tightening of 
headroom under financial 
covenants.
The Group has some further 
liquidity in its equity portfolio 
which could be monetised to 
reduce borrowings.
Refinancing risk will depend 
on market conditions at a 
future point in time which is 
outside the control of 
management. 
The existing facility is 
committed until 2018 and 
the Group will pro-actively 
refinance ahead of that to 
mitigate the dependency 
on market conditions at 
that time.
Operational
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
31
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERN ANCE STR ATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk
Risk
Risk
Possible Cause
Possible Cause
Possible Cause
Mitigation
Mitigation
Mitigation
Unmitigated risk
Unmitigated risk
Unmitigated risk
That royalty 
financing continues 
to be in demand 
In order to execute its strategy, 
the Group needs to acquire 
further royalties. The success 
of this strategy will depend on 
the future demand for royalty 
financing as part of the 
financing mix in the sector.
• Recovery in the outlook 
for mining markets could 
trigger a sector rerating and 
share price appreciation
• Pricing competitiveness 
of royalties versus 
conventional sources 
of finance (alternative 
financing can be perceived 
as more expensive on a 
headline basis)
• Appetite of counterparties 
to relinquish operating 
margin in operating margin 
in favour of restrictive debt 
or dilutive equity 
Generally, demand for royalty 
financing is greater when the 
underlying market conditions 
are challenging, as they are 
now. The past twelve months 
has seen considerable activity 
in the sector, primarily by way 
of streaming, which 
demonstrates that there is a 
need for alternative financing. 
The Directors acknowledge 
that there can be no 
guarantee market conditions 
will always be optimal for 
raising finance.
There can be no guarantee 
that royalties will always be 
in demand throughout 
mining cycles.
That the Group  
cannot finance royalty 
opportunities
Given the difficulties being 
experienced in the wider 
mining industry, there can be 
no certainty that the Group 
will have ready access to 
capital to finance royalty 
opportunities.
• Further fall in share price 
results in excessive dilution 
where the acquisition 
consideration is funded 
by equity
• Further capital outflows 
from the sector may 
dampen investor appetite 
for new equity issuances
• The Group’s cost of capital, 
due to its current dividend 
yield, makes executing 
accretive deals more difficult
• Further commodity price 
declines reduce the debt 
capacity of the Group
The Group demonstrated that 
royalty opportunities which 
meet its strict investment 
criteria, such as the recent 
Narrabri transaction, should 
be capable of being financed. 
The Group remains in close 
dialogue with several 
institutions who are interested 
in co-investing in appropriate 
opportunities. This should 
significantly de-risk financing 
risk for larger transactions.
There can be no guarantee 
market conditions will always 
be optimal for raising finance.
That the reputation 
of coal will 
deteriorate and 
impact on its appeal 
as an investment 
proposition
The coal industry has 
attracted considerable 
criticism in recent years as 
environmental lobbyists 
continue to exert pressure on 
the investment community 
not to support extractive 
industries. Although Anglo 
Pacific is not a coal operator, 
it continues to be considered 
similar to an indirect 
investment in coal.
• Climate change lobbyists 
continue to target the 
natural resource section and 
coal producers in particular
Australian coal, on which the 
Group’s Kestrel and Narrabri 
royalties are based, is 
generally regarded as low in 
ash and low in sulphur and 
much cleaner in nature. 
Anglo Pacific believes that  
the coal industry is beginning 
to promote cleaner, more 
sustainable coal which clearly 
has a place in future power 
solutions. 
The Group’s strategy is to build 
a diversified royalty portfolio 
which should naturally reduce 
the Group’s exposure to coal 
going forward. 
The Directors continue to 
believe in the future of coal as 
both a power source and raw 
material, especially less 
polluting coal from mines 
such as Kestrel and Narrabri.
Strategic
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
32
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Possible Cause Mitigation Unmitigated risk
Liquidity risk
That the Group cannot meet 
all of its obligations as they 
fall due
• Unexpected financial claim
• Insufficient access to cash
The Group prepares regular 
cash flow projections which 
highlight all anticipated and 
probable expenses including 
routine overheads, tax and  
any capital commitments.  
The Group has over US$15m 
undrawn on its existing RCF 
and potential access to the 
capital markets to provide 
additional liquidity.
The Directors have carefully 
considered this risk in making 
a positive statement about 
going concern and viability.
Credit Risk
That there is a risk of default by 
those owing the Group money 
or those institutions holding 
the Group’s cash reserves
• Royalty payment default
• Bank collapse
The Group operates 
controlled treasury policies 
which spreads the 
concentration of the Group’s 
cash balances amongst 
separate financial institutions 
with sufficiently high credit 
ratings
The risk of counterparty 
default is assessed when 
entering into new royalty 
agreements. The Directors 
are confident that the Kestrel 
and Narrabri royalties, which 
represent the majority of the 
Group’s receivables, are at 
relatively low risk of default 
due to the nature of the 
operators involved.
Foreign exchange risk
That foreign exchange 
movements adversely impact 
on the Group’s cash flow 
projections
• Cash flow risk associated 
with US$ derived income 
and costs (including 
dividend) largely payable  
in pounds.
• Translation risk of having  
a presentational currency  
in GBP but assets 
denominated in A$
• Financing risk when raising 
equity in GBP to fund US$ 
denominated acquisitions
Management is considering 
hedging a portion of the 
Group’s foreign currency 
exposure now that there is 
a reliable track record of 
forecasting at Kestrel along 
with the significant income 
being received from Narrabri.
The Directors take into 
account foreign exchange 
risk when entering into royalty 
acquisitions and financing 
transactions. 
Interest rate risk
That an increase in interest 
rates could adversely impact 
on the Group’s prospects
• The Group is exposed to the 
US and UK LIBOR rate as part 
of its bank facility
The Group has a relatively low 
level of borrowings and, as 
such, interest rate risk is not 
considered material when 
assessing the Group’s longer 
term prospects.
Interest rates currently remain 
at historically low levels. There 
can be no guarantee that this 
will continue in the short to 
medium term which could 
impact on the cost of the 
Group’s capital when 
acquiring future royalties.
Other pricing risk
The Group’s results are 
determined by other pricing 
inputs which could result in 
unrealised losses at each 
reporting date
• The Group has a portfolio 
of certain publically quoted 
equity investments which 
are marked to market at 
each reporting date
• The Group’s asset values are 
underpinned by the forward 
commodity price outlook 
at each reporting date. A 
decline in these prices could 
result in further impairment 
or revaluation charges.
The Group’s equity portfolio 
has largely been divested, 
meaning any future 
impairment should be much 
less material to the Group.
The Group uses independent 
third party consensus prices 
at each reporting date in 
assessing for impairment. 
The Group is exposed to 
commodity prices and a 
significant decrease in 
commodity prices is likely to 
result in further impairment 
charges. There is little the 
Directors can do to mitigate 
against this risk once a royalty 
has been acquired. 
Financial
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
33
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERN ANCE STR ATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate social responsibility
Anglo Pacific seeks to maintain 
the highest standards in all areas 
of its business. 
During 2014, the Board commissioned a review of all  
of Anglo Pacific’s current corporate social responsibility 
(‘CSR’) practices and activities. Its purpose was to 
identify best practice. Where the review highlighted 
scope for improvement, the Company made practical 
and effective changes which it built on during 2015.
The review took into account international guidance. 
The standards considered included: the Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative; the Global Reporting 
Initiative Mining and Metal Sectors Supplement; the 
United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Human Rights; 
and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights. The Company also reviewed the CSR reporting 
and CSR commitments of the mines that it is invested 
in. Further, the Company evaluated the implications of 
the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 for its 
own CSR reporting.
Following this extensive review, the Company extended 
and strengthened its due diligence process to reflect 
current best practices. The mechanism that the 
Company uses to monitor CSR issues has been given 
greater granularity. In particular, it directs the Company 
to consider the governance, policy provision, 
management, measurement and reporting of each 
material issue. During 2015, the Company has applied 
this to the consideration of potential investments, 
including it as a key royalty acquisition criterion, and 
uses it in the monitoring of existing investments. 
At the same time the Company has further improved  
its office practices. The Company has implemented 
improvements, including but not confined to measures 
to conserve energy, which it will report against in the 
2016 Annual Report and Accounts, and the reduction of 
office waste. During 2015, the Company successfully 
implemented a recycling policy and now recycles 25% 
of all office waste (2014: 0%). The Company plans to 
improve this further during 2016. In addition, to improve 
energy efficiency office lighting is now on motion and 
daylight sensors to minimise energy consumption. 
The Company is confident that the changes made will 
enable it to achieve improvements in its CSR practice.
Integrity
Anglo Pacific is committed to maintaining its  
reputation for fair dealing. The Company does not offer, 
give or receive bribes or inducements whether directly 
or through a third party.
The Company has policies and procedures in place  
to ensure that all Directors, officers, employees, 
consultants, advisors, business partners, and anyone 
else who may be acting on its behalf, are aware of their 
responsibilities in this area. The Company actively 
promotes a transparent approach to all of its business 
dealings and expect employees to adopt a zero 
tolerance attitude to corruption. Employees are 
encouraged to report any potential or apparent 
misconduct in accordance with the Company’s internal 
whistle-blowing policy and any employee that refuses  
to pay bribes, or raises any issues honestly, and in  
good faith, will be supported by the Group.
The Company chooses business partners and 
counterparties carefully, based on merit and reputation, 
and only works with persons of known integrity, who  
it believes will act consistently with its own standards.  
The Company does not make facilitation payments. 
Where business is conducted in countries with laws  
that are less restrictive than the Company’s policies  
and procedures, it will seek to follow its own policies 
and procedures, promoting its standard of integrity 
wherever possible.
Environment
Anglo Pacific is committed to an environmental policy 
of collaborating fully with statutory authorities, local 
communities and other interested parties in order to 
limit any potential adverse impacts of its activities  
on the natural and human environments associated 
with its operations. The nature of the Group’s royalty 
investments is such that it does not operate any of  
the properties underlying its royalty portfolio and, 
consequently, it does not always have the ability to 
influence the manner in which the operations are 
carried out. Nevertheless, a responsible approach to a 
project’s environmental impact and its sustainability 
management is essential to the success of the project 
over its life.
As part of the Group’s investment decision process, 
careful consideration is given to the environmental 
aspects of any potential asset purchase during the  
due diligence phase. In particular, the Group typically 
engages with consultants who have the requisite 
expertise to ensure that it can consider and, if 
necessary, mitigate any risks in this regard to a properly 
maintainable level. In 2015, as part of its acquisition of a 
royalty on the Narrabri mine, Anglo Pacific engaged an 
independent consultant to review the environmental 
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
34
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6 aspects of the mine and comment on those likely  
to affect the surrounding community, including 
subsidence, noise and air quality. No issues were 
identified as part of this process. 
The Group expects employees to address 
environmental and sustainability responsibilities within 
the framework of normal operating procedures and  
to look to minimise waste as much as economically 
practicable. The Audit Committee is responsible for 
periodically reviewing the Group’s environmental 
practices and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Social and community issues
Anglo Pacific acknowledges that, whilst its activities 
have little direct contact with communities, it can 
positively influence the social practices and policies of 
companies it conducts business with. Positive social 
and community relationships are essential to profitable 
and successful mining activities. The Group endeavours 
to ensure that companies it works with have 
appropriate procedures in place to facilitate this. More 
specifically, Anglo Pacific’s investment decision process 
for potential asset purchases involves due diligence 
relating to the full range of CSR issues, including the 
social and community aspects of the project. As part  
of its 2015 acquisition of a royalty on the Narrabri mine, 
Anglo Pacific extensively reviewed Whitehaven Coal’s 
policies on community development, Aboriginal 
engagement, safety and environmental responsibilities. 
No issues were identified as part of this process. 
Diversity
The Group’s employees are instrumental to its success, 
and it respects and values the individuality and diversity 
that every employee brings to the business. As at 
December 31, 2015, 54% of the Group’s employees 
were female (2014: 46%) as the Group had 11 
employees, 6 of whom were female. In terms of the 
Company’s Board of Directors, there were 6 Directors,  
5 of whom were male and 1 of whom was female. Prior 
to any appointment to the Board, the Nomination 
Committee gives due regard to diversity and gender 
with a view to appointing the best placed individual for 
the role. The Group recognises that it has more to do  
in encouraging and supporting diversity and hope to  
be able to identify and develop talent at all levels in  
the organisation as the Group continues to grow.
More information on the Nomination Committee’s 
approach to diversity can be found on page 40.
Human rights
The debate on the role of business and human rights 
has gained increasing prominence in recent years. 
Anglo Pacific welcomes this focus as respect for human 
rights is implicit across the Group’s employment 
practices. Further, a commitment to human rights  
is an important part of any successful organisation.  
As part of the Group’s investment decision process,  
if necessary, consultants with the requisite expertise 
are engaged to assist in identifying and mitigating  
any such risks.
Health and safety
The health and safety of the Group’s employees is of 
fundamental importance and is a responsibility it takes 
seriously. During 2015, the Group implemented a new 
health and safety policy and undertook an office risk 
assessment. The Group’s small size allows the day-to-
day responsibility to remain at Board level, being 
monitored by the Chief Executive Officer. Furthermore, 
a commitment to health and safety is a fundamental 
component of any mining project, and, as part of the 
Group’s investment decision process, consultants  
with the requisite expertise are engaged to assist in 
identifying and mitigating any such risks.
Donations
The Group’s philosophy on charity has historically been 
that this is a decision best made by shareholders with 
their own resources. The Group has revised its policy 
and will now consider supporting select charities at  
the discretion of the Directors. No donations were 
made during 2015; however, the Group will continue  
to consider supporting select charities during 2016.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The UK Government requires that UK listed companies 
should report their global levels of greenhouse gas 
emissions in their Annual Report. Anglo Pacific is a 
relatively small organisation, with 11 employees, which 
means that any emission sources within its operational 
and financial control, such as business travel, purchase 
of electricity, heat or cooling by the Group, are not 
material in their impact. As the management and 
operation of the underlying mines generating the 
Group’s royalty income are outside of its control, it is 
unable to report on these emissions.
Following the Group’s move to a new office at the end of 
2014, power consumption has been monitored in 2015 
and the Group will look to improve this going forward.
The information on pages 08 to 35 represents the Group’s 
Strategic Report and has been approved by  
the Board.
J.A. Treger
Chief Executive Officer
March 22, 2016
STR ATEGIC REPORT
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
35
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6 Corporate governance report
Our approach towards corporate governance
As announced by the Company and approved by special resolution 
of the Company’s shareholders on September 17, 2015, the 
Company transferred its listing category from a ‘premium listing 
(commercial company)’ on the Official List and into the category of 
a ‘standard listing’ on October 16, 2015 (the ‘Transfer’). The Transfer 
was the result of ongoing discussions with the UKLA in relation to 
the appropriate categorisation of the Company under the Listing 
Rules with respect to technical considerations relating to the 
Company’s royalty business model. 
As a standard listed company on the London Stock Exchange, 
the Company is required to comply with the minimum regulatory 
requirements imposed by the EU that apply to all securities 
admitted to trading on EU regulated markets. Accordingly, the 
Company remains subject to the relevant Listing Rules, the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Prospectus Rules. 
However, it will not be required to comply with the super-equivalent 
provisions of the Listing Rules which apply to companies with a 
premium listing. Such super-equivalent provisions include:
• certain continuing obligations set out in Chapter 9 of the Listing 
Rules such as providing pre-emption rights to shareholders 
(although the pre-emption rights under the Companies Act 2006 
will continue to apply), the Model Code, certain rules regarding 
employee share schemes and long-term incentive plans, certain 
rules regarding the conduct of rights issues, open offers and 
placings and certain disclosures in annual financial reports;
• complying with or explaining against the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (although the Company will still be required 
to make a corporate governance statement under paragraph 
7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules);
• complying with the requirement to obtain shareholder consent 
by way of special resolution for the cancellation of the listing of 
any of its shares as set out in Chapter 5 of the Listing Rules; and
• complying with provisions in Chapter 10 of the Listing Rules 
relating to significant transactions.
The Company is, however, continuing to comply on a voluntary 
basis with related party requirements that are substantially 
equivalent to those set out in Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules. 
A more detailed summary of the key differences between the 
regulatory requirements of standard listing companies and 
premium listing companies is contained at Part III of the 
‘Proposed transfer of listing category on the Official List from 
premium to standard’ circular which is available on the 
Company’s website at www.anglopacificgroup.com/circulars.
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate 
governance.
Board and Committee structure
The Board is collectively responsible for approving the Group’s 
long-term objectives and strategy and for reviewing performance 
against them. The Board is also responsible for the general 
oversight of the Group’s operations and management. 
The Board was chaired by Mike Blyth, as Non-Executive Chairman, 
responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board, during 
2015. The time commitment expected of the Non-Executive 
Chairman is around six days per month. Mr. Blyth’s other (mainly 
charitable) commitments are shown on page 37, none of which is 
considered to be significant.
The day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the 
Chief Executive Officer (‘CEO’), save for certain matters reserved 
for consideration by the Board. The CEO is supported by the Chief 
Financial Officer, & Company Secretary and head of Investments 
who meet as an Executive Committee. The Executive Committee  
is no longer a formal Board Committee because it is not currently 
comprised of a majority of Executive Directors. The Chairman and 
CEO have distinct roles which have been defined in writing and 
agreed by the Board.
Other responsibilities are devolved to the Nomination, 
Remuneration and Audit Committees; their members are all 
Non-Executive Directors and their work is described more fully 
below. The terms of reference of each Committee, and the matters 
reserved to the Board, are available on the Group’s website. 
David Archer acted as the Group’s Senior Independent Director 
(‘SID’) during 2015, following his appointment on November 14, 
2014. The role of the SID is to provide a sounding board for the 
Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors 
where necessary. The SID takes the lead on meetings of the 
Non-Executive Directors outside the formal committee structure, 
and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have 
not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, 
CEO or other member of the Executive Committee, or where 
such channels would be inappropriate.
The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors to be 
independent. Consequently, the Board believes that it has 
complied with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code to have at least two independent Non-Executive Directors  
on the Board throughout the year.
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
36
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 The Board
Chairman
W.M. Blyth
65, was appointed Director in March 2013 and became Non-Executive 
Chairman on April 1, 2014. He has a BSc from St Andrews University 
and is a Chartered Accountant. He was, until his retirement in 2011, 
a partner for 30 years in RSM (previously Baker Tilly), specialising 
in providing audit and related services to AIM and full list clients. 
During his career he held a number of senior management 
positions with the firm, including a period on its National Executive 
Committee. In addition to his chairmanship of Anglo Pacific, 
Mr. Blyth is a board member of Wheatley Housing Group; and 
director of Haldane Property Company Ltd and Glasgow & 
Suburban Property Company Ltd. Mr. Blyth also acts as trustee 
for a number of small charities.
Chief Executive Officer
J.A. Treger
53, joined the Group as Chief Executive Officer and Executive 
Director on October 21, 2013. He has an MBA from Harvard 
Business School and a BA from Harvard University. He began 
his career working for Lord Rothschild as an in-house corporate 
financier, managing a portfolio of public and private equity 
investments before co-founding Active Value Advisors Ltd. to 
invest in undervalued, predominantly UK-listed companies, where 
he advised on more than US$900.0m of funds over a 12-year 
period. Most recently, he has served as one of the principals of 
Audley Capital Advisors LLP, an investment advisory firm, which he 
co-founded in 2005, managing value-orientated, special situations 
investment strategies through hedge fund and co-investment 
vehicles, with a principal focus on the natural resources sector. 
Mr Treger holds an external Non-Executive Directorship with 
Mantos Copper S.A. for which he earned fees during the year. 
This directorship does not affect Mr. Treger’s ability to perform 
his role as CEO of the Company, as this directorship forms part 
of his 10% time commitment outside of Anglo Pacific.
Senior Independent Director
D.S. Archer
59, was appointed Non-Executive Director in October 2014 and 
currently chairs the Group’s Remuneration Committee. He is also 
the Group’s Senior Independent Director. He has over 34 years’ 
international resources industry experience in the Americas, Asia, 
Australia and the Middle East. He is the Chief Executive Officer of 
AIM-listed Savannah Resources PLC, which owns majority stakes  
in a mineral sands project in Mozambique and a copper project in 
Oman, and was previously the Managing Director of ASX-listed 
company Hillgrove Resources Limited, where he was responsible 
for growing the company into a significant, dividend paying, 
mineral explorer and copper producer with assets in Australia 
and Indonesia. Mr. Archer was the founder and Deputy Chairman 
of Savage Resources Limited, a coal, copper and zinc producer, 
and the founder and Executive Chairman of PowerTel Limited. 
He is also a barrister (non-practising) of the Supreme Court of 
New South Wales.
Non-Executive Directors
N.P.H. Meier
66, was appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2015. Mr. Meier 
has over thirty years of experience in investment banking with 
specialist knowledge of the Mining sector. He has an MA in Natural 
Sciences from Cambridge University. Most recently Mr. Meier 
headed up the investment banking activities for RBC Capital 
Markets in Europe and Asia and drove a major expansion of RBC’s 
European presence. Prior to this role, he headed up RBC’s activities 
in the Metals and Mining sector in Europe, Africa and Asia for many 
years, and continues to enjoy strong relationships within the 
sector. Mr. Meier also served as a Director on the Board of RBC’s 
main operating subsidiary in Europe.
R.C. Rhodes
45, was appointed Non-Executive Director in May 2014 and 
currently chairs the Group’s Audit Committee. She has an MA in 
Economics from the University of Cambridge and is a member of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, 
having qualified with Coopers and Lybrand in London in 1997. She 
has over 15 years of experience in the mining industry, including 
with Anglo American PLDC (until August 2008) and London Mining 
PLC (until November 2013) and is now CFO of Alufer Mining 
Limited. Ms. Rhodes also serves on the boards of Alufer Mining 
Services Limited and Bel Air Mining SA, and has played a leading 
role in listing companies on LSE, AIM and JSE, in raising significant 
project and corporate finance and in negotiating mining licences 
and fiscal platforms.
R.H. Stan
62, was appointed Non-Executive Director in February 2014. 
He has over 34 years of experience in the mining industry. He has 
held several senior positions with Fording Coal Limited, Westar 
Mining Ltd, and TECK Corporation before becoming a founding 
shareholder and director of publicly quoted Grande Cache Coal 
Corporation (GCC), an Alberta-based metallurgical coal mining 
company, in 2000. At GCC, he served as President, CEO and Director 
from 2001 to 2012, when the company was sold for US$1.0b to 
Winsway Coking Coal and Marubeni Corp, an Asian-backed strategic 
investor consortium. He has served as Chairman of the Coal 
Association of Canada Board of Directors and has acted as a board 
member of the International Energy Agency’s Coal Industry 
Advisory Board. He currently serves on the board of several private 
companies, including Quantex Resources Limited, Lighthouse 
Resources Inc and Spruce Bluff Resources Limited, and formerly 
served on the board of publicly-listed Whetstone Minerals Limited.
Board evolution
During 2015, the Company continued the process of Board 
rejuvenation and reinvigoration. Mark Potter resigned from his role 
as Chief Investment Officer and Executive Director of the Company 
on May 31, 2015 and Anthony Yadgaroff retired from his role as 
Non-Executive Director on December 31, 2015. 
During the year, following the recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee, the Board appointed Patrick Meier as a Non-Executive 
Director and his experience is detailed on above.
The Company believes that the Board’s composition is sufficient at 
this time because, following a series of appointments over the past 
couple of years, the Board now has the skills and experience 
necessary to drive the Company forward. 
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
37
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE The Board
Overall the review conducted by PwC concluded that the Board  
is performing well, with no significant issues identified. The Board  
is seen to be young and evolving with the appointments made to 
the Board in recent years having been welcomed and viewed as 
positively adding to the skills balance and experience of the overall 
Board. 
The Board has recognised the importance of increased focus on 
risk and risk management and has agreed to extend the remit of 
the Audit Committee to monitor the effectiveness of the 
Company’s risk management processes on behalf of the Board.
During the review process, the Board discussed a number of 
further performance enhancement opportunities. In summary,  
the Board has agreed to enhance the process of defining strategic 
objectives and monitoring progress against these throughout the 
year whilst also conducting more regular debate and monitoring  
of Board training needs, succession planning and Director 
performance. New and revised processes will be put in place 
during the coming year to progress these. In addition, the Board 
agreed on a number of minor administrative changes which have 
already been implemented. 
Functioning of the Board
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is 
responsible for setting the Board’s agenda and for ensuring that 
the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information. The 
agenda includes regular reports from the executive management 
and from the Board’s committees on all matters relating to the 
running of the Group. The Chairman is also responsible for 
ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of all 
agenda items and in particular strategic issues.
The Group’s Company Secretary is responsible for advising the 
Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters. All of the 
Directors have access to the Company Secretary’s services and 
advice. All of the Directors may also seek independent professional 
advice in the performance of their duties, at the Group’s expense.
Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee meetings which 
they were eligible to attend during 2015 was as follows:
Full 
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Total meetings held 11 3 5 3
Attendance:
D.S. Archer 11 – 5 3
W.M. Blyth
1
11 3 1/1 3
N.P.H. Meier
2
4/4 – 4/4 –
M.R. Potter
3
7/7 – – –
R.C. Rhodes 10 3 4 2
R.H. Stan 11 3 5 3
J.A. Treger 11 – – –
A.H. Yadgaroff 11 – – –
1
 W.M. Blyth stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on May 8, 2015.
2
  N.P.H. Meier was appointed to the Board and to the Remuneration Committee on April 30, 
2015 and May 8, 2015 respectively.
3
 M.R. Potter resigned from the Board on May 31, 2015.
Appointment, development and assessment of directors
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first 
opportunity after their appointment. Under the terms of the 
Company’s Articles of Association, all Directors are required to 
retire and seek reappointment by shareholders at an AGM on the 
third anniversary of their appointment. All current Non-Executive 
Directors were appointed for an initial 3-year term, renewable  
at the Board’s discretion for up to two further 3-year periods 
thereafter, and the Board intends that all future Non-Executive 
Director appointments will be on similar terms. Notwithstanding 
this, it is the Board’s intention that all Directors, including the 
Non-Executive Directors, shall be subject to re-election at 
each AGM.
Each Director is required to disclose to the Board their other 
significant commitments prior to appointment and when there is 
any significant change. The Board considers that all of the Directors 
allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively.
Actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed. 
Also, as permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s 
Articles of Association contain provisions that enable the Board to 
authorise conflicts or potential conflicts that individual Directors 
may have and to impose such limits or conditions as the Board 
deems appropriate.
The Company’s Directors have a wide range of skills as well as 
appropriate experience in financial, commercial, audit and mining 
activities and provide a challenge to senior management and the 
Company’s strategy. Each Director takes responsibility for 
undertaking the appropriate training required for developing and 
updating their knowledge and capabilities. The Chairman regularly 
reviews the Directors’ training needs and, where appropriate, the 
Group provides the resources to meet the Directors’ requirements. 
The Board has in place a formal induction process for new 
Directors on joining the Board, which is tailored to the needs of  
the individual.
Board Evaluation
Every year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its own 
performance and that of the Board Committees and individual 
Directors (including the Chairman). This year, PricewaterhouseCoopers 
(PwC) were asked to facilitate an independent evaluation against 
key areas of the Board’s work including: roles and responsibilities; 
Committees; strategy setting; performance monitoring; risk 
management; and internal control. 
Each of the Directors completed a self assessment questionnaire 
and discussed views with PwC in one-to-one meetings held during 
October and early November 2015. The findings of PwC’s review 
were discussed at a meeting of the Board in November and a 
number of actions to improve Board performance were agreed. 
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
38
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 The key elements of the control system in operation are:
• The Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters 
reserved to it for decision and has put in place an organisational 
structure with clear lines of responsibility and appropriate 
delegation of authority.
• There are established procedures for planning and approving 
investments and information systems for monitoring the Group’s 
financial performance against budgets and forecasts.
• The Chief Financial Officer is required to undertake an annual 
assessment process, to identify and quantify the risks that face 
the Group’s businesses and functions, and to assess the 
adequacy of the prevention, monitoring and mitigation practices 
in place for those risks. This process covers all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls. The 
Board is responsible for reviewing the risk assessment and risk 
management processes for completeness and accuracy.
• In addition to its work on the above, the Audit Committee also 
receives reports about significant risks and associated control 
and monitoring procedures. The Group’s internal controls and 
procedures documentation are regular agenda items for the 
Committee. The Committee also receives regular reports from 
the external auditors.
• The Audit Committee reports regularly to the Board on these 
matters, so as to enable the Directors to review the effectiveness 
of the system of internal control. The Board also receives regular 
reports or updates from its other Committees and directly from 
management in addition to carefully considering the Group’s risk 
register at regular intervals.
• The system accords with the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code.
There are no significant issues disclosed in the report and financial 
statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 and up to the 
date of approval of the report and financial statements that have 
required the Board to deal with any related material internal control 
issues.
During 2015, the Company’s internal controls and procedures  
were modified to take into account a reduction in senior personnel. 
The Directors confirm that the Board has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control during the period 
and concluded that the controls and procedures are adequate.  
The Board will continue to review the adequacy of the Company’s 
internal controls and will test the controls and procedures again 
during 2016.
Relations with shareholders
The Group is the only major natural resources royalty company 
listed on the LSE and recognises the importance of developing 
a fuller understanding of its business model amongst investors 
and an effective two-way communication with fund managers, 
institutional investors and analysts. The Chairman and SID met 
with major shareholders, a range of fund managers and institutions 
during the year.
There are over 2,000 private investors in the Group. The Board 
was pleased by the attendance at the 2015 AGM and the active 
engagement of investors to further their understanding of the 
current business activity. 
As disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, the 
Board appointed Macquarie Bank and Peel Hunt as joint brokers 
alongside its existing broker, BMO Capital Markets. The Board 
remains satisfied that the UK, Australia and Canada, which are 
the three jurisdictions likely to make up most of our shareholder 
base, are well covered by brokers with significant local expertise. 
At the same time, the Board continues to receive more regular 
investor relations reports, including commentary on the 
perception of the Company, views expressed by the investment 
community, media reports, share price performance and analysis, 
so as to ensure that all Directors are made aware of the major 
shareholders’ issues and concerns.
Risk management and internal control
The Board retains overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control and risk management and determines the nature 
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its 
strategic objectives. As discussed above, the Board has recognised 
the importance of increased focus on risk and risk management 
and has agreed to extend the remit of the Audit Committee to 
monitor the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management 
processes on behalf of the Board. The Board, supported by 
executive management, will also enhance the review and 
monitoring of the Group’s principal risks. 
A statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial 
statements is set out on page 6 1.
The Group’s system of internal control is designed to provide the 
Directors with reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the 
Group will not be hindered in achieving its business objectives,  
or in the orderly and legitimate conduct of its business, by 
circumstances that may reasonably be foreseen. However, no 
system of internal control can eliminate the possibility of poor 
judgement in decision-making, human error, fraud or other 
unlawful behaviour, management overriding controls, or the 
occurrence of unforeseeable circumstances and the resulting 
potential for material misstatement or loss.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
39
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE Main activities covered during 2015
The Nomination Committee was actively involved during 2015 in 
reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, in light 
of the need to maintain a balance of appropriate skills and accepted 
best corporate governance practice. The Committee is responsible 
for identifying and nominating candidates for both Executive and 
Non-Executive Directorships for approval by the Board.
The Committee has the authority to use an external search 
consultancy or open advertising. For the appointment of Mr. Meier, 
the Board was seeking a candidate with the financial and investment 
experience of Mr. Yadgaroff, prior to the latter’s retirement on 
December 31, 2015. To assist with this, the Board employed the 
services of a search consultancy, Heidrick & Struggles.
The Committee has, with assistance from Heidrick & Struggles, 
reviewed the Company’s Succession Planning Policy for Executive 
Directors and senior staff members and has implemented an 
appropriate policy to govern any future changes to executive 
management.
W.M. Blyth
Chairman 
March 22, 2016
Composition
Compliant with the Code:
W.M. Blyth – Chairman
D.S. Archer
R.C. Rhodes
R.H. Stan
Role and responsibilities
The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to:
• Set guidelines (with the approval of the Board) for the types  
of skills, experience and diversity being sought when making  
a search for new directors. With the assistance of external 
consultants, identifying and reviewing in detail each potential 
candidate available in the market and agreeing a ‘long list’ of 
candidates for each directorship. Following further discussions 
and research, deciding upon a shortlist of candidates for 
interview. Interview of shortlisted candidates by the Committee 
members who then convene to discuss their impressions and 
conclusions, culminating in a recommendation to the Board.
• Make recommendations as to the composition of the Board and 
its Committees and the balance between Executive Directors 
and Non-Executive Directors, with the aim of cultivating a board 
with the appropriate mix of skills, experience, independence 
and knowledge of the Company.
• Ensure that the succession plans for Directors and senior 
management are regularly reviewed for subsequent debate 
with the Non-Executive Directors and Chief Executive Officer. 
The Committee’s terms of reference can be found on the 
Group’s website.
Diversity policy
To increase diversity, in particular the representation of women 
and ethnicity on the Board.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity and that its 
current composition is still deficient in several respects. Whilst 
the appointment of Ms. Rhodes as Non-Executive Director and 
Audit Committee Chair in 2014 was a positive step in addressing 
this, the Company continues to seek further opportunities to 
promote both diversity to the Board and to maintain a policy 
to appoint positions on merit and the needs of the Group at any 
one time. The opportunities for developing and appointing 
women to Executive Directorships will be kept under review.
Nomination Committee
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
40
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Main activities covered during 2015
In 2015 the Committee’s activities focused on:
• recommending that the Board comply on a voluntary basis 
with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 Combined Code in making a 
statement on the Group’s viability (these provisions only apply to 
companies listed on the premium segment of the London Stock 
Exchange but following the Company’s transition from the 
premium to the standard segment in 2015 the Board committed 
to maintaining high levels of corporate governance);
• assessing management’s projections under different scenarios 
to allow the Board to make its assessment of the longer-term 
viability of the Company;
• leading a comprehensive review of the Group’s principal risks 
and overall risk appetite;
• monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
systems;
• reviewing asset carrying values and other material accounting 
matters;
• reviewing the accounting classification and treatment of 
significant acquisitions;
• monitoring legal and tax matters and reviewing associated 
accounting provisions; and
• considering the requirement for the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 
understandable.
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to 
the financial statements are set out in the table below, together 
with a summary of how the issue was addressed by the Committee. 
In addition, the Committee and the external auditors have 
discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee 
during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described 
in the Independent Auditors’ Report on pages 62 to 64.
Composition
Compliant with the Code:
R.C. Rhodes – Chairman
W.M. Blyth
R.H. Stan
The Committee members have a wide range of financial and 
commercial expertise, which the Board considers appropriate  
to fulfil the Committee’s duties. Biographies of the Committee 
members are set out on page 37.
Roles and responsibilities
The objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in 
monitoring decisions and processes designed to ensure the 
integrity of financial reporting, sound systems of internal control 
and risk management.
The Committee is responsible for:
• monitoring the integrity of the Company’s annual and interim 
financial statements, the accompanying reports to the 
shareholders and corporate governance statements;
• making recommendations to the Board concerning the adoption 
of the annual and interim financial statements;
• reviewing and challenging the consistency of, and any changes 
to, accounting policies, methods and standards;
• overseeing the Group’s relations with the external auditors, 
including the assessment of independence, and their 
effectiveness;
• making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, 
retention and removal of the external auditors and tendering  
of external audit services;
• advising the Board on the external auditor’s remuneration for 
both audit and any non-audit work;
• reviewing and monitoring the reports from management on the 
principal risks of the Group outlined on pages 30 to 33 and the 
management of those risks;
• monitoring and reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal financial controls;
• considering the need for and managing the effectiveness of the 
Company’s approach to internal audit; and
• reviewing and monitoring the environmental and social impact 
of the Company’s activities, the Company’s whistle-blowing 
procedure and the Company’s systems and controls for the 
prevention of bribery.
The Committee’s terms of reference can be found on the 
Group’s website.
Audit Committee
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
41
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE Significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Review of the accounting classification and treatment of 
significant acquisitions
The Committee reviewed and interrogated management’s 
assessment of the individual characteristics and contractual 
terms and conditions of each royalty arrangement entered into 
by the Group during the year, to ensure the classification was 
consistent with the Group’s accounting policies, stated in note 2. 
The Committee concluded the new royalties had been 
appropriately classified.
Review of carrying values of royalties held at amortised cost 
along with the investment portfolio and resulting impairment 
charges
The Committee reviewed and interrogated management’s key 
assumptions including production profiles, forecast commodity 
prices and discount rates used to estimate the recoverable 
amount of each royalty and compared this to the respective 
carrying value. The Committee reviewed the disclosures related 
to the Group’s impairment policy outlined in note 2 and the 
impairment charge of £4.4m described in note 16 for the year 
ended December 31, 2015.
The Committee reviewed management’s application of the 
Group’s impairment policy in relation to available for sale equity 
investments outlined in note 3.9 together with the disclosures 
related to the £0.9m impairment charge described in note 17 for 
the year ended December 31, 2015.
The Committee concluded the impairment charges recognised 
during the year ended December 31, 2015 were appropriate and 
have been adequately disclosed.
Review of the carrying value of royalties held at fair value The Committee reviewed and interrogated management’s key 
assumptions including production profiles, forecast commodity 
prices and discount rates used to determine the carrying value 
of those royalties held at fair value.
The Committee concluded that the fair value has been 
calculated in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy 
outlined in note 2 and is appropriate as at December 31, 2015.
Review and challenge the inputs and judgement used in 
arriving at the conclusion on going concern and viability
The Committee critically assessed the projections of future 
cash flows under different scenarios, including the ‘severe 
but plausible’ case, and compared these with cash balances 
and committed facilities available to the Group. The Committee 
satisfied itself that it was appropriate to recommend to the 
Board the adoption by the Group of the going concern basis 
of preparation.
Audit Committee
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
42
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Fair, balanced and understandable
A key requirement of the Group’s Annual Report and Accounts is 
that it be fair, balanced and understandable. The Audit Committee 
and the Board are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts 
meet this requirement as appropriate weight has been given to 
both positive and negative developments in the year.
In justifying this statement, the Audit Committee has considered 
the robust process which operates in creating the Annual Report 
and Accounts, including:
• the thorough process of review, evaluation and verification by 
senior management, which considered and drew on best 
practice for the creation of the Annual Report and Accounts; 
• a meeting of the Audit Committee held to review and consider 
the draft Annual Report and Accounts in advance of the final 
sign-off; and
• final sign-off provided by the Board.
Internal control and risk management
The Committee is responsible for the oversight of internal control 
and risk management systems across the Group. 
In carrying out its role, the Committee reviews the following:
• Regular updates of key internal control matters in respect of the 
Group financial reporting processes, such as financial reporting 
systems and controls.
• Procedures developed by management to identify and evaluate 
key business, financial and operational risks, and the 
effectiveness of the responses being implemented to mitigate 
the potential impacts.
• Policies and procedures in place to detect, monitor and 
investigate activity in respect of anti-fraud, bribery and 
corruption, such as the Group whistle-blowing facilities. 
The key elements of the control system in operation are:
• The Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters 
reserved to it for decision and has put in place an organisational 
structure with clear lines of responsibility and appropriate 
delegation of authority.
• There are established procedures for planning and approving 
investments and information systems for monitoring the Group’s 
financial performance against budgets and forecasts.
• The Chief Financial Officer is required to undertake an annual 
assessment process to identify and quantify the risks that face 
the Group’s businesses and functions, and to assess the 
adequacy of the prevention, monitoring and mitigation practices 
in place for those risks. This process covers all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls. The 
Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the risk assessment 
process for completeness and accuracy.
• In addition to its work on the above, the Audit Committee also 
receives regular reports about significant risks and associated 
control and monitoring procedures. The Group’s risk register and 
internal controls and procedures documentation are regular 
agenda items for the Committee. The Committee also receives 
regular reports from the external auditors.
• The Audit Committee reports to the Board on these matters,  
so as to enable the Directors to review the effectiveness of  
the system of internal control. The Board also receives reports 
from its other Committees and directly from management.
• The system accords with the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code.
There are no significant issues disclosed in the report and financial 
statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 and up to the 
date of approval of the report and financial statements that have 
required the Board to deal with any related material internal control 
issues.
The Directors confirm that the Board has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control as described during 
the period and concluded that the controls and procedures are 
adequate.
The Committee also considers, on an annual basis, whether an 
internal audit function is required. Its present view is that one is not 
yet justified given the compact size of the Group and the Directors’ 
involvement with individual transactions.
External audit
The Committee considers the effectiveness of the external audit 
process, the appointment of the external auditor and also assesses 
their independence on an ongoing basis. 
Deloitte UK LLP were appointed as the Group’s new independent 
auditor in June 2014 following a tender process. Resolutions to 
authorise the Board to re-appoint the auditors and to determine 
their remuneration for the year ending December 31, 2016 will be 
proposed at the AGM on May 10, 2016. 
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external 
audit process, it remains the Committee’s policy to review and 
approve all fees related to non-audit services. The policy prohibits 
the auditors from providing certain services such as accounting  
or valuation services. Details of the auditors’ remuneration are 
disclosed in note 5b.
The Committee will continue to review its activities in light of any 
regulatory developments going forward.
R.C. Rhodes
Chairman
March 22, 2016
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
43
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE Main activities covered during 2015
The Remuneration Committee’s activities focused on:
• the review of the effectiveness of the Value Creation Plan (‘VCP’) 
and developing, in conjunction with NBS, a set of tailored 
amendments to the VCP for the consideration of shareholders;
• designing the CEO’s 2015 bonus framework and the associated 
performance scorecard criteria;
• considering the grant of additional VCP allocations; 
• the design and implementation of the Unapproved Share Option 
Plan (‘USOP’) to incentivise both direct and indirect reports of 
the CEO; and 
• providing guidance to the CEO on salaries and bonuses to 
be awarded to his direct reports and approving salaries and 
bonuses paid.
Remuneration Committee
Composition
Compliant with the Code:
D.S. Archer – Chairman
N.P.H. Meier – appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 
May 8, 2015
R.C. Rhodes
R.H. Stan
W.M. Blyth – stood down from the Remuneration Committee 
on May 8, 2015
Role and responsibilities
The primary responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to:
• establish and develop the Group’s general policy on executive 
and senior management remuneration;
• determine specific remuneration packages for the Chairman  
and Executive Directors; and
• design the Company’s share incentive schemes.
The Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference can be found 
on the Group’s website.
External advisors
The Remuneration Committee has access to the advice of 
independent remuneration consultants when required. During 
2015, the Remuneration Committee received advice from New 
Bridge Street (‘NBS’). NBS was first appointed by the Remuneration 
Committee on January 20, 2014. NBS is a signatory to the 
Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct and has no other 
connection with the Company. The Remuneration Committee 
is satisfied that the advice that it receives from NBS is objective 
and independent.
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
44
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors’ remuneration report
Dear Shareholder,
Our remuneration report is, as last year, in two parts: a statement 
of the Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration, and an 
Annual Remuneration Report which describes how the policy 
was implemented in 2015. Reflecting proposed amendments to 
the Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’), the revised Remuneration 
Policy Report is being put to a binding shareholder resolution 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) and the 
Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder resolution.
Whilst we have an excellent established remuneration 
framework in place for short-term incentives for the CEO and 
his direct reports, the Remuneration Committee has concerns 
with the current effectiveness of the LTIP both to incentivise 
its participants as originally intended and to encourage the 
retention of key employees. 
The LTIP is in the form of a Value Creation Plan (‘VCP’) which 
provides awards of shares (in the form of nil cost share options) 
at the end of five years to the CEO and to senior managers for 
increases in Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) at rates above 7% 
per annum. The VCP, as originally crafted, was designed to support 
the Company’s growth strategy by providing incentives aligned 
with shareholder interests. Following an extensive review of the 
VCP we are proposing amendments to the plan to ensure it 
remains effective in aligning the interests of management with 
those of shareholders. Further details can be found in the 
Remuneration Policy part of this report.
In terms of short-term incentives, the CEO and the CEO’s direct 
senior reports have individually crafted bonus objectives which 
were agreed for the 2015 financial year. The bonus award criteria 
relate to a series of agreed corporate and personal performance 
targets which are scored out of a total of 100 points. This score is 
then applied to a maximum bonus calculated as a percentage of 
total salary as outlined on page 53.
While a number of the 2015 scorecard targets would have been 
achieved and there was a return to positive adjusted earnings per 
share, the CEO has elected to forgo a bonus in the current year. 
Bonus criteria will be further tailored for the 2016 year, both to 
ensure that they closely match key performance metrics and  
at the same time provide real ‘stretch-performance’ targets.
With respect to the VCP, no awards were made during 2015 
although the Committee is planning to recommend the issue  
of further units in 2016.
The main objectives for the Remuneration Committee in 2016  
will be to:
• Review and further tailor the senior executive bonus criteria for 
the 2016 financial year;
• Consider the award of further units under the VCP; and 
• Review and determine the most appropriate balance between 
salary and bonus for the senior executive. 
More detail is provided in the body of the Remuneration Report 
and the Remuneration Committee trusts you will endorse the level 
of remuneration paid during 2015 and the revisions to the VCP and 
Remuneration Policy.
Yours sincerely
D.S. Archer
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
March 22, 2016
The remuneration report is in two parts. 
The first part constitutes the ‘Remuneration Policy Report’ and sets 
out the remuneration strategy that the Company will be applying 
(subject to approval by shareholders at the 2016 AGM) and outlines 
revisions to the VCP that the Company proposes to apply going 
forward. It has been developed taking into account the principles 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and the views many of 
our major shareholders. The previous Policy Report was approved 
by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. However, in light of the proposed 
amendments to the VCP, the Remuneration Policy Report has been 
revised and will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2016 
AGM. It is structured in the following sections:
A. Strategic overview and policy drivers;
B. How the views of shareholders and employees have been   
 taken into account;
C. The new remuneration policy for Executive Directors;
D. Reasons for changing the previous remuneration policy;
E. Annual bonus – Choice of performance measures and   
 approach to target-setting; 
F. VCP – Principal Terms and Conditions and Reward Scenarios;
G. Reward scenarios;
H. Determinations to be made by and discretions available to  
 the Committee;
I.  Differences in remuneration policy for Executive Directors   
compared to other employees;
J. Approach towards appointment of new Executive Directors;
K. Service contracts and payments for loss of office;
L. Non-Executive Directors; and
M. Legacy arrangements
The second part, the Annual Remuneration Report for 2015, details 
the remuneration paid to Directors during 2015 with a comparison 
to the previous year. It will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at 
the 2016 AGM. It is structured as follows: 
A. Single figure total remuneration
B. Annual bonus for the year ended December 31, 2015
C. Vesting of long-term incentive awards
D. Directors’ shareholding and share interests
E. Total pension entitlements
F. Loss of office payments
G. Percentage increase in the remuneration of the CEO
H. Total shareholder return
I. Total remuneration for the CEO over time
J. Relative importance of spend on pay
K. External directorships
L. 2016 salary review
M. Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
N. Performance targets for the annual bonus and VCP awards  
 granted in 2014 and beyond
O. Statement of shareholder voting
The information in sections A to G and I to M has been audited,  
the remaining sections are unaudited.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
45
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE Directors’ remuneration report
replacing it with a more standard LTIP with annual awards or an 
alternative one-off award. The Remuneration Committee wishes to 
avoid rewriting the general principles of remuneration as adopted 
at the 2014 AGM and wishes to avoid changing the key principles 
of the VCP whilst at the same time reflecting the major change in 
market conditions. Taking this into consideration, the Committee 
feels that an extension to the life of the initial awards and an 
amendment to the performance conditions for future awards is 
the best way to incentivise senior management and align them 
with shareholders, whilst retaining the principles which formed 
the basis of the scheme as originally designed. The performance 
target that has to be achieved before any options are awarded 
continues to be challenging. More details of this scheme are 
included in section F below.
Since 2014, salaries for the Executive Directors have been pre-set 
for the period through to December 31, 2016. Going forward 
Executive Directors salaries will be reviewed annually. Salaries will 
be increased where justified by role change, increased responsibility 
or a change in the latest available market data.
During 2015, the CEO’s bonus criteria were extensively re-designed 
to incorporate a higher proportion of quantitative measures. The 
Committee is also very conscious of remuneration relativities 
within the organisation and keeps under review the bonus 
structure for non-Board senior managers to ensure a sensible 
relationship between Board and non-Board remuneration (see 
section I below).
B.  How the views of shareholders and employees have been 
taken into account
The Remuneration Committee has a policy of active engagement 
with shareholders on remuneration matters. The Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee met with a number of shareholders 
to discuss remuneration matters during 2015 and 2016. The 
Remuneration Committee also considers shareholder feedback 
received in relation to the AGM each year. Details of votes cast 
forand against the resolution to approve last year’s remuneration 
report are provided in the Annual Remuneration Report. This 
feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any 
meetings from time to time, is then considered as part of the 
Company’s annual review of remuneration policy. Feedback during 
2015 included concerns around the retention of senior executives 
and the efficacy of the VCP as currently designed. Concerns were 
also voiced by some shareholders over the level of remuneration 
of the CEO and the fixed salary increases contained within the 
policy report for Executive Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee has actively engaged with most of 
our major shareholders on the potential changes to the VCP and 
the proposed introduction of an Unapproved Share Option Plan 
(‘USOP’) and was encouraged by the general support shown for 
both of these proposals. A revised remuneration framework has 
been established which is expected to remain in place for the next 
three years. Should there be a need for a material change to the 
framework within this period, the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman will consult major shareholders in advance.
Non-Board employees are consulted individually on the executive 
remuneration policy to the extent that it impacts upon the 
structure and level of their own pay and bonuses.
Remuneration policy report
A.  Strategic overview and policy drivers
The foundations for our remuneration strategy were first 
enumerated in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, and largely 
continue to apply today. The strategy was, historically, based on 
the following Company specific elements, which continue to 
form the backdrop to the overall remuneration strategy: 
• Long investment horizons; often there can be an interval of 
between two and 10 years before a royalty comes on stream 
and the royalty may continue to flow for 20 years or more. As 
business development is now focussed on royalty acquisitions, 
incentives are heavily weighted towards longer-term 
performance.
• No comparable peer group; certainly in the UK, for the purposes 
of benchmarking Director performance. As a result, our incentive 
plans have been based on absolute performance rather than 
performance relative to other companies. We are introducing a 
relative measure in relation to the proposed amendments to the 
VCP whereby the rewards for the holders of awards granted in 
2016 will only be earned should the Company’s share price 
performance match or exceed the performance of the FTSE 350 
All Mining Index.
• A relatively high ratio between its market capitalisation 
(£98.5m at December 31, 2015) and the number of its employees 
(11, as at March 1, 2015, of whom one is an Executive Director). 
The investment team is relatively small and much of the Company’s 
royalty know-how rests with them. The risk to the business 
of losing these and other key employees is correspondingly 
significant, and we have traditionally regarded retention as 
an important objective of our remuneration strategy. 
As reported in our 2013 and 2014 reports, a new executive 
management team was appointed in October 2013 with a view 
to, amongst other things, increase Total Shareholder Return 
(‘TSR’) over a five-year period. With the help of our remuneration 
consultants, a Value Creation Plan (‘VCP’) was constructed, 
discussed with major shareholders and ultimately approved  
at the 2014 AGM. 
When the VCP was introduced, circumstances within the mining 
sector and the value and income streams from the Company’s 
royalties were significantly different from the current projections 
for the rest of the performance period. Given what has happened 
to commodity prices since 2014, we are concerned that the VCP 
is highly unlikely to be seen to be able to deliver a tangible 
incentive over the original period to either the CEO or other 
holders of VCP units. The VCP is based on the growth in the 
absolute TSR achieved over a five-year period from June 16, 2014. 
We believe that this offers the most direct alignment of Directors’ 
interests with those of shareholders.
It is the Committee’s view that these market influences, in addition 
to the reduction in royalties from legacy investments, are beyond 
what could reasonably have been anticipated at the time of the 
VCP’s introduction and are outside the current management’s 
control. As a result of these circumstances, the Committee has 
reviewed the efficacy of the VCP and has considered a number of 
different alternatives, which included cancelling the scheme and 
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
46
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 C.  The new remuneration policy for Executive Directors
The policy proposed for shareholder approval in respect of basic salary and annual bonus covers the three years 2016-2019 and will be 
effective from the date of shareholder approval. The VCP, which was approved at the 2014 AGM, remains in place. The only change being 
proposed to the awards which have already been made is to extend the term by two years to June 16, 2021 (previously June 16, 2019), 
which also requires the annual growth target of 7% to be achieved over seven years. Any future awards under the existing VCP will cover a 
period of approximately five years from the date of its grant to June 16, 2021, and will be based on the revised terms as outlined in the table 
below, subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM, the date which this Policy will be effective from. The Committee’s specific policy for 
each element of remuneration is as follows:
Element, purpose  
and link to strategy Operation Maximum
Salary
To recruit, retain and 
reward executives of a 
suitable calibre for the 
role and duties required
Salaries are set with reference to individual performance, 
experience and responsibilities to reflect the market rate for 
the individual and their role, determined with reference to 
remuneration levels in companies of similar size and complexity, 
taking into account pay levels within the Company in general.
Salaries are reviewed annually. Increases for Executive Directors 
will normally be in line with those for the general workforce 
except where there is a change of role or responsibilities or in 
other exceptional circumstances. 
There is no prescribed maximum 
annual increase.
Pension and benefits
To provide market 
competitive benefits
A Company contribution to a money purchase pension scheme, 
or a cash allowance in lieu of pension at the request of the 
individual. Other than a death in service policy which the Company 
subscribes to, no other benefits are provided.
Executive Directors are entitled to 30 days’ leave.
Pension: 10% of salary.
Death in service policy:  
five times salary.
Annual bonus
To encourage and 
reward delivery 
of the Company’s 
operational objectives
The annual bonus will be paid wholly in cash with no deferred 
component, but with a provision for clawback. 
Bonus payments are determined based on the achievement 
of a combination of corporate and personal performance targets. 
Both are expected to form a substantial part of the scorecard.
Corporate performance targets are agreed by the Board at the 
beginning of the year.
Personal performance targets are agreed with the Chairman 
and the Committee.
The Committee will use a balanced scorecard approach to 
assess performance against targets at the end of the year.
The targets are discussed more fully at section E below.
The maximum annual bonus 
opportunity is 100% of salary.
Long-term incentives
To encourage and 
reward delivery of the 
Company’s strategic 
objectives and provide 
alignment with 
shareholders through 
the use of shares and 
incentivise retention 
of key personnel
The LTIP takes the form of a VCP with a performance period of 
approximately five years from the date of grant to June 16, 2021.
Awards that were granted in 2014 will be amended, as outlined 
in section F below.
New awards will have a performance period of five years to June 
16, 2021 and will be subject to two TSR performance conditions:
• Minimum growth in TSR of 7% per annum, with growth 
measured from a premium to the market capitalisation based 
on the net asset value per share as at December 31, 2015. 
• A relative measure of TSR which requires median performance 
compared a comparator group
New awards to participants with an existing award will accrue 
at a lower level once the 2014 awards reach the threshold growth 
of 7% per annum.
The detailed design is discussed at section F below.
The maximum number of shares 
that can be awarded under the 
option grants equates to 7.5% of 
the Company’s issued share 
capital as at the end of the 
measurement period.
The Committee intends to allocate 
the remaining pool as follows:
CEO 20.0%
Non-Board senior managers 4.0%
Unallocated reserve: 13.1%
In 2014, the Committee allocated 
the pool as follows:
CEO 56.0%
Non-Board senior managers  6.9%
The potential rewards achievable by Executive Directors under the remuneration policy are illustrated at section G. The policy in respect of 
any future Director appointments is discussed at section J below.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
47
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE Directors’ remuneration report
Awards granted in 2014
• Awards were made following shareholder approval of the VCP 
at the 2014 AGM. The current allocation is as follows:
– CEO:  56%
– Non-Board Senior Management:  6.9%
– Total Allocated:  62.9%
– Unallocated:  37.1%
The unallocated pool reflects the exit of the former Chief 
Investment Officer, who forfeited his 24% allocation on 
departure and an unallocated reserve.
• For these awards made in June 2014, the performance period will 
be extended by a further two years. No value accrues under the 
VCP to its participants unless growth in the Company’s TSR over 
a seven-year performance period is at least equal to 7% growth 
per annum (or approximately 61% total growth over the period).
• Subject to such threshold growth, participants become entitled 
to receive nil or nominal cost options over ordinary shares in the 
capital of the Company, subject to a cap, set by reference to a 
share of a pool value equal to 10% of the growth in the 
Company’s TSR over the five-year period or, if less, 50% of the 
growth in the Company’s TSR over the five-year period in excess 
of the threshold growth, adjusted to reflect the percentage of the 
pool allocated
• For the existing awards this will mean that, if the total growth in 
TSR over the extended seven-year period is:
– below approximately 61%, no value accrues;
– between approximately 61% and 76%, the value that accrues  
is equal to 50% of the growth in the Company’s TSR over the 
seven-year period in excess of the threshold growth, adjusted 
to 31.5% to reflect the percentage of the pool allocated; and
– between 76% and the 300% cap, the value that accrues is 
equal to 10% of the growth in the Company’s TSR over a 
seven-year period, adjusted to 6.29% to reflect the percentage 
of the pool allocated.
• Options to which participants become entitled at the end of the 
seven-year period (extended from five-years) will become 
exercisable as follows:
– One-third immediately;
– One-third after 12 months;
– One-third after 24 months.
D.  Reasons for changing the previous remuneration policy
The revised remuneration package summarised above represents 
proposed changes to the salary review process and the VCP. The 
salary policy no longer prescribes fixed increases for the CEO and 
salaries will be reviewed annually. Under the VCP, additional awards 
will be allocated to the CEO and other senior non-Board managers 
under revised terms outlined in section F below. In addition, the 
performance period of existing awards would be extended by two 
years. The Committee believes that these changes will continue to 
align shareholders and management and therefore retain the 
original purposes of the scheme. The performance target that has 
to be achieved before any options are awarded continues to be 
considered challenging; and there is a sufficient incentive for both 
outperformance and retention over the next five years. The rigid 
ratio between corporate and personal performance bonus targets 
has been eliminated so as to introduce more flexibility in designing 
appropriate weightings to deal with individual circumstances at the 
time. No other changes to the Remuneration policy are proposed. 
E.  Annual bonus – Choice of performance measures and 
approach to target setting
Annual bonuses are based on a scorecard of performance during 
the calendar year. The scorecard sets challenging targets for 
triggering bonus, and for rewarding outperformance on a sliding 
scale. The scorecard will be split between corporate objectives and 
personal objectives, both of which are expected to form a 
substantial part of the scorecard.
The corporate objectives are agreed by the Board at the beginning 
of each year, together with an assessment of the potential for 
outperformance and the risk of shortfall. This covers such areas as 
business performance, finance, relationships and reputation. This 
constitutes the criteria for triggering a bonus and for assessing the 
levels of challenge and outperformance that would warrant higher 
levels of bonus. The CEO’s personal objectives for the year are 
agreed at the beginning of the year by the Chairman of the Board 
in conjunction with the Committee. The personal objectives focus 
on the required contribution of the individual Executive Director 
to the achievement of the Company’s objectives for the year, but 
also on important but less measurable aspects such as leadership, 
building personal and team relationships, and the extent to which 
they personally have ‘gone the extra mile’.
The CEO’s performance against corporate and personal objectives 
is assessed by the Chairman and the Committee at the beginning 
of the following year, and bonus is awarded on the basis of the 
agreed criteria.
F.  LTIP – Principal terms and conditions and reward scenarios
The LTIP takes the form of a VCP. The key features of the VCP are 
as follows: 
• All employees are eligible to participate in the VCP; although 
participation has been limited to the Executive Directors 
together with other non-Board members of the senior 
management team at the discretion of the Committee acting 
in consultation with the CEO.
• No value accrues under the VCP to its participants unless growth 
in the Company’s TSR over the performance period is at least 
equal to 7% growth per annum.
• The maximum number of shares to be awarded under the VCP 
option grants will not be capable of exceeding such number 
equating to 7.5% of the Company’s issued share capital as at the 
end of the measurement period. This cap would apply to total 
growth in TSR above 300%.
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
48
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 – Pay-outs under the proposed additional awards to the CEO 
and other participants who already have awards will accrue at 
a lower level based on the outcome of the awards currently 
allocated. Once the share price reaches the threshold at which 
value accrues under the existing awards, value accrues on only 
half of the units under the additional awards held by the CEO 
and any non-Board members of the senior management team 
who have an existing award.
– In addition, a relative measure of TSR will be introduced to 
ensure it is at least equal to the movement in the index of a 
relevant comparator group. Although there is no directly 
comparable peer group, using the FTSE 350 Mining Index 
would support the strategy of diversifying the portfolio and 
reflect other companies impacted by commodity prices. In the 
event that the increase in SR does not equal or exceed the 
aforementioned index, no value will accrue to the new awards.
• Options to which participants become entitled at the end of the 
five-year period will become exercisable as follows:
– One-third immediately;
–  One-third after 12 months;
– One-third after 24 months.
• The Committee intends to allocate the pool as follows:
– CEO:  20.0%
– Non-Board senior managers: 4.0%
– Unallocated reserve: 13.1%
The maximum value that can accrue for the full award pool (which 
includes both the 2014 and the 2016 awards) is capped at 7.5%  
of the Company’s issued share capital as at the end of the 
measurement period.
New awards to be granted in 2016
• As mentioned above, the Remuneration Committee wishes 
to avoid rewriting the general principles of remuneration as 
adopted at the 2014 AGM and wishes to avoid changing the 
key principles of the VCP whilst at the same time reflecting 
the major change in market conditions.
• To achieve this, further awards are to be granted over the 
unallocated pool and will be measured to the same date as 
the original awards (i.e. June 16, 2021) on a similar basis as 
the original awards except that:
– Rather than measuring growth from the market capitalisation 
in June 16, 2014, growth will be measured on the net asset 
value as at 31 December 2015 (£161.3m) which is a premium 
of approximately 61% to the market capitalisation on the 
same date.
– Subject to a threshold growth of 7% per annum over £161.3m 
net asset value, participants become entitled to receive nil or 
nominal cost options over ordinary shares in the capital of the 
Company, subject to a cap, set by reference to a share of a pool 
value equal to 10% of the growth in the Company’s TSR over 
the five-year period, adjusted to 3.71% to reflect the 
percentage of the pool allocated. There will be no ‘catch-up’ 
once the threshold growth is achieved. This means:
– below approximately 40%, no value accrues;
– above approximately 40% the value that accrues is equal to 
10% of the growth in the Company’s TSR over 94.9p per 
share over a five-year period, adjusted to reflect the 
percentage of the pool allocated
Illustrative returns
The following table illustrates the potential return for the CEO and other participants and shareholders for various levels of growth in 
TSR over the seven-year performance period to June 16, 2021:
Benefit assuming total growth in TSR (from an illustrative starting 
market capitalisation of £248.0m) over a seven-year period of:
Allocation  
of pool 50% 76%
**
100% 150%
CEO – original award 56% £0.0m £10.6m £13.9m £20.8m
CEO – proposed award 20% £2.3m £3.2m £3.8m £5.0m
Others – original awards 6.9% £0.0m £1.3m £1.7m £2.6m
Others – proposed awards 17.1% £2.0m £3.0m £3.9m £5.7m
Total 100% £4.27m £18.07m £23.24m £34.14m
Shareholders £119.73m £170.91m £224.76m £337.86m
*  Approximately 76% growth in TSR over the seven-year period results in a total pool equal to 9.3% of the growth. This reflects a pool equal to 10% for the original awards and a pool for the new 
awards which reflects the reduction in the value that accrues for participants with original awards once the threshold growth of 7% per annum is met.
**  At the cap of total growth in TSR of 300% over the period, the benefit to shareholders would be £677.20m and total participant awards would be £66.80m, of which the CEO would receive £41.7m 
under the original award and £8.7m under the new proposed award.
 
  TSR performance must match or exceed the performance of the FTSE 350 All Mining Index for new awards to payout. Awards in the table are calculated from the respective starting market 
capitalisations (£248.0m for original awards and £161.3m for new awards (based on the net asset value as at December 31, 2015)).
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
49
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE G.  Reward scenarios
The Company’s policy results in a significant portion of remuneration received by the Executive Director being dependent on 
Company performance. The charts below illustrate how the total pay opportunity for the Executive Director varies under three different 
performance scenarios: below target (fixed pay only), on-target and maximum. These charts are indicative as share price movement 
and dividend accrual have been excluded. All assumptions made are noted below the charts. 
The chart below illustrates the total pay opportunities under three levels. Below target and on-target do not include any VCP vesting 
and simply allow for salary and pension for the below target level with a bonus award included in the on-target level. The maximum level 
includes the current fair value of the VCP should the full 300% TSR hurdle and outperformance of the FTSE 350 Mining Index be achieved.
CEO full time equivalent total remuneration at different levels of performance
To aid comparability with standard LTIP structures, the chart below reflects the total pay opportunity if the VCP (both the original awards 
made in 2014 and the proposed awards to be made in 2016) are included on an annualised basis.
CEO full time equivalent total remuneration at different levels of performance
Assumptions:
• Below Target = fixed pay only (salary + benefits + pension);
• On-target = fixed pay, 50% vesting of the annual bonus and 0% of the VCP awards (i.e. the value that accrues for threshold performance);
• Maximum (2016 VCP award included in full in the year of grant) = fixed pay and 100% vesting of the annual bonus and 2016 VCP award; 
• Maximum (2014 and 2016 VCP awards included on an annualised basis) = fixed pay and 100% vesting of the annual bonus and annualised 
2014 and 2016 VCP awards;
• Salary levels (on which other elements of the package are calculated) are based on those which applied from January 1, 2016. Salary for 
the CEO is on a full-time equivalent basis. The Executive Director does not receive any taxable benefits; and
• The fair value of the VCP in both charts has been calculated using a stochastic model as at February 29, 2016 using assumptions that, at 
grant, the start value from which the TSR growth is calculated is £248.0m for 2014 awards (which includes the adjustment for additional 
capital raised), the start value from which the TSR growth is calculated is £161.3m for the 2016 awards and there are 169.9m shares in issue.
£0 £200,000 £400,000 £600,000 £800,000 £1,000,000 £1,200,000 £1,400,000 £1,600,000
100%
69%
45%
£440,000
£640,000
£977,516
31%
41% 14%
Below
Target
On-Target
Maximum
Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP
£0 £200,000 £400,000 £600,000 £800,000 £1,000,000 £1,200,000 £1,400,000 £1,600,000
100%
69%
49%
£440,000
£640,000
£895,346
31%
45% 6%
Below
Target
On-Target
Maximum
Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP
Directors’ remuneration report
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
50
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 J.  Approach to appointment of new Executive Directors
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would 
be set in accordance with the terms of the Company’s approved 
remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment. Currently, 
for an Executive Director, this would include a potential annual 
bonus of no more than 100%. There is also provision within the 
VCP arrangements for the Committee to dilute the pool by an 
additional 10% for new appointees.
The salary for a new Executive Director may be set below the 
normal market rate, with phased increases following an initial 
probationary period and over the first few years as the executive 
gains experience in their new role. The Committee may offer new 
appointees additional cash and/or share-based elements when it 
considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders, including the use of awards made under 9.4.2 of the 
Listing Rules. Such payments would take account of remuneration 
relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect 
(as far as practicable) the nature and time horizons attaching to 
that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions. 
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time 
of appointment.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay 
element awarded in respect of the prior role will be allowed to 
pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into 
account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing 
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may 
continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval 
at the earliest opportunity. 
For external Executive Director appointments, the Committee 
may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses 
as appropriate.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, 
the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved 
remuneration policy in force at that time.
K.  Service contracts and payments for loss of office
The Committee, together with the Nomination Committee, reviews 
the contractual terms for new Executive Directors to ensure that 
these reflect best practice.
Although the current Executive Director’s service contract is for an 
indefinite term, it is the Company’s continuing policy that service 
contracts should not have a notice period of more than one year.
The service contracts contain provision for early termination. A 
Director’s service contract may be terminated without notice and 
without any further payment or compensation, except for sums 
accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain 
events such as gross misconduct. If the employing company 
terminates the employment of an Executive Director in other 
circumstances, compensation is limited to salary due for any 
unexpired notice period and any amount assessed by the 
Committee as representing the value of other contractual benefits 
(including pension) which would have been received during the 
period. Payments in lieu of notice are not pensionable. The service 
contract of Mr. Treger provides for a six-month notice period and 
an additional termination payment equivalent to six months’ basic 
salary. In the event of a change of control of the Company there is 
no enhancement to contractual terms. The service contract of the 
Executive Director is available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office.
H.  Determinations to be made by and discretions available 
to the Committee
The Committee operates the Group’s variable incentive plans 
according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC 
rules where relevant. To ensure the efficient administration of 
these plans, the Committee will be required to make 
determinations and apply certain operational discretions. These 
include the following:
• selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis;
• determining the timing of grants of awards and/or payment;
• adjusting basic salaries for changes in time commitment (within 
the full-time equivalent levels set out in this policy);
• determining the quantum of awards and/or payments (within 
the limits set out in the policy table above);
• determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment 
of performance;
• making the appropriate adjustments required in certain 
circumstances (e.g. change of control, variation of share capital 
including rights issues and corporate restructuring events, and 
special dividends); 
• determining ‘good leaver’ status for incentive plan purposes 
and applying the appropriate treatment; and
• undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance 
measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan from 
year-to-year.
If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or 
long-term incentive performance conditions and/or targets 
beingdeemed no longer appropriate (e.g. a material acquisition 
or divestment), the Committee will have the ability to adjust 
appropriately the measures and/or targets and alter weightings, 
provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially 
less difficult to satisfy.
I.  Differences in remuneration policy for Executive Directors 
compared to other employees
The Committee aims to ensure, over time, a proper differential 
between the level of the remuneration of Executive Directors and 
other employees, but also appropriate differences in the structure 
of remuneration to reflect different levels of responsibility and 
planning horizons of employees across the Company.
The remuneration framework of non-Board employees was 
reviewed during 2015 and will continue to be reviewed going 
forward. There are currently three main differences to the 
remuneration framework: 
• the Committee will continue to reserve access to the VCP to 
the most senior executives who have the greatest potential  
to influence the Company’s long-term performance; and
• the Executive Directors will receive any annual bonus wholly 
in cash because of the large potential shareholding offered by 
the VCP; but 
• in order to encourage employees without access (or with less 
access) to the VCP to build up a shareholding in the Company, 
consideration will be given to either including a share 
component in any annual bonuses awarded to non-Board 
employees and continuing to offer them options pursuant to 
the CSOP or the USOP, or the Unapproved Share Option Plan, 
or a combination of the two. 
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
51
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE Directors’ remuneration report
In summary, the contractual provisions for Executive Directors are as follows:
Provision Detailed terms 
Notice period One year or less.
Termination payment Basic salary plus benefits (including pension), paid monthly and subject to mitigation.
In addition, any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in 
connection with the termination would be paid as necessary.
Additional termination payment to bring the total payment to the equivalent of 12 months’ 
basic salary.
Remuneration entitlements A pro-rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with 
vesting for outstanding share awards (in certain circumstances – see below). 
In all cases performance targets would apply.
Change of control There are no enhanced terms in relation to a change of control.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the VCP will be determined based on the plan rules. The default 
treatment is that any outstanding unvested awards lapse on cessation of employment. However, in certain prescribed circumstances, 
such as death, disability, retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee (taking into account the individual’s 
performance and the reasons for their departure) ‘good leaver’ status can be applied. For good leavers, the unvested awards remain 
subject to performance conditions (measured over the original time period) and are reduced pro-rata in size to reflect the proportion of 
the performance period actually served. The Committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate to do 
so. In determining whether an executive should be treated as a good leaver or not, the Committee will take into account the performance 
of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
L. Non-Executive Directors
The Company aims to attract and retain a high-calibre Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors by offering a market 
competitive fee level.
The Committee’s specific policy is as follows:
Element, purpose and link to 
strategy Operation Maximum
Board Fees
Attract, retain 
and fairly reward 
high calibre 
individuals
Fees are currently paid in cash. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate 
in the Company’s annual performance related incentive schemes, share option 
schemes or pension scheme.
The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities. The Non-Executive 
Directors are paid a basic fee. Additional fees are paid to Chairmen and members 
of the main Board Committees and to the SID to reflect their extra responsibilities.
Fees are reviewed by the Board taking into account individual responsibilities, 
factors such as Committee Chairmanships, time commitment, other pay increases 
being made to employees in the Company, and fees payable for the equivalent role 
in comparable companies.
Normally fees are reviewed bi-annually and fee increases are generally effective 
fromannual re-election after the AGM.
The Board may adjust the fees for an individual Non-Executive Director during the 
intervening period if there is a significant change in their responsibilities and/or 
time commitments.
Current fee levels 
are set out in the 
Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
Overall fee limit 
will be within the 
£400,000 limit 
set out in the 
Company’s Articles 
of Association.
Mr. Blyth, Mr. Archer, Mr. Meier, Ms. Rhodes and Mr. Stan were appointed for an initial 3-year term, renewable at the Board’s discretion for 
up to two further 3-year period thereafter and the Board intends that all future Non-Executive Directors’ appointments will be on similar 
terms. None of the letters of appointment have provisions that relate to a change of control of the Company.
The details of the Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are as follows:
Non-Executive Date of appointment Notice period
W.M. Blyth March 20, 2013 One month 
D.S. Archer October 15, 2014 One month
N.P.H. Meier April 30, 2015 One month
R.C. Rhodes May 8, 2014 One month
R.H. Stan February 19, 2014 One month
M. Legacy arrangements
In approving this Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former 
Directors (such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes) that have been disclosed to shareholders in 
previous remuneration reports. Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Remuneration Report as they arise.
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
52
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Annual Remuneration Report for 2015
This part of the report details the remuneration paid to Directors during 2015 with a comparison to the previous year. It will be put to an 
advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM. The information in sections A to G and I to M has been audited, the remaining sections are 
unaudited.
A. Single figure for total remuneration
Salary/fees 
£’000
Benefits 
£’000
Total bonus 
£’000
Pension/cash
allowance
13
£’000
Other 
£’000
Total 
remuneration 
£’000
Executive Directors
J.A. Treger 2015 342 – – 32 – 374
2014 248 – 160 24 – 432
Non-Executive Directors
W.M. Blyth
1
2015 95 – – – – 95
2014 81 – – – – 81
D.S. Archer
2
2015 48 – – – – 48
2014 8 – – – – 8
N.P.H. Meier
3
2015 27 – – – – 27
2014 – – – – – –
R.C. Rhodes
4
2015 43 – – – – 43
2014 25 – – – – 25
R.H. Stan
5
2015 40 – – – – 40
2014 33 – – – – 33
A.H. Yadgaroff
6
2015 38 – – – – 38
2014 38 – – – – 38
Former Directors 
M.H. Atkinson
7
2015 – – – – – –
2014 19 – – – – 19
P.M. Boycott
8
2015 – – – – – –
2014 3 – – – – 3
P.N.R. Cooke
9
2015 – – – – – –
2014 28 – – – – 28
M.R. Potter
10
2015 93 – – 2 – 95
2014 179 – 113 6 – 298
J.G. Whellock
11
2015 – – – – – –
2014 19 – – – – 19
B.M. Wides
12
2015 – – – – – –
2014 121 – – – – 121
1
 W.M. Blyth was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on April 1, 2014.
2
 D.S. Archer was appointed to the Board on October 15, 2014.
3
 N.P.H. Meier was appointed to the Board on April 30, 2015.
4
 R.C. Rhodes was appointed to the Board on May 8, 2014.
5
 R.H. Stan was appointed to the Board on February 19, 2014.
6
 A.H. Yadgaroff resigned from the Board on December 31, 2015.
7
 M.H. Atkinson resigned from the Board on June 11, 2014.
8
 P.M. Boycott passed away on January 7, 2014.
9
 P.N.R. Cooke resigned from the Board on October 15, 2014.
10
 M.R. Potter resigned from the Board on May 31, 2015.
11
 J.G. Whellock resigned from the Board on June 11, 2014.
12
 B.M. Wides resigned from the Board on May 8, 2014.
13
 J.A. Treger and M.R. Potter received contributions toward pension plans, all other amounts were cash payments in lieu of pension.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
53
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE Directors’ remuneration report
B. Annual bonus for the year ending December 31, 2015
A set of individually crafted corporate and personal bonus criteria 
were agreed with the CEO for the 2015 financial year.
 The Remuneration Committee was conscious of the need to 
‘sense check’ the bonus arrangements for the CEO both for major 
negative external influences and for truly outstanding 
performance. As a result, the bonus criteria and calculations were 
made subject to two major caveats:
• That the Company had not suffered an exceptional negative 
event in the bonus year or in the lead up to the determination  
of the quantum of the bonus; and
• The Remuneration Committee may look at overriding some  
or all of the bonus criteria should the CEO’s efforts in the 2015 
financial year result in a major transformational outcome that 
demonstrably benefits shareholders, is reflected in a material 
share price increase and would not otherwise be adequately 
captured in the bonus matrix.
The CEO elected not to receive a bonus for the 2015 year. As a 
result of his election, his performance against these bonus criteria 
was not formally measured. The performance of the CEO was, 
nevertheless, assessed as part of his annual performance review. 
No bonus was awarded to the Chief Investment Officer, Mr. Potter, 
an Executive Director who left the Company on May 31, 2015.
The CEO’s direct senior reports have individually crafted bonus 
objectives which were agreed for the 2015 financial year. The 
bonus award criteria relate to a series of agreed corporate and 
personal performance criteria which are scored out of a total of 
100 points. This score is then applied to a maximum bonus 
calculated as a percentage of total salary. The percentages range 
from 100% to 120% of salary depending on the executive’s position 
and his level of individual participation in the VCP. 
Bonus criteria will be further tailored for the 2016 year to ensure 
that these closely match key performance metrics and at the same 
time provide real ‘stretch-performance’ targets.
The scorecard for the CEO for 2015 is detailed below. Specific 
measures are excluded due to commercial sensitivity.
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
54
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 2015 CEO Scorecard
Criteria
Maximum 
Award (%)
Corporate Performance Criteria
A. Growth 26
Measures for assessment included:
• Acquisition of royalties (transformational and medium-sized) 
• Acquisition costs of royalties
• Recovery of outstanding royalty related advances
• Royalty accretiveness to earnings
B. Financial Performance 26
Measures for assessment included:
• EBITDA 
• Cash flow
• EV/EBITDA
• Price/book value
• Share price growth
C. Financial Control 8
Measures for assessment included:
• Risk management and succession planning
• Budgeting and financial reporting
Personal Performance Criteria
D. Relationships, Reputation and Business Development 18
• Implementation of IR plan
• Alignment with a strategic partner
• Engagement with debt and equity providers
• Engagement with and development of royalty sourcing network 
E. Leadership 22
• Leadership and development of a senior management team
• Development of a collaborative, goal-oriented, ethical company with harmonious working relationships
• Personal contribution
Total 100
C. Vesting of long-term incentive awards
Allocation of units under the VCP out of the pool to Executive Directors were 56,000 units or 56% of the total number of units to the CEO 
and 24,000 units or 24% to the CIO. Following the resignation of the then CIO on May 31, 2015, the 24,000 units allocated to him were 
returned to the un-allocated pool. As at the date of this report there are a total of 62,887 units issued out of a total pool of 100,000 units, 
including the awards for non-Board senior managers.
Long-term incentive awards made during the year
There were no awards granted to Executive Directors under either the JSOP or the CSOP in 2015.
Outstanding share awards
There are currently no awards to Executive Directors outstanding under the JSOP, the CSOP or the USOP. 
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
55
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE Directors’ remuneration report
D. Directors’ shareholding and share interests
The Committee encourages the Executive Directors to build up a shareholding in the Company, so as to ensure the alignment of their interest 
with those of shareholders, but there is no formal shareholding guideline. In addition, the VCP is designed to increase this alignment. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to hold shares in the Company although the Chairman and independent 
Non-Executive Directors are expected to ensure that the level of their individual shareholdings is not significant and thereby call into 
question their continuing independence. 
Details of the Directors’ interests in shares are shown in the table below.
Not subject to  
performance conditions
Subject to  
performance conditions
Beneficially  
owned at  
March 18,  
2016
Beneficially 
owned at 
December 31, 
2015 LTIP
Deferred  
bonus shares LTIP
Deferred  
bonus shares
Executive Directors
J.A. Treger 5,506,454 5,506,454 – – – –
Non-Executive Directors
W.M. Blyth 104,822 104,822 – – – –
D.S. Archer – – – – – –
N.P.H. Meier 120,000 120,000 – – – –
R.C. Rhodes 15,000 15,000 – – – –
R.H. Stan 123,540 123,540 – – – –
None of the Directors hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans. Such an arrangement would require the 
express permission of the Board.
E. Total pension entitlements
The Company makes contributions to employees’ pensions and has designated the National Employment Savings Trust (NEST) as 
its stakeholder pension provider. The Committee is prepared to pay additional basic salary (or fees) in lieu of part or all of a Director’s 
pension contribution.
F. Loss of office payments
There were no loss of office payments made to Directors in 2015 (2014: nil).
G. Percentage increase in the remuneration of the CEO
CEO £’000 2015 2014 % change
– salary 380 356 7%
– benefits – 3 (100%)
– bonus – 160 (100%)
Average per employee £’000
– salary 85 78 9%
– benefits – – –
– bonus 26 58 (55%)
The table above shows the movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO between the current and previous financial year 
compared to that for the average UK employee. The Committee has chosen this comparator and it feels that it provides a more appropriate 
reflection of the earnings of the average worker than the movement in the Group’s total wage bill, which is distorted by movements in the 
number of employees. For the benefits and bonus per employee, this is based on those employees eligible to participate in such schemes.
0
50
100
150
200
Rebased
to 100
02.01.10 02.01.11 02.01.12 02.01.13 02.01.14 02.01.15 02.01.16
FTSE 350 Mining Anglo Pacific Group
H. Total shareholder return
The performance of the Company’s ordinary shares compared 
with the FTSE 350 Mining Index for the five-year period ended on 
December 31, 2015 is shown in the graph above. Both have been 
re-based at the start of the period in order to provide a graphical 
measure of comparative performance.
The Company has chosen the FTSE 350 Mining Index as a 
comparator for historical reporting purposes as it believes it 
to be the nearest relevant index appropriate to the Group.
The middle market price of an ordinary share on December 31, 
2015 was 58.00p. During the year the share price ranged from  
a low of 53.75p to a high of 102.59p. 
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
56
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 I. Total remuneration for the CEO over time
2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 2014 2015
B.M. Wides J. Theobald
1
J.A. Treger
2
J.A. Treger
Total remuneration 
(£’000) 155 69 253 209 193
3
 39 432 374
Bonus outturn (%) N/A
4
N/A
4
37 – – – 64%
Bonus (£’000) 76 38 84 – – – 160
LTIP vesting (%) – – – – – – –
1
 J. Theobald was appointed CEO on October 6, 2010.
2
 J.A. Treger was appointed CEO on October 21, 2013.
3
 J. Theobald also received £63,333 as payment in lieu of notice, £95,000 termination payment (paid in January 2014) and £2,400 for legal advice.
4
 For 2010, this is not applicable as there were no caps in place.
The table above shows the total remuneration for the CEO during each of the financial years. The total remuneration figure includes the 
annual bonus. No LTIP awards vested. The bonus outturn percentage is expressed as a percentage of the cap, where applicable, for the 
period in question. As there were no caps on bonus in 2010, the actual bonus payable based on performance in those years has been 
included for information in the table.
J. Relative importance of spend on pay
(£m) 2015 2014 % increase
Staff costs 2.68 3.66 (27%)
Dividends 11.90 11.53 3%
K. External directorships
Mr. Treger holds an external non-executive directorship with Mantos Copper S.A. for which he earned fees during the year. This directorship 
does not affect Mr. Treger’s ability to perform his role as CEO of the Company, as this directorship forms part of his 10% time commitment 
aside of Anglo Pacific (see ‘The Board’ section of the Governance Report).
L. 2016 salary review
The Executive Directors’ full time equivalent (‘FTE’) salaries were reviewed in January 2014, following the initial probationary period (see 
Section J of the Policy Report). The increases took effect from January 22, 2014 and the current salaries (on a FTE basis) are as follows:
Current salaries for the Executive Directors
Executive
FTE Salary as at 
January 1, 2016
FTE Salary as at 
January 22, 
2015 Increase
J.A. Treger 400,000 380,000 5%
M.R. Potter
1
– 190,000 –
1
 M.R. Potter resigned from the Board on May 31, 2015.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
57
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE Directors’ remuneration report
M. Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
As detailed in the Remuneration Policy, the Company’s approach to setting Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration is with reference to 
market levels in similar companies, levels of responsibility and time commitments. A summary of current fees is as follows:
2016 2015 % Increase
Chairman 95,000 95,000 –
Base fee 38,000 38,000 –
Senior Independent Director 48,000 48,000 –
Committee Chairman 43,000 43,000 –
Committee Member 40,000 40,000 –
Up to the end of March 2014, the Chairman was a part-time Executive Director post, and the Chairmanship component was not separately 
remunerated. On March 28, 2014, the Company announced the appointment of Mr. Blyth as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 
April 1, 2014. On the recommendation of the other members of the Remuneration Committee, his fee was set at £95,000 per annum for 
a two-year period, having regard to the time commitment required (six days a month) and the level of fees in similar companies.
The Chairman has elected to maintain the Chairman’s fee at £95,000 for the duration of 2016.
Members of the main Board Committees are paid an additional amount, currently £2,000 per annum, to reflect extra commitments, with 
a Committee Chair receiving a further £3,000. The SID also receives a further additional fee, currently £5,000 per annum, to reflect his 
extra duties.
N. Performance targets for the annual bonus and LTIP awards to be granted in 2015 and beyond
Annual bonuses and long-term incentive awards for 2015 were made in accordance with the policy approved by shareholders in 2014. 
The CEO elected not to receive a bonus for the 2015 bonus year, as a result his performance against his scorecard was not formally 
measured. A similar scorecard approach will continue in 2016. The scorecard will set challenging targets for triggering bonus, and for 
rewarding outperformance on a sliding scale. The scorecard will be a combination of corporate objectives and personal objectives. 
Corporate objectives for 2016 will cover areas such as business performance, funding and finance, relationships and reputation. 
The 2015 scorecard for the CEO is detailed on page 55.
No long-term incentive awards were made during 2015. Long-term incentive awards for 2014 were made under the VCP with a five-year 
performance period from the date of grant (i.e. to mid-2019) to be extended to seven years (subject to approval by shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM). No value accrues under the VCP to its participants unless growth in the Company’s TSR over the performance period 
is at least equal to 7% growth per annum (or approximately 40% total growth over the period).
Long-term incentive awards for 2016 will be made under the amended terms of the VCP (subject to approval by shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM) with a performance period from the date of grant to June 16, 2021. No value accrues under the VCP to its participants 
unless growth in the Company’s TSR over the performance period is at least equal to 7% growth per annum (or approximately 40% total 
growth over the period). Growth will be measured based on the net asset value per share as at December 31, 2015. A relative measure of 
TSR will be introduced to ensure it is outperforming a relevant comparator group. 
O. Statement of shareholder voting 
At last year’s AGM held on April 30, 2015, the Directors’ remuneration report was approved by shareholders on a show of hands. Details of 
the valid proxy votes received for the resolution are detailed below:
Votes Percentage
Votes cast in favour (including proxy appointments that gave discretion to the Chairman) 70,833,806 72.78%
Votes cast against 26,497,588 27.22%
Total votes cast (excluding votes directed to be withheld) 97,331,394 100%
Votes withheld 44,594
As a result of the number of proxy votes received (27.22% of the total number of proxy votes received) against the Directors’ remuneration 
report resolution presented to the AGM held on April 30, 2015, the Chairman and the SID met with shareholders both in and outside of the 
Company’s top 10 shareholders to understand their potential concerns. The discussions centred around the VCP, the salary level of the 
CEO and bonus levels and associated criteria. More recently, the Chairman and the SID extensively canvassed the views of a number of 
the larger shareholders, both institutions and individuals, concerning the efficacy of the VCP, both to provide an incentive to the Executive 
Directors and as a retention mechanism. Shareholders were supportive of the introduction of a secondary performance measure for new 
VCP awards. Shareholders were generally understanding that the mandated annual salary increases for the CEO had been contractually 
agreed at the time of his appointment in 2014. It was agreed that it was desirable to increase the depth of disclosure regarding the bonus 
scorecard elements. To this end, we have included the 2015 bonus scorecard in this report which details the individual personal and 
corporate performance bonus criteria to further improve transparency. In addition, we are proposing that any new VCP awards are subject 
to a secondary performance condition (i.e. the Company’s share price to at least match or exceed the performance of the FTSE 350 Mining 
Index) as a hurdle for an award.
Approval 
This report was approved by the Board on March 22, 2016 and signed on its behalf by
D.S. Archer
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
58
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors’ report
The Directors present their report and audited consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015.
Principal activities
The Group’s principal royalty activities are set out in the Group 
Overview on page 4 and 5.
Going concern
The financial position of the Group and its cash flows are set out  
on pages 67 and 70. The directors have considered the principal risks 
of the company which are set out on pages 30 to 33 and considered 
key sensitivities which could impact on the level of available 
borrowings. As at December 31, 2015, the Group had net debt of 
£1.8m as set out in note 22 and subject to continued covenant 
compliance, has access to a further £12.8m in undrawn borrowings 
from its secured revolving credit facility.
The Directors have considered the Group’s cash flow forecasts for 
the period to the end of March 2017. The Board is satisfied that the 
Group’s forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance and other uncertainties, 
together with the Group’s net debt position and access to the 
undrawn facilities, show that the Group will be able to operate 
within the level of its current facilities for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing its financial statements.
Results and dividends
The consolidated income statement is set out on page 65 of the 
financial statements.
The Group reported a loss after tax of £22.6m (2014: £47.6m).
Total dividends for 2015 will amount to 7.00p per share (2014: 
8.45p per share), combining the recommended final dividend of 
3.00p per share for the year ended December 31, 2015 with the 
interim dividend of 4.00p per share paid on February 4, 2016. 
The final dividend for the year ended December 31, 2015, is subject 
to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM. The Board proposes to 
pay the final dividend on August 5, 2016 to shareholders on the 
Company’s share register at the close of business on June 24, 2016. 
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on the London Stock 
Exchange on June 23, 2016, and the Toronto Stock Exchange on 
June 22, 2016. At the present time the Board has resolved not to 
offer a scrip dividend alternative. 
Directors
The names of the Directors in office on the date of approval of 
these financial statements, together with their biographical details 
and other information, are shown on page 37.
All Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2016 AGM.
A table of Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee meetings 
during 2015 is on page 38.
Directors’ disclosures
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, 
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the 
Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. At the next AGM, 
all of the Company’s Directors will be offering themselves for 
election or re-election.
The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company subject 
to applicable legislation and regulation and the Articles of 
Association of the Company. The Company’s Articles of Association 
may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders. At the 
2015 AGM, held on April 30, 2015, the Directors were given the 
power to issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£1,132,947. This power will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of 
the 2020 AGM or May 1, 2020. Further, the Directors were given the 
power to make market purchases of ordinary shares up to a 
maximum number of 16,994,203. This power will expire at the 
earlier of the conclusion of the 2016 AGM or October 30, 2016. 
At the AGM, held on April 30, 2015, the Directors were given the 
power to allot equity shares or sell treasury shares for cash other 
than pro-rata to existing shareholders. This power was limited to 
5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital (other than in 
connection with a rights or other similar issue) and will expire at the 
earlier of the conclusion of the 2016 AGM or July 30, 2016.
The Group maintains insurance for its Directors and officers against 
certain liabilities in relation to the Group. The Group has entered 
into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit 
of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Capital structure
The structure of the Company’s ordinary share capital at March 18, 
2016 was as follows:
Issued No.
Nominal value 
per share Total
% of  
total capital
Ordinary 
shares 169,942,034 0.02 3,398,841 100%
Change of control
There are a number of agreements that terminate upon a change 
of control of the Company such as certain commercial contracts 
and the revolving credit facility. None of these are considered 
significant in terms of the business as a whole. There is no change 
of control provision in any of the Directors’ contracts. 
Rights and obligations
Dividends
The £0.02 ordinary shares carry the right to dividends determined 
at the discretion of the Board.
Voting rights
The £0.02 ordinary shares carry the right to one vote per share.
Restrictions on transfer of holdings
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on 
the transfer of the Company’s shares, which are both governed  
by the general provisions of the Articles of Association of the 
Company and prevailing legislation. There are no known 
agreements between holders of the Company’s shares that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting rights.
Special control rights
The Company’s ordinary shares are subject to transfer restrictions 
and forced transfer provisions that are intended to prevent, among 
other things, the assets of the Company from being deemed to be 
‘plan assets’ under US Employment Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (ERISA). For more information refer to the important 
notices section.
Employee share schemes
Details of employee share schemes are set out on page 48 and in 
note 27 to the financial statements.
Treasury
No shares are currently held in treasury by the Company.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
59
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE Directors’ report
Substantial shareholdings
The Company has been notified, aside from the interests of the 
Directors, of the following interests of 3% or more in the share 
capital of the Company at March 18, 2016.
Ordinary Shares 
of 2p each Representing
Liontrust Investment Partners LLP 17,388,541 10.48%
Schroders PLC 12,210,712 7.19%
Ransome’s Dock Limited 7,489,360 4.51%
Aberforth Partners LLP 6,549,032 3.94%
AXA Investment Managers UK 
(Framlington) 5,494,332 3.31%
Kings Chapel International Limited* 5,235,204 3.15%
* Kings Chapel International Limited is a connected person of Mr. J.A. Treger.
See page 56 for a list of Directors’ interests in shares.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who were in office on the date of approval of these 
financial statements have confirmed that, as far as they are aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are 
unaware. Each of the Directors has confirmed that they have taken 
all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that it has been communicated to the auditors.
Other statutory and regulatory information
Information in relation to the Group’s payment policy can be 
found in note 25 and a statement on Going Concern is provided 
in note 3.1.1.
Auditors
Deloitte LLP have expressed willingness to continue in office. 
In accordance with section 489(4) of the Companies Act 2006 a 
resolution to appoint auditors will be proposed at the 2016 AGM.
Designated Foreign Issuer status
The Company continues to be listed on the TSX and to be a 
‘reporting issuer’ in the Province of Ontario, Canada. The Company 
also continues to be a ‘designated foreign issuer’, as defined in 
National Instrument 71-102 – Continuous Disclosure and Other 
Exemptions Relating to Foreign Issuers of the Canadian Securities 
Administrators. As such, the Company is not subject to the same 
ongoing reporting requirements as most other reporting issuers in 
Canada. Generally, the Company will be in compliance with 
Canadian ongoing reporting requirements if it complies with the 
UK Financial Conduct Authority in its capacity as the competent 
authority for the purposes of Part VI of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (United Kingdom), as amended from time to 
time, and the applicable laws of England and Wales (the ‘UK Rules’) 
and files on its SEDAR profile at www.sedar.com any documents 
required to be filed or furnished pursuant to the UK Rules.
By Order of the Board
K. Flynn
Company Secretary 
March 22, 2016
Registered office 
1 Savile Row 
London 
W1S 3JR
Warrants
On May 22, 2014, the Company resolved to create 500,000 
warrants, to be issued pursuant to a warrant instrument dated June 
10, 2014. These warrants entitle the warrant holders to subscribe  
in cash for ordinary shares at the subscription price of £2.50 per 
ordinary share (subject to any adjustment events in accordance 
with the warrant instrument). The rights to subscribe for ordinary 
shares conferred by the warrants may only be exercised within five 
years from the date of the grant of the warrants and in accordance 
with the warrant instrument.
Allotment of ordinary shares
On February 27, 2015, the Company issued 49,375,000 new 
Ordinary Shares at a price of 80p per share amounting to an 
aggregate nominal value of £987,500 and aggregate consideration 
of £39,500,000 as part of a firm placing, placing and open offer 
announced on February 4, 2015. The issue price was fixed on 
February 6, 2015 and represented a discount of approximately 
3.6% to the closing middle market price on the London Stock 
Exchange of 83p per share on February 5, 2015. 15,460,557 of 
the shares issued were pursuant to the open offer, representing 
approximately 68% of the maximum shares available under the 
open offer. The 7,164,443 shares not applied for pursuant to the 
open offer were taken up by placees under the placing, with the 
remaining 26,750,000 shares being issued pursuant to the firm 
placing. The net proceeds were used to provide the majority of 
funding for the acquisition of the Narrabri royalty, further details 
of which are set out in notes 16 and 26 to the financial statements.
On March 12, 2015, the Company issued 4,135,238 new Ordinary 
Shares at a price of 80p per share amounting to an aggregate 
nominal value of £82,704.76 and aggregate consideration of 
£3,308,190.40. The issue price was fixed on February 6, 2015 and 
represented a discount of approximately 3.6% to the closing middle 
market price on the London Stock Exchange of 83p per share on 
February 5, 2015. The shares comprised part of the consideration 
for the acquisition of the Narrabri royalty, further details of which 
are set out in notes 16 and 26 to the financial statements.
As a result of the preceding issuances, the Company has issued 
36,429,609 new Ordinary Shares other than as part of a pre-
emptive offer in the 12 months preceding the date of this 
Annual Report and Accounts, representing approximately 21% 
of the Company’s share capital as at the date of this Annual Report. 
The Company has issued a further 1,698,210 new Ordinary Shares 
other than as part of a pre-emptive offer in the three years 
preceding the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, 
representing an aggregate of approximately 22% of the Company’s 
share capital as at the date of this Annual Report.
GOVERNANCE
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
60
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Accounts, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have elected to prepare the Group and parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union (‘EU’). Under 
company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of 
the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period. In 
preparing these financial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time  
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 
(United Kingdom) and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors who were in office at the date of this statement 
confirm that: 
• so far as they are each aware there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
• the strategic report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face; and
• the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s 
website, www.anglopacificgroup.com. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
By Order of the Board
W.M. Blyth
Chairman 
March 22, 2016
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
61
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE Opinion on financial statements of Anglo Pacific Group plc
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at December 
31, 2015 and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income 
statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
the Consolidated and Company balance sheet, the Consolidated 
and Company statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated 
and Company cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements,  
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies  
Act 2006.
Going concern and the directors’ assessment of the 
principal risks that would threaten the solvency or 
liquidity of the Group
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
• the Directors' confirmation on page 30 that they have carried  
out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity;
• the disclosures on pages 30 to 33 that describe those risks and 
explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
• the Directors’ statement in note 3.1.1 to the financial statements 
about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the  
going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability 
to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months  
from the date of approval of the financial statements;
• the director's explanation on page 30 as to how they have 
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have 
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate,  
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their 
assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention 
to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern  
basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material 
uncertainties. However, because not all future events or conditions 
can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are 
independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with those standards. We also 
confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit 
services referred to in those standards.
Independent auditor’s report to the members of 
Anglo Pacific Group PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
62
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent  
of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have not 
provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Classification of the Narrabri transaction
Anglo Pacific Group (‘APG’) entered into one new royalty 
agreement in the year for a 1% gross overriding royalty on  
Narrabri, an Australian coal mine operated by Whitehaven.
The accounting treatment for each royalty arrangement entered 
into by Anglo Pacific Group is a key area of judgement as the 
underlying terms of each arrangement are often complex and 
bespoke in nature in terms of how the Group will achieve a return 
on its investment. 
We have assessed and challenged management’s accounting 
treatment for the Narrabri royalty entered into in the year through 
obtaining the underlying contract and reviewing the key terms  
and conditions, specifically whether there were any mandated 
interest rates or milestones which, if not met, would trigger 
repayment, which would affect the classification of the royalty.
Impairment assessment of the royalty and investment 
portfolio (notes 16 and 17)
As a consequence of the volatility in current commodity prices,  
the assessment of the recoverable amount of royalty 
arrangements accounted for as intangible assets, property, plant 
and equipment, available for sale equity financial instruments  
and loans and receivables to mining and exploration companies 
are key judgements. The recoverable amount valuations are often 
subjective and contain significant levels of judgement in relation  
to the discount rates used, the forecast commodity prices and  
the expected production profiles.
In the year impairments totalling £4.4m have been recognised  
at Amapá and Ring of fire (see note 16).
In the year impairments of the available for sale equity portfolio 
totalled £0.9m (see note 17).
 
We challenged management’s assessment as to whether indicators 
of impairment exist for specific royalty arrangements through 
discussions with management, review of publicly available 
information and discussions with the entity’s third party specialists. 
Where such indicators were identified, we obtained copies of the 
valuation models and challenged the assumptions made by 
management in relation to these models by comparison to third 
party forecast commodity price data, reference to third party 
documentation and review of reserves and resources reports. 
Additionally, we used specialists to independently calculate our 
own discount rates as expectations to assess management’s 
application of discount rates for specific royalty arrangements.
We also considered management’s assessment of whether 
projects still in the development phase would reach production. 
For loans and receivables we challenged management’s 
assessment of recoverability based on the publicly available 
financial statements and interest payments received.
In respect of the Group’s equity investments, where the valuation 
was below cost, we challenged whether there was a significant or 
prolonged decrease in value.
In all cases, required impairments were appropriately recognised  
in the income statement.
Valuation of royalty arrangements held at fair value (note 15)
Royalties arrangements held at fair value, which have a value  
of £89.1m at 31 December 2015, have a material impact on the 
financial statements. The valuations are often subjective and 
contain significant levels of judgement in relation to the discount 
rates used, the forecast commodity prices and the expected 
production profiles.
We obtained the valuation models used by management to 
determine the fair value of royalty arrangements held at fair  
value. We challenged the assumptions made by management by 
comparison to recent third party forecast commodity price data, 
reference to third party documentation and review of reserves  
and resources reports.
Last year our report included one risk which is not included in our report this year: 
Classification of new royalty arrangements acquired in transactions during 2014, this has been replaced in the current year  
with Classification of the Narrabri transaction
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee  
discussed on pages 41 to 43.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion  
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
63
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the 
scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £3.2m (2014: £3.0m), 
which represents 2% of equity (2014: 2% of equity). Equity was 
considered a more stable base than profits which in the current year 
was a loss due to the effect of unrealised fair value losses
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to  
the Committee all audit differences in excess of £64,000 (2014: 
£60,000), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our 
view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report  
to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified 
when assessing the overall presentation of the financial 
statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Consistent with the how the Group is managed and consistent  
with the prior year, we consider the Group to be one component. 
Consequently all assets, liabilities, income and expenses were 
subject to a full scope audit by the Group audit team.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited  
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you  
if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if  
in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have 
not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we  
are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider 
the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether 
the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we 
communicated to the audit committee which we consider should 
have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any 
such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with 
International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our 
audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control 
procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality 
controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards 
review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and/or those further matters we have 
expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Thomas ACA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom 
March 22, 2016
Independent auditor’s report to the members of 
Anglo Pacific Group PLC
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Middle – Proof 6
64
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Notes
2015  
£’000
2014 
£’000
Royalty related income 4 8,683 3,481
Amortisation of royalties 16 (2,573) (759)
Operating expenses 5a (4,060) (5,524)
Operating profit/(loss) before impairments, revaluations and gain/(losses) on disposals 2,050 (2,802)
(Loss)/Gain on sale of mining and exploration interests 17 (484) 1,350
Gain on disposal of coal tenures 13 – 1,409
Impairment of mining and exploration interests 17 (930) (4,873)
Impairment of royalty and exploration intangible assets 16 (4,414) (10,033)
Impairment of royalty financial instruments 15 – (15,288)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 – (1,352)
Revaluation of coal royalties (Kestrel) 14 (27,201) (11,822)
Finance income 7 301 439
Finance costs 8 (218) (1,408)
Other income 9 416 1,981
Loss before tax (30,480) (42,399)
Current income tax charge 10 (1,009) (1,386)
Deferred income tax credit/(charge) 10 8,913 (3,804)
Loss attributable to equity holders (22,576) (47,589)
Total and continuing loss per share
Basic and diluted loss per share 11 (14.06p) (42.09p)
The notes on pages 71 to 106 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 (United Kingdom) not to present the 
parent company profit and loss account.
The loss for the parent Company for the year was £1,359,000 (2014: £20,684,000).
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended December 31, 2015
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
65
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Note
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Loss attributable to equity holders (22,576) (47,589)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss – –
Items that have been or may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
Available-for-sale investments
Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 857 (8,640)
Reclassification to income statement on disposal of available-for-sale investments 484 (1,350)
Reclassification to income statement on impairment 930 4,873
Deferred tax relating to items that have been or may be reclassified 24 159 1,034
Net exchange loss on translation of foreign operations (8,597) (2,710)
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax (6,167) (6,793)
Total comprehensive loss for the year (28,743) (54,382)
The notes on pages 71 to 106 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
66
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Group Company
Notes
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 113 153 113 153
Coal royalties (Kestrel) 14 82,649 117,097 – –
Royalty financial instruments 15 6,534 8,142 6,534 8,142
Royalty and exploration intangible assets 16 71,491 37,110 2,349 2,349
Mining and exploration interests 17 10,898 9,896 8,259 6,190
Deferred costs 18 1,013 1,462 – 1,381
Investments in subsidiaries 19 – – 56,595 36,973
Other receivables 20 10,132 9,657 46,518 22,318
Deferred tax 24 3,094 2,307 – 5
185,924 185,824 120,368 77,511
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 20 5,106 5,272 1,474 15,681
Cash and cash equivalents 21 5,708 8,769 410 1,996
10,814 14,041 1,884 17,677
Total assets 196,738 199,865 122,252 95,188
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 23 7,272 – – –
Other payables 25 1,193 83 180 83
Deferred tax 24 24,546 34,908 766 1,206
33,011 34,991 946 1,289
Current liabilities
Income tax liabilities 574 687 465 623
Trade and other payables 25 1,170 2,937 1,019 2,883
1,744 3,624 1,484 3,506
Total liabilities 34,755 38,615 2,430 4,795
Net assets 161,983 161,250 119,822 90,393
Capital and reserves attributable to shareholders
Share capital 26 3,399 2,329 3,399 2,329
Share premium 26 49,211 29,328 49,211 29,328
Other reserves 29,976 15,832 33,912 12,289
Retained earnings 79,397 113,761 33,300 46,447
Total equity 161,983 161,250 119,822 90,393
The notes on pages 71 to 106 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of Anglo Pacific Group PLC (registered number: 897608) on pages 65 to 106 were approved by the Board and 
authorised for issue on March 22, 2015 and are signed on its behalf by:
W.M. Blyth J.A. Treger
Chairman Chief Executive Officer
Consolidated balance sheet and Company balance sheet 
as at December 31, 2015
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
67
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Other reserves
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Warrant
reserve
£’000
Investment
revaluation
reserve
£’000
Share-
based
payment
reserve
£’000
Foreign
currency 
translation
reserve
£’000
Special 
reserve
£’000
Investment 
in own  
shares
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
equity
£’000
Balance at January 1, 2014 2,218 29,328 – – 5,570 158 8,750 632 (2,601) 172,796 216,851 
Loss for the year – – – – – – – – – (47,589) (47,589)
Other comprehensive income:
Available-for-sale investments
Valuation movement taken 
to equity – – – – (8,640) – 302 – – – (8,338)
Transferred to income 
statement on disposal – – – – (1,350) – – – – – (1,350)
Transferred to income 
statement on impairment – – – – 4,873 – – – – – 4,873
Deferred tax – – – – 1,034 – (19) – – – 1,015
Foreign currency translation – – – – – – (2,993) – – – (2,993)
Total comprehensive loss – – – – (4,083) – (2,710) – – (47,589) (54,382)
Dividends – – – – – – – – – (11,535) (11,535)
Issue of ordinary shares 111 – 9,453 143 – – – – – – 9,707
Value of employee services – – – – – 520 – – – 89 609
Total transactions with 
owners of the company 111 – 9,453 143 – 520 – – – (11,446) (1,219)
Balance at 
December 31, 2014 2,329 29,328 9,453 143 1,487 678 6,040 632 (2,601) 113,761 161,250
Balance at January 1, 2015 2,329 29,328 9,453 143 1,487 678 6,040 632 (2,601) 113,761 161,250
Loss for the year – – – – – – – – – (22,576) (22,576)
Other comprehensive income:
Available-for-sale investments:
Valuation movement taken 
to equity – – – – 857 – 51 – – – 908
Transferred to income 
statement on disposal – – – – 484 – – – – – 484
Transferred to income 
statement on impairment – – – – 930 – – – – – 930
Deferred tax – – – – 159 – 1 – – – 160
Foreign currency translation – – – – – – (8,649) – – – (8,649)
Total comprehensive loss – – – – 2,430 – (8,597) – – (22,576) (28,743)
Dividends – – – – – – – – – (11,901) (11,901)
Issue of ordinary shares 1,070 19,883 19,681 – – – – – – – 40,634
Value of employee services – – – – – 630 – – – 113 743
Total transactions with 
owners of the company 1,070 19,883 19,681 – – 630 – – – (11,788) 29,476
Balance at 
December 31, 2015 3,399 49,211 29,134 143 3,917 1,308 (2,557) 632 (2,601) 79,397 161,983
The notes on pages 71 to 106 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the two years ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
68
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Other reserves
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Warrant
reserve
£’000
Investment
revaluation
reserve
£’000
Share-
based
payment
reserve
£’000
Foreign
currency 
translation
reserve
£’000
Special 
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
equity
£’000
Balance at January 1, 2014 2,218 29,328 – – 5,386 158 82 632 78,577 116,381
Changes in equity for 2014
Available-for-sale 
investments:
Valuation movement taken 
to equity – – – – (7,892) – – – – (7,892)
Transferred to income 
statement on disposal – – – – (1,786) – – – – (1,786)
Transferred to income 
statement on impairment – – – – 4,557 – – – – 4,557
Deferred tax on valuation – – – – 1,036 – – – – 1,036
Net income recognised direct 
into equity – – – – (4,085) – – – – (4,085)
Loss for the period – – – – – – – – (20,684) (20,684)
Total recognised income 
and expenses – – – – (4,085) – – – (20,684) (24,769)
Dividends – – – – – – – – (11,535) (11,535)
Issue of ordinary shares 111 – 9,453 143 – – – – – 9,707
Value of employee services – – – – – 520 – – 89 609
Balance at 
December 31, 2014 2,329 29,328 9,453 143 1,301 678 82 632 46,447 90,393
Balance at January 1, 2015 2,329 29,328 9,453 143 1,301 678 82 632 46,447 90,393
Changes in equity for 2015
Available-for-sale investments:
Valuation movement taken 
to equity – – – – 272 – – – – 272
Transferred to income 
statement on disposal – – – – (13) – – – – (13)
Transferred to income 
statement on impairment – – – – 618 – – – – 618
Deferred tax on valuation – – – – 435 – – – – 435
Net income recognised direct 
into equity – – – – 1,312 – – – – 1,312
Loss for the period – – – – – – – – (1,359) (1,359)
Total recognised income 
and expenses – – – – 1,312 – – – (1,359) (47)
Dividends – – – – – – – – (11,901) (11,901)
Issue of ordinary shares 1,070 19,883 19,681 – – – – – – 40,634
Value of employee services – – – – – 630 – – 113 743
Balance at 
December 31, 2015 3,399 49,211 29,134 143 2,613 1,308 82 632 33,300 119,822
The notes on pages 71 to 106 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Company statement of changes in equity
for the two years ended December 31, 2014
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
69
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Group Company
Notes
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Loss before taxation (30,480) (42,399) (1,263) (12,621)
Adjustments for:
Finance income 7 (301) (439) (1) (127)
Finance costs – excluding foreign exchange gains/losses 8 629 1,042 231 871
Other income 9 (416) (1,981) (213) (1,788)
Loss/(Gain) on disposal of mining and exploration interests 17 484 (1,350) (13) (1,786)
Gain on disposal of coal tenures 13 – (1,409) – –
Impairment of mining and exploration interests 17 930 4,873 618 4,557
Impairment of royalty and exploration intangible assets 16 4,414 10,033 – 701
Impairment of royalty financial instruments 15 – 15,288 – –
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 – 1,352 – 817
Impairment of investment in subsidiaries 19 – – – 9,954
Revaluation of coal royalties (Kestrel) 14 27,201 11,822 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 40 23 40 23
Amortisation of royalty intangible assets 16 2,573 759 – –
Share-based payment 6a 840 609 840 609
Forgiveness of loan to subsidiary undertaking – – 149 4,387
Intercompany dividends – – – (5,251)
5,914 (1,777) 388 346
(Increase)/Decrease in trade and other receivables (2,653) 2,588 47 52
(Decrease)/Increase in trade and other payables (1,767) 2,175 (1,864) 1,407
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 1,494 2,986 (1,429) 1,805
Income taxes paid 10 (1,466) (27) (584) (611)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 28 2,959 (2,013) 1,194
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds on disposal of mining and exploration interests 17 1,722 9,549 113 6,350
Purchases of mining and exploration interests 17 – (1,161) – (391)
Purchases of royalty and exploration intangible assets 16 (41,587) (13,213) – –
Proceeds from royalty financial instruments 9 213 826 213 826
Other royalty related repayments/(advances) 20 2,868 (3,002) – –
Prepaid acquisition costs – (359) – (295)
Proceeds on disposal of coal tenures 13 – 302 – –
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 13 – (188) – (147)
Dividend and fixed income received from mining and exploration 
interests 9 – 169 – –
Sundry income 9 203 475 212 451
Finance income 7 301 439 1 127
Investment in subsidiaries 19 – – (23,712) (1,452)
Return of capital from subsidiaries 19 – – 4,090 –
Loans granted to subsidiary undertakings 30 – – (22,553) (14,870)
Loan repayments from subsidiary undertakings 30 – – 16,001 9,245
Net cash used in investing activities (36,280) (6,163) (25,635) (156)
Cash flows from financing activities
Drawdown of revolving credit facility 22, 23 10,853 – – –
Repayment of revolving credit facility 22, 23 (3,326) – – –
Proceeds from issue of share capital 26 37,326 9,980 37,326 9,980
Transaction costs of share issue 26 – (416) – (416)
Dividends paid 12 (11,901) (11,535) (11,901) (11,535)
Prepaid fundraising costs – (320) – (306)
Finance costs – excluding foreign exchange gains/losses 8 (629) (1,042) (231) (871)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 32,323 (3,333) 25,194 (3,148)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (3,929) (6,537) (2,454) (2,110)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 8,769 15,706 1,996 4,106
Unrealised foreign currency gain/(loss) 868 (400) 868 –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 5,708 8,769 410 1,996
The notes on pages 71 to 106 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of cash flows and  
Company statement of cash flows
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
70
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 1 General information
Anglo Pacific Group PLC (the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (together, the ‘Group’) secure natural resources royalties by acquisition and 
through investment in mining and exploration interests. The Group has royalties and investments in mining and exploration interests 
primarily in Australia, North and South America and Europe, with a diversified exposure to commodities that is strongly represented by 
coal, iron ore, gold and uranium.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and Toronto Stock Exchange and incorporated 
and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered office is 1 Savile Row, London, W1S 3JR, United Kingdom (registered 
number: 897608).
2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements and estimates that can have a 
significant impact on the financial statements. Estimates and judgements are regularly evaluated and are based on historical experience 
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The most critical 
accounting judgement relates to the classification of royalty arrangements and the key sources of estimation uncertainty relate to the 
calculation of certain royalty arrangement’s fair value and the key assumption used when assessing impairment of property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets. The use of inaccurate assumptions in assessments made for any of these estimates could result in a 
significant impact on financial results. 
Critical accounting judgements
Classification of royalty arrangements: initial recognition and subsequent measurement
The Directors must decide whether the Group’s royalty arrangements should be classified as:
• Intangible Assets in accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’;
• Financial Assets in accordance with IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’; or
• Investment properties in accordance with IAS 40 ‘Investment Property’.
The Directors use the following selection criteria to identify the characteristics which determine which accounting standard to apply to 
each royalty arrangement:
Type 1 – Intangible assets ( ‘vanilla’ royalties): Royalties, in their simplest form, are classified as intangible assets by the Group. The Group 
considers the substance of a simple vanilla royalty to be economically similar to holding a direct interest in the underlying mineral asset. 
Existence risk (the commodity physically existing in the quantity demonstrated), production risk (that the operator can achieve production 
and operate a commercially viable project), timing risk (commencement and quantity produced, determined by the operator) and price 
risk (returns vary depending on the future commodity price, driven by future supply and demand) are all risks which the Group participates 
in on a similar basis to an owner of the underlying mineral licence. Furthermore, in a vanilla royalty, there is only a right to receive cash to 
the extent there is production and there are no interest payments, minimum payment obligations or means to enforce production or 
guarantee repayment. These are accounted for as intangible assets under IAS 38.
Type 2 – Financial assets (royalties with additional financial protection): In certain circumstances where the ‘vanilla’ risk is considered 
too high, but the Group still fundamentally believes in the quality or potential of the underlying resource, the Group will look to introduce 
additional protective measures. This has typically taken the form of performance milestone penalties (usually resulting in the receipt of 
cash or cash equivalent), minimum payment terms and interest provisions or mechanisms to convert the initial outlay into the equity 
instruments of the operator in the event of project deferral. Once an operation is in production, these mechanisms generally fall away 
such that the royalty will display identical characteristics and risk profile to the vanilla royalties; however, it is the contractual right to 
enforce the receipt of cash through to production which results in these royalties necessarily being treated as financial assets in 
accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Type 3 – Investment property: Royalties which are derived from the ownership of sub-stratum land are accounted for as investment 
properties under IAS 40, even though the substance of their commercial terms is identical to vanilla royalties. The Group does not 
expect to obtain royalties in this manner going forward, as it is unusual for sub-stratum minerals not to be the property of the state. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
71
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 A summary of the Group’s accounting approach is set out below:
Accounting classification Substance of contractual terms Accounting treatment Examples
Intangible assets • Simple royalty with no right 
to receive cash other than 
through a royalty related 
to production
• Investment is presented as 
an intangible asset and carried 
at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and any 
impairment provision
• Royalty income is recognised 
as revenue in the income 
statement
• Intangible asset is amortised 
on a systematic basis
• Intangible asset is assessed 
for indicators of impairment 
at each period end
• Amapá & Tucano
• Four Mile
• Salamanca
• Pilbara
• Ring of Fire
• Bulqiza
• Mount Ida
• Maracás Menchen
• Creso
• Narrabri
Available-for-sale debt 
financial asset
• Royalty arrangement with 
a contractual right to receive 
cash (e.g. through a mandated 
interest rate or milestones 
which, if not met, trigger 
repayment)
• Financial asset is recognised at 
fair value on the balance sheet
• Changes in fair value due to 
changes in expected future 
cash flows are recognised 
within the income statement 
with other valuation changes 
taken to reserves
• Fixed effective interest 
income recognised in the 
income statement
• Royalty receipts reduce 
the asset’s carrying value
• Isua
• Jogjakarta
Available-for-sale equity 
financial asset 
• Similar in contractual terms 
to an intangible asset
• However, includes a right to 
convert into equity (noting 
that for EVBC this right was 
subsequently extinguished)
• Financial asset is carried 
at fair value with fair value 
movements recognised  
in reserves
• Royalty income is recognised 
as revenue in the income 
statement
• Asset is assessed for impairment 
at each reporting period end
• EVBC
Investment property • Direct ownership of 
sub-stratum land
• Returns based on royalty 
related production
• Investment property is carried 
at fair value on the balance sheet
• Movements in fair value 
recognised in income statement
• Royalty income is recognised as 
revenue in the income statement
• Kestrel
• Crinum
The Group considers that the application of the above accounting standards, and the resulting accounting classification and financial 
impact of each in the financial statements, most appropriately reflects the substance of the underlying commercial terms of each royalty 
arrangement. The application of each standard to the underlying royalty arrangement, rather than electing to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to 
all royalties is consistent currently with the Group’s international peer group and as such enables its stakeholders to make informed 
investment decisions.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
72
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Assessment of fair value of royalty arrangements held at fair value
A number of the Groups’ royalty arrangements are held at fair value. Fair value is determined based on discounted cash flow models (and 
other valuation techniques) using assumptions considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that would be applied by a market 
participant. The determination of assumptions used in assessing fair values is subjective and the use of different valuation assumptions 
could have a significant impact on financial results.
In particular, expected future cash flows, which are used in discounted cash flows models are inherently uncertain and could materially 
change over time. They are significantly affected by a number of factors including reserves and resources and timing/likelihood of mines 
entering production together with economic factors such as commodity prices, discount rates and exchange rates. 
Impairment review of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date with the assessment 
considering variables such as the production profiles, production commissioning dates where applicable, forecast commodity prices and 
guidance from the mine operators.
Where indicators are identified, the starting point for the impairment review will be to measure the expected future cash flows expected 
from the royalty arrangement should the project continue/come into production. A pre-tax nominal discount rate of between 7% and 10% 
is applied to the future cash flows. This discount rate is driven from the discount rate of 7% which is used by the independent consultant in 
their valuation of Kestrel, which should be the lowest discount rate applied to any of the Group’s assets. The Directors use considerable 
judgement to assign a discount rate, with rates varying according to mineral quality, jurisdiction, commodity, stage of production and 
counterparty credentials. 
The outcome of this net present value calculation is then risk weighted to reflect management’s current assessment of the overall 
likelihood and timing of each project coming into production and royalty income arising. This assessment is impacted by news flow 
relating to the underlying operation in the period, in conjunction with management’s assessment of the economic viability of the 
project based on commodity price projections. 
3 Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
3.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). The financial 
statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial 
statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical costs basis, as modified by the revaluation of coal royalties (investment 
property) and certain financial instruments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of 
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed 
in note 2.
3.1.1 Going concern
The financial position of the Group and its cash flows are set out on pages 67 and 70. The directors have considered the principal risks of  
the company which are set out on pages 30 to 33, and considered key sensitivities which could impact on the level of available borrowings. 
As at December 31, 2015, the Group had net debt of £1.8m as set out in note 22 and subject to continued covenant compliance, has 
access to a further £12.8m in undrawn borrowings from its secured revolving credit facility.
The Directors have considered the Group’s cash flow forecasts for the period to the end of March 2017. The Board is satisfied that the 
Group’s forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance and other uncertainties, 
together with the Group’s net debt position and access to the undrawn facilities, show that the Group will be able to operate within the 
level of its current facilities for the foreseeable future. For this reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
its financial statements.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
73
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 3.1.2 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after January 1, 2015:
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 – 2012 Cycle
The Group has adopted the amendments to IFRSs included in the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 – 2012 Cycle for the first time 
in the current year.
The majority of the amendments are in the nature of clarification rather than substantive changes to existing requirements. However, 
the amendments to IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments – Aggregation of operating segments’ and IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures – Key 
management personnel’ represent changes to existing requirements.
The amendments to IFRS 8 require an entity to disclose the judgements made by management in applying the aggregation criteria 
to operating segments, including a description of the operating segments aggregated and the economic indicators assessed in 
determining whether the operating segments have similar economic characteristics. As the Group does not aggregate its operating 
segments, these amendments have had no material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts recognised in the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements. Refer to note 4 for further details on the Group’s segment information.
The amendments to IAS 24 clarify that a management entity providing key management personnel services to a reporting entity is 
a related party of the reporting entity. Consequently, the reporting entity must disclose as related party transactions the amounts 
incurred for the service paid or payable to the management entity for the provision of key management personnel services. However, 
disclosure of the components of such compensation is not required. As the Group does not engage with a management entity, these 
amendments have had no material impact on the disclosures or the amounts recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial 
statements. Refer to note 30 for details of the Group’s related party transactions. 
• Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 – 2013 Cycle
The Group has adopted the amendments to IFRSs included in the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 – 2013 Cycle for the first time 
in the current year.
The amendments are in the nature of clarifications rather than substantive changes to existing requirements.
The application of the amendments has had no material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts recognised in the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after January 1, 
2015 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
(b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not mandatory for 2015.
Mandatory for 2016 – endorsed by the EU
• Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosure Initiative’. The amendment provides clarification of guidance 
in IAS 1 on materiality and aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the structure of financial statements and the disclosure of 
accounting policies.
• Amendments to IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant & Equipment’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangibles’. The amendments provide clarification of acceptable 
methods of depreciation and amortisation.
• Annual improvements to IFS 2012 – 2014 cycle.
Mandatory for 2017 – not yet endorsed by the EU
• Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses’. These amendments on the recognition of deferred tax 
assets for unrealised losses clarify how to account for deferred tax assets related to debt instruments measured at fair value.
• IAS 7 ‘Statement of cash flows, narrow-scope amendments’. The amendments introduce an additional disclosure that will enable users 
of financial statement to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
Mandatory for 2018 – not yet endorsed by the EU
• IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer 
to promised goods and services when control of the goods and services passes to customers. The amount of revenue recognised should 
reflect the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. A modified transitional 
approach is permitted under which a transitional adjustment is recognised in retained earnings at the date of implementation of the 
standard without adjustment of comparatives. The new standard will only be applied to contracts that are not completed at that date. 
The Group is finalising its evaluation of the standard, but it does not expect the standard to change the timing, quantum or presentation 
of its revenues.
• IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’. The standard includes a single approach for the classification of financial assets, based on cash flow 
characteristics and the entity’s business model. It introduces a new model for the recognition of impairment losses, the expected credit 
losses model, which requires expected losses to be recognised when financial instruments are first recognised. The standard amends the 
rules on hedge accounting to align the accounting treatment with risk management practices of an entity.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
74
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Mandatory for 2019 – not yet endorsed by the EU
• IFRS 16 ‘Leases’. Under the new standard, a lessee is in essences required to:
(a)  recognise all lease assets and liabilities (including those currently classed as operating leases) on the balance sheet, initially 
measured at the present value of unavoidable lease payments;
(b) recognise amortisation of lease assets and interest on lease liabilities in the income statement over the lease term; and
(c)  separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion (presented within financing activities) and interest (which 
companies can choose to present within operating or financing activities consistent with presentation of any other interest paid) 
in the cash flow statement.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the above pronouncements which may have an impact on the Group’s earnings or 
shareholders’ funds in future years. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected 
to have a material impact on the Group.
3.2 Consolidation
Subsidiaries
The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries). Control is achieved when the Company has the power over the investee, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from 
its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the 
Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for in the parent company at cost less impairment. Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in 
consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with 
the policies adopted by the Group.
3.3 Foreign currencies
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds 
sterling, which is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the respective Group entity, using the exchange rates 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from 
the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated 
using the exchange rates at the date of the transaction (and not retranslated). Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
are translated using the exchange rates at the date when fair value was determined.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
(i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
(ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates; and
(iii) all resulting exchange differences are charged/credited to other comprehensive income and recognised in the currency translation  
 reserve in equity.
Exchange differences on foreign currency balances with foreign operations for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur 
in the foreseeable future, and therefore form part of the Group’s net investment in these foreign operations are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve in equity. When a foreign operation is partially 
disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are reclassified in the income statement as part of the gain or 
loss on sale.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
75
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 3.4 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition 
necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Once a mining project has been established as 
commercially viable, expenditure other than that on land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised as a producing asset within ‘Other 
Assets’ together with any amount transferred from ‘Exploration and Evaluation Costs’ (note 3.6(b)).
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or where applicable over the remaining life of the mine if shorter once it is 
operating in the manner intended by management. The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of 
production and/or straight-line basis as follows:
Equipment and Fixtures  4 to 10 years
Other Assets:
Producing assets  Units of production (over reserves)
Coal tenures  Units of production (over reserves)
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
3.5 Coal royalties (investment property)
Royalty arrangements which are derived from the ownership of sub-stratum lands are accounted for as investment properties in 
accordance with IAS 40. Investment property is held to earn a return in the form of royalty entitlements arising from mining activity and 
is initially measured at cost including any transaction costs. Investment property is subsequently measured at fair value at each reporting 
date with any valuation movements recognised in the income statement. Fair value is determined by a suitably qualified independent 
external consultant based on the discounted future royalty income expected to accrue to the Group. 
3.6 Intangible assets
(a) Royalty arrangements
Royalty arrangements which are identified and classified as intangible assets are initially measured at cost, including any transaction costs. 
Upon commencement of production at the underlying mining operation intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
life of the mine. Amortisation rates are adjusted on a prospective basis for all changes to estimates of the life of mine.
(b) Exploration and evaluation costs 
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential. Evaluation expenditure arises from a detailed 
assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration and evaluation activities is capitalised when there is a high degree of confidence in the project’s viability and 
hence it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group. If this is no longer the case, an impairment loss is recognised in 
the income statement. Amortisation of capitalised exploration and evaluation costs does not commence until the underlying project 
commences commercial production.
3.7 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired. If such an indication is identified, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value (less costs of disposal) and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that has been adjusted to reflect the risks specific to that asset. 
If the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to be less than its carrying value, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is also recognised in the income statement. 
Should an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable 
amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment been recognised. A reversal of an impairment loss is also recognised in the income statement. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
76
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 3.8 Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group has become a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
(a) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with other short-term, highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
On initial recognition loans and receivables are stated at their fair value. After initial recognition these are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. Discounting is omitted where the effect of discounting is immaterial. 
The Group’s trade and other receivables fall into this category of financial instruments.
(c) Mining and exploration interests
Mining and exploration interests are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under 
a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially 
measured at fair value, including transaction costs.
Mining and exploration interests are classified upon initial recognition as available-for-sale financial assets. 
Interests classified as available-for-sale are measured at subsequent reporting dates at their fair value. For available-for-sale investments, 
unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
the investment revaluation reserve, until the security is either disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is included in profit or loss for the period. Unquoted investments are 
measured at cost where fair value cannot be reliably determined. When a market price can be established these investments are revalued 
to fair value accordingly. 
(d) Royalty instruments
Royalty instruments are recognised or derecognised on completion date where a purchase or sale of the royalty is under a contract, 
and are initially measured at fair value, including transaction costs.
Royalty instruments are classified as either debt or equity instruments depending on the nature of the individual agreement.
Debt
Assets classified as debt instruments are carried on the balance sheet at fair value. Upon initial recognition an effective interest rate is 
computed based on the estimated future cash flows. Expected future cash flows are determined based on non-observable market data 
such as commodity price forecasts and estimated production schedules. Valuation movements caused by changes in expected future 
cash flows, which could be caused by changes in resource estimates or commodity price assumptions, are recognised in the income 
statement along with the effective interest, if material, with other valuation changes taken to other comprehensive income. Amounts 
are required to be recognised whether received in cash or not. 
Equity
Similar to debt instruments, equity instruments are carried at fair value at each reporting date, based on the estimated future cash flows 
from the underlying operation. All valuation movements are recognised in other comprehensive income, except to the extent where 
valuation is below cost and is considered ‘significant’ or ‘prolonged’ in accordance with IAS 39 and the policy outlined in Note 3.9. In this 
case, the valuation difference is recycled through the Income Statement.
(e) Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
(f) Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their fair value on initial recognition. After initial recognition these are 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
(g) Borrowings
Interest bearing bank facilities are initially recognised at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. Transaction costs are 
recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the facility.
(h) Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
77
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 3.9 Impairment of financial assets (including receivables)
A financial asset not measured at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any 
objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the 
initial recognition of the asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount 
and the present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. Losses are recognised in the 
income statement. When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is 
reversed through the income statement.
Impairment losses relating to available for sale equity investments are recognised when the decline in fair value is considered significant 
or prolonged which are defined as follows:
• Prolonged: a period of greater than 18 months that the interest’s fair value is below cost; or
• Significant: a decline in fair value of greater than 25% relative to an individual asset’s original acquisition cost, or its rebased cost post 
impairment.
These impairment losses are recognised by transferring the cumulative loss that has been recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income to the income statement. The loss recognised in the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost or rebased 
cost and the current fair value. Once the Group has recognised an impairment loss on an available-for-sale equity investment, it cannot 
recognise a reversal through the income statement. 
Impairment losses on debt instruments classified as available-for-sale are reversed only if in a subsequent period, the fair value of that 
debt instrument increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. 
The amount of such reversal is recognised through the income statement.
3.10 Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated by using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from 
the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable 
profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests 
in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with 
such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against 
which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based 
on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the 
Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current ax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and 
liabilities on a net basis.
Current and deferred tax for the year
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they related to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is 
included in the accounting for the business combination.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
78
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 3.11 Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from 
employees as consideration for equity instruments (options and jointly-owned shares) of the Company. The fair value of the employee 
services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined 
by reference to the fair value of the options granted:
• including any market performance conditions;
• excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions; and
• including the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options and jointly-owned shares that are expected 
to vest. The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are 
to be satisfied. At the end of each reporting period, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options and jointly-owned shares that 
are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in 
the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are 
credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
3.12 Reserves
Equity comprises the following:
• ‘Share capital’ represents the nominal value of equity shares in issue.
• ‘Share premium’ represents the excess over nominal value of the fair value of consideration received for equity shares, net of issuance costs.
Other reserves
• ‘merger reserve’ is created when more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue 
of new shares by the Company.
• ‘warrant reserve’ The warrant reserve was created in June 2014 in connection with the issue of share warrants as part consideration 
of the Maracas royalty.
• ‘Investment revaluation reserve’ represents gains and losses due to the revaluation of the investments in mining and exploration 
interests and royalty instruments from the opening carrying values, including the effects of deferred tax and foreign currency changes.
• ‘Share-based payment reserve’ represents equity-settled share-based employee remuneration until such share options are exercised.
• ‘Foreign currency reserve’ represents the differences arising from translation of investments in overseas subsidiaries.
• ‘Special reserve’ represents the level of profit attributable to the Group for the period ended June 30, 2002 which was created as part 
of a capital reduction performed in 2002.
• ‘Investment in own shares’ represents the shares held by the Anglo Pacific Group Employee Benefit Trust for awards made under the 
Joint Share Ownership Plan (‘JSOP’) (note 26 and note 27).
• ‘Retained earnings’ represents retained profits.
Of these reserves £79,397,000 are considered distributable as at December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2014: £113,761,000). 
3.13 Revenue recognition
The revenue of the Group comprises mainly royalty related income. It is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or 
receivable after deducting discounts, value added tax and other sales tax. The royalty income becomes receivable on extraction and sale 
of the relevant minerals, and once able to be reliably measured, the revenue is recognised.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the carrying value and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
3.14 Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease except where another 
more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the lease asset are consumed. 
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate 
benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease, except where another systematic 
basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
3.15 Dividend distribution
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders or, in the case of the interim dividend, when it is paid to the shareholders.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
79
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 4 Segment information
The Group’s chief operating decision maker is considered to be the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee evaluates the financial 
performance of the Group based on a portfolio view of its individual royalty arrangements. Royalty related income and its associated 
impact on operating profit is the key focus of the Executive Committee. The income from royalties is presented based on the jurisdiction 
in which the income is deemed to be sourced as follows: 
Australia: Kestrel, Narrabri, Four Mile, Pilbara, Mount Ida
Americas: Amapá and Tucano, Maracás Menchen, Churchrock, Ring of Fire
Europe: EVBC, Salamanca, Bulqiza
Other: Jogjakarta, Isua, Dugbe I, and includes the Group’s mining and exploration interests.
The following is an analysis of the Group’s results by reportable segment. The key segment result presented to the Executive Committee 
for making strategic decisions and allocation of resources is operating profit as analysed below.
The segment information for the year ended December 31, 2015 is as follows (noting that total segment operating profit corresponds to 
operating profit before impairments, revaluations and gains/losses on disposals which is reconciled to (Loss)/Profit before tax on the face 
of the consolidated income statement):
Australia 
Royalties 
£’000
Americas 
Royalties 
£’000
Europe 
Royalties 
£’000
All other 
segments 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Royalty income 6,831 606 1,246 – 8,683
Amortisation of royalties (2,167) (406) – – (2,573)
Operating expenses (1,898) – – (2,162) (4,060)
Total segment operating (loss)/profit 2,766 200 1,246 (2,162) 2,050
Total segment assets 138,635 17,359 6,298 34,447 196,738
Total assets include:
Additions to non-current assets (other than  
financial instruments and deferred tax assets) 44,971 – – – 44,971
Total segment liabilities 23,573 1,013 767 9,402 34,755
The segment information for the year ended December 31, 2014 is as follows:
Australia 
Royalty 
£’000
Americas 
Royalty 
£’000
Europe 
Royalty 
£’000
All other 
segments 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Royalty income 1,657 174 1,650 – 3,481
Amortisation of royalties – (759) – – (759)
Operating expenses (3,269) – – (2,255) (5,524)
Total segment operating profit/(loss) (1,612) (585) 1,650 (2,255) (2,802)
Total segment assets 129,666 22,711 8,091 39,397 199,865
Total assets include:
Additions to non-current assets (other than  
financial instruments and deferred tax assets) – 13,166 – 235 13,401
Total segment liabilities 33,702 – 1,364 3,549 38,615
The amounts provided to the Executive Committee with respect to total segment assets are measured in a manner consistent with that 
of the financial statements. These assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment and the physical location of the asset.
The amounts provided to the Executive Committee with respect to total segment liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with 
that of the financial statements. These liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment.
The royalty related income in Australia of £6,831,000 (2014: £1,657,000) is derived from the Kestrel and Narrabri royalties which generated 
£3,614,000 and £3,217,000 respectively (2014: Kestrel £1,657,000; Narrabri: £nil). Individually the revenue generated by Kestrel and 
Narrabri royalties represents greater than 10% of the Group’s revenue in 2014 and 2015. In addition, royalty related income in Europe of 
£1,246,000 (2014: £1,650,000) is derived from a single gold royalty, EVBC, and represent greater than 10% of the Group’s revenue in 2014 
and 2015.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
80
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 5a Expense by nature
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Group
Employee costs (note 6a) 2,680 3,666
Professional fees 418 834
Listing fees 116 142
Operating lease payments 152 175
Other expenses 694 707
4,060 5,524
5b Auditor’s remuneration
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Group
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of parent  
Company and consolidated financial statements 84 70
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– The audit of Company’s subsidiaries 6 2
Total audit fees 90 72
– Audit-related assurance services
1
– 499
– Other assurance services pursuant to legislation 22 17
– Other services – 19
Total non-audit fees 22 535
1
  Audit related assurance services relate wholly to the reporting accountant work performed in 2014 by the auditors on the acquisition of the Narrabri royalty, details of which is set out in note 16.
Details of the Company’s policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another 
supplier and how the auditor’s independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 41 to 43. 
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
6a Employee costs
Group Company
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Wages and salaries 1,539 2,695 1,479 2,609
Share-based awards to directors and employees 743 609 743 609
Social security costs 338 309 336 306
Other pension costs 60 53 60 53
2,680 3,666 2,618 3,577
Share-based awards to directors and employees are stated net of National Insurance of £0.1m (2014: £nil). 
6b Retirement benefits plans
The Group operates a money purchase group personal pension scheme. Under this scheme the Group makes contributions to personal 
pension plans of individual Directors and employees. The pension cost charge represents contributions payable by the Group to these 
plans in respect of the year.
The total cost charged to income of £60,000 (2014: £53,000) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates 
specified in the rules of the schemes. As at December 31, 2015, contributions of £4,000 (2014: £4,000) due in respect of the current 
reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
81
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 6c Average number of people employed
2015 2014
Group
Number of employees 11 13
2015 2014
Group
Average number of people (including executive directors) employed:
Executive directors 1 2
Administration 10 11
11 13
Company
The average number of administration staff employed by the Company during the year, including Executive Directors was 9 (2014: 11).
Directors’ salaries are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 58, including the highest paid director.
7 Finance income
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Group
Interest on bank deposits 23 98
Interest on royalty financial instruments – 116
Interest on long-term receivables 278 225
301 439
8 Finance costs
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Group
Professional fees (358) (883)
Revolving credit facility fees and interest (271) (159)
Net foreign exchange gain/(loss) 411 (366)
(218) (1,408)
9 Other income
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Group
Dividends received from mining and exploration interests – 169
Shares in-lieu of interest on mining and exploration interests – 511
Effective interest income on royalty financial instruments (note 15) 213 194
Recovery of royalty financial instrument – 632
Sundry income 203 475
416 1,981
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
82
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 10 Income tax expense
2015 
£’000
2014  
£’000
Analysis of charge for the year
United Kingdom corporation tax credit – 329 
Overseas tax 1,338 1,057 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (329) –
Current tax 1,009 1,386 
Deferred tax (8,913) 3,804 
Income tax (credit)/expense (7,904) 5,190 
Factors affecting tax charge for the year:
Loss before tax 30,480 42,399
Tax on loss calculated at United Kingdom corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) (6,172) (9,116)
Tax effects of:
Items non-taxable/deductible for tax purposes:
Non-deductible expenses 681 5,998 
Non-taxable income (2) (227)
Temporary difference adjustments
Utilisation of losses not previously recognised – (1,048)
Current year losses not recognised 96 139 
Write down of deferred tax assets previously recognised – 7,628
Adjustment in deferred tax due to change in tax rate – 177 
Other temporary difference adjustments – 2,754
Other adjustments
Withholding taxes 1,180 961 
Effect of differences between local and United Kingdom tax rates (3,046) (1,239)
Prior year adjustments to current tax (329) –
Other adjustments (312) (837)
Income tax (credit)/expense (7,904) 5,190 
Refer to note 24 for information regarding the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. 
11 (Loss)/Earnings per share
Loss per ordinary share is calculated on the Group’s loss after tax of £22,576,000 (2014: £47,589,000) and the weighted average number 
of shares in issue during the year of 160,512,425 (2014: 113,075,454).
Loss per ordinary share excludes the issue of shares under the Group’s JSOP, as the Employee Benefit Trust has waived its right to receive 
dividends on the 925,933 ordinary 2p shares it holds as at December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2014: 925,933).
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Net loss attributable to shareholders
Earnings – basic (22,576) (47,589)
Earnings – diluted (22,576) (47,589)
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
83
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 2015 2014
Weighted average number of shares in issue
Basic number of shares outstanding 160,512,425 113,075,454
Dilutive effect of Employee Share Option Scheme – –
Diluted number of shares outstanding 160,512,425 113,075,454
In 2015 and 2014, the Group is loss making, therefore the Employee Share Option Scheme is considered anti-dilutive as including them in 
the diluted number of shares outstanding would decrease the loss per share.
Adjusted earnings per share 
Due to the growing number of valuation and other non-cash movements being recognised in the income statement, the Group presents an 
adjusted earnings per share metric to better reflect the underlying performance of the Group during the year. In calculating the adjusted 
earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue remains consistent with those used in the earnings per share calculation.
Adjusted earnings/(loss) represents the Group’s underlying operating performance from core activities. Adjusted earnings/(loss) is the 
profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders less all valuation movements, non-cash impairments and amortisation charges (which are 
non-cash IFRS adjustments that arise primarily due to changes in commodity prices), finance costs, any associated deferred tax and any 
profit or loss on non-core asset disposals as these are not expected to be ongoing.
Earnings 
£’000
Earnings 
per share 
p
Diluted 
earnings 
per share 
p
Net loss attributable to shareholders
Loss – basic and diluted for the year ended December 31, 2015 (22,576) (14.06p) (14.06p)
Adjustment for:
Amortisation of royalty intangible assets 2,573
Loss on sale of mining and exploration interests 484
Impairment of mining and exploration interests 930
Impairment of royalty and exploration intangible assets 4,414
Revaluation of coal royalties (Kestrel) 27,201
Effective interest income on royalty financial instruments (213)
Share-based payments and associated national insurance 840
Tax effect of the adjustments above (9,685)
Adjusted earnings - basic and diluted for the year ended December 31, 2015 3,968 2.47p 2.47p
Earnings 
£’000
Earnings 
per share 
p
Diluted 
earnings 
per share 
p
Net loss attributable to shareholders
Loss – basic and diluted for the year ended December 31, 2014 (47,589) (42.09p) (42.09p)
Adjustment for:
Amortisation of royalty intangible assets 759
Gain on sale of mining and exploration interests (1,350)
Gain on disposal of coal tenures (1,409)
Impairment of mining and exploration interests 4,873
Impairment of royalty and exploration intangible assets 10,033
Impairment of royalty financial instruments 15,288
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 1,352
Revaluation of coal royalties (Kestrel) 11,822
Effective interest income on royalty financial instruments (194)
Share-based payments and associated national insurance 609
Tax effect of the adjustments above 3,577
Adjusted loss – basic and diluted for the year ended December 31, 2014 (2,229) (1.97p) (1.97p)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
84
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 In calculating the adjusted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue takes into account the dilutive effect of the 
Employee Share Option Scheme in those years where the Group has adjusted earnings. In years where the Group has an adjusted loss, the 
Employee Share Option Scheme is considered anti-dilutive as including them in the diluted number of shares outstanding would decrease 
the loss per share, as such they are excluded.
The weighted average number of shares in issue for the purpose of calculated basic and diluted adjusted earnings per share are as follows:
2015 2014
Weighted average number of shares in issue
Basic number of shares outstanding 160,512,425 113,075,454
Dilutive effect of Employee Share Option Scheme 2,267 –
Diluted number of shares outstanding 160,514,692 113,075,454
12 Dividends
On February 4, 2015 an interim dividend of 4.45p per share was paid to shareholders in respect of the year ended December 31, 2014. 
On August 7, 2015 a final dividend of 4.00p per share was paid to shareholders to make a total dividend for the year of 8.45p per share. 
Total dividends, paid during the year were £11.9m (2014: £11.5m).
On February 4, 2016 an interim dividend of 4.00p per share was paid to shareholders in respect of the year ended December 31, 2015. 
This dividend has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. The Directors propose that a final dividend of 3.00p per 
share be paid to shareholders on August 5, 2016, to make a total dividend for the year of 7.00p per share. This dividend is subject to 
approval by shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The proposed final dividend for 2015 is payable to all shareholders on the Register of Members on June 24, 2016. The total estimated 
dividend to be paid is £5.1m. At the present time the Board has resolved not to offer a scrip dividend alternative.
13 Property, plant and equipment
Group
Other 
Assets 
£’000
Equipment 
and Fixtures 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Gross carrying amount
At January 1, 2015 1,356 276 1,632
Additions – – –
Disposals – – –
At December 31, 2015 1,356 276 1,632
Depreciation and impairment
At January 1, 2015 (1,356) (123) (1,479)
Depreciation – (40) (40)
At December 31, 2015 (1,356) (163) (1,519)
Carrying amount December 31, 2015 – 113 113
Group
Other 
Assets 
£’000
Equipment 
and Fixtures 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Gross carrying amount
At January 1, 2014 1,964 129 2,093
Additions 41 147 188
Disposals (617) – (617)
Foreign currency translation (32) – (32)
At December 31, 2014 1,356 276 1,632
Depreciation and impairment
At January 1, 2014 (4) (100) (104)
Disposals – – –
Depreciation – (23) (23)
Impairment (1,352) – (1,352)
At December 31, 2014 (1,356) (123) (1,479)
Carrying amount December 31, 2014 – 153 153
Other assets relate to the Group’s Panorama and Trefi coal projects in British Columbia, Canada and the Group’s talc deposit in Shetland, 
Scotland.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
85
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Impairment
As at December 31, 2014 the Directors took a view that the Group’s ability to monetise both the Trefi coal project and the Shetland talc 
deposit was inherently uncertain and as a result fully impaired these assets resulting in an impairment charge of £1.4m. There were no 
impairments during the year ended December 31, 2015.
Disposals (gain on coal tenures)
On September 2, 2014 the Group completed its disposal of the Panorama Coal Project to Atrum Coal NL. The carrying value of Panorama 
was £0.9 million comprising £0.6m recognised within property, plant and equipment and £0.3m recognised within royalty and exploration 
intangible assets (see note 16).
The Group received total consideration of £2.3 million comprising US$0.5m (£0.3m) in cash, 1,000,000 Atrum Coal NL shares (valued at 
£0.8m) and deferred consideration of US$2.0m (£1.2m) in the form of a 12-month promissory note with an interest coupon of 8.0% per 
annum. Thus generating a profit on disposal of £1.4m.
In addition, the Group retained a royalty on coal sales from the assets being sold equivalent to the higher of 1% of gross revenue on a mine 
gate basis or US$1/tonne. Due to the uncertainty regarding the Panorama project entering production this royalty has been considered to 
have £nil value at December 31, 2015 (2014: £nil).
Company
Other 
Assets 
£’000
Equipment 
and 
Fixtures 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Gross carrying amount
At January 1, 2015 821 276 1,097
Additions – – –
At December 31, 2015 821 276 1,097
Depreciation and impairment
At January 1, 2015 (821) (123) (944)
Depreciation – (40) (40)
Impairment – – –
At December 31, 2015 (821) (163) (984)
Carrying amount December 31, 2015 – 113 113
Company
Other 
Assets 
£’000
Equipment 
and 
Fixtures 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Gross carrying amount
At January 1, 2014 821 129 950
Additions – 147 147
At December 31, 2014 821 276 1,097
Depreciation and impairment
At January 1, 2014 (4) (100) (104)
Depreciation – (23) (23)
Impairment (817) – (817)
At December 31, 2014 (821) (123) (944)
Carrying amount December 31, 2014 – 153 153
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
86
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 14 Coal royalties (Kestrel)
Group 
£’000
At January 1, 2014 131,434
Foreign currency translation (2,515)
Loss on revaluation of coal royalties (11,822)
At December 31, 2014 117,097
Foreign currency translation (7,247)
Loss on revaluation of coal royalties (27,201)
At December 31, 2015 82,649
The Group’s coal royalty entitlements comprise the Kestrel and Crinum coal royalties, and derive from mining activity carried out within the 
Group’s private land area in Queensland, Australia. Rather uniquely to this royalty, the sub-stratum land is the property of the freeholder, 
including the minerals contained within. The ownership of the land therefore entitles the Group to a royalty, equivalent to what the State 
receives on areas outside the Group’s private land. This royalty is accounted for as Investment Property in accordance with IAS 40.
The coal royalty was valued during December 2015 at £82.6m (A$167.6m) (2014: £117.1m and A$223.0m) by an independent coal industry 
advisor, on a net present value of the pre-tax cash flow discounted at a nominal rate of 7%. The net royalty income from this investment is 
currently taxed in Australia at a rate of 30%. This valuation is incorporated in the accounts and the above revaluation adjustment represents 
the difference between the opening carrying value and the external valuation, excluding the effects of foreign currency changes.
Were the coal royalty to be realised at the revalued amount there are £3.7m (A$7.5m) of capital losses potentially available to offset against 
taxable gains. These losses have been included in the deferred tax calculation (note 24). Were the coal royalty to be carried at cost the 
carrying value would be £0.2m (2014: £0.2m). The Directors do not presently have any intention to dispose of the coal royalty.
The shares over the entity which is the beneficial owner of the Kestrel royalty have been guaranteed as security in connection with the 
Group’s three year secured revolving credit facility entered into in February 2015 (note 23).  
15 Royalty financial instruments
The Group’s royalty instruments are represented by three royalty agreements which entitle the Group to either the repayment of principal 
and a net smelter return (‘NSR’) royalty for the life of the mine or a gross revenue royalty (‘GRR’) where the project commences commercial 
production or the repayment of principal where it does not. Details of the Group’s royalty financial instruments, which are held at fair value 
are summarised below:
Project Commodity
Original Cost 
’000
Royalty  
Rate Escalation Classification
December 31, 2015 
Carrying value 
£’000
December 31, 2014 
Carrying value 
£’000
EVBC
Gold, Silver, 
Copper C$7,500 2.50%
3% gold  
>US$1,100/oz Available-for-sale equity 3,832 5,742
Jogjakarta Iron Sands US$4,000 2.00% – Available-for-sale debt 2,702 2,400
Isua Iron Ore A$28,000 1.00% – Available-for-sale debt – –
6,534 8,142
The Group’s entitlements to cash by way of the repayment of the principal and the NSR royalty or the GRR have been classified as 
available-for-sale financial assets in accordance with IAS 39 and are carried at fair value in accordance with the classification of royalty 
arrangements criteria set out in note 2.
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Fair value
At January 1, 2014 27,847 12,839
Impairment of royalty financial instruments (15,288) –
Revaluation of royalty financial instruments recognised in equity (4,697) (4,697)
Foreign currency translation 280 –
At December 31, 2014 8,142 8,142
Revaluation of royalty financial instruments recognised in equity (1,909) (1,909)
Foreign currency translation 301 301
At December 31, 2015 6,534 6,534
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
87
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Effective interest of £0.2m was recognised in other income (see note 9) for the year ended December 31, 2015 (2014: £0.2m). This was 
directly offset by cash received in the period of the same amount.
On October 16, 2014 London Mining PLC, the operator of the Isua project over which the Group holds a royalty, announced that it has 
appointed administrators. In January 2015, the Isua project was sold to General Nice Limited, with the Group’s royalty interest being 
transferred concurrently. Given the inherent uncertainty of this project reaching commercial production, the Group’s royalty financial 
instrument arising from its interest in the Isua royalty was fully impaired in 2014 and continues to have a carrying value of £nil as at 
December 31, 2015.
16 Royalty and exploration intangible assets
The Group’s intangibles comprise capitalised exploration and evaluation costs and royalty interests. 
Group
Exploration and 
Evaluation Costs 
£’000
Royalty 
Interests 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Gross carrying amount
At January 1, 2015 697 59,705 60,402
Additions – 44,971 44,971
Foreign currency translation – (7,831) (7,831)
At December 31, 2015 697 96,845 97,542
Amortisation and impairment
At January 1, 2015 (697) (22,595) (23,292)
Amortisation charge – (2,573) (2,573)
Impairment charge – (4,414) (4,414)
Foreign currency translation – 4,228 4,228
At December 31, 2015 (697) (25,354) (26,051)
Carrying amount December 31, 2015 – 71,491 71,491
Group
Exploration and 
Evaluation Costs 
£’000
Royalty 
Interests 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Gross carrying amount
At January 1, 2014 951 48,713 49,664
Additions 47 13,166 13,213
Disposals (275) – (275)
Foreign currency translation (26) (2,174) (2,200)
At December 31, 2014 697 59,705 60,402
Amortisation and impairment
At January 1, 2014 – (12,376) (12,376)
Amortisation charge – (759) (759)
Impairment charge (697) (9,336) (10,033)
Foreign currency translation – (124) (124)
At December 31, 2014 (697) (22,595) (23,292)
Carrying amount December 31, 2014 – 37,110 37,110
Company
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Royalty interests
At January 1 2,349 3,050
Impairment charge – (701)
At December 31 2,349 2,349
Exploration and evaluation costs
The exploration and evaluation costs comprise expenditure that was directly attributable to the Panorama and Trefi coal projects in British 
Columbia, Canada. The Group disposed of its interest in the Panorama coal project and fully impaired its interests in the Trefi coal project 
in 2014.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
88
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Acquisition of royalty interests
On March 11, 2015, the Group completed its acquisition of the Narrabri royalty for £45.0m. The Narrabri royalty is a 1% gross revenue 
royalty over all coal produced from the Narrabri mine located in New South Wales, Australia, owned and operated by Whitehaven Coal 
Limited. The total cost of the Narrabri acquisition was total consideration of US$65.0m, US$60.0m (£40.0m) was paid in cash and US$5.0m 
(£3.3m) was satisfied by the issue of 4,135,238 ordinary shares (refer to note 26) and £1.7m in capitalised acquisition costs.
Under the terms of the Maracás Menchen royalty sale agreement, a further US$3.0m (£1.9m) of cash is payable when the project reaches 
certain annualised production milestones. As set out in notes 18 and 25, the Directors consider it highly probable that the first of these 
milestones will be achieved in the next eighteen to twenty-four months which would require the Group to pay US$1.5m. As a result the 
Directors have recognised a non-current liability for the deferred consideration, together with an asset under deferred acquisition costs.
Amortisation of royalty interests 
The Group’s royalty intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis, pon the commencement of production at the underlying 
mining operation, over the life of mine.
Three of the underlying mining operations of the Group’s royalty intangibles assets were in production during 2015, and were amortised 
on the following basis:
Estimated  
life of mine
Remaining  
life of mine
Royalty interest
Narrabri 22 years 21 years
Maracás Menchen 29 years 28 years
Four Mile 10 years 9 years 
 
Under the terms of the Narrabri royalty sale agreement, the Group was entitled to royalty receipts from January 1, 2015 and has  
recognised royalty income of £3.2m for the year ended December 31, 2015. In accordance with the Group’s amortisation accounting 
policy, the Narrabri royalty has been amortised from January 1, 2015 resulting in an amortisation charge of £2.0m for the year ended 
December 31, 2015. 
The Group recognised maiden royalty receipts from its Maracás Menchen royalty of £0.6m for the year ended December 31, 2015. The 
Maracás Menchen royalty is a 2% net smelter return royalty interest on all mineral products sold from the area of the Maracás Menchen 
project that the Group acquired on June 10, 2014. The Group commenced amortising the Maracás Menchen royalty following its entry  
into commercial production and recognised an amortisation charge of £0.4m for the year ended December 31, 2015.
As noted in the Group’s business review, the Four Mile uranium mine, over which the Group holds a 1% net smelter return royalty, 
continues to produce and stockpile uranium ore concentrate. The Group considers the production and stockpiling of the concentrate to 
constitute commercial production and commenced amortising the Group Mile royalty from January 1, 2015, recognising an amortisation 
charge of £0.2m for the year ended December 31, 2015.
Amortisation of the remaining interests will commence once they begin commercial production. No intangible assets have been pledged 
as security for liabilities.
Impairments of royalty interests
As described in note 3.6 and 3.7, an annual impairment review is carried out to determine whether the future expected cash flows 
(calculated on a value-in use basis) exceed cost. This has resulted in the Directors determining that two of the Group’s intangible royalties 
were impaired at December 31, 2015 as outlined below. See note 2 for the impairment methodology applied.
Amapá
Production at Amapá remained suspended for the year ended December 31, 2015, whilst the operator, Zamin Ferrous Limited, 
commenced the restructuring of its finances in order to fund the rebuilding of the port facilities. Taking into account the Directors 
assessment as to when production will restart, the discounted cash flow model, using a discount rate of 10%, required an impairment 
charge of £2.8m to the year ended December 31, 2015 to be recognised (2014: £8.4m). Following the impairment charges recognised 
during the year, the residual carrying value of the Amapá royalty was £1.8m as at December 31, 2015 (2014: £4.9m).
Ring of Fire
Following the sale of the Ring of Fire chromite assets by Cliffs Natural Resources Inc to Noront Resources Ltd in April 2015, the Directors 
have reassessed the timeline to production in light of the new operator needing to complete a comprehensive preliminary economic 
analysis for development options for the project. The revision to the anticipated date of the mine entering commercial production has 
resulted in the Group recognising an impairment charge of £1.6m during the year ended December 31, 2015 (2014: £nil). Following the 
impairment charge recognised during the year, the residual carrying value of the Ring of Fire royalty was £3.1m as at December 31, 2015 
(2014: £5.2m).
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
89
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 17 Mining and exploration interests
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Fair value
At January 1, 2014 20,072 13,975
Additions 1,161 391
Disposals (8,197) (6,350)
Revaluation adjustment (3,162) (1,826)
Foreign currency translation 22 –
At December 31, 2014 9,896 6,190
Mining and exploration interests received in lieu of payment 51 –
Disposals (2,206) (113)
Revaluation adjustment 2,766 2,182
Foreign currency translation 391 –
At December 31, 2015 10,898 8,259
The current strategy of the Group is to obtain royalties by other means, and as such, these assets, which have historically been acquired 
with a view to negotiating royalty acquisitions, have been gradually disposed of as they are now non-core to the Group’s primary business. 
The fair values of listed securities are based on quoted market prices. Unquoted investments are initially recognised using cost where fair 
value cannot be reliably determined. In the absence of an active market for these securities, the Group considers each unquoted security 
to ensure there has been no material change in the fair value since initial recognition. Further guidance on fair value measurement is 
provided in note 2.
An impairment charge (representing the recognition of losses previously deferred to equity) is recognised in the income statement when 
the absolute decline in value below cost of any individual investment is considered ‘significant’ or ‘prolonged’ in accordance with the 
Group’s impairment policy. Following continued declines in mining equity markets, the Group recognised an impairment charge of £0.9m 
for the year ended December 31, 2014 (December 31, 2014: £4.9m).
For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Group realised £1.7m in cash (December 31, 2014: £9.5m) through its disposal of a number of 
its mining and exploration interests from which management no longer considered royalty opportunities to exist. These disposals resulted 
in a loss of £0.5m for the year ended December 31, 2015 (December 31, 2014: gain of £1.4m). 
Total mining and exploration interests at December 31 are represented by:
2015 2014
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Quoted investments 8,405 8,112 8,821 6,024
Unquoted investments 2,493 147 1,075 166
10,898 8,259 9,896 6,190
Number of investments 10 7 16 12
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
90
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 18 Deferred costs
Group
Deferred 
acquisition 
costs 
£’000
Deferred 
financing costs 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Carrying amount
At January 1, 2015 1,335 127 1,462
Additions 1,013 382 1,395
Released to income during the year (1,254) (254) (1,508)
Transferred to royalty intangible assets (81) – (81)
Offset against borrowings – (255) (255)
Carrying amount at December 31, 2015 1,013 – 1,013
Group
Deferred 
acquisition 
costs 
£’000
Deferred 
financing costs 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Carrying amount
At January 1, 2014 – – –
Additions 1,335 127 1,462
Carrying amount at December 31, 2014 1,335 127 1,462
Deferred acquisition costs
On March 11, 2015 the Group announced the completion of its acquisition of the Narrabri thermal coal royalty. This acquisition was funded 
by a firm placing and open offer, together with the partial utilisation of a newly agreed bank facility (refer to note 23 for further details).
As at December 31, 2014, the Group had incurred a significant portion of the costs associated with the transaction. Those costs directly 
attributable to the asset acquisition, together with those costs associated with the firm placing and open offer were deferred and classified 
as deferred acquisition costs.
Upon the completing of the Narrabri acquisition and the associated firm placing and open offer in 2015, those costs deferred as at 
December 31, 2014 were released to the income statement or where applicable transferred to the cost base of the royalty intangible 
asset recognised in relation to the Narrabri royalty.
As at December 31, 2015, deferred acquisition costs represent the deferred consideration payable by the Group in relation to its 
acquisition of the Maracás Menchen vanadium royalty in 2014. Under the terms of the royalty sale agreement, the Group is required  
to pay an additional US$1.5m (£1.0m) once production reaches an annualised rate over a quarter of 9,500t. Following the latest  
production guidance issued by the operator of the Maracás Menchen mine, Largo Resources Ltd, the Directors consider it probable  
that this production milestone will be achieved within the next 18 to 24 months and as such have recognised both an asset and a 
corresponding liability (refer to note 25).
Deferred financing costs
Deferred financing costs represent the costs associated with entering into the US$30.0m, three year secured revolving credit facility 
that have been deferred and will be amortised over the term of the facility.
Company
Deferred 
acquisition 
costs 
£’000
Deferred 
financing costs 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Carrying amount
At January 1, 2015 1,254 127 1,381
Released to income during the year (1,254) (127) (1,381)
Carrying amount at December 31, 2015 – – –
Company
Deferred 
acquisition 
costs 
£’000
Deferred 
financing costs 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Carrying amount
At January 1, 2014 – – –
Additions 1,254 127 1,381
Carrying amount at December 31, 2014 1,254 127 1,381
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 19 Investments in subsidiaries
The Group’s full listing of subsidiaries is provided in note 33. The Company’s investment in subsidiaries as December 31, 2015 and 
December 31, 2014 is as follows:
Investments in 
subsidiaries 
£’000
Company
Cost
At January 1, 2015 51,114
Capital injection into subsidiaries 23,712
Return of capital from subsidiaries (4,090)
At December 31, 2015 70,736
Impairment of investment in subsidiary
At January 1, 2015 (14,141)
Impairment of investment in subsidiaries –
At December 31, 2015 (14,141)
Carrying amount December 31, 2015 56,595
Company
Cost
At January 1, 2014 49,662
Capital injection into subsidiaries 1,452
At December 31, 2014 51,114
Impairment of investment in subsidiary
At January 1, 2014 (4,187)
Impairment of investment in subsidiaries (9,954)
At December 31, 2014 (14,141)
Carrying amount December 31, 2014 36,973
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
92
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 20 Trade and other receivables
2015 2014
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Current
Income tax receivable 1,056 329 763 –
Prepayments 108 95 13 –
Royalty receivables 2,902 117 98 –
Other receivables 1,040 70 4,398 328
Deposits with subsidiaries – 863 – 15,353
5,106 1,474 5,272 15,681
Non-current
Other receivables 10,132 – 9,657 –
Amounts due from subsidiaries – 46,518 – 22,318
10,132 46,518 9,657 22,318
Trade and other receivables principally comprise amounts relating to royalties receivable for the final quarter in each year, the promissory 
note receivable from Atrum Coal NL and the royalty related advances made to Hummingbird Resources PLC and Laramide Resources 
Limited. 
Promissory note
On September 2, 2014 the Group completed its disposal of the Panorama Coal Project to Atrum Coal NL as described in note 13. Forming 
part of the consideration received by the Group is a US$2.0m 12-month promissory note with an interest coupon of 8.0% per annum. 
Atrum Coal NL were granted an extension to the maturity date of the promissory note to March 2016 following a partial repayment of 
US$0.8m in principal and interest together with agreeing to an increase in the interest coupon to 10.0% per annum. The balance of 
US$1.2m (£1.0m) is held as other receivables.
Hummingbird Resources PLC
On December 18, 2012 the Group entered into a royalty financing agreement with Hummingbird Resources PLC, under which the Group 
provided a non-interest bearing advance of US$15.0m (£10.1m) in three tranches of US$5.0m subject to the satisfaction of various 
conditions precedents in return for 2.0-2.5% NSR over the Dugb1 project. During the 2013, the Group advanced two of the three tranches. 
The third and final tranche of US$5.0m (£3.0m) was advanced on March 6, 2014.
Laramide Resources Ltd
On August 13, 2012, the Group provided Laramide Resources Ltd with an interest bearing facility of C$5.0m (£2.9m). The Group were 
repaid in full during December 2015.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately their fair value.
Amounts due from subsidiaries, are considered long-term loans. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of amounts due from 
subsidiaries is approximately their fair value.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
93
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 21 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the statement of cash flows:
2015 2014
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Cash at bank and on hand 5,708 410 7,395 622
Trading deposits with brokers – – 1,374 1,374
Cash and cash equivalents 5,708 410 8,769 1,996
22 Net debt
See note 3.8(a) and note 3.8(g) for the Group’s accounting policy on cash and debt.
Net debt is a measure of the Group’s financial position. The Group uses net debt to monitor the sources and uses of financial resources, the 
availability of capital to invest or return to shareholders, and the resilience of the balance sheet. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings 
less cash and cash equivalents.
The Group and Company’s net (debt)/cash and cash equivalents position after offsetting the revolving credit facility against cash and cash 
equivalents is as follows:
2015 2014
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Revolving credit facility (7,527) – – –
Cash and cash equivalents 5,708 410 8,769 1,996
Net (debt)/cash and cash equivalents (1,819) 410 8,769 1,996
Movement in net debt
Cash and cash 
equivalents 
£’000
Medium and 
long-term 
borrowings 
£’000
Net debt 
£’000
At January 1, 2014 15,706 – 15,706
Cash flow (6,537) – (6,537)
Currency movements (400) – (400)
At December 31, 2014 8,769 – 8,769
Cash flow (3,930) 7,527 (11,457)
Currency movements 869 – 869
At December 31, 2015 5,708 7,527 (1,819)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
94
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 23 Borrowings
2015 2014
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Secured borrowing at amortised cost
Revolving credit facility 7,527 – – –
Deferred borrowing costs (255) – – –
7,272 – – –
Amount due for settlement within 12 months – – – –
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 7,527 – – –
The Group’s borrowings relate to the partial draw-down of the three-year revolving credit facility, which is available at LIBOR plus 250bps. 
Deferred borrowing costs relate to the establishment fees associated with the facility and will be amortised over its three year term. As at 
December 31, 2015, the Group had utilised US$11.1m (£7.5m) of the US$30.0m (£20.3m) available under the facility.
The Group’s revolving credit facility is secured by way of a floating charge over the Group’s assets and is subject to a number of financial 
covenants, all of which have been met during the year ended December 31, 2015.
24 Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and the movements thereon during the period:
Coal royalties Available-for sale-investments
Group
Revaluation 
of coal 
royalty 
£’000
Effects of 
Tax losses 
£’000
Revaluation 
of royalty 
instruments 
£’000
Revaluation 
of mining 
interests 
£’000
Impairment of 
Intangible 
royalties 
£’000
Accrual of 
royalty 
receivable 
£’000
Other tax 
losses 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At January 1, 2014 38,463 (516) 3,116 (9,099) (2,330) 731 – 30,365
Charge/(credit) to 
profit or loss (3,858) (460) – 7,682 2,330 (714) (1,176) 3,804
Reclassification from 
current to deferred 
tax asset – – – – – – (650) (650)
Charge/(credit) to other 
comprehensive income – – (1,629) 877 – – – (752)
Exchange differences 10 33 – 19 – 13 41 116
Effect of change in 
tax rate:
– income statement – – – – – – – –
– equity – – (281) (1) – – – (282)
At December 31, 2014 34,615 (943) 1,206 (522) – 30 (1,785) 32,601
Charge/(credit) to 
profit or loss (8,190) (469) – 350 – 537 (1,141) (8,913)
Charge/(credit) to other 
comprehensive income – – (382) 276 – – – (106)
Exchange differences (2,146) 56 – (1) – – 14 (2,077)
Effect of change in 
tax rate: – – – – – – –
– income statement – – – – – – – –
– equity – – (57) 4 – – – (53)
At December 31, 2015 24,279 (1,356) 767 107 – 567 (2,912) 21,452
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
95
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so. The following is the analysis of the 
deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Group
Deferred tax liabilities 24,546 34,908
Deferred tax assets (3,094) (2,307)
21,452 32,601
As at December 31, 2015, the Group has unused tax losses of £13.5m (2014: £8.5m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of these losses which may be carried forward indefinitely.
The Group has the following balances in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised:
2015 2014
Tax losses –  
trading 
£’000
Tax losses –  
capital 
£’000
Other 
temporary 
differences
Total 
£’000
Tax losses –  
trading 
£’000
Tax losses –  
capital 
£’000
Other  
temporary 
differences
Total 
£’000
Expiry date
Within one year – – – – – – – –
Greater than one year, 
less than five years – – – – – – – –
Greater than five years – – – – – – – –
No expiry date 24,539 37,230 6,547 68,316 4,843 4,879 22,828 32,550
24,539 37,230 6,547 68,316 4,843 4,879 22,828 32,550
Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are insignificant.
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities recognised by the Company and the movements thereon during the period:
Available-for sale-investments
Revaluation 
of royalty 
instruments 
£’000
Revaluation 
of mining 
interests 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At January 1, 2014 2,244 (8,016) (5,772)
Released to income for the year – 8,013 8,013
Charge to equity for the year (1,038) (2) (1,040)
At December 31, 2014 1,206 (5) 1,201
Released to income for the year – – –
Charge to equity for the year (440) 5 (435)
At December 31, 2015 766 – 766
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Company has a legally enforceable right to do so. The following is the analysis of the 
deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Company
Deferred tax liabilities 766 1,206
Deferred tax assets – (5)
766 1,201
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
96
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 25 Trade and other payables
2015 2014
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Current
Other taxation and social security payables 61 56 240 236
Trade payables 31 28 107 91
Other payables 277 176 231 225
Accruals and deferred income 801 759 2,359 2,331
1,170 1,019 2,937 2,883
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 19 days (2014: 16 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade 
and other payables approximates their fair value. All amounts are considered short-term and none are past due.
2015 2014
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Non-current
Deferred consideration 1,013 – – –
Other taxation and social security payables 180 180 83 83
1,193 180 83 83
On June 10, 2014, the Group acquired a 2% net smelter return royalty interest on all mineral products sold from the area of the Maracás 
Menchen project to which the royalty interest relates in exchange for US$22.0m and 500,000 warrants, which entitle the holder to acquire 
one Anglo Pacific ordinary share at a strike price of £2.50, which are exercisable over five years, and a further US$3.0m cash when the 
project reaches the following annualised production thresholds:
• US$1.5m cash when production reaches an annualised rate over a quarter of 9,500t; and
• A further US$1.5m cash when production reaches an annualised rate over a quarter of 12,000t.
Following the latest production guidance issued by the Largo Resources Ltd, the Directors consider it probable that an annualised rate 
over a quarter of 9,500t will be achieved. As such a contingent liability has been recognised for the US$1.5m (£1.0m) deferred consideration 
that will become payable once this criteria has been satisfied. A corresponding asset has been recognised under deferred acquisition costs 
(note 18).
Non-current other taxation and social security payables relates to employer national insurance due on vesting of the certain share-based 
payments.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
97
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 26 Share capital and share premium
Issued share capital
Number of 
shares
Share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
£’000
Merger 
reserve 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Group and Company
Ordinary shares of 2p each at January 1, 2014 110,887,425 2,218 29,328 – 31,546
Issue of share capital under private placing (a) 5,544,371 111 – 9,453 9,564
Ordinary shares of 2p each at December 31, 2014 116,431,796 2,329 29,328 9,453 41,110
Issue of share capital under placing and placing and  
open offer (b) 49,375,000 987 16,658 19,681 37,326
Issue of share capital for royalty acquisition (b) 4,135,238 83 3,225 – 3,308
Ordinary shares of 2p each at December 31, 2015 169,942,034 3,399 49,211 29,134 81,744
(a) On June 2, 2014 the Group completed the placing of 5,544,371 new ordinary shares of 2 pence each at a price of 180 pence per  
share raising £10.0m against which £0.4m in allowable transaction costs were offset. The proceeds of this placing were ultimately  
used in the acquisition of the 2% net smelter return royalty over the Maracás Menchen Project described in note 16. As the shares  
were placed in return for acquiring over 90% of the share capital of a related entity, the proceeds raised in excess of the nominal  
value issued is recorded in the merger reserve.
(b) On February 27, 2015, the Group completed a firm placing, placing and open offer that resulted in the issue of 49,375,000 new  
ordinary shares of 2 pence each at a price of 80p per share, raising £39.5m, against which £2.2m in allowable transaction costs were 
offset. The funds raised were used to satisfy the US$60.0m (£38.2m) cash component of the Narrabri royalty acquisition.
 On March 11, 2015, the Group issued 4,135,238 new ordinary shares of 2 pence each at a price of 80p per share to satisfy the non-cash 
component of US$5.0m (£3.3m) upon the completion of the Narrabri royalty acquisition. Total consideration for the Narrabri royalty 
acquisition was US$65.0m (note 16).
Own shares
Included in the Company’s issued share capital are shares held by the Anglo Pacific Group Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) in accordance 
with the Group’s JSOP as follows:
2015 2014
Number of 
shares £’000
Number of 
shares £’000
Own shares
Own shares held by the EBT 925,933 (2,601) 925,933 (2,601)
Total 925,933 (2,601) 925,933 (2,601)
As the EBT has waived its right to receive dividends, the Company’s shares held by the EBT are excluded from the weighted average 
number of shares in issue for the purposes of calculating earnings per share in note 11.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
98
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 27 Share-based payments
The Group operates three equity-settled share-based compensation plans as follows:
• The HMRC approved Company Share Ownership Plan (the ‘CSOP’);
• The JSOP operated through the Anglo Pacific Group Employee Benefit Trust; and
• The Value Creation Plan (the ‘VCP’).
(a) Company Share Ownership Plan 
Under the CSOP, share options are granted to Directors and to selected employees. The exercise price of the granted options is equal to 
the average mid-market closing price of an ordinary share for the three days before the grant. The options are conditional on the employee 
completing three years’ service (the vesting period). The options are exercisable starting three years from the grant date, subject to the 
Group achieving its target growth in absolute TSR over the period of 3% per annum (not compounded) in excess of the UK Retail Price 
Index; the options have a contractual option term of ten years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle 
the options in cash.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2015 2014
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (£) Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (£)
Outstanding at 1 January 44,222 2.1205 52,880 2.7406
Granted during the year 133,212 0.8257 24,600 1.6258
Exercised during the year – – – –
Surrendered during the year (19,622) 3.0577 (33,258) 2.7060
Forfeited during the year – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 157,812 1.0275 44,222 2.1205
Out of the 157,812 outstanding options (2014: 44,222), nil options (2014: nil) were exercisable.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and exercise prices:
Options
Expiry date
Exercise price in 
£ per share 2015 2014
2022 3.3043 – 9,079
2022 2.8454 – 10,543
2024 1.6258 24,600 24,600
2025 0.9221 48,798 –
2025 0.7700 84,414 –
157,812 44,222
Weighted average remaining contractual life 9.84 9.11
The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2015 determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model was £0.472 per 
option granted in May 2015 and £0.394 per option granted in October 2015. The significant inputs into the model were weighted average 
share price of £0.922 and £0.77 at the grant date in May and October respectively, exercise price shown above, volatility of 40%, expected 
option life of three years and an annual risk-free interest rate of 1.5% for both grants.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2014 determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model was £0.816 per 
option granted in September 2014. The significant inputs into the model were weighted average share price of £1.626 at the grant date, 
exercise price shown above, volatility of 40%, expected option life of three years and an annual risk-free interest rate of 1.1%. See note 6a 
for the total expense recognised in the income statement for share options granted to Directors and employees.
Two employees surrendered a total of 19,622 options during the year ended December 31, 2015, after the options lapsed due to the 
performance criteria not being satisfied (2014: 33,258).
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
99
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 (b) Joint Share Ownership Plan 
Under the JSOP, the Remuneration Committee invites selected directors and employees to enter into an agreement with the Anglo Pacific 
Group Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘Co-owner’) to acquire a number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company. The shares are held in 
the name of the Co-owner, however, the selected Directors and employees maintain a beneficial interest in these shares.
Awards under the JSOP are conditional on the employee completing three years’ service (the vesting period) and the Group’s absolute total 
shareholder return growing at an annual rate (not compounded) of 3% in excess of the UK Retail Price Index over the three-year vesting 
period. In addition the Company’s share price must reach a hurdle price during the three year vesting period as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee at the time of making the award.
Upon satisfying the performance targets and service requirements, the beneficial interest conferred will entitle the Director or employee 
to receive a proportion of the proceeds of sale of the ordinary shares. Their entitlement will be to receive the equivalent of all sales proceeds 
in excess of the threshold amount, settled in ordinary shares of the Company. The threshold amount is fixed by the Remuneration 
Committee and will not be set less than the market value of the ordinary shares of the Company at the time the JSOP award is made.
JSOP awards made during the year were as follows:
Shares
Grant price in £ 
per share
Hurdle price in £ 
per share 2015 2014 Expiry Date
Outstanding at January 1 2.480 3.150 154,660 277,357 2014
Awarded in March 2011 3.260 4.225 – – 2015
Awarded in September 2011 2.919 4.625 – – 2015
Awarded in March 2012 3.320 4.500 – – 2016
Awarded in September 2012 2.668 3.692 – – 2016
Surrendered during the year – (122,697)
Forfeited during the year (154,660) –
Outstanding at December 31 – 154,660
Weighted average remaining contractual life – 2.50
No shares were awarded under the JSOP during 2014 or 2015. A total of 154,660 shares were surrendered in 2015 as a result of 
performance criteria not being satisfied in accordance with the terms of the JSOP (2014: 122,697). 
See note 6a for the total expense recognised in the income statement for share options granted to Directors and employees.
(c) Value Creation Plan
Following the approval at the 2014 AGM, the Group implements a new long-term incentive arrangement for the executive directors and 
selected senior management. The VCP was designed by the Remuneration Committee to incentivise the executive directors and senior 
management to drive growth in shareholder return over a five year measurement period.
Under the terms of the VCP, no value would accrue to the participants unless growth in the Group’s total shareholder return over the 
measurement period is at least equal to 7% per annum. Subject to such threshold growth, participants would become entitled to receive 
nil or nominal cost options over the ordinary shares of the Company, subject to a cap, set by reference to a share of a pool value equal to 
10% of the growth in the Company’s total shareholder return over the measurement period or, if less, 50% of the growth in the Company’s 
total shareholder return over the measurement period in excess of the threshold growth.
Options granted under the VCP will comprise three equal tranches, the first tranche exercisable as from the time of the grant of the 
options and the other tranches exercisable as from one and two years thereafter respectively. Subject to appropriate adjustments in 
accordance with the terms of the VCP, the maximum number of shares set under the option grants will not be capable of exceeding such 
number equating to 7.5% of the Company’s issued share capital as at the end of the measurement period.
VCP awards made during the year were as follows:
Expiry date
Units 
2015
Units 
2014 Expiry Date
Outstanding at January 1 88,000 – 2019
Awarded in June 2014 – 88,000 2019
Forfeited during the year (21,120) –
Outstanding at December 31 66,880 88,000
Weighted average remaining contractual life 3.50 4.50
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
100
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 No awards were made under the VCP during 2015. The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2014 determined using 
the Monte Carlo valuation model was £54.86 per option granted in June 2014. The significant inputs into the model were weighted average 
share price of £1.833 at the grant date, exercise price of nil, volatility of 33.3%, expected dividend yield of 5.57%, expected option life of five 
years and an annual risk-free interest rate of 1.95%. 
In accordance with the terms of the VCP, Mr. Potter forfeited his awards upon his resignation on May 31, 2015. 
See note 6a for the total expense recognised in the income statement for share options granted to Directors and employees.
28 Special reserve
As part of the capital reduction in 2002, a special reserve was created, which represents the level of profit attributable to the Group for the 
period ended June 30, 2002. At December 31, 2015, this reserve remains unavailable for distribution. 
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
At January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2015 632 632
29 Financial commitments
Operating leases
The Group’s most significant operating lease commitments relate to premises maintained in both London, England and Shetland, Scotland.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases. The total commitments due 
under these leases are shown according to the scheduled expiry dates of the leases as follows:
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Group
Within one year 300 176
In the second to fifth years inclusive 830 1,171
After five years – –
1,130 1,347
Capital commitments
At the year end the Group had capital commitments of £nil (2014: £nil) in respect of purchases of quoted investments.
30 Related party transactions
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with subsidiaries:
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Net financing of related entities 6,552 5,625
Management fee 1,825 3,251
Amounts owed by related parties at year end 47,381 37,671
All transactions were made in the course of funding the Group’s continuing activities.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the key management personnel including Directors of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided 
in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 58.
2015 
£’000
2014 
£’000
Short-term employee benefits 1,487 1,973
Post-employment benefits 50 42
Share-based payment 734 563
2,271 2,578
Directors’ transactions  
The Group made payments of £5,590.87 to Audley Capital Advisors LLP, a company which Mr J.A. Treger, Chief Executive Officer, is both a 
director and shareholder, for the reimbursement of travel related expenditure and IT recharges during the year ended December 31, 2015 
(2014: £21,842.77). During the same period, the Group received £47,654.51 from Audley Capital Advisors LLP for the subletting of office 
space (2014: £nil). In 2014, the Group received £48,201.60 for the reimbursement of office relocation expenditure. At December 31, 2015 
a total of £nil was owing to or from Audley Capital Advisors LLP (2014: £nil).
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
101
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 31 Financial risk management
The Group’s principal treasury objective is to provide sufficient liquidity to meet operational cash flow and dividend requirements and to 
allow the Group to take advantage of new growth opportunities whilst maximising shareholder value. The Group’s activities expose it to 
a variety of financial risks including liquidity risk, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk. The Group operates controlled treasury 
policies which are monitored by management to ensure that the needs of the Group are met while minimising potential adverse effects 
of unpredictability of financial markets on the Group’s financial performance.
Financial instruments
The Group and Company held the following investments in financial instruments (this includes investment properties):
2015 2014
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Company 
£’000
Investment property (held at fair value)
Coal royalties (Kestrel) 82,649 – 117,097 –
Financial instruments
Available-for-sale (held at fair value)
Royalty financial instruments 6,534 6,534 8,142 8,142
Mining and exploration interests 10,898 8,259 9,896 6,190
Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables
1
14,073 47,568 14,153 37,999
Cash at bank and in hand 5,708 410 8,769 1,996
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
2
832 787 2,466 2,422
Borrowings
3
7,527 – – –
Other payables
4
1,013 – – –
1
 Trade and other receivables include royalty receivables and other non-current receivables only, as set out in note 20.
2
 Trade and other payables include trade payables and accruals only, as set out in note 25.
3
 Borrowings include the revolving credit facility only, as set out in note 23.
4
 Other payables include the deferred consideration only, as set out in note 25.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits held by the Group treasury function. The carrying amount of these 
assets approximates their fair value.
Liquidity and funding risk
The objective of the Company in managing funding risk is to ensure that it can meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due. 
At December 31, 2015 the Group had £7.5m in borrowing (2014: £nil) and access to a further £12.5m in undrawn funds from its revolving 
credit facility. 
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayments 
periods. The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the 
Group can be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows. To the extent that interest flows are floating rate, 
the undiscounted amount is derived from the interest rate at the balance sheet date. The contractual maturity is based on the earliest  
date on which the Group may be required to pay.
Weighted average  
effective interest rate 
%
1-5 years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
December 31, 2015
Interest bearing revolving credit facility 2.95 7,526 7,526 
7,526 7,526 
 
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances, royalty instruments held as financial assets, trade and other receivables and 
investments. These represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets and total £19.8m at December 31, 
2015 (£22.9m at December 31, 2014).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
102
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables, including royalty receivables. It is the policy of the Group to present 
the amounts in the balance sheet net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management based on prior 
experience and the current economic environment. In certain cases the Group has the right to audit the reported royalty income.
The Group’s credit risk on royalty instruments held as financial instruments, has been reviewed and the estimated current exposure is as 
disclosed in note 15 where the future contractual right to cash flow from these instruments is reflected in their fair value.
The credit risk on bank deposits is mitigated by banking with household name financial institutions in reputable jurisdictions. The Group 
has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of currencies and counterparties.
Share price risk
The Group is exposed to share price risk in respect of its mining and exploration interests which include listed and unlisted equity 
securities and any convertible instruments.
A 10% increase or decrease in the fair value of our mining and exploration interests (listed and unlisted) would increase/decrease the 
mining and exploration interests balance (and investment revaluation reserve in equity) by £1.1m at December 31, 2015 (£1.0m at 
December 31, 2014). We note that if a 10% decrease were to occur then a further assessment would be required to determine whether 
the decrease was considered to be ‘significant’ with any resulting impairment recognised in the income statement.
The royalty portfolio exposes the Group to other price risk through fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the prices of coking coal, 
iron ore, gold and uranium. As the Directors obtain independent commodity price forecasts, the generation of which takes into account 
fluctuations in prices, no detailed analysis of the impact of fluctuations on the valuations of the royalties has been undertaken.
The Group’s mining and exploration interests are held for the purposes of generating additional royalties and are considered long-term, 
strategic investments. This strategy is unaffected by recent fluctuations in prices for mining and exploration equities; however, interests 
are continually monitored for indicators that may suggest problems for these companies raising capital or continuing their day-to-day 
business activities to ensure remedial action can be taken if necessary. This is expected to be a less significant part of the Group’s strategy 
going forward.
No specific hedging activities are undertaken in relation to these interests and the voting rights arising from these equity instruments are 
utilised in the Group’s favour.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group’s transactional foreign exchange exposure arises from income, expenditure and purchase and sale of assets denominated 
in foreign currencies. As each material commitment is made, the risk in relation to currency fluctuations is assessed by the Executive 
Committee and regularly reviewed. The Group does not consider it necessary to have a hedging programme in place at this time.
Financial assets and liabilities, are split by currency as follows:
2015 2014
GBP 
£’000
AUD 
£’000
CAD 
£’000
USD 
£’000
NOK 
£’000
EUR 
£’000
GBP 
£’000
AUD 
£’000
CAD 
£’000
USD 
£’000
NOK 
£’000
EUR 
£’000
Financial assets 5,919 93,271 3,389 17,187 1 95 9,963 125,579 5,661 16,852 – 2
Financial liabilities 6,291 1 1 3,040 – 39 2,457 8 1 – – –
Net exposure (372) 93,270 3,388 14,147 1 56 7,506 125,571 5,660 16,852 – 2
Foreign exchange sensitivities
With the exception of the cash balances, the majority of the financial instruments not denominated in GBP are held in entities with the 
same functional currency and for the purpose of this sensitivity analysis, the impact of changing exchange rates on the translation of 
foreign subsidiaries into the Group’s presentation currency have been excluded.
In terms of the cash balance, the significant sensitivities are as follows:
• A +/- 10% change in the GBP: AUD rate would increase/decrease profit after tax and equity by £13k (2014: £28k);
• A +/- 10% change in the GBP:CAD rate would increase/decrease profit after tax and equity by £309k (2014: £246k);
• A +/- 10% change in the GBP: USD rate would increase/decrease profit after tax and equity by £87k (2014: £355k). 
Exposures to foreign exchange rates vary during the year depending on the volume of overseas transactions. Nonetheless, the analysis 
above is considered to be representative of the Group’s exposure to currency risk.
Capital management and procedures 
The Group’s capital management objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern 
in order to realise the full value of its assets and to enhance shareholder value in the company and returns to shareholders by acquiring 
further royalty assets.
The Directors continue to monitor the capital requirements of the Group by reference to expected future cash flows. Capital for the 
reporting periods presented is summarised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. 
The optimal capital structure for the Group is to fund its business via equity. In certain circumstances the Directors will tolerate a level 
of gearing. The targeted debt capacity will be 1.5-2 times free cash flow, although a higher ratio can be tolerated for shorter periods 
when there is a reasonable expectation of a recovery in free cash flow.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
103
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Fair value hierarchy
The following tables present financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the balance sheet in accordance with the fair value 
hierarchy. This hierarchy aggregates financial assets and liabilities into three levels based on the significance of the inputs used in 
measuring the fair value of the financial assets and liabilities. The fair value hierarchy has the following levels:
• Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities;
• Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
• Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The level within which the financial asset or liability is classified is determined based on the lowest level of significant input to the fair 
value measurement.
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at December 31, 2015:
2015
Group Notes
Level 1 
£’000
Level 2 
£’000
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Assets
Coal royalties (Kestrel) (a) – – 82,649 82,649
Royalty financial instruments (b) – – 6,534 6,534
Mining and exploration interests – quoted (c) 8,405 – – 8,405
Mining and exploration interests – unquoted (d) – 2,493 – 2,493
Net fair value 8,405 2,493 89,183 100,081
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at December 31, 2014:
2014
Group Notes
Level 1 
£’000
Level 2 
£’000
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Assets
Coal royalties (Kestrel) (a) – – 117,097 117,097
Royalty financial instruments (b) – – 8,142 8,142
Mining and exploration interests – quoted (c) 8,821 – – 8,821
Mining and exploration interests – unquoted (d) – 1,075 – 1,075
Net fair value 8,821 1,075 125,239 135,135
The following table presents the Company’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at December 31, 2015:
2015
Company Notes
Level 1 
£’000
Level 2 
£’000
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Assets
Royalty financial instruments (a) – – 6,534 6,534
Mining and exploration interests – quoted (b) 8,112 – – 8,112
Mining and exploration interests – unquoted (c) – 147 – 147
Net fair value 8,112 147 6,534 14,793
The following table presents the Company’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at December 31, 2014:
2014
Company Notes
Level 1 
£’000
Level 2 
£’000
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Assets
Royalty financial instruments (a) – – 8,142 8,142
Mining and exploration interests – quoted (b) 6,024 – – 6,024
Mining and exploration interests – unquoted (c) – 166 – 166
Net fair value 6,024 166 8,142 14,332
There have been no significant transfers between levels 1 and 2 in the reporting period.
The methods and valuation techniques used for the purposes of measuring fair value of royalty financial instruments gives more 
prominence to the probability of production by applying a risk weighting to the discounted net present value outcome in order to fully 
reflect the risk that the operation never comes into production rather than factoring this risk into the discount rate applied to the future 
cash flow.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
104
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 (a) Coal royalties (Investment Property)
The Group’s coal royalties derive from its ownership of certain sub-stratum land in Queensland, Australia. In accordance with IAS 40, this 
land is revalued at each reporting date on the basis of future expected income discounted at 7% by an independent valuation consultant. 
See note 14 for further details. All unobservable inputs are obtained from third parties.
The Group’s independent coal industry adviser who prepares the coal royalty valuation provided an analysis of the valuation’s sensitivity 
to fluctuations in coal prices as follows:
• a 10% reduction in the coal price would have resulted in the coal royalties being valued at A$141.7m (£69.9m) and an additional charge 
to the income statement of £12.7m; and
• a 10% increase in the coal price would have resulted in the coal royalties being valued at A$195.9m (£96.6m) and a decrease in the 
charge to the income statement of £14.0m.
(b) Royalty instruments
At the reporting date the royalty instruments are valued based on the net present value of the pre-tax cash flows discounted at a rate 
management considers reflects the risk associated with each of the underlying projects. The outcome is then risk weighted to reflect 
the likelihood of the project achieving production based on any published updates in the year. Note 15 details the discount rates used. 
This is the only unobservable input determined by management. All other unobservable inputs are obtained from third parties.
(c) Mining and exploration interests – quoted
All the quoted mining and exploration interests have been issued by publicly traded companies on well established security markets. 
Fair values for these securities have been determined by reference to their quoted bid prices at the reporting date.
(d) Mining and exploration interests – unquoted
All the unquoted mining and exploration interests are initially recognised using cost as the best approximation of fair value. The Group 
notes any trading activity in the unquoted instruments and will value its holding accordingly. At present the Group holds these 
investments with a view to generating future royalties and there is no present intention to sell. The vast majority of these are in 
investments which the Group anticipates a realistic possibility of a future listing.
Fair value measurements in Level 3
The Group’s financial assets classified in Level 3 uses valuation techniques based on significant inputs that are not based on observable 
market data.
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the year ended December 31, 2015.
Royalty 
financial 
instruments 
£’000
Coal royalties 
(Kestrel) 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At January 1, 2015 8,142 117,097 125,239
Revaluation gains or losses recognised in:
Other comprehensive income (1,909) – (1,909)
Income statement – (27,201) (27,201)
Foreign currency translation 301 (7,247) (6,946)
At December 31, 2015 6,534 82,649 89,183
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the year ended December 31, 2014.
Royalty financial 
instruments 
£’000
Coal royalties 
(Kestrel) 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At January 1, 2014 27,847 131,434 159,281
Revaluation gains or losses recognised in:
Other comprehensive income (4,697) – (4,697)
Income statement – (11,822) (11,822)
Impairment (15,288) – (15,288)
Foreign currency translation 280 (2,515) (2,235)
At December 31, 2014 8,142 117,097 125,239
There have been no transfers into or out of Level 3 in any of the years.
The Group measures its entitlement to the royalty income and any optionality embedded within the royalty instruments using discounted 
cash flow models. In determining the discount rate to be applied, management considers the country and sovereign risk associated with 
the projects, together with the time horizon to the commencement of production and the success or failure of projects of a similar nature.
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
105
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 32 Events occurring after year end
No events have occurred subsequent to year end that require additional disclosure.
33 Principal subsidiaries
The following tables outline the Group’s subsidiaries, as defined in Regulation 7 of the UK Companies Act 2006.  
All subsidiaries are included in the Group consolidation.
Company and country of  
incorporation/operation Principal activities Class of shares held
Proportion
of class held at
December 31,
2015
%
Group interest
at December 31,
2015
%
Australia
Alkormy Pty Ltd Investments Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
APG Aus No 1 Pty Ltd Owner of iron ore royalties Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
APG Aus No 2 Pty Ltd Owner of iron ore royalties Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
APG Aus No 3 Pty Ltd Owner of uranium royalties Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
APG Aus No 4 Pty Ltd Owner of iron ore royalties Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
APG Aus No 5 Pty Ltd Owner of iron ore royalties Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
APG Aus No 6 Pty Ltd Owner of vanadium royalties Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
APG Aus No 7 Pty Ltd Owner of coal royalties Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
Argo Royalties Pty Ltd Investments Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
Gordon Resources Ltd Owner of coal royalties Ordinary A$0.20 100% 100%
HydroCarbon Holdings Pty Ltd Dormant Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
Indian Ocean Resources Pty Ltd Investments Ordinary A$0.25 100% 100%
Indian Ocean Ventures Pty Ltd Dormant Ordinary A$0.20 100% 100%
Starmont Holdings Pty Ltd Investments Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
Starmont Ventures Pty Ltd Investments Ordinary A$1.00 100% 100%
Woodford Wells Pty Ltd Dormant Ordinary A$0.25 100% 100%
Canada
Advance Royalty Corporation Owner of uranium royalties Ordinary C$0.01 100% 100%
Albany River Royalty Corporation Owner of chromite royalties Ordinary C$1.00 100% 100%
Panorama Coal Corporation Owner of coal royalties Ordinary C$0.01 100% 100%
Polaris Royalty Corporation Intermediate holding company Ordinary C$1.00 100% 100%
Trefi Coal Corporation Owner of coal tenures Ordinary C$0.01 100% 100%
England
Anglo Pacific Cygnus Ltd Investments Ordinary £1.00 100% 100%
Centaurus Royalties Ltd Investments Ordinary £1.00 100% 100%
Southern Cross Royalties Ltd Investments Ordinary £1.00 100% 100%
Guernsey
Anglo Pacific Group Employee  
Benefit Trust
Administering Group  
incentive plans 100% 100%
Ireland
Anglo Pacific Finance Ltd Treasury Ordinary £1.00 100% 100%
Scotland
Shetland Talc Ltd Mineral exploration Ordinary £1.00 100% 100%
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
106
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Performance measures
Throughout this report a number of financial measures are used to assess the Group’s performance. The measures are defined as follows:
Adjusted earnings/(loss)
Adjusted earnings/(loss) represents the Group’s underlying operating performance from core activities. Adjusted earnings/(loss) is the 
profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders less all valuation movements, non-cash impairments and amortisation charges (which are 
non-cash IFRS adjustments that arise primarily due to changes in commodity prices), finance costs, any associated deferred tax and any 
profit or loss on non-core asset disposals as these are not expected to be ongoing. See note 11 to the financial statements for adjusted 
earnings/(loss).
Operating profit/(loss)
Operating profit/(loss) represents the Group’s underlying operating performance from its royalty interests. Operating profit/(loss) is 
royalty related income, less amortisation of royalties and operating expenses, and excludes impairments, revaluations and gain/(loss) 
on disposals. Operating profit/(loss) reconciles to ‘operating profit/(loss) before impairments, revaluations and gain/(losses) on 
disposals’ on the income statement.
Shareholder statistics
(a) Size of Holding (at March 21, 2016)
Category
Number of 
Shareholders %
Number 
of Shares %
UK and Canada
1 – 1,000 605 31.69 315,096 0.19
1,001 – 5,000 761 39.86 1,784,571 1.05
5,001 – 10,000 187 9.80 1,349,642 0.79
10,001 – and over 356 18.65 166,492,725 97.97
1,909 100.00 169,942,034 (b) 100.00
(b) The percentage of total shares held by or on behalf of the twenty largest shareholders as at March 21, 2016 was 67.77%.
OTHER INFORMATION
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
OTHER INFORMATION
107
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered office
Anglo Pacific Group PLC
1 Savile Row 
London W1S 3JR
Registered in England  
No. 897608
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7435 7400
Fax: +44 (0)20 7629 0370
Website
www.anglopacificgroup.com
Shareholders
Please contact the respective  
registrar if you have any queries  
about your shareholding.
Equiniti Registrars Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone: +44 (0)371 384 2030
Equity Transfer & Trust Company
Suite 400
200 University Avenue
Toronto
Ontario M5H 4H1
Telephone: +1 416 361 0152
Stockbrokers
BMO Capital Markets Limited
1st Floor
95 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4V 4HG
Macquarie Capital
Ropemaker Place
28 Ropemaker Street
London EC2Y 9HD
Peel Hunt
120 London Way 
London EC2Y 5ET
Contact details
APG12 | AR15 | 22/03/2016 | Back – Proof 5
108
ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
DIRECTORY Printed in the UK by CPI Colour  
on Amadeus Primo Silk FSC® certified paper.
Amadeus Primo Silk is certified FSC®, is  
made using ECF pulp, and manufactured  
according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Boone
www.boonedesign.com ANGLO PACIFIC GROUP PLC 
1 Savile Row 
London W1S 3JR 
United Kingdom 
T +44 (0)20 3435 7400  
F +44 (0)20 7629 0370
e	 i n f o @a n gl o p a c i fic gr o u p.c om 	
w	 w w w. a n gl o p a c i fic gr o u p.c om
