 ARM Holdings plc
Annual Report 2015: Strategic Report We shape the 
connected world Automotive autonomy
Cars are becoming mobile computing platforms. 
More sensors and cameras are being included 
to assist the driver with lane detection, reading 
roadside signage and identifying potential hazards 
or people crossing the road. In time, driver 
assistance may lead to a fully automated vehicle.
ARM’s technology is 
shaping the way we 
all live our lives; in the 
home, as we travel, at 
school or work, and 
as we have fun with 
our friends
Wearable technology
Smart watches, biometric-monitors and 
augmented reality headsets are intelligent, 
connected devices that can give us extra 
information to improve our health and 
wellness, or just to help us have more fun.
Generating energy effectively
Wind turbines and solar panels can be made 
more effective by including technology that 
controls and monitors the wind turbine, and 
aggregates data across the entire wind farm. Smart city streets 
City infrastructure from street lights to car 
parking meters can be made more effective by 
embedding intelligent chips. Street lights that 
can dim when no one is nearby will save energy 
and reduce carbon emissions, and prognostics in 
the lighting system can detect faults before they 
occur, thereby reducing maintenance costs and 
improving reliability.
Smarter homes
Cost-efficiency in the home can be improved 
through learning thermostats that understand 
your daily routine, domestic appliances that use 
advanced algorithms for calculating water and 
detergent requirements, and smart meters that 
give information on energy usage, allowing the 
householder to make better decisions.
Intelligent networks
Broadband and mobile phone network speeds 
are increasing, and latency decreasing, enabling 
new services for operators to provide to 
consumers and enterprises, from delivering 
more movie and TV options to collating and 
analysing data from sensors.
Mobile computing
ARM-based mobile computers, including 
smartphones, tablets and some laptops are, 
for many people, the primary device for their 
work, whether in an office or on the road; 
for researching and writing school assignments; 
and for engaging with friends.  We work with our Partners across the  
globe to help shape the connected world
The majority of ARM’s revenues are earned from 
semiconductor companies that are based all over 
the world. These companies sell their ARM-based 
chips to electronic device manufacturers, which 
are also based in all major economies. The OEMs 
sell their products to consumers and enterprises in 
every country.
ARM’s royalty revenues are derived from the 
chips in these OEM products, and ARM therefore 
beneﬁts from the growth in all economies and 
countries around the world. We continue to see 
strong demand for consumer electronics products, 
and digital technology in enterprise equipment and 
industrial applications.
ARM has 35 offices in 17 countries. These offices both 
support local customers and also beneﬁt from the 
skills and knowledge that have developed in certain 
regions. For example, our engineers in Scandinavia 
are specialists in multimedia technologies such as 
video and graphics processing. During 2015 ARM 
opened offices in Deerﬁeld, Florida, and Chandler, 
Arizona, and, in collaboration with a joint venture 
partner, opened an IoT incubation centre in Beijing.
North  
America
Offices 
9
Employees 
905
Revenue 
38%
Partners 
155
United  
Kingdom
Offices 
5
Employees 
1,577
Revenue 
1%
Partners 
3
Rest  
of Europe
Offices 
12
Employees 
628
Revenue 
9%
Partners 
57
Asia  
Offices 
9
Employees 
865
Revenue 
52%
Partners 
210
3,975
Total number of employees 
working across 17 countries
425
Total number of ARM 
processor licensees
35
Offices around 
the world 
ARM Strategic Report 2015 2 ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2015
The Governance and Financial Report explains the way 
we operate, our approach to corporate governance, how 
we remunerate management and our ﬁnancial performance 
for 2015.  A copy of the Governance and Financial Report  
can be downloaded from: www.arm.com/governance
The Corporate Responsibility Report outlines our approach 
to investing in sustainability and projects to enable more 
energy efficient technology, and how we attract and develop 
smart and innovative employees.  A copy of the Corporate 
Responsibility Report can be downloaded from  
www.arm.com/reporting2015
The Investor Relations website contains more information 
on what ARM does and how we connect with some of the 
world’s most innovative companies to shape the future of 
technology. Here you will ﬁnd our latest ﬁnancial results and 
recent case studies of ARM technology in action. The Investor 
Relations website can be found at www.arm.com/ir
Overview
Non-ﬁnancial highlights 4
Financial highlights 5
Chairman’s overview 6
Strategy
Our marketplace 9
CEO’s strategic perspective 16
Performance
Our business model 24
Strategy and KPIs 26
Risk management 35
Commitment
Our people 42
Corporate Responsibility 44
Governance 46
Remuneration 48
Financials
Financial strategy 52
Financial tables 55
Glossary 58
3 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Strategy Performance Commitment Financials Overview Engineers working on new types of products
14
13
12
11
2015
275
209
161
149
488
Market share (%)
30
28
24
22
32
14
13
12
11
2015
Number of ARM licences signed
163
121
110
121
173
14
13
12
11
2015
488
Engineers researching new types of products 
Most of ARM’s engineers are developing products 
extending our current product portfolio, with 488 
working on new types of products.
 1,348
Building the base of licences that will drive 
future royalties
In 2015 ARM signed 173 licences, taking the number 
of active licences to 1,348.
 15bn
Increasing share in target end markets 
ARM Partners reported that they had shipped  
around 15 billion ARM-based chips in 2015, 
taking ARM’s share of the market to around 32%.
74
ARM’s increasing DJSI score 
reﬂects that our sustainability programme 
is recognised as aligned with the best practices 
in the industry.
50%
Increasing the value of ARM technology 
in smart devices
Some of the new technology that ARM has created 
can generate a higher royalty per chip.
Number of employees
3,294
2,833
2,392
2, 1 16
3,975
14
13
12
11
2015
ARMv8 penetration into smartphones (%)
15
3
0
0
50
14
13
12
11
2015
Chips shipped Active licences
Smartphones with our latest 
architecture, ARMv8-A
DJSI score
14
13
12
11**
2015
69
61
53
74
**ARM entered the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) in 2012.
0
+681
Investing in ARM’s people and systems
ARM grew by 681 net new employees in 2015, 
taking the total to 3,975. 
See more detail on our KPIs 
on page 26
Non-ﬁnancial highlights
ARM technology was in around 32% of the chips  
used in all the smart electronic devices sold in 2015
*
Our goal is to create 
a world of smart 
connected devices 
and services, all based 
on energy-efficient 
technology, making life 
better for everyone.
* In 2015,  ARM restated the available market for our technology, 
as the opportunity is now larger than that described in the 2014 
annual report. By making the market size larger, this has reduced 
our market share in 2015. Details of the restatement can be 
found in the presentation of our full year 2015 results, available 
at www.arm.com/ir.
Net new employees
ARM’s increasing 
DJSI score 
Engineers working on 
“blue sky” programs
ARM Strategic Report 2015 4 * An explanation of “normalised” can be found at the beginning of the section “Our ﬁnancial strategy”, page 55.
Financial highlights
Shaping a platform for growth
We create returns for our 
shareholders by investing in  
long-term growth opportunities.
Normalised Net Cash Generated (£m)
339.9
344.5
267.3
203.7
360.7
14
13
12
11
2015
Normalised* diluted earnings per share (pence)
24.1
20.6
14.7
12.4
30.2
14
13
12
11
2015
Normalised* proﬁts before tax (£m)
411.3
364.0
276.5
229.7
511.5
14
13
12
11
2015
Dollar revenues ($m)
1 ,292.6
1,117.8
913.2
785.0
1,488.6
14
13
12
11
2015
Cash returns to shareholders (£m)
66.9 86.1
68.9
51.8
42.2
92.2 107.8
14
13
12
11
2015
£m dividend £m buybacks
IFRS diluted earnings per share (pence)
18.0
7.4
11.5
8.2
23.9
14
13
12
11
2015
IFRS proﬁts before tax (£m)
316.5
162.6
22 1 .0
156.9
414.8
14
13
12
11
2015
Sterling revenues (£m)
795.2
717.8
576.9
491.8
968.3
14
13
12
11
2015
5 Financials Commitment Performance Strategy Overview ARM Strategic Report 2015 Stuart Chambers
Chairman
Chairman’s overview
Creating the technology that  
shapes the connected world
ARM is the world’s leading semiconductor IP 
company. We develop and license technology 
that is at the heart of many of the digital 
electronic devices sold each year, from sensors 
to smartphones to servers. ARM’s energy-efficient 
microprocessor technology is helping to shape 
the world we live in. Smart chips are digitally 
connecting people with each other and also with 
the connected products that we use every day, 
creating a network of intelligent devices that 
enables us to get things done more quickly and 
easily. We have embraced the rapid pace of change 
in this increasingly digital world by developing 
technology that brings new possibilities to a 
globally connected population.
ARM is a fast-growing business in a dynamic and 
competitive market. In 2015 our customers reported 
that they had shipped around 15 billion ARM-
based chips, an increase of 23% on the prior year. 
Just under half of those chips were shipped into 
mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets, 
where ARM has a high market share. An increasing 
number of chips were shipped into new markets, 
including networking infrastructure and embedded 
intelligent devices such as microcontrollers and chips 
for the Internet of Things. ARM also signed 173 
new processor licences which will underpin royalty 
revenues for years to come.
ARM has performed strongly in 2015. Group dollar 
revenues increased by 15% and normalised diluted 
earnings per share by 25% to 30.2p (IFRS: 33% to 
23.9p). The Board has recommended an increase in 
the full year dividend for 2015 of 25%, demonstrating 
the Board’s conﬁdence in ARM’s long-term growth 
opportunities, and, during the year, approved the 
buyback of 9.0 million shares.
During the year, ARM announced that it is 
accelerating its investment into developing 
technologies for networking infrastructure, 
servers and the Internet of Things. These are all 
rapidly growing markets, and by investing now we 
can increase ARM’s opportunity in future years, 
securing greater long-term returns for shareholders. 
The Internet of Things will drive demand for a huge 
number of smart sensors and chips, and we will 
work closely with our Partners to ensure that many 
of these are ARM-based. The growth rate and size 
of the market are still uncertain; nevertheless we 
believe that this is an exciting opportunity that will 
beneﬁt ARM today and in the future.
$1,489m
Dollar revenues
+15%
30.2p
Normalised 
EPS growth
+25%
8.78p
Dividend growth
+25%
ARM Strategic Report 2015 6 By investing now we 
can increase ARM’s 
opportunity in future 
years, securing greater 
long-term returns 
for shareholders.
Board changes
As announced in 2014, Tim Score, ARM’s Chief 
Financial Officer, retired in June 2015. Chris Kennedy 
has been appointed as CFO and joined the Board of 
ARM Holdings plc as a director from 1 September 
2015. Chris brings to ARM more than 20 years of 
international experience in senior ﬁnance roles in 
a broad range of sectors, most recently at easyJet 
plc where he has served as CFO and member of 
the Board since 2010. Prior to easyJet Chris worked 
at EMI plc. 
Lawton Fitt and Stephen Pusey both joined the 
Board on 1 September 2015 as independent non-
executive directors. Stephen has many years of 
experience managing global technology companies, 
including Vodafone Group plc from which he 
recently retired as Chief Technology Officer. 
Lawton has deep ﬁnancial experience, having held a 
broad range of board positions, and was previously 
a partner at Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Kathleen O’Donovan, senior independent  
non-executive director and chair of the Audit 
Committee, retired from the ARM Board in 
December 2015, having completed nine years’ 
service. Lawton Fitt has replaced Kathleen as 
chairman of the Audit Committee; and Andy 
Green is now the senior independent director.
On behalf of the Board, the management, and the 
wider team, we thank Tim for service throughout 
his 13 years as CFO at ARM, Kathleen for her nine 
years, including chairman of the Audit Committee 
and senior independent director, and we welcome 
Chris, Lawton and Stephen to the Board.
The above changes are consistent with our aim of 
having a Board with the right balance of skills and 
expertise. Together we have reﬁned ARM’s strategy 
for increasing investment over the next few years in 
order to accelerate future market share.
Finally, I would like to thank all of ARM’s employees 
for their effort and contribution in 2015. I look 
forward to seeing ARM continue to develop new 
technology that will shape the future for our 
increasingly connected world.
Stuart Chambers
Chairman
Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 7 ARMv8-A
Next generation 
phones will be 
both aware of 
their location and 
context (i.e. home, 
office, school, etc.).
Around 50% of 
smartphones sold 
in 2015 contained 
an ARMv8-A based 
processor. 
Faster connectivity 
and reduced 
latency will enable 
new services.
8 ARM Strategic Report 2015 The semiconductor industry develops 
the chips that manage all of the world’s 
electronic devices. PCs, mobile phones 
and even modern washing machines 
have some form of chip providing their 
intelligence. Each generation of chip is 
typically smarter than its predecessor , 
enabling more capable and more 
efficient consumer and embedded 
electronic products.
Our marketplace
Where the market is now
* World Semiconductor Trade Statistics, January 2016.
Overview of the semiconductor market
Semiconductors, or silicon chips, are the electronic 
controllers that manage many of the digital devices 
that we use every day. Computers, mobile phones, 
televisions, washing machines and cars can contain 
many silicon chips. Also, many enterprise and 
industrial applications, from sensors to servers, are 
made smarter and more efficient by silicon chips.
The semiconductor ecosystem
As consumer electronic products and industrial 
equipment have become more sophisticated, the 
chips that control them have become more complex 
and more costly to develop. Over many years the 
semiconductor industry has disaggregated into 
specialist companies that focus on each stage in the 
creation, design and manufacture of a silicon chip. 
This allows each company to invest and innovate in 
the area where they can add the most expertise in 
the value chain. 
Some companies specialise in designing the chip; whilst 
some companies, such as ARM, specialise in developing 
critical intellectual property (IP) components within 
the design; others in building the tools needed to 
manufacture the chips; others in the chip fabrication; 
and others in developing software, such as operating 
systems and apps. 
ARM works closely with all the leading companies 
within the semiconductor ecosystem to ensure that 
its technology works well with other companies’ 
products, that silicon chip designers can quickly 
build low-power and high-performance chips, and 
that OEMs can create complex programmes using 
a combination of third-party and in-house operating 
systems and applications.
As silicon chip designs become more complex it 
is expected that the semiconductor industry will 
continue to license semiconductor IP. As the global 
leader, ARM is well-positioned to beneﬁt from 
this trend.
The market in 2015
In 2015, approximately 750 billion silicon chips were 
manufactured.* Of these, some 47 billion contained 
a processor. The processor is the brain of the chip, 
and controls not just the operation of the chip, but 
also the operation of the product that the chip goes 
into. ARM estimates that the total value of chips with 
processors sold in 2015 was about $1 15 billion, and 
that by 2020 the value of this market will have grown 
to about $150 billion.
ARM processor designs were in around 15 billion 
chips, a 32% market share. About 45% of the 
ARM-based chips went into mobile devices. In recent 
years we have also started to gain share in important 
growth markets such as networking infrastructure 
and embedded intelligence.
Over the next few pages we look at the main 
markets for ARM’s technology.
Financials Commitment Overview Performance 9 Strategy ARM Strategic Report 2015 Mobile computing 
Connecting us to each other, 
and our data
Total available market (TAM) for 
mobile applications processors*
TAM Value
2015 
$1 8bn
**
85% of chips ARM Market Share
TAM Value
2020 
$25bn
ARM is targeting
to at least maintain
market share
ARM Target Market Share
* Including smartphones, tablets and laptops.
** Based on ARM and market data.
For many people, mobile computers, including 
smartphones and tablets, have become their primary 
device for sending emails, browsing the internet and 
engaging with friends on social networking sites. 
Over the past few years most of the innovation 
in smartphones has been along conventional 
parameters; speed of the main chip, screen size and 
connectivity. And these are going to continue to be 
important drivers of innovation. 
Other technologies are now being introduced into 
smartphones. Sensors, such as microphones, noise 
cancellation technology and location awareness, 
are being integrated into your mobile computer, 
enabling it to do more than it has ever been able to 
do before. Next generation smartphones will be 
able to interact better with other devices; sharing 
information such as context or location. This will 
enable them to change their behaviour when you 
are at home, in your car, or in the office or at school. 
Future mobile devices will be able to interact with 
you in a much more natural way; understanding 
what you say, reading your handwriting, and 
recognising your gestures. The smartphone is going 
to signiﬁcantly improve over the next few years, 
and all of this is going to require more processing 
capability and more technology from ARM to enable 
it to happen.
At the same time, basic smartphones are becoming 
cheaper and are proliferating across the world. 
In developing economies and in remote parts of the 
world, smart mobile devices are allowing people 
to be better connected, not just to each other, but 
also to education and information, and banking and 
medical services. Even these basic smartphones can 
contain several chips that utilise ARM processor and 
physical IP technology.
Today ARM-based application processors can be 
found in about an 85% share of mobile devices, 
including smartphones, tablets and laptops. Over the 
past ﬁve years this market has grown by an average 
of 30% per year. Analysts predict that the average 
annual growth rate to 2020 of this market is 
expected to be about 7%. Although this is a lower 
rate of growth, it still makes mobile computing one 
of the fastest growing markets in the semiconductor 
industry, which will continue to beneﬁt ARM.
Smartphones that cost less than 
$100 are taking mobile technology 
to developing economies, enabling 
everyone to connect not just to their 
families and friends but also to medical 
and banking services.
ARM Strategic Report 2015 10 Efficient networking infrastructure
Moving more data, without using more energy
ARM is well positioned to gain share 
in networking infrastructure as future 
networks require more ﬂexible compute 
capability, and all the major chip vendors 
for this market have already licensed 
ARM technology.
Networking infrastructure equipment moves 
data around the world. It includes mobile phone 
base stations, WiFi hotspots in cafés and train 
stations, corporate networks, cable and satellite 
TV distribution, video-on-demand servers and the 
entire infrastructure of routers and switches that 
connects the internet together. Huge numbers of 
chips are needed within these systems and analysts* 
estimate that there were about 140 million chips 
sold for use in networking infrastructure in 2015, 
worth about $13 billion.
The network operators who own and run these 
networks believe that they can offer new services 
to consumers and enterprises that will generate 
new revenue streams for them. However, networks 
today are mainly built up using ﬁxed function 
hardware, requiring relatively simple chips to control 
them. Operators want to transition these networks 
to much more intelligent and ﬂexible systems, 
requiring sophisticated computer chips that will 
run new software that is being created to enable 
these new services. All of the major semiconductor 
companies that make chips for this market have 
licensed an ARM processor to help them add more 
intelligent chips to their product portfolios.
ARM is conﬁdent that ARM-based chips will gain 
share, however the rate of share gain is harder to 
predict as it depends on many factors including the 
investment plans of network operators. 
* Gartner, December 2015.
Networking infrastructure
TAM Value
2015 
$13bn
**
15% of chips ARM Market Share
TAM Value
2020 
$1 6bn
45% of chips ARM Target Market Share
** Based on ARM and market data.
Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 11 Servers are powerful computers that sit at the heart 
of many large corporations. They run internet search 
engines and websites, provide video and music 
streaming services, manage the inventory of large 
manufacturing companies and analyse huge amounts 
of data in scientiﬁc institutes. 
Many servers need to be general purpose as they 
have to perform a very wide range of tasks during 
their operational lifetime. However, in recent years 
servers are increasingly being used for only one 
speciﬁc application. For example there are storage 
servers in some social networking companies 
that will only ever be used to store photographs. 
There are servers that will only be used as a web or 
email server. And there are servers that will perform 
analytics on similar sets of sales data all day, every day. 
Some companies are now looking to build 
application-speciﬁc chips for these servers running 
a single application. Through being optimised for a 
single application, these chips can be much more 
efficient and effective than a general purpose 
chip. This new approach to building server chips is 
creating an opportunity for ARM’s Partners to gain 
share. See page 20 for more information about the 
products that ARM Partners are developing for 
this market.
The opportunity in servers is very large, and there 
will be competition from well-resourced companies 
who use alternative architectures. Some of these 
have established very strong barriers to entry. 
These companies say they intend to further improve 
their chips and systems, and that may make it difficult 
for ARM’s Partners to be successful.
Despite this strong competition the changes in 
the server market are creating opportunities for 
new types of chips that ARM’s customers plan to 
target. Based on the progress of our customers 
and feedback from the major web-scale companies 
and some large enterprises, we are targeting that a 
25% share of servers shipped in 2020 will be using 
ARM-based chips.
Low-power servers  
Optimised for speciﬁc applications
The ﬁrst ARM-based servers were 
deployed in 2015. These are mainly 
experimental systems that are being 
used to test which workloads run best 
on the energy-efficient chips from 
ARM’s customers.
The Barcelona Supercomputing 
Centre successfully tested its Mont 
Blanc software on ARM-based 
supercomputers in 2015. The hardware 
is housed in the facility shown above.
Image by courtesy of Barcelona 
Supercomputing Center – www.bsc.es
Servers
TAM Value
2015 
$15bn
*
<1% of server chips ARM Market Share
TAM Value
2020 
$20bn
25% of server chips ARM Target Market Share
* Based on ARM and market data.
ARM Strategic Report 2015 12 Embedded intelligence
Connecting billions of smart 
sensors into the Internet of Things
ARM technology is increasingly being 
deployed in embedded computer 
systems. In 2015 we estimated that about  
25% of embedded computer chips 
contained an ARM processor, from chips 
in washing machines to lift controllers to 
commercial drones.
Opportunities for embedded 
chips in 2020*
Smart Home
$2.3bn
Smart City
$1.8bn
Industrial
$1.1bn
Other
$3.1bn
* Numbers show the forecast value of silicon chip sales. 
Forecasts based on ARM and Gartner data.
Many of the products and services 
we use every day are enabled by small 
smart microcontrollers. For example, 
microcontrollers can be found in the 
control panels and electric motors in 
air-conditioning systems and elevators, 
the remote controls for TVs, and electronic 
passports and credit cards. During 2015, the 
market for microcontrollers and smartcards 
grew 40% to 5.5 billion devices. The average 
selling price of these chips was around 85 
cents, which allows them to be integrated 
into low-cost products and make almost any 
device smart. 
These tiny computers are also being 
combined with sensors and wireless 
radios, thereby adding new functionality to 
existing products and even creating entirely 
new ones for consumers, enterprises, 
agriculture and infrastructure. Collectively, 
these technologies are referred to as the 
Internet of Things (IoT). Although this is still 
a nascent market, it is expected to become 
very large.
This large opportunity, combined with 
relatively low barriers to entry, is attracting 
many semiconductor IP companies 
that wish to compete for market share. 
ARM is well positioned for this market as 
we have already licensed our technology 
to many of the companies that currently 
sell microcontrollers.
Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 13 Fish are better 
with chips
In South Korea, ﬁsh farmers are growing healthier 
ﬁsh through the combination of smart, ARM-
based technology and SK Telecom’s mobile 
communications systems. By installing wireless, 
intelligent sensors in their ﬁsh ponds, farmers can 
measure variations in water quality and nutrient 
levels, helping them know when to feed the ﬁsh, 
or to attend to a maintenance task. As these ﬁsh 
farms are usually in remote regions and coastal 
areas, only wireless technology was cost-effective.
Find out more about 
innovation by ARM’s Partners 
in a range of end markets visit: 
www.arm.com/markets
ARM Strategic Report 2015 14 Mobile  
device
Base station  
tower
Smart sensor
ARM 
Cortex-M
Sensors across the ﬁsh 
farm monitor the quality 
of the water. 
Data transmitted wirelessly 
by the sensors is collated  
and analysed. Information  
and alerts are transmitted 
to the farmer’s phone.
Financials Commitment Performance Strategy Overview ARM Strategic Report 2015 15 ARM Strategic Report 2015 16
Simon Segars
Chief Executive Officer
In 2015 ARM celebrated its 25th year. From the 
start, we knew that embedding intelligence into 
chips to create smart devices was the future of 
computing. We didn’t know which markets would 
take off ﬁrst, or how the technology was going 
to be used, though we always knew that ARM 
was going to change how and where computing 
happens, and that this was going to lead to a 
revolution in the digital products that we all use 
every day.
Our ﬁrst real success was in early digital mobile 
phones. We were in the right place, at the right time, 
with the right technology. In the early 1990s no one 
knew that mobile phones were going to become 
the consumer electronic product that everyone 
would want to own, or that many semiconductor 
vendors would want an energy-efficient smart 
microprocessor to power their mobile phone chips.
The companies that used our technology in these 
early chips then started to use ARM processors 
in chips for other end markets. That led us to 
invest both in new technology that could be used 
in powerful applications, and to also invest in 
applications which needed much smaller processors 
such as the tiny microcontrollers that will enable the 
Internet of Things. The result is that ARM technology 
is now broadly adopted across many devices from 
sensors to smartphones and, in the future, into 
servers too. 
ARM is enabling the companies that will build the 
chips for this enormous and growing market and we 
are investing in our business today to take advantage 
of that opportunity.
CEO’s strategic perspective
Investing for long-term growth
*Based on ARM and market data.
ARM is becoming 
increasingly 
diversiﬁed beyond 
mobile phones. 
32%
*
ARM’s total  
market share  
in 2015
Mobile  
computers
>85%
Storage
>90%
Wearables
>95%
Networking 
infrastructure
15 %
Embedded 
intelligence
25% We always knew that ARM  
was going to change how and 
where computing happens.
17 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Strategy Performance ce Overv view Financials Com mmitment ARM’s strategy 
enables the creation 
of sustainable 
revenue growth
This has  
enabled us to 
create a sustainable 
business, ﬁt for  
the long term
Adding value 
to increase 
royalty revenue 
per processor
Entering into  
new and adjacent  
markets
Making it easy  
for customers to 
continue to use 
our products
Attracting new 
partners to license 
our technology
Helping our 
customers to  
increase their 
market share
Increasing the  
number of 
ARM processors  
per chip
Creating new  
revenue streams  
from adjacent  
markets
Attracting new 
Partners to license 
our technology
Increasing  
the value of 
ARM technology  
in smart devices
Gaining or  
maintaining share 
in long-term 
growth markets
ARM Strategic Report 2015 18
Strategy for long-term growth
ARM is continuing to invest for long-term sustainable 
growth. We are investing in our current product 
portfolio, developing new processors that hit the 
right performance at the right power and with the 
right features for both existing and new markets.
We are investing in new products that will generate 
new revenue streams; some will be created through 
organic investments in our engineering teams, and 
some through acquisitions to accelerate time to 
market. In 2015 we acquired WiCentric Inc., Sunrise 
Micro Devices Inc. and Discretix, Inc. (trading as 
Sansa Security, Inc.), which have expanded our 
portfolio of products for the Internet of Things. 
We also acquired the business of Carbon Design 
Systems, Inc. which provides tools that our 
semiconductor Partners use to more efficiently 
design highly complex chips.
For ARM and our Partners to be successful, we need 
a broad ecosystem of companies that are building 
their businesses utilising ARM technology and 
supporting the ARM architecture. We are investing 
in this ecosystem to accelerate the adoption of new 
ARM technology for the markets that we are already 
in, and also for the markets that we are and will be 
growing into.
Investing in new technology is business as usual
ARM’s business has been created around developing 
new and innovative technology to meet the demands 
of future consumer products and enterprise 
systems. Most of our engineering team is focused 
on developing the roadmaps for the product-lines 
that we have today, and we are working closely with 
market-leading customers to identify their future 
needs. About 17% of our engineers, led by our CTO, 
Mike Muller, are looking out even longer term, at 
what technologies we may be using in  
10–20 years’ time. 
We have complemented our own R&D with 
acquisitions that can accelerate our existing business 
or become the seed for new technologies and 
products, servicing new markets and customers. 
These are often bolt-on acquisitions that we can then 
scale up to become globally competitive. We also 
look at more established businesses that may come 
with existing revenue streams and ecosystems that 
we can combine with our own.
Although a lot of this investment is in our engineering 
teams, we also invest in the supporting people, 
systems and infrastructure that enable our 
engineering teams to develop, deliver and support 
the next generation of products.
CEO’s strategic perspective
Continued…
Creating sustainable growth Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 19
In the past the vast majority of our people have been 
devoted to developing technology for the mobile 
market, and that investment has continued to grow. 
The mobile market remains important for us in part 
because many of the products we build for mobile 
devices end up being used in other markets.
We are also growing our headcount, with new 
engineering teams building products speciﬁcally 
for markets beyond mobile. We have grown this 
headcount by a factor of three since 2012.
ARM processor engineering headcount*
Mobile computing Non-mobile
12
13
14
2015
16 forecast
*Resource allocation based on an estimate of 
“most likely initial use”. Most ARM technology can 
be used in both mobile and non mobile devices
900
625
1300
750
1600
1250
1800
1625
550
1100
Strategy for the future
In 2015 we announced our strategy to capture 
greater revenues in the future by increasing our 
investments today. In the next few sections, I will 
outline our strategy in each of our target markets.
Leadership in mobile computing
The mobile market remains ARM’s most important 
market, responsible for nearly half of all ARM-based 
chip shipments. Although we expect smartphone 
unit growth to be slower in the future, it remains 
a major growth driver for ARM over the next 
few years.
ARM expanding opportunity in mobile
The number of chips going into mobile devices, 
and the sophistication of those chips, is increasing. 
For ARM, this creates an opportunity to achieve 
higher royalty revenues from each smart 
mobile device. 
Competition amongst smartphone handset vendors 
is driving innovation. Smartphone vendors now 
want to introduce a new premium model every 
year. Therefore, semiconductor companies have to 
develop more sophisticated chips every year, and 
are demanding a new platform of ARM technology 
to develop those chips. ARM is therefore creating a 
roadmap of products that will provide a complete 
system of technology on an annual basis to enable 
each new generation of chips for mobile devices. 
In 2015, this strategy delivered increased royalty 
revenue per smart device.
ARM has been investing in its mobile technology 
roadmap for nearly 25 years, and we will continue 
to develop advanced technologies for smart mobile 
devices. This will enable us to retain a high market 
share, whilst beneﬁting from higher royalty revenue 
per chip as companies choose to deploy more 
advanced ARM technology.
ARM’s strategy to increase royalty revenue per smart device
ARMv8-A ARMv8-A is the eighth version of the ARM architecture. It is more 
advanced than the previous generation, introducing 64-bit computing 
and improved security features. ARM typically receives a higher royalty 
percentage from chips based on ARMv8-A technology. ARM started 
to license this technology in 2009, and by the end of 2015 had signed 
89 licences with 48 companies. 
ARMv8-A is gaining share in smartphones and tablets. In 2015 about 
50% of all smartphones sold were based on ARMv8-A, up from about 
10% for the whole of 2014. 
More cores per chip ARM can receive a slightly higher royalty per chip with higher core 
counts. In 2015 nearly all Android smartphones had an ARM-based 
application processor that was either quad-core or octa-core. In 2014, 
nearly all of the chips used in Android phones had an ARM-based 
application processor that was dual-core or quad-core. So in 2015 
we saw a signiﬁcant increase in the number of cores per application 
processor in smartphones, and we beneﬁted from the higher royalty 
revenue that generated.
Mali graphics ARM’s Mali graphics processor enables an immersive experience for 
games and brings user interfaces to life. Initially graphics processors 
were primarily found in high-end PCs and games consoles. Today, 
every smartphone has an embedded graphics processor and they are 
increasingly being designed into vehicle dashboards, cameras and even 
supercomputers. Mali is also royalty-bearing and has been gaining share. 
ARM has signed 132 Mali licences with 65 semiconductor companies.
In 2015 Mali became the highest shipping graphics processor in the 
smartphone market with a 40% market share. ARM Strategic Report 2015 20
Accelerating share gains in 
network infrastructure 
The networking infrastructure equipment market is 
an exciting high-value market where we expect to 
see an increasing deployment of ARM-based chips. 
Today ARM has a relatively low share of chips 
shipping into networking infrastructure. However, 
ARM has been developing technology that can 
deliver the performance required for the next 
generation of networking infrastructure equipment, 
and all of the major semiconductor companies 
that make chips for this market have licensed an 
ARM processor. 
With many semiconductor companies building 
highly differentiated chips, all based on the ARM 
architecture, network operators will be able to run 
the same software across their system regardless of 
whether it utilises a chip optimised for base-station 
equipment, a router or a switch. This will make it 
more efficient for operators to deploy new services 
across their network, and these services will enable 
them to generate new sources of revenues.
During 2015, ARM announced that it was increasing 
its investment to accelerate its market share 
in networking infrastructure. These additional 
investments will be in three areas:
ARM’s strategy to gain market share  
in networking infrastructure
Building better 
chip technology 
ARM is investing in the analysis of new 
workloads that networking chips will need 
to undertake, which will help our Partners 
to build more optimised chips and ARM 
to design more advanced processors 
and other key technologies for future 
networking workloads.
Creation of 
new software
Foundational software that operators and 
enterprises will be using to implement 
their networks is being developed through 
industry-wide collaborations. ARM is 
increasing its investment in some of these 
collaborations to accelerate the availability 
of critical components.
Faster 
deployments of 
new technology
ARM is increasing its engagement with 
operators and OEMs to help them design 
these new technologies into future 
networks, enterprises and data centres.
Expected result of additional investments
Increasing investment now will create an opportunity 
to accelerate our future market share in networking 
infrastructure. Previously we had indicated that we 
were targeting our market share in 2020 to be in the 
range 30–35%. We are now increasing this target to 
be around 45%.
Accelerating gains in servers 
The server market is another new high-value 
market for ARM technology where we currently 
have a very low share. Changes within the market 
are creating new opportunities for ARM’s Partners. 
Our customers are creating application-speciﬁc chips 
that are optimised for a speciﬁc set of workloads and 
thus provide the right amount of performance for 
lower power than traditional server equipment.
In 2015, ARM had less than a 1% share of the server 
market. We have seen progress during the year 
with six companies manufacturing ARM-based 
server chips, and we expect another four to start 
manufacturing in 2016. We have also seen progress 
in the software ecosystem, with Canonical’s  
Ubuntu OS software now commercially available, 
and there are a large number of companies 
which have ARM-based server software available 
for developers to start working on. In addition, 
major server users are evaluating ARM-based 
technology in cloud deployments, in data 
centres, in high-performance computing and 
in enterprise applications.
For some speciﬁc applications, companies are already 
seeing the beneﬁts of using an ARM-based server 
system; see PayPal example in the box below.
During 2015, ARM announced that it was increasing 
its investment to accelerate its market share in 
servers. These additional investments will be in 
three areas:
ARM’s strategy to gain  
market share in servers
Building better 
chip technology 
ARM is investing in the analysis of the 
workloads that server chips will need to 
undertake. This will help our Partners 
to build more optimised chips and ARM 
to design more advanced processors for 
future servers.
Optimising  
software
ARM is investing in additional software 
engineering resources to help accelerate 
the porting and optimising of software to 
support ARM-based server systems.
Faster 
deployments of 
new technology
ARM is increasing its engagement with 
companies which deploy server technology 
to help them design ARM-based server 
systems more quickly.
Expected result of additional investments
By increasing investment now we believe that we 
can accelerate our market share gains in servers. 
Previously we had indicated that we were targeting 
our market share in 2020 to be around 20%; we are 
now increasing this target to be around 25%.
CEO’s strategic perspective
Continued…
Initial server deployment
PayPal have created a fraud detection 
system using ARM-based server systems. 
Compared to traditional data centre 
equipment there were signiﬁcant savings 
in cost, power and ﬂoorspace.
Half the price to buy Seventh the cost to run Tenth the size
Traditional data centre infrastructure Data centre infrastructure based on ARMv8-A technology Creating new revenue streams 
from the Internet of Things (Io T)
The Internet of Things is a potentially huge market 
consisting of billions of sensors and devices all 
connected together; embedding intelligence into 
industrial automation, transport systems, national 
energy grids, as well as our homes, and potentially 
enabling a revolution in manufacturing, agriculture, 
the provision of medical services, and the running of 
the entire infrastructure of a city.
The chips that are being deployed into IoT devices 
are mainly microcontrollers and wireless connectivity 
chips. These are large and established chip markets 
where ARM has a growing share. In 2015, our share 
of the microcontroller market was about 25% and 
our share of the wireless connectivity chip market 
was over 60%. ARM processors are therefore being 
widely adopted as the architecture for many of the 
chips being deployed to create IoT.
The Internet of Things can bring huge beneﬁts across 
the world, but recent history has demonstrated that 
computer networks can be targeted by hackers who 
want to disrupt the legitimate users of that network. 
The Internet of Things has to be built from the 
beginning with security as a key requirement.
ARM is therefore investing in new technology that 
will provide the building blocks for a secure network 
of embedded devices, and this will help to increase 
our revenue opportunity from this new market.
ARM’s strategy to create new revenue 
streams from the Internet of Things
Securing the chip
ARM is investing in technology that will 
enhance security even for chips costing 
less than <$1. From early 2016, ARM is 
introducing new processors designed 
for microcontrollers and smart sensors 
that will help secure data inside tiny low-
cost chips.
Securing the 
communications
In 2015, ARM announced the acquisitions 
of three companies that have provided the 
seed for our Cordio radio and mbed OS 
software. Together these technologies 
create a communications channel between 
IoT devices and the network, and also 
improve the security of that channel.
Securing the 
connection to 
the server
ARM is investing in its mbed Device Server 
software that will manage a network of 
IoT devices throughout their lifetime, from 
deployment to providing remote updates 
to retirement.
In addition ARM is investing to create an ecosystem 
of Partners that are developing complementary 
products that utilise ARM’s technology.
Expected result of additional 
investments in IoT
By investing in new technology to help secure 
the Internet of Things, we have the opportunity 
to generate additional revenue streams. We are 
licensing mbed Device Server software as well as 
getting additional royalty revenue from embedded 
chips that contain more ARM technology such as 
processors, physical IP and our new Cordio radio IP.
Although we are conﬁdent that the Internet of 
Things is a signiﬁcant opportunity for ARM, there 
are uncertainties too. We do not know how fast 
the Internet of Things will grow, how big it will 
eventually become, or who will be the market 
leaders. However, we would rather be investing in it 
now; creating technology that we believe will form 
a key component for many connected devices, and 
creating the new ecosystem of companies that will 
provide the products and systems from which these 
networks will be formed. We want ARM to be a 
market leader in the Internet of Things, and the only 
way to achieve that is to be fully involved.
Investing to shape  
the connected world 
Over the past 25 years ARM’s strategy has been 
to invest in the energy-efficient technologies that 
have changed how and where computing happens. 
Together with our semiconductor Partners, we have 
helped to shape this connected world. At ARM, we 
continue to evolve our strategy, and are further 
investing in new technologies that are taking us 
into some of the fastest growing and most rapidly 
changing markets. We believe that the connected 
world in which we live will lead to increasing market 
share, increasing revenues and a sustainable business 
ﬁt for long-term success.
Simon Segars
Chief Executive Officer
Connected embedded devices are becoming critical 
components in business networks, providing new revenue 
opportunities for many companies, such as street-side electric 
vehicle charging points. This is also creating new opportunities 
for cyber criminals to disrupt markets to steal information or 
siphon away money. ARM’s mbed Device Server will help to 
improve the security in an IoT network.
Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 21 Find out more about innovation  
in the automotive industry, visit: 
www.arm.com/markets
22 ARM Strategic Report 2015
Making journeys 
safer and smoother
Technology can make journeys by car even safer. 
Cameras inside the car can warn the driver if 
they are showing signs of tiredness, or becoming 
distracted. Cameras outside the car look to 
understand what may be happening and provide 
additional information to the driver; identifying 
road signs, or whether a lane is accidentally being 
crossed, or another vehicle might be in the driver’s 
blind spot. Eventually this may lead to a car that is 
capable of driving itself.
By 2020, we estimate that the market for smart 
automotive chips will be more than $15 billion, 
including infotainment, assisted driving technology 
and improved safety features. By communicating with 
each other, cars can give 
immediate information 
about speed and location, 
and alerts when braking 
or changing lane.
Cars will be more 
self aware, improving 
blind spot detection, 
lane following and 
collision avoidance.
Roadside signs will provide 
additional information about 
traffic conditions ahead.
23 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Performance Ove Ove Ove Ove Ove Ove Ove Ove e Ove Ove Ov Ove Ove ve ve Ove Ove Ove Ove Ov Ov Ove O Ove e O O e Overvi rvi rvi r rvi rvi rvi rvi rvi rv rvi i rv rvi rv rv vi v rv r r r rvi v r r ew ew ew ew ew ew ew w ew ew ew ew e ew e ew e ew e ew w Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str r St tr St S St Str Str Str S S S Str Str Str t S S r r tr Str Str St S Str rate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate t t ate at ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate e at a ate e ate at ate a ate a at tegy gy gy gy y gy gy gy gy gy gy gy y gy y g g gy gy g g gy gy gy gy gy y gy g gy g gy gy gy gy y gy y gy y gy Fin Fi Fin in F Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin n Fin Fin n F Fi in Fin n n F Fin n Fin n Fin Fin Fin i anc anc anc anc anc anc anc anc c anc anc anc n anc anc anc a an anc an nc anc nc n n anc c anc n anc nc c anc anc anc an an ancial al ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial al ial ial al al l l i ial a a a al ial al ial al ial l ial l al ls s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s Com Com Com Com Com Com Com Com Com Com om C Com Com Com Com Co om Com Com Com C Com Com Com Co Com Com C Com Com Com m Co om Com C Co om C C C m Com m C Commit mit mit mit mit mit mit mit mi mit mit mit mit mit mit mit mi m mit mit mit mit t t mit mit m mi m mit t t t m m mi m m mit i it it tmen men men men men men e men men men men men men men n men men e men n men m me men e e en n men me men men men en en me men me m men me e men nt t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t ARM Strategic Report 2015 24
People and expertise 
We are committed to hiring and 
developing some of the most innovative 
and imaginative engineers who, together 
with supporting teams, can develop and 
deploy ARM’s next generation products 
and services
Our business model
Creating sustainable value
ARM is the world’s leading 
semiconductor intellectual 
property (IP) supplier . 
The technology we design is 
at the heart of many of the 
digital electronic products 
sold in the world.
We license our technology to a network of multiple 
Partners, mainly leading semiconductor companies. 
Licensees pay upfront fees to gain access to our 
technology. They then incorporate our designs 
alongside their own technology to create smart, 
energy-efficient chips. ARM receives a royalty on 
every chip sold that uses one of our technology 
designs. Typically, our royalty is based on the price 
of the chip.
Each ARM design is suitable for a wide range of end 
applications and can be re-used in different chip 
families addressing multiple markets. Each new chip 
family generates a new stream of royalties. An ARM 
design may be used in many different chips and may 
ship for over 25 years.
R&D  
activity
2–3 years
Investment  
phase
How we create value  
for our Partners
What we need to execute 
our business model
ARM employs engineers to develop advanced processors, 
physical IP, tools and software that we mainly license to 
companies developing chips for consumer electronics 
and enterprise equipment. We continue to invest in 
R&D programmes, hiring more engineers and investing 
in productivity tools as future generations of technology 
become increasingly complex.
It is more cost-effective for our Partners to license the 
technology from us. The design of a processor or a library 
of physical IP requires a large amount of R&D investment 
and expertise. In addition, the creation and development of 
an ecosystem of software and tools companies that support 
ARM’s technology and its licensees would be difficult 
to reproduce.
With ARM designing the technology once and licensing many 
times, ARM is able to cover its own R&D costs and also 
reduce the cost for each semiconductor company. ARM’s 
Partners are then able to invest in the complementary 
technologies that go into a System-on-Chip. This leads to 
more choice in digital electronics for OEMs and consumers.
3,975
Full time employees
R&D investment 
In 2015, we invested £215 million in R&D 
(normalised) to broaden and extend 
our product portfolio, and another 
£74 million was invested in acquisitions 
to accelerate product development 
and create new revenue streams for 
adjacent markets
£215m
Invested in research  
and development  
(normalised)
Technology collaboration
ARM works closely with other 
companies in the semiconductor industry 
to share knowledge, align roadmaps and 
to develop compatible technologies
We have built and invested in this 
unique ecosystem to ensure our mutual 
customers continue to build more 
effective products. This helps ensure that 
ARM’s technologies are suitable for chips 
going into future consumer electronics 
and enterprise equipment
9,000
Engineers and industry 
experts attended ARM’s 
annual technology 
conferences and symposia
Supply chain 
In 2015, ARM spent about £150 million 
on goods and services essential to our 
business operations. These were mainly 
costs related to essential business 
travel, property management, legal 
and accounting fees, and IT support 
and services
£1 50m
Spent with suppliers
Strong ﬁnancials 
ARM had normalised cash generation 
of £361 million last year. A proportion 
of this cash is used to fund our business 
operations to ensure we invest to secure 
future proﬁts and long-term value 
for shareholders
£361m
Normalised net 
cash generated Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 25
Product 
development
3–4 years
Multiple 
applications  
across a range  
of markets
+25 years
Royalty  
revenue continues
Upfront  
licence fee
Royalty  
revenue
How ARM creates value  
for our shareholders
How ARM creates value  
for the long term
The value we create
ARM recovers its costs from each technology’s licence 
revenues. Over the medium term, we expect ARM’s revenues 
and proﬁts to grow as our Partners design our technology into 
a broader range of end markets.
Our customers include the world’s largest semiconductor 
companies and their regular royalty payments have become a 
reliable cash ﬂow. We have relatively little capital expenditure, 
or other cash-intensive purchases, and hence our normalised 
proﬁts after tax convert to normalised cash generated. So the 
more proﬁts we earn the more cash we generate. 
ARM reinvests back into the business, hiring more engineers 
to develop new technology that will enable us to create 
value for the long term. ARM’s technology can be re-used 
by our customers in many different products and end 
markets; these will generate royalty revenues for years to 
come. Technology that we started licensing more than 25 
years ago is still being deployed in new chips and generating 
royalty revenues today.
Chips shipped
ARM’s Partners shipped around 15 billion 
ARM-based chips in 2015. These smart 
chips help to make consumer electronics 
easier to use and more fun, and 
enterprise equipment more capable and 
energy-efficient
 15bn
ARM-based chips
Licence/royalty income 
Every licence signed represents the 
opportunity for future royalty streams 
which can extend to over 25 years
 1,348
Cumulative licences signed
Revenue 
ARM’s US dollar revenues grew 15% in 
2015, as our existing customers adopted 
and deployed our latest technology in their 
current and future product portfolios, and 
as 41 new companies chose to adopt ARM 
technology for the ﬁrst time
$1,489m
Revenue in 2015
Patents
ARM ﬁled an additional 242 patents in 
2015, taking the total number of patents 
owned or pending to more than 4,500. 
These patents help protect ARM’s 
technology globally and help secure our 
future revenue streams
4,500
Patents owned or pending
Proﬁts
With our revenues growing faster than 
our reinvestments in R&D, we are able 
to deliver increasing proﬁts over the 
long term
£51 1m 
Normalised proﬁts before tax
£415m 
IFRS proﬁts before tax
Shareholder returns
In 2015, ARM bought back 9.0 million 
shares at a value of £92.2 million. 
In addition, the proposed full year 
dividend is 8.78 pence, a 25% increase
£200m
Cash returned to shareholders in 2015 ARM Strategic Report 2015 26
Generate new revenue streams from adjacent markets
Read more on page 31
Increase value of ARM technology in smart devices
Read more on page 30
Invest to create a sustainable business, ﬁt for the long term
Read more on page 32
This has been a year of continued progress to 
achieve our strategy for long-term growth, with 
more leading companies choosing to adopt and 
deploy ARM technology in their next generation 
products. To accelerate our growth between now 
and 2020, we have increased our investments in 
key target growth markets.
ARM’s strategy enables key growth drivers that 
we measure on a regular basis. Each strategy has 
principal risks that have been identiﬁed and are 
being managed.
Our four growth drivers:
Gain or maintain share in long-term growth markets
Read more on page 28
+
+
+
 ARM’s strategy may be impacted by the principal 
risks and uncertainties found on pages 35 to 39.
Strategy and KPIs
Our strategy for long-term growth Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 27
Strategy Key performance indicators
Principal risks to strategy
(see page 36 for key to risks)
1 5 4 7 3 2
1 7 5 4
1 6 4 2
5 9 8 7 6
  Develop energy-efficient technology 
  Enable a broad ecosystem of Partners 
to innovate around ARM’s products
  Listen to the needs of our customers and 
support them in their use of our products
  Building the base of licences that will drive future royalties
  Increasing share in target end markets
  Increasing the royalty rate per chip and the number of chips in smart devices
  Investing in new technologies and businesses 
  Investing in ARM’s people and systems
  Investing in sustainability
  Growing normalised proﬁts, EPS, cash generation and dividends
  Anticipate worldwide technology and 
market trends and nurture new ideas
  Create a work environment where 
everyone can grow and excel
  Enable opportunity for everyone
  Deliver returns to shareholders while 
investing for the long term Many wearable 
devices contain  
ARM-based chips
Wearable technology includes 
exciting new devices, from ﬁtness 
trackers and smartwatches to 
wearable cameras, tracking devices 
and health monitors.
Growth driver:
Gain or maintain share in 
long-term growth markets
Principal risks
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
7
ARM Strategic Report 2015 28
KPI: 
Building the base of licences  
that will drive future royalties
ARM mainly licenses its technology to semiconductor 
companies. Every licence represents the opportunity 
for a future royalty stream. 
In recent years, ARM has added over 100 processor 
licences per year to its existing base of licences. 
In 2015, we signed 173 processor licences, taking the 
number of active licences to 1,348. This growth came 
from existing customers who upgraded to the latest 
ARM processor in a particular end market; existing 
customers who expanded the range of technology 
they license from ARM, possibly as they enter a new 
market; and new customers taking their ﬁrst ever 
ARM processor licence.
We continue to reach the entire spectrum of 
semiconductor companies, from the industry 
leaders to fast-growing start-ups. In 2015, 52 existing 
customers licensed additional ARM processors, 
and 41 companies licensed ARM technology for the 
ﬁrst time. We ended the year with 425 processor 
licensees, all of whom are either shipping ARM-based 
chips and are paying a royalty, or intend to do so in 
the future.
To sustain this base of licences, and to ensure it 
continues to grow, ARM introduced four new 
processor products in 2015, including Cortex 
processors for premium smartphones, and an 
ultra-low-power graphics processor aimed at 
wearable devices.
Ten years ago, ARM technology was primarily 
licensed for use in mobile devices. Today, ARM 
technology is licensed into a wide range of end 
markets, which is reﬂected in the licensing in 2015.
The future opportunity
ARM expects that its customers will continue to re-
equip their R&D teams with the latest processors for 
existing product lines. In addition, ARM’s technology 
is increasingly relevant to markets such as networking 
infrastructure, servers and embedded computing, 
leading to more new customers acquiring their ﬁrst 
ARM licence. 
Number of ARM licences signed 
163
121
110
121
173
14
13
12
11
2015
Number of licences signed by end market
FY 2015
*  Includes networking infrastructure and servers
**Companies intending to use ARM technology in multiple markets
Mobile 
computing   28%
Enterprise 
infrastructure*  15%
Embedded 
intelligence  9%
Other consumer 
electronics 37%
Multiple**  11%
 Read more on pages 36 to 39 ARM is gaining  
share in networking  
infrastructure 
To enable more agile service provision, 
operators are moving towards more 
software-based networks which need 
more compute capability, creating an 
opportunity for ARM’s Partners.
Principal risks
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
7
 Read more on pages 36 to 39
Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 29
KPI:
Increasing share in target  
end markets
In 2015, ARM’s customers reported around 
15 billion chips shipped, a 23% increase over 2014. 
By comparison, industry volumes grew 7% in the 
equivalent period*. This demonstrates ARM’s 
increasing relevance to equipment manufacturers as 
they choose ARM-based chips over chips containing 
proprietary processor designs.
ARM’s share of chip market volumes rose to 32%, 
up from 30% in the previous year. The pace of 
volume share gains was slower than in previous 
years, though crucially ARM has started to win 
share in low-volume, high-value markets such as 
networking infrastructure and servers. 
Mobile computing >85%
The mobile computing market includes smartphones, 
tablets and laptops; more than 85% of these devices 
sold in 2015 used ARM technology in the high-value 
applications processor chip which runs the operating 
system. ARM technology is also used in chips that 
provide connectivity and sensor functionality in 
mobile devices. Some laptop operating systems are 
compatible with ARM-based chips, and in 2015 we 
launched the Cortex-A72 processor which will help 
our customers be even more competitive in laptops.
Servers <1%
The ﬁrst 64-bit ARM-based servers started to ship 
in 2015, and several companies announced their 
intention to develop ARM-based server chips for 
future years.
Networking infrastructure 15%
All of the main vendors of networking chips have 
licensed ARM technology for future products. 
Multiple companies released ARM-based chips 
for LTE base stations in 2015, and we expect to 
see many more networking chip designs come to 
market in the next few years. In 2015, we announced 
additional investments to accelerate our market 
share gains in networking infrastructure.
Embedded intelligence 25%
The microcontroller sector is decades old, and many 
microcontroller vendors still supply chips which 
are based on ageing proprietary architectures. 
Some years ago these vendors introduced ARM-
based microcontrollers alongside their older designs, 
and their ARM-based variants are increasingly 
popular with OEMs. ARM’s technology is often the 
preferred choice for OEMs as it allows them to 
consolidate their software development around a 
single processor architecture, without restricting 
their choice of suppliers.
The future opportunity
All of these end markets have promising long-term 
growth prospects and, taking the competitive 
environment into account, ARM is targeting to either 
grow or maintain share in each market.
Shipments of ARM processor-based chips (bn) 
12.0
10.4
8.7
7.9
14.8
14
13
12
11
2015
ARM processor-based chip shipments 
by end market
FY 2015
Mobile 
computing  44%
Enterprise 
infrastructure*  13%
Embedded 
intelligence  38%
Other consumer 
electronics 5% 
*Includes networking infrastructure and servers
* Source: World Semiconductor Trade Statistics, January 2016. 
Excludes memory and analogue chips.
Growth driver:
Gain or maintain share in 
long-term growth markets  Read more on pages 36 to 39
ARM Strategic Report 2015 30
Smartphones are 
getting smarter
The Samsung Galaxy S6 is powered by 
Samsung Exynos 7 Octa system-on-chip, 
integrating ARM big.LITTLE technology 
featuring ARM quad-core Cortex-A57 
processors running at 2.1GHz and quad-
core Cortex-A53 processors at 1.5GHz, 
as well as ARM Mali graphics processor.
Growth driver:
Increase value of ARM 
technology in smart devices 
Principal risks
1
 
4
 
5
 
7
KPI:
Increasing the royalty rate per chip and 
the number of chips in smart devices
From smartphones to dashboards in cars, today’s 
consumer devices can access the internet and 
view complex content via rich user interfaces. 
These devices typically contain several ARM-based 
chips to run the operating system, process sensor 
data and interface with communication networks. 
In 2015, the popularity of taking “selﬁes” resulted 
in more OEMs incorporating better front-facing 
cameras into their phones. Some of the chips 
providing image processing support to the cameras 
contained ARM processors, thereby increasing the 
number of ARM-based chips.
The latest generation of smart devices can 
incorporate advanced technologies such as multiple 
ARM processors per chip and graphics processors 
to provide acceleration for games and the user 
interface. Devices with more ARM content typically 
provide higher royalties, so the growing demands for 
compute performance leads to a growing revenue 
opportunity for ARM.
During the year, the number of chips sold containing 
our Cortex-A technology rose 16%. This was driven 
by the growth in the number of ARM-based mobile 
computing devices as well as more networking 
infrastructure equipment being deployed with 
ARM technology.
Nearly all smartphones sold in 2015 had a Cortex-A 
family processor in the main chip. Of these 
around 50% were based on our latest processor 
architecture, ARMv8-A (up from about 10% in 2014); 
around 40% also contained Mali graphics processors 
(up from 25%); and 10% deployed chips with more 
than four cores (up from <1%), which enables 
responsive performance without compromising 
battery life.
The future opportunity
ARM expects compute requirements will continue 
to rise; driven by richer user experiences in 
consumer markets and data processing trends 
in enterprise. We expect these trends will drive 
demand for our most advanced technologies.
Penetration of technologies
2015
Smartphones with more than four cores 10%
Smartphones based on ARM’s Mali 
graphics processor
40%
Smartphones based on ARMv8-A 50%
Smartphones with more than four cores 50%
Smartphones based on ARM’s Mali 
graphics processor
50%
Smartphones based on ARMv8-A >85%
2020
target Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 31
Creating smarter  
infrastructure
Smart, connected chips can be found in streetlights, traffic 
signals, car parking, toll booths, and across mass transport 
systems such as railways, trams and buses. Similar chips are 
making manufacturing, agriculture and freight transport logistics 
more efficient and effective.
Growth driver:
Generate new revenue 
streams from adjacent markets 
Principal risks
1
 
2
 
4
 
6
KPI:
Investing in new technologies 
and businesses
ARM is best known for the digital technology it 
provides to semiconductor companies, however 
around 500 of our R&D engineers spend their 
time researching new markets and developing new 
technologies. In 2015 two of our research projects 
matured into revenue-generating businesses – 
Cordio and mbed Device Server.
Cordio
Cordio provides highly-integrated and ultra-low-
power radio technology to semiconductor vendors. 
The radio provides Bluetooth connectivity to 
low-cost sensors that can then communicate with 
the internet wirelessly, running for several years 
off a single coin-sized battery. 
This product was enabled by two acquisitions – 
Sunrise Micro Devices and Wicentric – which were 
completed in early 2015. Since then we have invested 
further in the Cordio platform, and it forms part of 
the IoT Subsystem for Cortex-M processors which 
was released later in the year. This product combines 
processor, radio and physical IP technologies from 
ARM, allowing relatively small design teams within 
our customers to bring low-power IoT products 
to market quickly and with low development risk. 
mbed Device Server 
ARM launched mbed Device Server, a solution 
for managing IoT systems in 2014. Examples of 
IoT systems include smart lighting which can vary 
its brightness according to traffic levels, smart 
irrigation systems which can adjust how much water 
they disperse according to the moisture content 
of nearby soil, and smart factories that can place 
orders with suppliers automatically when store 
rooms run low of stock. Each IoT system could 
have hundreds of thousands of low-cost end points 
which communicate with remote servers in a secure 
manner. Provisioning and managing a large number 
of secure connections is a complex task.
In 2015, ARM established commercial partnerships, 
relating to mbed Device Server, with several IoT and 
data analytics companies, including General Electric 
Company, IBM Corporation, Microsoft Corporation 
and Salesforce.com, Inc.
Future opportunities 
ARM intends to grow the Cordio and mbed Device 
Server product lines into meaningful revenue 
streams. In addition, ARM is evaluating potential 
investments which may yield new revenue streams 
in the future.
Number of engineers invested in 
longer-term development projects 
275
209
161
149
488
14
13
12
11
2015
 Read more on pages 36 to 39 ARM Strategic Report 2015 32
Shaping and connecting 
an innovative workforce 
ARM’s employees are recognised and rewarded  
for how they work together, how they drive 
innovation and how they support our customers. 
Growth driver:
Invest to create a sustainable 
business, ﬁt for the long term
Principal risks
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
KPI:
Investing in ARM’s people  
and systems
Our people design our products, deliver them 
to our customers, and support the ecosystem of 
Partners which brings that technology to market. 
We invest in our people through hiring the brightest 
and best graduates as well as seasoned industry 
experts, developing them and providing a supportive 
culture to maximise their capability and potential. 
See page 42 for more information.
In 2015, ARM increased headcount by a net 681 
people. Some of our new colleagues came from 
acquisitions, with the majority being new hires 
into the business. Overall, most new joiners were 
engineers to increase our research and development 
capability. Headcount grew in all areas of the 
business, and an increasing proportion of our 
engineers are working on processor technologies 
for servers and networking devices.
ARM’s systems and supporting infrastructure 
ampliﬁes the creativity of everyone in the 
organisation and enables our engineers to develop 
and test complex technology. In 2015, we initiated 
a multi-year programme to improve our online 
support for developers and engineers who use 
ARM technology in their products. In Q4 2015, 
we launched the developer.arm.com website, 
and more services will be introduced in 2016.
Partly as a result of this investment, normalised 
expenditure on research and development 
rose to £214.8 million in 2015, representing 
22% of revenues and 28% growth year-on-year. 
Expenditure on research and development under 
IFRS was £278.0 million, representing 29% of 
revenues and 24% growth year-on-year.
The future opportunity
We aim to create a work environment where 
everyone can grow and excel, and be rewarded for 
their contribution. We will continue to grow our 
engineering capability and operational execution, and 
as the products designed by our people are adopted 
in more end markets, we expect the business to 
generate more proﬁts. 
Number of employees at year-end 
3,294 2,370 924
1 ,987 846 2,833
1 ,652 740 2,392
1 ,382 734 2, 116
3,975 2,938 1,037
14
13
12
11
2015
Number of engineers Other employees
 Read more on pages 36 to 39 Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 33
Principal risks
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
Improving care in 
rural communities
Khushi Baby uses a mobile app for community health workers 
that interfaces with a digital necklace worn by patients. 
Health workers can scan a patient’s chip, without needing 
connectivity to a central database, and can read, act upon, 
and update the health record. 
KPI:
Investing in sustainability
ARM takes a long-term view of its business; it can 
take ten years to develop a new architecture, design 
a processor based on that architecture, for our 
customers to build that design into a chip and for that 
chip to start shipping in large numbers. And each 
processor may ship in chips for several decades to 
come. The sustainability of our business is therefore 
a critical factor in how we develop and execute 
our strategy.
Since 2012 ARM has participated in an annual 
assessment process for the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index (DJSI), considered by many to be an industry 
standard for corporate-wide sustainability. 
The process involves a rigorous assessment of 
the sustainability of the governance, strategy and 
performance of around 2,000 of the world’s 
largest companies. 
Each year we have improved on our overall 
performance score and our percentile performance 
in relation to the semiconductor industry peers. 
In 2015 we were included in the European Index 
of the DJSI for the ﬁrst time as our sustainability 
programme across the whole business was 
recognised as being aligned with best practices in 
the industry, and in some cases leading the way. 
The future opportunity
Our corporate responsibility programme will 
continue to improve, and we are embarking on new 
programmes designed to improve our performance 
across areas such as supply chain management, 
environment and impact reporting. We have set 
ourselves a DJSI performance target score of 85% 
for 2020. 
Since 2012, we have also increased our cash 
contributions for the corporate responsibility 
programme from 0.13% of pre-tax proﬁt to 0.50% in 
2015. This is supplemented by employee volunteering 
time contributions, in-kind contributions, pro-bono 
support and leveraged contributions through 
partnerships and industry sector collaborations.
Absolute company score
74
69
61
53
85
2015
14
13
12
2020 Target
*ARM entered the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) in 2012
0 11*
Percentile ranking of company
76
76
68
57
2015
14
13
12
Contribution to the CR programme 
as percentage of pre-tax proﬁt (%)
0.50
0.38
0.44
0.13
2015
14
13
12
 Read more on pages 36 to 39
Growth driver:
Invest to create a sustainable 
business, ﬁt for the long term ARM Strategic Report 2015 34
KPI:
Growing normalised proﬁts,  
EPS, cash generation and dividends
ARM’s business model and exposure to structural 
growth markets together mean that it is well 
positioned to grow proﬁts, generate cash and 
support a growing dividend.
ARM’s ﬁnancial discipline focuses investment in areas 
of maximum opportunity such as the recruitment 
of more engineers to develop the next generation 
of technology. Our customers include the world’s 
largest semiconductor companies, and their regular 
royalty payments have become a reliable cash ﬂow. 
Given our broad base of Partners and end markets, 
ARM is not overly reliant on any one company or 
consumer product for its future proﬁts and cash. 
In 2015, no one company accounted for more than 
10% of our revenue, which was also the case in 2014. 
In 2015, ARM generated $1.49 billion of revenues 
(£968 million). During the year, ARM achieved 
normalised cash generation of £361 million. 
The increase in cash generation is primarily 
due to the increase in revenue. ARM returned 
£200 million of cash to shareholders in 2015 through 
a combination of share buybacks and dividends. 
In 2015, ARM increased the full year dividend by 25% 
to 8.78 pence and spent £92.2 million buying back 
9.0 million of its own shares.
The future opportunity
ARM intends to continue investing in R&D that is 
expected to deliver long-term growth in proﬁts, 
earnings per share and cash returns. 
ARM’s key ﬁnancial growth metrics over the past ﬁve years
17%
Dollar revenues
2011-2015 CAGR
15%
Normalised cash 
generated
2011-2015 CAGR
26%
Dividend per share
2011-2015 CAGR
18%
Sterling revenues
2011-2015 CAGR
25%
Normalised earnings  
per share
2011-2015 CAGR
18%
IFRS earnings  
per share
2011-2015 CAGR
22%
Normalised proﬁt 
before tax
2011-2015 CAGR
28%
IFRS proﬁt before tax
2011-2015 CAGR Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 35
ARM has a robust risk management and internal 
control process in place to identify key risks; 
assign ownership for each risk at a senior 
management level; identify both existing and 
planned management activities to mitigate each 
risk; assess the residual likelihood and impact of 
each risk; and ensure ongoing monitoring and 
reporting of each key risk.
At a strategic level, our risk management objectives 
are to: 
 › Identify ARM’s most signiﬁcant strategic and 
operational risks
 › Develop plans to manage the risks identiﬁed, 
with a clear owner assigned to each risk
 › Ensure that business growth plans are 
properly supported by an effective risk 
management infrastructure
 › Help executives improve the control and 
co-ordination of risk taking across the business
 › Ensure that ARM’s assurance activities are focused 
on the organisation’s key risks
 › Ensure that the Board has a current understanding 
of the risks in the business, the plans to 
mitigate those risks and the status of those 
mitigation efforts
Strategic risks are managed through a number 
of regular forums where key risks are discussed 
and existing management activities challenged. 
These include regular sessions with both the Board 
and senior management. 
Operational risks are managed in accordance with 
the ARM Management System (AMS), which deﬁnes 
internal controls across the organisation. ARM has a 
number of internal controls and processes in place to 
provide assurance on compliance with the AMS.
Risk appetite
Determining the Group’s willingness to take on 
risk (its “risk appetite”) is the starting point of an 
effective risk management and review process. 
ARM’s risk appetite differs across the activities that 
are necessary to maintain and grow our business. 
The most important elements for ARM are our 
people and systems to develop new technologies and 
products, our ecosystem, our brand and reputation, 
and compliance and regulatory matters. In these 
areas we have a low appetite for risk, and the Group 
has more internal controls and processes to minimise 
the probability or impact of a risk occurring.
Risk review process
Strategic and operational risks are identiﬁed, 
prioritised and reported on within the Corporate 
Risk Register (CRR). The CRR includes a description 
of the overall risk, the risk factors, the risk owner 
and the risk management activities, including 
operational and oversight activities as deﬁned in the 
“three lines of defence” model*. Residual risks are 
assessed in terms of likelihood and impact on the 
basis that the risk management activities assigned to 
them are operating effectively and an overall RAG 
(Red, Amber, Green) rating is generated, taking 
the risk appetite statement into account where 
appropriate. Plans to monitor and mitigate individual 
risks are then included within the relevant objectives 
of the Group’s operations and functions. Risks are 
identiﬁed through senior management discussion 
(top down) and regular reporting from every part 
of the business (bottom up).
*  The “three lines of defence” model is a widely used 
methodology for monitoring, evaluating and improving risk 
management effectiveness.
The CRR is monitored by the Risk Review 
Committee, chaired by Mike Muller, Chief 
Technology Officer. The Risk Review Committee 
meets on a quarterly basis to review the CRR. 
Each risk owner is required to review and 
demonstrate that risks are being appropriately 
managed. A more detailed explanation of the Risk 
Review Committee’s activities is included in the 
Governance and Financial Report 2015 on pages 
12 to 14. The Audit Committee is responsible for 
overseeing the risk management framework and 
ensuring that the risk review process is operating 
effectively. The Executive Committee and the Board 
review the CRR on a regular basis. 
Internal audit assurance
ARM’s Internal Audit function develops an annual 
audit plan to provide assurance that the risk 
management activities identiﬁed to mitigate risks 
are designed and operating effectively and that 
corrective action is being taken where necessary. 
ARM’s principal risks and uncertainties
ARM’s strategy is to develop and deploy energy-
efficient technology; to enable innovation through 
a broad ecosystem of Partners, building on our 
shared success; and to create superior returns for 
our shareholders by investing in long-term growth. 
ARM’s principal risks may impede ARM’s progress in 
executing this strategy. The table on the next page 
shows ARM’s principal risks and which element of 
the strategy each could impact.
Viability statement
The Group’s strategic plan covers a ﬁve year 
period, over which the directors have made 
assumptions regarding the Group’s revenues, 
operating costs, dividends, cash requirements and 
capital structure. A ﬁve year planning period is 
appropriate because of the duration of the Group’s 
product development cycle (see pages 24 to 25).
The projections for the ﬁrst three years of the plan 
are based on current licensing opportunities and 
foreseeable royalty revenues. There is inherently 
less certainty in the projections for years four and 
ﬁve. The directors have therefore determined 
that three years is an appropriate period for the 
viability statement.
In assessing the Group’s prospects and resilience, 
the directors considered the Group’s current 
business position and risk appetite. The conclusions 
were stress-tested by analysing the principal risks to 
the Group’s business model, performance, solvency 
and liquidity (see pages 36 to 39). The directors 
believe the principal risks to viability are: a shift 
in industry practice (risk 1), the risk posed by the 
success of a major competitor (risk 2), and risks 
to reputation (risk 7), since crystallisation of these 
risks would have the potential to damage the 
Group’s ﬁnancial position.
Based on this assessment and the mitigating 
actions described, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue 
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period to December 2018.
Risk management
Identifying and managing risks ARM Strategic Report 2015 36
Risk management continued
We work in the highly competitive and fast-moving semiconductor 
industry. Many companies within this industry are well resourced 
and may consider processor and physical IP as attractive markets 
for them to enter. Start ups and open source technology initiatives 
could develop alternative ways for companies to design their chips. 
The cost of developing software is increasing in many end markets, 
which may also result in new technologies that might not suit ARM’s 
current product portfolio or skill set. We may not be able to adapt 
to these changes, resulting in a loss of market share.
Mitigation
ARM has over 420 Partners, and more than 1,000 companies in its 
ecosystem. Each company utilises ARM technology in parts of their 
business, and we meet with leading companies within our industry and 
related sectors to discuss their business context and strategy. ARM is 
well positioned to detect any change within the semiconductor industry 
and act accordingly. ARM’s management team reviews our strategy 
and our long-term product development plans to test that we are 
developing the technology to meet the future needs of the industry.
Change in 2015
ARM has gained share in key markets such as networking 
infrastructure and the Internet of Things, and retained a high share of 
application processors in smart mobile devices such as smartphones. 
Competition from well-ﬁnanced companies has continued. One area of 
competition is for the main applications processor in the tablet market, 
and in 2015 ARM’s share of this market increased to 90%, up from 
85% in 2014.
1
A change in the industry business 
dynamic may lead to loss of 
market share and/or reduction 
in value of IP
Principal  
risks
Primary strategic  
areas affected
Change  
in 2015
1
A change in the industry 
business dynamic may lead to 
loss of market share and/or 
reduction in value of IP   
2
A competitor’s product or 
technology may lead to loss 
of market share
 
3
ARM may face challenges 
managing its business in new 
geographic markets
4
ARM’s technology may not 
meet customer requirements 
in the future
   
5
Signiﬁcant concentration in our 
customer base may increase the 
risk to ARM’s growth ambitions
   
6
ARM’s current people, processes 
and/or infrastructure may not be 
adequately scalable to meet our 
growth ambitions   
7
We could suffer signiﬁcant  
damage to our brand and 
reputation
   
8
ARM may have to defend itself 
against third parties who claim 
that we have infringed their 
proprietary rights   
9
Fundamental assumptions that 
underpin ARM’s valuation may be 
undermined, leading to a sudden 
depreciation of share price   
Key
 Gain share in long-term growth markets
 Increase value of ARM technology in smart devices
 Generate new revenue streams from adjacent markets
 Invest for the long term
  Not materially changed
   Risk materially increased
   Risk materially decreased
All of the principal risks and uncertainties are regularly 
reviewed. In the view of the Risk Review Committee none had 
changed signiﬁcantly in the past year, and so the classiﬁcations 
above are unchanged.
Likelihood
Impact
6
 
3 4
8
LOW MEDIUM HIGH
LOW MEDIUM HIGH
1
2
7
5
9 Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 37
ARM faces competition both from large semiconductor companies 
and from smaller IP companies.
Intel is developing x86-based processors for use in PCs and 
servers, and is looking to deploy these chips in markets such 
as tablets, mobile phones and embedded markets, including 
the Internet of Things. There are many small semiconductor IP 
companies competing with ARM, especially in emerging markets, 
such as the Internet of Things where there are lower barriers 
to entry.
Any success by our competition would result in a reduction in 
royalty revenue to ARM.
Mitigation
ARM works closely with leading semiconductor companies who 
together have a long history of developing cost-efficient, low-power 
chips. It has developed into a highly competitive market and OEMs have 
enjoyed a wide choice of chips with different capabilities and pricing. 
ARM’s established ecosystem includes many software and chip design 
engineers who understand how to build ARM-based chips and write 
software optimised for ARM processors. ARM invests in this ecosystem 
to help further reduce the total cost of developing and maintaining a 
portfolio of ARM-based chips.
Change in 2015
During 2015, ARM’s Partners announced advanced new chips based on 
our latest ARMv8-A processors for a wide range of markets including 
smartphones, tablets, consumer electronics, networking infrastructure 
and servers. Competitors have announced new alternative processors 
and chip designs. In 2015, these saw limited adoption in smartphones 
and some adoption in tablets, in the future they may be able to increase 
share across all markets. We have also seen competitors make strategic 
acquisitions and ecosystem investments that may help them gain share 
in ARM’s target markets.
Chinese semiconductor companies have become responsible for 
an increasingly signiﬁcant proportion of ARM’s revenues, and we 
expect that proportion to continue to grow. India has had a strong 
semiconductor presence for many years, although revenues from 
that region are smaller. ARM has little knowledge and experience 
of the markets in Russia, South America and Africa, which have 
different political and regulatory cultures to the markets in which 
we are established. In these regions, local governments are 
supporting and funding local technology companies, which could 
give rise to new competitors and new markets.
Mitigation
ARM has had offices in both China and India for many years, and 
19% of our workforce is split between these two countries. We have 
regional development offices to support the other regions, and 
combined with regular visits by management, we track opportunities 
and meet local decision makers.
Change in 2015
ARM grew its headcount in Asia (including India) by around 20% 
in 2015 and, in China, launched the ARM Innovation Ecosystem 
Accelerator to provide a facility for companies to collaborate together 
to create products for the Internet of Things. Industry regulators in 
some regions have become more actively engaged with domestic and 
foreign technology companies which can have uncertain outcomes.
2 3
A competitor’s product or 
technology may lead to loss 
of market share 
 
ARM may face challenges 
managing its business in new 
geographic markets 
 
4
The technology industry is characterised by rapid change, as new 
innovation continually improves the way that chips are designed 
and manufactured, how they are deployed by OEMs and how they 
are used by consumers. A change in the end market that does 
not favour ARM or our business model could occur, requiring 
ARM either to change its investment approach or risk losing 
share. Either way, ARM could become less proﬁtable in the future 
as a result of such a market change.
Mitigation
ARM has well-established processes for product speciﬁcation and 
development, and we work with thought-leaders within various 
industries to ensure our technology is suitable for next-generation 
digital products. We spend some of our R&D budget on long-term 
programmes to investigate how new scientiﬁc developments might 
impact the industry, and how technologies in adjacent markets might 
impact ARM and our ecosystem.
Change in 2015
ARM’s latest processor architecture is now widely adopted, and in 
2015 was deployed in around 50% of smartphones shipped, and also 
into consumer electronics and networking infrastructure products. 
ARM introduced several new products during the year, all of which 
licensed within expectations. We continued to track marketplace 
developments by working with thought-leaders within the industry, 
and in adjacent markets.
ARM’s technology may not 
meet customer requirements 
in the future  5 6
Risk management continued
ARM Strategic Report 2015 38
ARM’s technology is used in billions of consumer and enterprise 
products, many of which are depended on by individuals and 
businesses, and are used to store, manage or transmit huge 
amounts of personal, conﬁdential or proprietary information. 
A fault or bug associated with one of ARM’s products could damage 
ARM’s corporate reputation and lead to a loss of brand value. 
ARM’s technology is becoming increasingly complex, which could 
increase the likelihood of a fault or bug.
Mitigation
ARM continues to invest in the veriﬁcation and validation of its 
technology. ARM has rigorous quality assurance and veriﬁcation and 
validation processes to reduce the risk of faults or bugs. ARM regularly 
gathers feedback from its customers and Partners to determine 
whether the perception of ARM is changing, and ensure that corrective 
action can be taken early if customers are becoming less satisﬁed with 
our products or behaviour.
Change in 2015
In 2015, ARM initiated functional safety assessments for new products 
which may be deployed in safety critical systems. This will help 
ensure that our technology is suitable for use in automotive and 
aerospace applications.
Changes in technology trends and/or economic conditions may 
cause further consolidation of companies in the semiconductor 
sector, thereby reducing the number of customers that ARM may 
sell its technology to and potentially making ARM more dependent 
on a smaller number of customers. Any change to the product plans 
of a major customer may have an impact on the technology that 
ARM develops, and so result in both additional costs and a delay 
in revenues.
Mitigation
We have licensed our processor technology to over 420 Partners, 
about half of whom are now paying royalty revenues. Much of our 
royalty and licence revenues are generated by the top 20 semiconductor 
companies. ARM typically develops multiple processors each year, 
reducing the impact of a customer deciding not to license a particular 
product. We are also signing more licences with OEMs, who normally 
buy chips from our customers, but in some cases are now developing 
their own chips.
Change in 2015
In 2015, we saw consolidation amongst some of our customers, and 
we saw some companies exit the mobile market. This consolidation 
has resulted in fewer, larger customers, and so an increase in the level 
of potential risk. At the same time, ARM signed 41 new customers 
mainly in fast-growing markets such as microcontrollers and the 
Internet of Things. In 2015, 71% of ARM’s revenue came from 
our top 20 customers, up from 65% in the prior year. 
We have grown our headcount rapidly over the last few years, as 
we have hired more engineers to develop the next generation of 
processors and the supporting technology that our customers need. 
If this growth rate continues we may ﬁnd our existing organisational 
structure, culture and infrastructure cannot be adapted to meet the 
greater number of staff.
Mitigation
Our multi-year planning process includes product development 
reviews alongside long-term investment plans for recruitment, training, 
facilities and IT. We also hold regular surveys of employees to measure 
job satisfaction and engagement levels across the organisation, and in 
sufficient detail to identify early problems with speciﬁc teams, locations 
or departments.
Change in 2015
ARM hired net 568 engineers and 1 13 supporting staff in 2015, and 
we acquired four companies who have provided technologies and 
teams that will help develop the next generation of ARM products. 
To mitigate any integration risk the engineering and functional teams 
have plans and processes to speed the combination of the acquired 
teams into ARM. In addition, we have continued to develop our long-
term planning processes to strengthen the linkage between product 
planning and supporting infrastructure investments. We have also 
invested to improve internal communication and collaboration, and 
in systems to help us manage our growing global workforce.
We could suffer signiﬁcant damage 
to our brand and reputation 
 
 
Signiﬁcant concentration in our 
customer base may increase the 
risk to ARM’s growth ambitions 
 
ARM’s people, processes  
and/or infrastructure may not 
be adequately scalable to meet 
our growth ambitions 
7 Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 39
Whilst we take great care to establish and maintain the integrity of 
our products, we may have to protect our intellectual property or 
defend our technology against claims that we have infringed others’ 
proprietary rights. From time to time, third parties may assert 
patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to our 
technologies. Any claim brought against us or our licensees could 
result in substantial costs and we may be bound to indemnify our 
licensees under the terms of our licence agreements.
Mitigation
We focus on designing and implementing our products without the 
use of intellectual property belonging to third parties, except under 
strictly maintained procedures and with the beneﬁt of appropriate 
licence rights. In the event that a third party successfully proves that it 
has intellectual property rights covering a product that we have licensed 
to customers, we will take steps to either purchase a licence to use the 
relevant technology or work around the technology by developing our 
own solution so as to avoid infringement of that third party’s intellectual 
property rights.
Change in 2015
In 2015, ARM tracked the developments in the US Congress on the 
Reform of Patent legislation designed to tackle the perceived problem 
of patent activity by some non-practising entities. To date, progress on 
any legislation in this area appears stalled. Meanwhile, we have been 
encouraged by changes wrought by US Courts in regards to issues such 
as fee-shifting and we believe this will result in fewer non-meritorious 
actions against ARM and its Partners and a more reasonable approach 
to patent royalties in the future. 
ARM’s valuation is based on the ﬁnancial markets’ view of our 
growth opportunity and the value of ARM’s assets. Revisions to 
assessments of our future markets could impact estimated cash 
ﬂows. Changes to assumptions about the value of ARM’s assets, 
including goodwill, could lead to the impairment of certain of 
ARM’s assets.
Mitigation
At least once each year, we present to the ﬁnancial markets the latest 
forecasts on the growth of the semiconductor industry and ARM’s 
view of our opportunity to win share within that market.
Change in 2015
In addition to our quarterly results, ARM hosted two investor days 
during 2015 which gave updates on our progress and investments in 
new markets such as the Internet of Things, networking infrastructure 
and servers. The content of these events can be found on the ARM 
website at www.arm.com/ir.
In addition to the principal risks, ARM closely manages its 
operational risks. Many of these relate to the execution of the 
day-to-day running of the business including, but not limited to:
 › Efficient development of new technology
 › Patenting new ideas and inventions
 › Effective project and programme management
 › Exploration into new business opportunities
 › Managing the ecosystem of companies that support ARM technology
 › Ensuring that the business is able to operate its systems and 
processes, and is able to quickly recover from any failure
 › Ensuring that the business has adequate protection against  
cyber-attack
 › Timely recruitment and training of employees
 › Management of conﬁdential information and commercially 
sensitive data
Mitigation
As previously described, operational risks are managed in accordance 
with the AMS which deﬁnes key policies and processes across the 
organisation. All employees are required to review these policies and 
processes annually, and training is provided when new procedures 
are introduced.
Change in 2015
All of the operational risks changed either in context or in likelihood 
or impact. For example, as the inherent risk of cyber-attack has 
increased for all companies, ARM has improved its security measures 
commensurately with the increased risk. However, none of the risks 
increased signiﬁcantly enough for them to be considered a principal risk 
and so continue to be managed at an operational level.
ARM may have to defend itself 
against third parties who claim 
that we have infringed their 
proprietary rights
Fundamental assumptions that 
underpin ARM’s valuation may be 
undermined, leading to a sudden 
depreciation of share price
Operational risks 
 
 
 
8 9 10 Find out more about innovation  
using embedded computers visit: 
www.arm.com/markets
ARM Strategic Report 2015 40
Shaping a 
sustainable future
ARM-based chips are being deployed to 
make infrastructure equipment more 
efficient, and to connect it to networks 
allowing remote real-time monitoring and 
control. In wind energy ARM-based chips are 
used to control and monitor both the wind 
turbine components and power generation 
and metadata aggregation across the entire 
wind farm. 
Smart, connected chips can be found in 
streetlights, traffic signals, car parking, 
toll booths, and across mass transport 
systems such as railways, trams and buses. 
Similar chips are making manufacturing, 
agriculture and freight transport logistics 
more efficient and effective. The power output of a wind 
turbine is determined by the 
wind speed, and also precise 
control of the yaw of the 
turbine relative to the wind, 
and the rotor blade pitch.
Commitment Fin Financ ancial ials s Str trate ate ategy gy y y y Per Pe Performan man ance e ARM Strategic Report 2015 41
Most wind turbines are located 
in remote locations and must 
be monitored and controlled 
without having to visit onsite. 
ARM 
Cortex-M
Infrastructure can be made 
more capable using smarter 
chips. For example Xilinx’s 
Zinq chips are based on ARM 
Cortex-A technology and are 
deployed in some wind turbines 
to improve their effectiveness. ARM Strategic Report 2015 42
Our people 
Growing and enabling the organisation 
that shapes the connected world
ARM was founded 25 years ago with a team of 1 2 people, and 
by the end of 201 5, that team had grown to 3,975. ARM provides 
individuals with the capabilities, processes and infrastructure that enable 
them to develop and thrive as our business scales and strengthens. 
At the same time, we seek to retain a work culture that is grounded 
from our days as a start-up; to maximise the creative potential of 
individuals and to enable our people to be their brilliant selves.
In 201 5 we continued shaping and strengthening our organisation, 
and set ourselves the goal of being the best place to work in our 
industry. We laid new foundations by introducing an updated Vision, 
Mission and Strategy and set out ARM’s Core Beliefs and Behaviours. 
These connect all of our people with the heritage of the last 25 years 
and give us a collective view of our future. They deﬁne how our people 
work together to create technology that invisibly enables a globally 
connected population.
Jenny Duvalier
EVP People
them to
At the 
f fr rom o
in ndividu
In 2015
and set
industr
Mission
These c
a an nd give
w wo ork to
connec Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 43
ARM’s Core Beliefs and Behaviours represent the essence of what 
makes ARM unique. They unify people from different countries 
and backgrounds, guide how we make decisions, and permeate 
all ARM processes and systems, including our new approach to 
performance management. 
People at ARM are recognised for how they work together, how they 
drive innovation and how they support our customers. ARM gives 
managers the ﬂexibility to recognise and reward excellent performance, 
and gives individuals control of their career development, enabling them 
to progress their technical and leadership skills. When hiring, we assess 
candidates for their cultural ﬁt with ARM; that they are inquisitive and 
passionate about the success of others.
ARM completed four acquisitions in 2015. We seek out companies 
that complement our strategy and share our values. When deals are 
completed, we strive to ensure our new colleagues ﬁnd their feet 
quickly at ARM, and this year we launched an “M&A People Toolkit” 
to ensure that the due diligence and integration process runs smoothly 
for everyone. 
We recognise the importance of social capital and engagement, listen to 
our employees and act on feedback. Our employee engagement survey 
has run for 13 years. The commitment of ARM employees continues 
to be high, with 85% of our employees saying that they are sustainably 
engaged, an increase on 2014 and signiﬁcantly higher than industry 
norms. Nine out of ten are proud to work for ARM, and even more 
are willing to put in discretionary effort to help ARM succeed.
Through new hires and acquisitions, we expanded our workforce 
by net 681 people in 2015, taking the total to 3,975 (2014: 3,294). 
We opened offices in Deerﬁeld, Miami and Chandler, Arizona, 
and now have 35 offices worldwide. We also invested in building 
the capability of individuals and teams through training and personal 
development. Our robust induction programme seeks to accelerate 
the ramp up of our new colleagues through a combination of 
information sharing and networking.
In 2015 we enhanced our technical, management, leadership and 
business skills training. We also refreshed our approach to talent 
management, improving the way we evaluate potential and focus the 
development activities of our colleagues. We will continue to roll out 
and embed this approach in 2016, ensuring we have robust succession 
plans in place throughout the organisation to ensure that ARM thrives 
now and in the future.
From our earliest days, we recognised the importance of diversity 
and inclusion in building a highly innovative business. In 2015 we 
reviewed how we could include diversity in our hiring and leadership 
programmes, and how we could encourage young women to consider 
a career in engineering. Gender diversity at ARM is close to the industry 
average, with women in 10% of engineering positions, and 30% of other 
groups – see page 47 for further details. One of the objectives of our 
Corporate Responsibility programme is to encourage more young 
people, particularly girls, to consider a career in engineering.
As we grow, it is ever more important to bring people together, and 
we organise several events a year to connect colleagues across the 
globe. Our annual Global Engineering Conference brings together 
15% of our engineers to discuss important development issues that 
affect our business, especially those that cross the organisational 
boundaries of function, location, and department. In 2015, 585 recent 
starters attended a Big Picture induction event and 155 colleagues 
participated in the Global Graduate Conference.
We also promote connection through online collaboration and 
communication. We recently relaunched ARM’s intranet to act as 
a central hub for all of our people to ﬁnd and share information. 
Our internal social media network is used by over 65% of our employee 
base each day, and hosts regular “ask me anything” sessions with 
our CEO. 
Our engagement survey shows that our people are proud to work 
at ARM, and this includes pride in our heritage. In November 2015, 
ARM celebrated its 25th anniversary with events in all of our global 
offices. We were joined by company founders and guest speakers to 
explore ARM’s history and how ARM technology has helped shape the 
connected world.
Connecting with people in our local communities is important to ARM. 
All ARM people can spend at least one day each year on volunteer 
work through our TeamARM programme and they will receive full 
pay for that day. In 2015 more than 20% of our workforce took this 
opportunity, devoting 4,385 hours to skills-based volunteering, with 
more than 90% of our offices actively engaged in TeamARM activities 
around the world. 
Culture 
Giving our people the best  
working experience
Capability 
Strengthening the organisation,  
teams and individuals
Connection 
Enabling colleagues to engage  
with each other , and with ARM ARM Strategic Report 2015 44
ARM technologies are appearing in an increasing 
range of devices. Some have the potential to 
solve some of the greatest challenges of our time. 
Through partnerships, we are working with others 
to deliver social impact at scale.
In 2014 we announced our objective to develop 
a Corporate Responsibility (CR) programme that 
would help millions of people. Since then, we 
estimate we will have helped over 300,000 people 
through a combination of improved access to 
education, medical services, charitable donations 
to health and education providers and support 
of programmes. Over 80% of those are in some 
of the poorest parts of the developing world. 
For more information see our 2015 CR Report at 
www.arm.com/CR.
Our next step is to bring about measurable 
improvements in the livelihoods of millions of people 
in the next ﬁve years. This means delivering positive 
change to one million people by 2016; and ten million 
by 2020. It is an ambitious target building on our 
previous commitments and will only be attainable 
with the help of our long-term charity partners that 
enable us to reach communities at scale. 
Alongside this, we aim to improve our measurement 
approaches so that beyond measuring the number of 
people reached, we can understand both qualitative 
and quantitative impact. This means co-developing 
metrics with each of our key partners covering 
indicators like the number of lives saved, as well 
as education, health and livelihood outcomes. 
For example:
 › Education – helping teachers and society 
demonstrate technology’s potential to improve 
the world and inspire the next generation
 › Health – improving global health outcomes 
in developing countries through long-term 
partnerships, supporting innovation and through 
the use of ARM technology
2015 saw the introduction of the United Nations’ 
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and, 
as a member of the UN Global Compact’s Advisory 
Board, ARM contributed to their development. 
We will be applying these goals to help guide and 
measure our own performance, and to structure 
our reporting.
Further information about the impact our 
programme is having can be found in our CR Report 
and disclosures supplement. These are available for 
download from the ARM website.
CR strategic principles
Our CR strategy is informed and inspired by the 
wider ARM business model, innovation, trust, and 
Partnership. Linking back to the core business 
enables us to deliver a more strategic impact over 
a longer timescale, and to share expertise through 
mutually beneﬁcial partnerships. 
Our CR principles reﬂect ARM’s values and 
operating model:
 › Building an ecosystem of partners with a shared 
purpose, enabling us all to achieve more with a 
lower ﬁnancial investment
 › Working with experts who are specialists in 
our project areas to generate credible evidence 
of impact
 › Encouraging collaboration among Partners 
and encouraging the open-sourcing of relevant 
research and analysis
 › Nurturing innovation and creativity to 
tackle complex problems that may have no 
established precedent
Measuring our performance
Robust monitoring and evaluation help ensure 
each project remains on track. Our programmes 
are mapped to each of the 17 UN SDGs and we 
report according to the Global Reporting Initiative 
G4 guidelines and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 
(DJSI) best practice benchmark. 
In 2015 we achieved entry into the European Index 
of the DJSI with a 74% ranking, and we have targeted 
inclusion in the World Index by 2017. Indeed, a key 
2020 goal is to achieve 90% or higher percentile 
ranking in the DJSI. 
Corporate responsibility
Delivering social impact at scale 
Graham Budd
Chief Operating Officer
would help million
estimate we will h
through a combin
education, medica
to health and edu
of programmes. O
of the poorest pa
For more informa
www.arm.com/C
Our next step is t
improvements in t
in the next ﬁve ye
change to one mil
by 2020. It is an am
previous commitm
with the help of o
enable us to reach Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015 45
Our CR focus areas
We have decided to focus on four areas of impact 
that reﬂect our skills, technology and ecosystem (see 
above). Working with charity partners and a range of 
internal and external stakeholders, we prioritise:
Education
Over the past year, ARM has been working with its 
technology Partners and the BBC on the micro:bit, 
a pocket-sized device that will be given free to every 
12 year old in the UK. The micro:bit seeks to engage 
youngsters in computer coding in the same way that 
educational computers from the BBC Micro to the 
Raspberry Pi have inspired many of the engineers 
at ARM over the years. This initiative reﬂects our 
wider commitment to inspire a new generation of 
engineers and entrepreneurs. 
Over one million micro:bit devices will be given 
to children in 2016, and ARM is now working 
on projects that will help teachers integrate them 
into lessons and broaden the usability of these  
mini-computers for older age groups.
Other education projects in 2015 included the 
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics 
(STEM) Scholars Programme, gathering data to show 
how to improve STEM uptake and attainment; and 
the Global STEM Alliance, mentoring thousands of 
children across the world.
Health
We are proud of our strategic partnership with 
UNICEF, which began in May 2015 and has already 
shown how wearable technology can change 
children’s lives for the better. The Wearables 
for Good challenge had over 250 entries from 
46 countries, with seven countries represented 
among the ten ﬁnalists. The winners are now being 
supported by ARM to turn their concept into a 
viable prototype, and we are matching all ten ﬁnalists 
with funding and commercial partners to incubate 
ideas. For more information go to:  
http://wearablesforgood.com/winners/.
We are also working with UNICEF on its technology 
platform, U-Report, which supports 1.7 million 
young people across Africa. By offering technical 
and ﬁnancial support we will help UNICEF scale this 
service across more countries in Africa. 
Other health projects include Literacy Bridge, which, 
in 2015, reached 175,000 of the poorest farmers in 
the world and Simprints, which has begun its ﬁrst 
major health data capture trials with 22,000 mothers 
and children in Bangladesh. 
Environment
We are on track to achieve our 2020 target of 15% 
reduction in energy consumption per employee, 
however we have not achieved the level of progress 
we had hoped in addressing our target of a 30% 
reduction in carbon emissions per employee during 
2015. This is due partly to an increase in the size 
and complexity of our global estate, and partly 
to the delay in establishing new programmes to 
reduce the direct environmental impact of our 
business operations. 
We remain committed to our 2020 targets, and 
have identiﬁed carbon offset opportunities, as well as 
energy efficiency opportunities across our estate to 
achieve them. 
Additionally, ARM’s low-power technology has an 
important role to play in reducing global emissions 
by enabling greater efficiencies in areas such as the 
data centre, factory automation and building control. 
Our technology is also at the heart of new strategies 
that will deal with other environmental and resource 
challenges such as the management of energy grids 
and water resources. 
Contributing to Communities
During 2015, we signiﬁcantly expanded our reach 
and impact across communities. We successfully 
launched our employee volunteering programme 
which has seen 4,385 hours contributed by our 
employees globally. We also donated over £200,000 
to local community charitable projects in our 
neighbourhoods. In addition to time and money, 
we have worked to bring together our partners 
and businesses to collaborate on shared objectives 
around education and health. For example, we have 
set up a working group of Cambridge businesses to 
tackle issues pertinent to the local community. 
Looking forward
The partnerships that we formed and strengthened 
over the year will help improve outcomes for millions 
of people. By 2016 we expect that at least one 
project will be reaching over a million more people 
and that all our projects are contributing to a Group 
goal of improving ten million lives by 2020. 46 ARM Strategic Report 2015
At ARM, we strive to embed good governance 
practice into everything we do; from the way 
in which our licensing team interacts with our 
ecosystem Partners, to the manner in which the 
Board of directors functions. A fundamental part 
of the way we do business is embedding the Main 
Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”) and embracing best practice across 
all parts of our organisation.
For governance to have meaning and value beyond 
mere compliance with codes and regulations, it has 
to translate into practical application. This enables 
our people to have a clear view of the culture and 
behaviours that ARM encourages, and to understand 
how their individual and collective actions contribute 
to ARM’s success. 
The Board is keenly aware of its responsibility to 
provide leadership, operate with transparency 
and promote ethical behaviour and collaboration 
throughout the Group. This year is the ﬁrst in which 
we are required to report against the updated 2014 
Code, and we have taken the opportunity to align 
our Corporate Governance Report more closely 
with the Main Principles of the Code.
For more information see our  
Governance and Financials report:
Leadership Page  8
Effectiveness Page 10
Accountability Page 12
Our values Page 3
Relations with shareholders Page 16
Remuneration Page 25
We have created the annual report as two 
documents. The Strategic Report contains an 
update on ARM’s progress during the year and 
information about the markets in which we operate 
and our strategic plans alongside summary ﬁnancial 
results, as well as an outline of our approach to 
governance and risk management. The separate 
Governance and Financial Report provides more 
detail on our governance arrangements and our 
ﬁnancial statements. 
Leadership
Effective leadership starts with an effective board 
of directors. ARM operates in a fast-paced and 
ﬂuid industry, and the composition of our Board is 
an essential component for successful leadership. 
We regularly review the Board’s composition to 
ensure that we are well-positioned for now and in 
the future. The current composition of our Board 
reﬂects a strong balance between technology sector, 
commercial, ﬁnancial and general business skills, with 
a highly experienced international team leading the 
business in both executive and non-executive roles. 
The executive and non-executive directors have 
well deﬁned roles. Their combined contributions to 
the healthily diverse Board add value to the debate, 
decision making and strategy development which is 
crucial to the Group’s success. ARM’s Board has the 
breadth and depth of experience necessary to guide 
the Group as it seeks to take full advantage of new 
opportunities and contend with new challenges. 
The changes in 2015 to the Board and its 
Committees are outlined in the Chairman’s 
introduction on page 3 of the Governance and 
Financial Report.
During the year, the Board reviewed executive 
and senior management succession plans to ensure 
that they are sufficiently robust and provide a 
strong pipeline of future executives who can 
continue to deliver ARM’s strategic objectives. 
The Nomination Committee will continue to review 
the experience and expertise of the directors as 
part of its responsibility to monitor and maintain 
an effective Board.
Our diversity policy and more detail of the 
Nomination Committee’s work on diversity can be 
found on pages 23 and 24 of the Governance and 
Financial Report.
Philip Davis 
Company Secretary
Governance
Embedding good governance 
into everything we do
in which our licensing team
ecosystem Partners, to th
Board of directors functio
of the way we do business
Principles of the UK Corp
(the “Code”) and embraci
all parts of our organisatio
For governance to have me
mere compliance with code
to translate into practical ap
our people to have a clear v
behaviours that ARM enco
how their individual and co
to ARM’s success.
The Board is keenly aware 
provide leadership, operate
and promote ethical behav
throughout the Group. Thi
we are required to report 
Code, and we have taken th
our Corporate Governance
with the Main Principles of  47 Overview Commitment Financials Vision Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015
Effectiveness 
The Board sets the Group’s long-term strategy, and 
monitors, challenges and supports the Executive 
Committee in delivering that strategy. 
During 2015 we built on the work undertaken in 
2014 that deﬁned our short-term and long-term 
strategic priorities. We held two strategy-focused 
meetings in 2015. The Board considered how best 
to increase growth in our core markets, how to 
accelerate share gains in new markets, and which 
emerging technologies will be the cornerstone of 
ARM’s future success and long-term growth.
Page 9 of the Governance and Financial Report 
summarise the Board’s activities during 2015, 
evidencing how our directors discharged their 
leadership responsibilities and developed 
our strategy.
In accordance with the Code, the Board undertakes 
a review of its effectiveness each year and reports 
on the results. This year, we conducted an 
internally-facilitated review with an anonymous 
online questionnaire completed by each director. 
The results were discussed by the Board and 
priorities for further improving the Board’s 
effectiveness in 2016 were agreed. More detail on 
the Board Evaluation exercise can be found on pages 
10 and 1 1 of the Governance and Financial Report. 
Accountability
Maintaining a governance framework which is ﬁt 
for purpose is a continuous task. We have taken a 
risk-based approach to reviewing our committee 
structures to ensure that our framework is neither 
too onerous nor too light touch. As our business 
continues to evolve, so will our governance 
framework. ARM uses the ARM Management 
System to document the details of our governance 
framework and records our approach to assurance 
in every aspect of ARM’s business. 
We currently have ﬁve governance review teams 
covering our key operational business risks: customer 
satisfaction, health, safety and environment, business 
continuity, security and project management. 
These teams are comprised of personnel from 
across our engineering and corporate functions and 
each team meets regularly to review and monitor 
the issues within its remit.
Matters deemed worthy of further scrutiny are 
escalated upwards to either the Compliance 
Committee or Risk Review Committee, both of 
which report regularly to the Executive Committee 
and the Audit Committee. We believe this structure 
aligns with our risk-based approach to governance.
A full description of our committee structure 
and composition can be found on pages 13 and 
14 of the Governance and Financial Report and 
more information on our risk management and 
internal control activities on pages 35 to 39 of the 
Strategic Report.
Our values
ARM’s strength is in the high calibre of its people, 
and in the way in which they behave: fairly, honestly 
and with integrity. We ask all our employees to 
embody ARM’s three core beliefs encouraging 
teamwork, driving innovation and creativity and 
helping everyone within the Group to reach their 
full potential.
Each year all employees are required to conﬁrm that 
they have read and understood the Group’s Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics, which includes our 
Human Rights Policy. We also ensure that employees 
receive regular training on relevant legislation 
such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and global 
competition laws. 
Our sustainability values are of great importance 
to the way in which we work. Full details of our CR 
strategy and achievements can be found in the main 
CR report, which is available on ARM’s website, and 
a summary of highlights from the year are included in 
the CR section of the Strategic Report on page 44.
Relations with shareholders
The Board makes considerable efforts to establish 
and maintain good relationships with shareholders 
and the wider investment community. There is 
regular dialogue with institutional investors during 
the year, except during close periods.
The main channel of communication continues to 
be through the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief 
Financial Officer and the VP of Investor Relations. 
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director 
and the other directors are available to engage in 
dialogue with major shareholders as appropriate. 
The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for 
private investors to attend and ask questions of the 
directors. Contact details for our investor relations 
team can be found on the back cover of this report.
Diversity of the Group
Men 83%
Women 17%
Diversity of managers
Men 87%
Women 13%
Diversity of the Board
Men 80%
Women 20%
Diversity of new hires
Men  81%
Women  19% 48 ARM Strategic Report 2015
Remuneration
Aligning remuneration with strategy
Total directors’ pay
In line with ARM’s long-standing commitment to 
ethical values and culture, our aim is to ensure that 
remuneration policies and practices drive behaviours 
that are in the long-term interests of the Group and 
its shareholders. Pay for performance and no reward 
for failure continue to be key principles. At the same 
time, pay and beneﬁts must be at a level that will 
attract, retain and motivate high-calibre people with 
the skills necessary to achieve our goal of sustained 
growth in corporate performance.
We operate in a global market, with the majority 
of our revenues being earned from companies 
located outside the UK and with more than half our 
employees being based outside the UK. The Group’s 
continuing strong performance is due principally to 
the proven abilities of our executive team.
Linking pay to ARM’s strategy and KPIs
ARM’s directors are remunerated by base salary, 
conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive 
Plan and by a performance-related bonus. 
The Group’s strategy, key performance indicators 
and progress towards them are described in 
more detail on pages 26 to 34 of this report. 
The adoption of revenue and normalised operating 
proﬁt as performance measures for the bonus 
targets demonstrates alignment of executive 
reward with our strategic goals.
KPIs and linkage to bonus targets
 › Revenue  
Grow ARM’s business by winning market 
share, attracting new customers and 
entering new markets
 › Normalised operating proﬁt 
Generate increased returns 
for shareholders
Single ﬁgure remuneration
The table below sets out the total remuneration received by each executive director relating to 2015.
Executive director
Total amount  
of salary  
£000
All taxable 
beneﬁts 
£000 
Bonus  
payments 
£000
Money and 
other assets 
receivable 
for periods of 
more than 
one ﬁnancial 
year
£000
All 
pension-
related 
beneﬁts 
£000
Other
£000
Total
£000
Simon Segars 2015 575 82 378 360 68 – 1,463
Simon Segars 2014 515 155 281 1,277 56 2,284
Chris Kennedy 2015 (appointed 
1 September 2015) 158 955 104 – 13 950 2,180
Mike Muller 2015 302 15 181 340 34 – 872
Mike Muller 2014 294 15 146 1,260 33 – 1,748
Tim Score 2015 (retired 
30 June 2015) 214 9 – 1,027 23 – 1,273
Tim Score 2014 427 27 212 1,825 46 – 2,537
Total 2015 1,249 1,061 663 1,727 138 950 5,788
Total 2014 1,236 197 639 4,362 135 – 6,569
This table has been audited by the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Explanation of single ﬁgure remuneration
The single ﬁgure remuneration table provides details of pay and beneﬁts earned by a director in respect of 
the particular calendar year. Not all of the remuneration is paid in that year.
Key
 Gain share in long-term growth markets
 Increase value of ARM technology in smart devices
 Generate new revenue streams from adjacent markets
 Invest for the long term 49 Overview Commitment Financials Vision Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015
All the executive directors receive family healthcare 
and annual travel insurance as part of their beneﬁts 
in kind. In addition, Mike Muller and Chris Kennedy 
receive car and fuel allowance. Simon Segars 
received £68,000 (2014: £143,000) for living, 
transportation and other allowances as part of his 
placement in the US. Chris Kennedy received a one-
off cash award of £950,000 in January 2016 which 
is included in taxable beneﬁts and a one-off award 
of RSUs of £950,000 in November 2015 which is 
included in other as part of his new Chief Financial 
Officer package.
The bonuses earned during 2015 were paid in full 
in February 2016. 
The money and other assets receivable for periods 
of more than one ﬁnancial year are the amounts 
received by directors on the vesting of shares 
in February 2016. These shares were awarded 
in February 2013 under two schemes: the Long 
Term Incentive Plan and the matching element of 
the former DAB Plan. The amounts received are 
included in the single ﬁgure remuneration for 2015 
since the performance periods for these schemes 
both concluded in 2015.
Share prices applicable to grant and vesting 
of share awards:
February 2013 – 924.5 pence 
February 2014 – 896.0 pence  
February 2015 – 1,087.0 pence 
February 2016 – 899.0 pence
2016 fees
The standard non-executive director fee will increase to £65,000 in 2016 to reﬂect ARM’s position in the 
FTSE 100 and the increasing scale and complexity of the business. The additional fee paid to the Senior 
Independent Director will remain £16,000 and the fee for the Committee Chairmen will remain £20,000 
per annum. The fee paid to the Committee Chairmen was increased in 2015 to more fairly reﬂect the 
workload undertaken by Committee Chairmen. The fees paid to the Chairman and the non-executive 
directors in respect of 2014 and 2015 and proposed to be paid in 2016 are set out below.
Director
 Total proposed fee 
2016  
£000
 Total fee 
2015  
£000***
 Total fee
 2014  
£000
Stuart Chambers (appointed 27 January 2014) 400 407 348
Lawton Fitt (appointed 1 September 2015)** 85 21 –
Andy Green* 81 62 68
Larry Hirst 85 81 78
John Liu** (appointed 1 December 2014) 65 63 6
Stephen Pusey (appointed 1 September 2015) 65 20 –
Janice Roberts** 65 68 69
Kathleen O’Donovan (retired 31 December 2015) – 96 93
* A one-off additional fee of £4,000 was paid to Andy Green in 2014 for attending ARM Asia Advisory Group meetings to reﬂect 
the additional time commitment.
** Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who are based outside the UK and travel to the UK for Board meetings 
as follows: Janice Roberts $2,500 per meeting, John Liu £2,000 per meeting, Lawton Fitt £2,000 per meeting. This is to reﬂect their 
additional time commitment. These ﬁgures are not reﬂected in the total proposed fee for 2016.
*** Includes taxable beneﬁts related to expenses paid to non-executive directors to travel to UK Board meetings.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are not eligible to participate in bonus or share 
incentive arrangements. Their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other beneﬁts, and no 
element of their fees is performance-related. 50 ARM Strategic Report 2015
Getting to  
know you
Smart mobile devices are becoming smarter all 
the time. Every year smartphone OEMs launch 
multiple different devices most of which include 
new features that are more advanced than the 
previous generation of device. In 2015, ARM 
beneﬁted from the “selﬁe”. The quality of front-
facing camera is now an important feature of the 
phone. To increase the capability of the front-facing 
camera, OEMs have added extra intelligence into 
the chip that controls the camera sensor and 
ensures the picture is the best possible.
In the future your smartphone will be more 
context aware, knowing whether you are at home 
or school, or driving to work, and changing its 
behaviour to anticipate what you will want it to do 
next. You will be able to interact with your phone 
and tablet more easily, as it understands what you 
say, and what your gestures mean.
Find out more about innovation 
in mobile computing visit: 
www.arm.com/markets
Better cameras are providing 
smartphones with computer 
vision, enabling them to 
understand your gestures
When you get into the car, your 
phone will know to tell your car the 
location of your ﬁrst appointment
“Your friend Anna is close by”
As voice recognition 
improves, it will be easier to 
tell your phone what to do Most smartphone 
devices contain multiple 
functions that can use 
ARM’s technology
About 50% of smartphones had our 
latest ARMv8-A processor in 2015
51 Commitment Ove Ove Ove Ov Ove Ove ve Ove ve ve ve ve O Ov Ov ve O Ove O e Ove O e O O O O rvi rvi rvi rvi rvi rvi rvi rvi i rv rvi rvi rv v v r ew e ew ew ew ew ew ew ew ew w ew w ew w Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Financ anc anc anc anc anc anc ancial ial ial ial ial ial ial ials s s s s s s s Vis Vis Vis Vi Vis s Vi ion ion on on o on n on on on n n Per Per Pe Per Per er Per Per Pe Per Per Per er Pe for for for f for for or for for for for or o or o man man man man man man an a ma ma m man ma m ce ce c ce ce ce ce e c ce ce e ce e e ARM Strategic Report 2015
Smartphones with 4K screens 
need more advanced graphics 
processors to manage all 8.6 million 
pixels creating an opportunity for 
ARM’s Mali graphics processor
The trend for selﬁes resulted 
in more advanced front-facing 
cameras, creating an opportunity 
for another ARM-based chip 52 ARM Strategic Report 2015
Our ﬁnancial strategy
I joined ARM as CFO in September 2015, and am 
pleased to be part of the management team that will 
build on the achievements and success of the last 
25 years.
An important part of ARM’s strategy is identifying 
the development projects that will generate the 
best returns for shareholders. It can take ARM 
several years to develop a processor, and it may 
take our Partners years more to build products 
incorporating our technology. Some of the R&D 
programmes undertaken by ARM in 2015 will not 
impact consumer products until 2020, which is why 
our engineering, marketing and ﬁnance teams often 
look ﬁve years ahead when planning our technology 
roadmap. ARM’s long-term plans are informed 
by our Partners’ future technology requirements, 
insights into market developments and many 
research initiatives.
Our investment strategy
ARM’s investment strategy is to create licensable 
technology through the development of new 
processors and related products. Starting a new 
project is a signiﬁcant ﬁnancial undertaking: our 
most advanced processor designs involve hundreds 
of engineer-years of work and require signiﬁcant 
computing resource. 
As the technology needed in consumer electronic 
products becomes more advanced, the processors 
needed to control them become more complex 
and more costly to develop. This trend encourages 
semiconductor companies to outsource aspects 
of their internal R&D activities and hence creates 
opportunities for ARM to gain share. We fulﬁl the 
growing demand for our products by expanding 
our own R&D capability, hiring more engineers, 
and increasing our productivity with better tools, 
methodologies and IT infrastructure.
At 31 December 2015, ARM employed 2,938 
engineers. This was a 24% increase in the year, 
reﬂecting the increased investment in products 
that will generate licence and royalty revenue in 
future years.
In markets such as networking infrastructure, servers 
and IoT, we are at a key juncture for the adoption 
of ARM technology, and by increasing investment 
now, we can accelerate our progress. Over the last 
few years we have signed many ARMv8-A licences 
for networking and server applications, and our 
Partners are now introducing their ﬁrst generation 
of ARM-based products which utilise this technology. 
Their chips have received encouraging feedback from 
end-users, and so in 2015 we identiﬁed a number of 
investment programmes that will help those end-
users adopt ARM technology more quickly. We also 
increased our software development activities for 
IoT. Simon describes the initiatives for networking, 
servers and IoT on pages 16 to 21.
The incremental investment programmes for 
networking, servers and IoT will build through 2016, 
and the full year impact on our 2017 operating 
expenditure budget is expected to be an additional 
£40 million. The target return for these programmes 
is $200 million of additional revenue in 2020. 
Bolstering investment through acquisitions
Alongside organic investment, we continue to 
enhance our product portfolio and enter new 
markets via acquisitions. We look for companies that 
have high quality technology that is complementary 
to our existing portfolio (see page 31), expert people 
and a corporate culture that aligns with our own 
(see page 42). Some acquisitions are early-stage 
companies with compelling technology; some bring 
an established revenue stream as well. In every case, 
our aim is to expand the newly-acquired operations 
by aligning their strategy with ARM’s and providing 
additional investment.
For example, in 2004 ARM entered the market 
for physical semiconductor IP by acquiring Artisan 
Components, Inc. The expertise Artisan brought 
helped ARM’s Partners produce high-performance 
ARM-based chips, driving growth in processor 
royalties. In 2006 ARM entered the market for 
graphics processors by acquiring Falanx Microsystems 
AS, a privately-held company in Norway. Through a 
combination of its Partner network and targeted 
organic investment, ARM expanded this business 
under the Mali brand to position it for global success. 
In 2015, ARM Mali was the most widely-deployed 
graphics technology in the semiconductor industry 
with 750 million chips shipped. 
More recently, ARM acquired four businesses in 
2015 costing a total of £73.9 million. Three of these 
– Discretix (trading as Sansa Security), Sunrise Micro 
Devices and Wicentric – added new licensable 
technology to our product portfolio. The fourth – 
Carbon Design Systems – expanded our offering 
of advanced tools that help our Partners produce 
increasingly complex ARM-based chips. We intend 
to invest further in each of these businesses over 
the coming years and grow them into meaningful 
contributors to Group proﬁts.
Chris Kennedy
Chief Financial Officer
Financial strategy
Our ﬁnancial strategy
take our Par
incorporatin
programme
impact cons
our enginee
look ﬁve yea
roadmap. A
by our Partn
insights into 
research init
Our invest
ARM’s inves
technology t
processors a
project is a s
most advanc
of engineer-
computing r 53 Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015
Dollar revenues ($m)
1 ,292.6
1,117.8
913.2
785.0
1,488.6
14
13
12
11
2015
Sterling revenues (£m)
795.2
714.6
576.9
491.8
968.3
14
13
12
11
2015
Normalised proﬁts before tax (£m)
411.3
364
276.5
229.7
511.5
14
13
12
11
2015
IFRS proﬁts before tax (£m)
316.5
162.6
22 1 .0
156.9
414.8
14
13
12
11
2015
Investing in the business to create long-term 
returns to shareholders 
ARM continues to generate cash which we use 
to support our long-term investment in growth. 
Consistent with our current approach, the Board 
keeps the level of cash under continuous review, 
reﬂecting on the organic and inorganic investment 
requirements of the business, balanced by the 
discipline to ensure that the investment will generate 
an appropriate return for shareholders.
ARM is committed to maintaining a net cash balance 
in the medium term. This reﬂects the continued 
commitment to invest in R&D that is vital to the 
product development pipeline for ARM and its 
Partners. Our Partners need to be assured that 
ARM can maintain this R&D commitment, and 
deliver the next generation of ARM technology, 
regardless of the external environment. This also 
ensures ARM retains the ﬂexibility to move quickly 
and decisively in a fast moving industry when there 
are opportunities to extend growth.
The Board also remains committed to continue 
growing the dividend in line with the growth of 
the business and maintains its intention to increase 
the ordinary dividend over time, extending a run 
of 1 1 consecutive years of dividend increases. 
In 2015 ARM returned £107.8 million by way of 
ordinary dividend. In addition, ARM will continue 
to repurchase shares to offset the dilution from 
share-based compensation.
Based on the increased investment in R&D in 2016 
and the current pipeline of acquisition opportunities, 
the Board is comfortable with the levels of net cash 
expected in the coming year, and will review again at 
the start of 2017.
Progress in 2015 
In 2015, ARM generated dollar revenues of 
$1,488.6 million, an increase of 15% over the previous 
year. Reported in sterling, revenues of £968.3 million 
were up 22% year-on-year.
Licence revenue
Total dollar licensing revenues in 2015 were 
$587.9 million, a similar level to 2014 ($580.8 million). 
As explained in ARM’s 2014 Annual Report, licensing 
revenues went through a period of accelerated 
growth in 2009 to 2014. This was driven in part by 
the introduction of our ARMv8-A technology, which 
opened up opportunities beyond ARM’s traditional 
markets of mobile and embedded. The success 
of ARMv8-A resulted in a signiﬁcant expansion of 
ARM’s customer base, and licence revenues more 
than doubled between 2009 and 2014. In 2015 
licence revenues remained at this higher level and we 
expect to see further growth in the future.
During the year 93 semiconductor companies 
signed a total of 173 processor licences with ARM. 
Of these, 52 were existing customers that upgraded 
their portfolio of ARM products; the remaining 41 
were companies that acquired their ﬁrst ever ARM 
processor licence. The licences covered a broad 
range of technology from the microcontrollers 
needed in the connected devices that will form 
the Internet of Things, through the next set of 
application processors for future generations of 
smartphones, to high-end processor designs aimed 
at the markets for networking infrastructure 
and servers.
Royalty revenue
In 2015 our Partners shipped around 15 billion chips 
containing ARM products. We saw widespread 
adoption of our ARMv8-A and Mali technologies in 
mobile devices, as well as the ﬁrst chips with higher 
core counts. Chips that contain these technologies 
typically generate higher royalties. We also saw a 
recovery in market conditions following a period of 
weakness in 2014, when sales of mobile processors 
were held back by manufacturers managing their 
inventories. The uptake of our latest technology, the 
industry recovery and our continued market share 
gains saw our US dollar processor royalty revenues 
grow 32% in 2015. This growth rate was signiﬁcantly 
higher than the long-term trend: since 2010, US 
dollar processor royalty revenues have grown at a 
CAGR of 19% per annum, outperforming the wider 
semiconductor market’s growth of 1% per annum
*
.
We expect that our royalty revenue growth will 
continue to outpace the semiconductor industry 
over the medium term. The drivers for this 
outperformance are our ongoing market share gains 
and the trend for modern devices to use increasing 
amounts of ARM technology, as outlined in our 
business strategy (see page 26). In particular, we see 
opportunities arising from the continued growth 
in mobile computing, the deployment of ARM 
processors in servers and networking infrastructure 
equipment, and the emergence of the Internet 
of Things.
A comparison of revenues by revenue stream 
between 2015 and 2014 is shown in note 2 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
* World Semiconductor Trade Statistics, January 2016 54 ARM Strategic Report 2015
Financial strategy
continued
Normalised diluted earnings per share (pence)
24.1
20.6
14.7
12.4
30.2
14
13
12
11
2015
IFRS diluted earnings per share (pence)
18.0
7.4
11.5
8.2
23.9
14
13
12
11
2015
Normalised Net Cash Generated (£m)
339.9
344.5
267.3
203.8
360.7
14
13
12
11
2015
Cash returns to shareholders (£m)
66.9 86.1
68.9
51.8
42.2
92.2 107.8
14
13
12
11
2015
£m dividend £m buybacks
Operating expenditure
Normalised research and development 
expenditure in 2015 was £214.8 million (IFRS: 
£278.0 million), compared with £167.8 million in 
2014 (IFRS: £224.2 million). The increase is a result 
of the continuing investment in new technology 
development, as described above.
In the year to 31 December 2015, ARM’s normalised 
sales and marketing spend was £93.1 million (IFRS: 
£106.1 million), compared with £81.0 million in 2014 
(IFRS: £93.2 million). The year-on-year increase 
reﬂects our closer engagement with chip vendors, 
equipment manufacturers and developers, to support 
activities that will accelerate market share gains.
As we scale, we continue to invest in the 
infrastructure of the organisation and in the teams 
that support deployment of ARM technology (IT, 
HR, ﬁnance, legal). In the year to 31 December 2015, 
ARM’s normalised general and administrative costs 
were £123.7 million (IFRS: £138.8 million), compared 
with £1 10.5 million in 2014 (IFRS: £131.0 million). 
Tax 
ARM is committed to paying the correct taxes in 
each relevant jurisdiction and follows a policy of 
full disclosure in its dealings with the tax authorities 
worldwide. The Board regularly reviews key 
developments that may inﬂuence the Group’s global 
tax position.
Many governments encourage innovation by offering 
tax incentives to companies that develop new 
technologies. ARM uses legitimate tax exemptions 
and reliefs accruing to it by virtue of its high level 
of research and development spend. A large 
proportion of ARM’s products are developed in 
the UK, where the government offers credits to 
companies with R&D commitments. In April 2013, 
the UK government provided further incentive for 
companies to invest in the UK with the introduction 
of the Patent Box tax legislation, which allows 
companies to apply for a lower rate of Corporation 
Tax on proﬁts earned from patented technologies. 
The lower rate of tax is being phased-in between 
April 2013 and April 2017. ARM also develops 
technology in the US and France, where the 
respective governments also offer R&D tax credits.
In 2015, ARM’s normalised effective tax rate was 
16.2% (IFRS: 18.1%), which reﬂects the beneﬁt of 
the Patent Box legislation and other R&D credits. 
ARM’s normalised proﬁt before tax in 2015 was 
£51 1.5 million (IFRS: £414.8 million).
Payables
Our success is closely aligned with that of our 
customers and it is in our long-term interest to enter 
into contracts that are mutually beneﬁcial. ARM aims 
to pay all suppliers within terms; during the year 
to 31 December 2015, the average time to pay a 
supplier’s invoice was 21 days (2014: 22 days).
Cash generation and cash returns
Our normalised cash generation in 2015 was 
£360.7 million. The directors are recommending 
payment of a ﬁnal dividend in respect of 2015 of 
5.63 pence per share which, taken together with 
the interim dividend of 3.15 pence per share paid 
in October 2015, gives a total dividend in respect 
of 2015 of 8.78 pence per share.
This is an increase of 25% over 7.02 pence per 
share in 2014. The total cash outﬂow from 
dividends paid in 2015 amounted to £107.8 million 
(2014: £86.1 million). In 2015, the recommended 
dividend per share was equal to 29% of our 
normalised diluted earnings per share (37% of IFRS 
diluted earnings per share). 
Subject to shareholder approval, the ﬁnal dividend 
for 2015 will be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders 
on the register on 22 April 2016.
At the start of 2015, ARM’s fully-diluted share count 
was 1,421.1 million shares. It is our intention to 
continue to maintain a ﬂat share count over time by 
offsetting dilution from share-based remuneration 
with further share buybacks. In 2015, ARM bought 
back 9.0 million shares at a total cost of £92.2 million, 
and ended the year with a fully-diluted share count 
of 1,420.3 million.
Risk
The principal risk factors faced by the Group are 
identiﬁed on pages 35 to 39. Further details of risks 
and uncertainties faced by the Group are noted 
within the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the 
year ended 31 December 2015, which is available 
on ARM’s website at www.arm.com. 55 Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015
The following tables show non-GAAP measures used in this report, including reconciliations between 
normalised and IFRS measures. They exclude acquisition-related charges; share-based payment costs 
and related payroll taxes; restructuring charges; proﬁt on disposal and impairment of available-for-sale 
investments; share of results in joint venture; Linaro-related costs; and exceptional items.
Normalised 
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Intangible 
amortisation  
and 
acquisition-
related 
charges
£m
Proﬁt on 
disposal  
of investments  
net of 
impairment 
charge
£m
Restructuring
£m
Linaro-related 
charges
£m
IFRS
£m
2015
Cost of revenues 37.0 2.3–––– 39.3
Research & development expenses 214.8 50.7 12.5––– 278.0
Sales and marketing expenses 93.1 12.9 0.1––– 106.1
General and administrative expenses 123.7 11 .7 1 .7 (5.3 ) – 7 .0 138.8
Total operating expenses 431.6 75.3 14.3 (5.3) – 7.0 522.9
2014
Cost of revenues 35.6 2.2–––– 37.8
Research & development expensess 167.8 46.9 9.5––– 224.2
Sales and marketing expenses 81.0 12.0 0.2––– 93.2
General and administrative expenses 110.5 10.5 0.7 0.7 8.6 – 131.0
Total operating expenses 359.3 69.4 10.4 0.7 8.6 – 448.4
Financial tables
Normalised costs and expenses  
reconciled to IFRS
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Proﬁt from operations (per income statement) 406.1 309.0 153.5 208.1 148.9
Intangible amortisation and acquisition-related charges 14.3 10.4 1 1.6 8.8 6.4
Share-based payment costs and related payroll taxes 77.6 71.6 74.0 45.4 57 .7
Restructuring charges – 8.6–––
(Proﬁt)/loss on sale/impairment of investments (5.3) 0.7 3.5 0.6 1.8
Linaro-related charges 7.0 –7.0 – 6.9
Exceptional items – –101.3 – –
Normalised proﬁt from operations 499.7 400.3 350.9 262.9 221.7
Normalised operating margin 51.6% 50.3% 49.1% 45.6% 45.1%
Investment income, net 11.8 1 1.0 13.1 13.6 8.0
Normalised proﬁt before tax 51 1.5 41 1.3 364.0 276.5 229.7
Tax (per IFRS income statement) (75.1) (61.1) (57 .8) (60.3) (44.3)
Tax impact of above charges (7.6) (7 .5) ( 15.6) ( 1 1.0) (14.2)
Normalised proﬁt after tax 428.8 342.7 290.6 205.2 171.2
Normalised diluted EPS (pence) 30.2 24.1 20.6 14.7 12.4
IFRS diluted EPS (pence) 23.9 18.0 7 .4 1 1.5 8.2 56 ARM Strategic Report 2015
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
201 1 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 40.5 54.1 43.8 46.3 26.8
Short-term deposits and similar instruments 617.8 620.8 544.1 340.0 319.1
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 298.0 191.4 1 25.6 141.3 83.1
Less: interest accrued (5.4) (4.6) (7 .2) (7 .4) (5.0)
Normalised net cash, at end of year 950.9 861.7 706.3 520.2 424.0
Less:
Normalised net cash, at start of year (861.7) (706.3) (520.2) (424.0) (290.1)
Cash inﬂow from exercise of share options (9.4) (6.8) (6.0) (5.6) (8.5)
Add back:
Cash outﬂow from payment of dividends 107.8 86.1 68.9 51.8 42.2
Cash outﬂow from purchase of own shares 92.2 66.9 –––
Cash outﬂow from advance payment to the MIPS patent 
consortium – –– 104.5–
Cash outﬂow/(inﬂow) from investments and acquisitions (net of 
cash acquired and proceeds on sale of investments) 59.8 16.9 25.6 (8.8) 1 7 .3
Cash outﬂow from investment in and loans to joint ventures 5.6 –3.7 7.5 –
Cash outﬂow from restructuring payments – 5.1–––
Cash outﬂow from other acquisition-related payments 3.5 4.3 4.6 3.8 3.1
Cash outﬂow from share-based payroll taxes 8.5 8.5 16.3 14.4 12.4
Cash outﬂow from payments related to Linaro 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.4
Cash outﬂow from IP indemnity and similar charges – –41.8 ––
Normalised net cash generation 360.7 339.9 344.5 267.3 203.8
For the year ended 31 December
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Revenues 968.3 795.2
Cost of revenues (39.3) (37.8)
Gross proﬁt 929.0 757.4
Operating expenses
Research & development (278.0) (224.2)
Sales and marketing (106.1) (93.2)
General and administrative (138.8) (1 3 1.0)
Total operating expenses (522.9) (448.4)
Proﬁt from operations 406.1 309.0
Investment income 12.1 11 .3
Interest payable and similar charges (0.3) (0.3)
Share of results in joint ventures (3.1) (3.5)
Proﬁt before tax 414.8 31 6.5
Tax (75.1) (61.1)
Proﬁt for the year 339.7 255.4
Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings 339.7 255.4
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of shares 1,407.4 1,406.2
Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 12.9 14.9
Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,420.3 1,42 1.1
Basic EPS (pence) 24.1p 18.2p
Diluted EPS (pence) 23.9p 18.0p
All the proﬁt for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations.
Consolidated income statement
– IFRS
Financial tables
Analysis of cash and  
normalised cash ﬂow 57 Overview Commitment Financials Strategy Performance ARM Strategic Report 2015
Financial tables
Consolidated balance sheet 
– IFRS
For the year ended 31 December
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 40.5 54.1
Short-term deposits and similar instruments 617.8 620.8
Embedded derivatives 6.9 2.6
Accounts receivable 183.7 138.6
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 23.1 –
Prepaid expenses and other assets 51.6 43.2
Current tax assets 22.9 8.9
Inventories 1.8 2.7
Total current assets 948.3 870.9
Non-current assets:
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 298.0 19 1.4
Loans and receivables 6.0 3.0
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 11.6 23.7
Investment in joint venture 2.6 3.0
Prepaid expenses and other assets 1.4 1.7
Property, plant and equipment 61.6 43.4
Goodwill 650.7 567.0
Other intangible assets 92.0 77.2
Deferred tax assets 48.0 55.9
Total non-current assets 1,171.9 966.3
Total assets 2,120.2 1,837 .2
For the year ended 31 December
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Liabilities 
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable 12.7 11 .7
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 3.2 4.8
Accrued and other liabilities 100.7 80.6
Finance lease liabilities 5.2 3.9
Current tax liabilities 30.6 31.9
Deferred revenue 110.1 127.4
Total current liabilities 262.5 260.3
Non-current liabilities:
Accrued and other liabilities 6.3 –
Finance lease liabilities 6.1 2.6
Deferred tax liabilities 3.2 0.4
Deferred revenue 44.5 45.6
Total non-current liabilities 60.1 48.6
Total liabilities 322.6 308.9
Net assets 1,797.6 1,528.3
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company
Share capital 0.7 0.7
Share premium account 27.2 24.9
Capital reserve 354.3 354.3
Share option reserve 61.4 61.4
Retained earnings 1,213.3 991.8
Revaluation reserve 17.7 4.3
Cumulative translation adjustment 123.0 90.9
Total equity 1,797.6 1,528.3 58 ARM Strategic Report 2015
Glossary
Key terms explained
Apps Application software that runs within the chip. LTE Long-term Evolution (or 4G) is the next-generation wireless standard for 
mobile phones. It is optimised for data streaming allowing internet connections 
at speeds similar to broadband in the home.
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs. Mali ARM’s family of specialist multimedia processors including 3D graphics, video 
and display technologies.
CAGR Compound annual growth rate. Microcontroller (MCU) A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which can be used in 
many applications. Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or an MCU.
Cortex Family of ARM processors. Original equipment  
manufacturer (OEM) 
An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones. 
For example Apple, HTC or LG.
DTV Digital TV. Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARM’s processor technology.
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor 
companies, foundries, OEMs and software providers.
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation of an SoC design.
Fabless semiconductor company A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips. These chips 
are typically manufactured by a foundry. For example MediaTek, Marvell 
and Qualcomm.
Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company that manufactures computer chips on  
behalf of fabless semiconductor companies. For example TSMC and UMC.
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology. 
The royalty is usually a percentage of the selling price of the chip and is 
reported as “royalty revenue”.
Intellectual property (IP) ARM designs technology for use in computer chips. The general term 
for the products that are designs only, or are creations of the mind, is 
intellectual property.
STB Set-top box.
Internet of Things (IoT) An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet 
either directly or indirectly via a smartphone. From pedometers to 
thermostats to streetlights.
System-on-Chip (SoC) An SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into 
a single chip. Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or MCU.
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partners.  
They pay an upfront free, which is reported as “licence revenue”. Financial tables
Consolidated balance sheet
If you want to inform us of a change of address or 
have lost your share certiﬁcate or have an enquiry 
about dividend payments please contact:
Equiniti Shareholder Services
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
BN99 6DA, UK 
Phone: 0871 384 2139 
www.equiniti.com
Auditors’ statement
The auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements 
and the auditors’ statement under section 496 of 
the Companies Act on whether the information 
given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ report 
(for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2015) is 
consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements were 
both unqualiﬁed and can be found on page 50 of the 
Governance and Financial Report.
For all other enquiries please contact one of ARM’s 
investor relations team:
Ian Thornton
Head of Investor Relations 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 400796 
Email: ian.thornton@arm.com
Phil Sparks
Investor Relations Manager 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 405566 
Email: philip.sparks@arm.com
Charlotte King
Group Finance Administrator 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
Phone: +44 (0)1223 400408 
Email: charlotte.king@arm.com
Designed and produced by  
Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com 
This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper 
which is certiﬁed by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 and 
contains 100% recycled waste. The paper is Process Chlorine 
Free (PCF) made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental 
management system accreditation.
This report was produced using the pureprint
®
 
environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, 
low waste, independently audited process that reduces the 
environmental impact of the printing process. Printed using 
vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer 
certiﬁed to ISO 14001 environmental management system 
and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan, Cordio, Cortex, Mali 
and mbed are trademarks or registered trademarks 
of ARM Limited. 
Contact details ARM Holdings plc
1 10 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0)1223 400410
www.arm.com
twitter: @ARMHoldings
youtube.com/armﬂix
linkedin.com/company/arm ARM Holdings plc
Annual Report 2015 Governance and  
Financial Report Automotive autonomy
Cars are becoming mobile computing platforms. 
More sensors and cameras are being included 
to assist the driver with lane detection, reading 
roadside signage and identifying potential hazards 
or people crossing the road. In time, driver 
assistance may lead to fully automated vehicles.
ARM’s technology is 
shaping the way we 
all live our lives; in the 
home, as we travel, at 
school or work, and 
as we have fun with 
our friends
Environmental monitoring 
Our countryside and waterways are 
invaluable resources for food, transport 
and recreation as well as providing a 
habitat for wildlife. Digital monitoring 
of the quality of air and water helps to 
ensure that we are able to protect these 
resources for years to come.
Smart construction 
Smart construction – building techniques are 
being enhanced by embedding smart sensors 
into the fabric of buildings as they are being 
built. Sensors are detecting the temperature 
of concrete as it sets, the tension on rebars 
to ensure the strain is within tolerance, and 
whether vibration of the site could damage 
nearby structures. 1 Governance Glossary and Group directory Financial Report ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015
ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2015
The Strategic Report contains information about ARM, 
how we make money and how we run the business. 
It includes an overview of our main markets, our 
strategy, business model, key performance indicators 
and main areas of risk, as well as our progress during 
2014. The report also describes our approach to 
organisation and culture, governance and sustainability, 
and includes a summary of our financial strategy. : 
A copy of the Strategic Report can be downloaded 
from www.arm.com/reporting2015
The Corporate Responsibility Report outlines our 
approach to investing in sustainability and projects to 
enable more energy efficient technology, and how we 
attract and develop smart and innovative employees. 
A copy of the Corporate Responsibility Report can 
be downloaded from www.arm.com/reporting2015
The Investor Relations website contains more 
information on what ARM does and how we connect 
with some of the world’s most innovative companies 
to shape the future of technology. Here you will find 
our latest financial results and recent case studies of 
ARM technology in action. The Investor Relations 
website can be found at www.arm.com/ir
Governance
Chairman’s introduction
Board of directors
Corporate Governance report
Audit Committee report
Nomination Committee report
Directors’ Remuneration report
Directors’ report
3
6
8
18
23
25
44
Financial Report
Independent auditors’ report to 
the members of ARM Holdings plc
50
Consolidated income statement 56
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
56
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated cash flow statement
Consolidated statement of changes 
in shareholders’ equity
Notes to the financial statements
Company balance sheet/UK GAAP
Company cash flow statement/
UK GAAP
Statement of changes in 
shareholders equity
Notes to the financial statements/
UK GAAP
Independent auditors’ report to 
the members of ARM Holdings plc
57
58
59
60
94
94
95
96
101
Glossary and 
Group directory
Glossary
Group directory
Key shareholder information
103
104
105 ARM’s strength is in the high 
calibre of its people and in the 
way in which they behave; fairly, 
honestly and with integrity.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 2 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 3
Chairman’s introduction
Our commitment to a strong  
and effective governance system
This report explains the Board’s continued 
commitment to maintaining excellent corporate 
governance, corporate responsibility and the 
highest ethical standards. The Chairman is 
responsible for leading the Board in promoting 
effective governance across our company, an 
activity which is integral to ensuring that we 
remain successful and sustainable whilst delivering 
on our strategic objectives. 
Dear shareholder
I would like to welcome you to ARM’s 2015 
Governance and Financial Report. It is now two 
years since I joined the Board and took over the 
role of Chairman, and in that time the Board has 
experienced significant change in its composition, as 
we position ARM to meet its short- and long-term 
strategic objectives. In this introduction, I outline 
the progress we have made during 2015 against the 
priority areas that we identified during my first year 
as Chairman in 2014, and our plans for the future.
Having a well-defined governance framework 
and operating with integrity in all we do is vital to 
maintain the trust of investors, customers, our 
employees and other stakeholders. The Board 
is keenly aware of its responsibility to provide 
leadership, operate with transparency and promote 
ethical behaviour and collaboration throughout the 
Group. We seek to nurture a working environment 
in which the highest standards of behaviour are 
established, demonstrated and maintained in all our 
activities. This year, the first in which we are required 
to report against the updated UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2014) (the Code), 
we have taken the opportunity to restructure 
the Corporate Governance section of our report 
to align more closely with the main principles of 
the Code.
For more information on:
Leadership Page 8
Effectiveness Page 10
Accountability Page 12
Relations with shareholders Page 16
Remuneration Page 25
Our Strategy
The Board sets the Group’s long-term strategy and 
monitors, challenges and supports the work of the 
Executive Committee in delivering that strategy. 
During 2015, the Board has built on the work we 
undertook during 2014 on defining our short- and 
long-term strategic priorities at this important stage 
in the Group’s development. We held two strategy-
focused meetings this year. The Board has spent time 
considering how best to maintain and increase our 
growth in our core markets as well as accelerating 
gains in our share of new markets and emerging 
technologies, which will be the cornerstone of ARM’s 
future success and long-term growth. In our 2014 
Annual Report we identified these areas as including 
the Internet of Things (IoT), efficient networking, 
ARM-powered servers and security applications, 
amongst others. You can find more detail on ARM’s 
strategy and how we are delivering it on pages 9 to 
23 of the Strategic Report.
Our values
ARM’s strength is in the high calibre of its people, 
and in the way in which they behave; fairly, honestly 
and with integrity. We ask all our employees to 
embody ARM’s three core beliefs: encouraging 
teamwork, driving innovation and creativity, and 
helping everyone within the Group to reach their 
full potential. Each year all employees are required 
to confirm that they have read and understood the 
Group’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which 
includes our Human Rights Policy. We also ensure 
that employees receive regular training on relevant 
legislation such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and 
global competition laws. 
Our sustainability values are of great importance 
to the way in which we work. Full details of our 
Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy and 
achievements can be found in the CR report 
(which does not form part of this report) at  
http://tinyurl.com/j4kzjy4 and a summary of highlights 
from the year are included in the CR section of 
the Strategic Report on page 44. In 2015, we are 
continuing to offer the Annual Report as two 
documents; firstly, a Strategic Report which contains 
information about ARM, how we make money and 
how we run the business. It includes an overview 
of our main markets, strategy, business model, key 
performance indicators and main areas of risk. 
The Governance and Financial Report gives more 
detail on governance at ARM and our full accounts. 
We believe that these two documents together fulfil 
current best practice guidelines and provide our 
stakeholders with a range of reporting options to 
suit their needs. As ever we welcome any further 
feedback and you can contact us via the investor 
relations website at www.arm.com/ir.
Stuart Chambers
Chairman ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 4
Chairman’s introduction
continued…
Our Directors
2015 has been a year of significant change in 
the composition of ARM’s Board of Directors. 
On 30 June we said farewell to our Chief Financial 
Officer, Tim Score, after 13 years of dedicated 
service. During his tenure Tim oversaw a sustained 
increase in ARM’s revenues, profits and returns, and 
I would like to recognise Tim’s great contribution 
to ARM over the years. We were pleased to 
welcome Chris Kennedy as Chief Financial Officer 
on 1 September. Chris brings with him a wealth of 
international experience gained from over 20 years 
spent in senior financial roles across a broad range of 
sectors, most recently at easyJet plc. 
As announced earlier in the year, on 31 December 
Kathleen O’Donovan retired from her position on 
the Board after a tenure of nine years. Once again, 
I would like to thank Kathleen for her excellent 
contribution to the ARM Board over the past nine 
years and in particular for her exceptional leadership 
of the Audit Committee. We wish her well for the 
future. Andy Green has succeeded Kathleen as 
Senior Independent Director.
On 1 September, we welcomed two new non-
executive directors. Lawton Fitt fulfils the role of 
financial expert in accordance with the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act 2002 (US) and assumed the position of 
Chairman of the Audit Committee upon Kathleen 
O’Donovan’s retirement. Lawton currently serves 
on the boards of several US-listed companies and 
has recent and relevant financial experience gained 
during her career in investment banking at Goldman 
Sachs and as Chair of the Audit Committee at 
Ciena Corporation.
Stephen Pusey was most recently Chief Technology 
Officer at Vodafone Group plc, retiring at its AGM 
in 2015. Prior to joining Vodafone, Stephen held the 
positions of Executive Vice President and President 
Nortel Networks EMEA, having joined Nortel in 
1982. He brings with him extensive experience in 
the technology sector. You can read more about the 
process by which we appointed Lawton and Stephen 
in the Nomination Committee report on pages 23 
to 24.
Following these changes, and the addition of John 
Liu to the Board which we reported in December 
2014, the composition of our Board reflects a strong 
balance between technology sector, commercial, 
financial and general business skills, with a highly 
experienced international team leading the business 
in both executive and non-executive roles. There are 
well-defined differences in roles between the 
executive and non-executive directors and their 
combined contributions as an experienced but 
healthily diverse board add value to the debate, 
decision making and development of strategy that 
are so crucial to the Group’s success. 
Philip Davis took over the role of Company 
Secretary in addition to his responsibilities as General 
Counsel, following the retirement of Patricia Alsop 
in May 2015. I would like to thank Patricia for her 
dedication and support during her 12 years at ARM. 
The roles and specific expertise of the current 
members of our Board are set out on pages 6 and 7.
Our governance framework
The Group’s corporate governance framework is 
built around three pillars:
 › organisation, structure and processes;
 › the internal control framework; and
 › independent assurance.
The Board and its committee structure are the 
mechanism through which we ensure that ARM’s 
business runs smoothly and matters which are of 
strategic or operational importance are escalated 
to the relevant committee. As the Group continues 
to grow, we review and improve our governance 
framework, taking into account legislation, 
regulations and best practice guidelines. 
For more information see:
Our Board and its activities Page 6
Audit Committee Page 18
Nomination Committee Page 23
Remuneration Committee Page 25
Our approach to risk
As a Board, we also have ultimate responsibility 
for the Group’s performance, for overseeing the 
management of risk and internal controls, and 
ensuring that the mitigation of the risks that we 
face is at levels that are commensurate with the 
nature of our business. We seek to do this through 
a strong and effective governance system and by 
setting and following the standards that we expect 
from all our employees. During 2015, in accordance 
with Code Provision C.2.1 and the FRC’s updated 
guidance on risk management and internal control, 
the Board carried out a robust assessment of the 
Group’s principal risks. You can read more about 
how we identify and manage risks on pages 35 to 39 
of our Strategic Report, about our risk management 
framework on pages 12 to 15 of this report, and 
about how we carried out our risk assessment 
activities in the Audit Committee report on pages 
18 to 21.  Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 5
Remuneration
The 2014 revisions to the Code introduced new 
provisions relating to the design of remuneration. 
During the course of 2015, the Remuneration 
Committee has spent time reviewing reward across 
the Group to ensure optimal alignment to the ARM 
business strategy and core beliefs and promoting the 
long-term success of the Group.
In our 2014 Annual Report, we set out proposals 
for the Chief Financial Officer’s remuneration 
package, which were in line with our approved 
Remuneration Policy, and in the lead up to our 
AGM in April 2015 we engaged with shareholders 
to address their concerns around the structure 
of the package. After the AGM we continued 
to engage with shareholders and receive their 
feedback, which will be taken into account when 
setting future director remuneration. You can 
read more about how we have engaged with our 
shareholders on the topic of remuneration, and 
our proposals for 2015 in the Remuneration report 
on pages 25 to 38. We continue to be cognisant of 
the general sensitivity relating to executive director 
remuneration and are committed to the principle 
that there should be no reward for failure.
During 2015, the global economic environment 
remained challenging and competitive. 
The semiconductor industry in particular is 
undergoing a period of significant change, including 
expansion in China as the country develops its 
own domestic industry, and consolidation across 
much of the rest of the world. The Board played 
an important role in ensuring that the Group’s 
performance targets were achieved in the context 
of these challenges. The reports from the various 
Board committees demonstrate that continuous 
improvement of our governance framework 
remains a key focus for the Board. We must always 
be conscious of the fact that the Board’s primary 
responsibility is to promote the long-term success of 
the Group for the benefit of customers, employees 
and shareholders and I am confident that we are 
well positioned to continue to provide value to all 
our stakeholders.
Stuart Chambers
Chairman
17 February 2016 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 6
Lawton Fitt 62
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Committees
Audit Committee (Chairman) (from 1 January 2016)
Current directorships
Ciena Corporation
Carlyle Group LP
The Progressive Corporation
Time on Board
5 months
Experience and expertise
Lawton Fitt joined the Board on 1 September 2015. Lawton was previously an investment 
banker with Goldman, Sachs & Co., becoming a partner in 1994 and a managing director in 1996, 
before retiring in 2002. She then served as Secretary (CEO) of the Royal Academy of Arts from 
October 2002 to March 2005. Lawton is currently an independent non-executive director of 
Ciena Corporation (where she also chairs the audit committee), Carlyle Group LP and The 
Progressive Corporation; and she is a trustee of Thomson Reuters Founders Share Company, 
having served on the board of Thomson Reuters Corporation until 2014.
Andy Green 60
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Committees
Audit Committee 
Remuneration Committee 
Nomination Committee
Current directorships
IG Group Holdings plc (Chairman)
Avanti Communications Group plc
DockOn AG (Chairman)
Digital Catapult Limited (Chairman)
Time on Board
5 years
Experience and expertise
Andy Green joined the Board in February 201 1. He was CEO of Logica plc from 2008 to 2012 
and was on the board of BT Group plc from 2001 to 2007. He is Deputy Chair of The Tech 
Partnership, President UK Space, and is on the board of the CBI. He is a Companion of the 
Chartered Management Institute. He has attended audit, risk and remuneration committee 
meetings over many years during his executive roles and he currently chairs two nomination 
committees and is a member of a remuneration committee.
 
Stuart Chambers 59
Chairman
Committees
Nomination Committee (Chairman)
Current directorships
Rexam plc (Chairman)
Time on Board
2 years
Experience and expertise
Stuart Chambers joined the Board as Chairman designate on 27 January 2014 and became 
Chairman on 1 March 2014. He brings a strong track record and a wealth of board and executive 
experience both in the UK and globally. Up to 2009, he was the Group Chief Executive of Nippon 
Sheet Glass Group, which acquired Pilkington plc in 2006, where he was Chief Executive. Prior to 
the glass industry, Stuart held a number of senior positions at Mars, Inc., having previously spent 
ten years in several European roles at Royal Dutch Shell plc. He has also served in the past as a 
non-executive director on four other plc boards and chaired three remuneration committees.
 
Simon Segars 48
Chief Executive Officer
Committees
None
Current directorships
Global Semiconductor Alliance 
EDA Consortium
Dolby Laboratories, Inc.
Time on Board
1 1 years 1 month
Experience and expertise
Simon Segars joined the Board in January 2005 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 
1 July 2013. His previous roles include President, leading the IP divisions and representing them 
on the Board, EVP and General Manager of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions and prior to 
that, EVP , Engineering, EVP , Worldwide Sales and EVP , Business Development. He joined ARM in 
early 1991 and worked on many of the early ARM CPU products. He led the development of the 
ARM7™ and ARM9™ Thumb® families. He holds a number of patents in the field of embedded 
CPU architectures.
ARM’s Board has a good breadth and depth of experience which 
will help guide the Group as it seeks to take full advantage of new 
opportunities and contend with new challenges. Biographical details 
of the directors as at the date of this report are shown on the 
following pages:
Our Board 
The experience  
of the team
Gender of the Board
Tenure of the board
Sector experience of the board
Financial
60%
Male
80%
Technology
80%
Telecommunications
60%
Oil and gas
40%
Manufacturing
40%
Female
20%
Retail
40%
Aviation
30%
Infrastructure
30%
Board tenure 
2
3
2
3
>6yrs
3-6yrs
1-3yrs
<1yr Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 7
Stephen Pusey 54
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Committees
Remuneration Committee
Current directorships
Centrica plc
FireEye, Inc.
Time on Board
5 months
Experience and expertise
Stephen Pusey joined the Board on 1 September 2015. Stephen was until recently Chief 
Technology Officer of Vodafone Group plc, retiring at Vodafone’s annual general meeting on 
28 July 2015. He joined Vodafone in September 2006 and joined the board in 2009. Prior to 
joining Vodafone, Stephen held the positions of Executive Vice President and President Nortel 
Networks EMEA, having joined Nortel in 1982. Stephen is also an independent non-executive 
director of Centrica plc and of FireEye, Inc.
Janice Roberts 60 
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Committees
Audit Committee 
Remuneration Committee
Current directorships
Benhamou Global Ventures (Partner)
RealNetworks, Inc.
Zebra Technologies Corporation 
Ronald McDonald House, Stanford
Time on Board
5 years 1 month
Experience and expertise
Janice Roberts joined the Board in January 201 1. She is a Partner at Benhamou Global Ventures, 
a Silicon Valley based venture capital firm, where she invests in early stage technology companies. 
Prior to that, she was a Managing Director of the Mayfield Fund from 2000 to 2013, where she 
invested in the mobile, wireless, communications and consumer technology industries. Previously, 
she held various executive positions at 3Com Corporation, including President Palm Computing, 
President 3Com Ventures and Senior Vice President, Business Development and Global 
Marketing. Prior to 3Com she was Managing Director of BICC Data Networks Ltd.
Chris Kennedy 52
Chief Financial Officer
Committees
Risk Review Committee
Compliance Committee
Current directorships
The EMI Group Archive Trust
Time on Board
5 months
Experience and expertise
Chris Kennedy joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 September 2015. He brings to 
ARM more than 20 years of international experience in senior financial roles in a broad range of 
sectors, most recently at easyJet plc where he was CFO from 2010 onwards and a key part of the 
management team that transformed its performance. Prior to this he worked at EMI plc and was 
appointed to the board of EMI’s holding company, Maltby Ltd. in 2008 as CFO and then Chief, 
Investment Officer.
Larry Hirst 64
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Committees
Remuneration Committee (Chairman)
Current directorships
MITIE Group plc
Time on Board
5 years 1 month
Experience and expertise
Larry Hirst joined the Board in January 201 1. He is the former Chairman of IBM Europe, 
Middle East and Africa. He retired from IBM in 2010 having previously held a wide range of 
senior positions since joining the company in 1977. He currently chairs the Imperial College Data 
Science Institute Advisory Board. He is the Senior Independent Director at MITIE Group plc 
and an Ambassador to Everywoman and Black British Business. Former roles include being a UK 
Business Ambassador, a Commissioner for the Commission for Employment and Skills, and Chair 
of e-skills UK (the UK Sector Skills Council for Business and Information Technology) and he was 
also on the International Advisory Board for British Airways. He was awarded a CBE in 2006.
John Liu 52 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Committees
Nomination Committee
ARM Asia Advisory Group
Current directorships
Digital China Holdings Limited
China Eastern Airlines e-commerce Co
Time on Board
1 year 2 months
Experience and expertise
John Liu joined the Board on 1 December 2014. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees 
of Beijing Normal University Education Fund. Former roles include senior executive positions in 
various companies including as Corporate Vice President and Head of Greater China for Google 
Inc, China CEO of SK Telecom Co., Ltd in Korea and Country Director of Greater China of 
Singapore Telecommunications Limited. He is based in China.
 
Mike Muller 56
Chief Technology Officer
Committees
Risk Review Committee (Chairman)
Current directorships
Intelligent Energy plc 
Trustonic Limited
Cambridge Innovation Capital plc
Time on Board
14 years 4 months
Experience and expertise
Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM. Before joining the Group, he was responsible for 
hardware strategy and the development of portable products at Acorn Computers. He was 
previously at Orbis Computers. At ARM he was VP , Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and EVP , 
Business Development until October 2000 when he was appointed Chief Technology Officer. 
In October 2001, he was appointed to the Board. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 8
This section and the Directors’ Remuneration report detail how the Group has applied the principles of good 
governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code (September 2014) (the Code).
Compliance statement
The Group has complied with all the provisions of the Code throughout 2015 and to the date of 
this document. 
The Group also achieved full compliance with the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
2002 (US) for the tenth successive year. The Group’s American Depositary Shares are listed on NASDAQ 
and we are therefore subject to and comply fully with NASDAQ rules, US Securities laws and Securities 
and Exchange Commission rules to the extent that they apply to foreign private issuers. We explain in the 
reports below how we applied the provisions and principles of the FCA Listing Rules, the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules and the Code throughout the year.
Code Principle: Leadership
The Board is collectively responsible for the overall conduct of the Group’s business. The Board’s core 
activities include:
 › providing leadership for the Group;
 › setting and reviewing the Group’s long-term strategy;
 › monitoring executive management actions, standards of conduct, performance against business plans and 
budgets, and ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet 
its business strategy and objectives;
 › obtaining assurance that material risks to the Group are identified, defining the Group’s appetite for risk 
and ensuring that appropriate systems of risk management and internal control exist to mitigate such risks;
 › planning Board and executive management succession; 
 › responsibility for the long-term success of the Group having regard to the interests of all stakeholders; and
 › responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on our system of corporate governance.
Structure of our Board and committees
The Board is responsible for setting the level of delegated authority, whilst retaining overall responsibility 
for the governance of the Group. The reporting structure and composition of our Board and committees is 
discussed in more detail on page 13.
Board attendance in 2015
Board Meetings 
attended/Board 
meetings eligible for
Conference calls &  
ad hoc meetings
attended/calls & 
meetings eligible for
Number of scheduled meetings 5 6
Stuart Chambers 5/5 6/6
Simon Segars 5/5 6/6
Lawton Fitt (appointed 1 September 2015) 2/2 1/2
Andy Green 5/5 6/6
Larry Hirst 5/5 6/6
Chris Kennedy (appointed 1 September 2015) 2/2 2/2
John Liu 5/5 5/6
Mike Muller 5/5 6/6
Stephen Pusey (appointed 1 September 2015) 2/2 2/2
Janice Roberts 5/5 6/6
Tim Score (retired 30 June 2015) 2/2 3/3
Kathleen O’Donovan (retired 31 December 2015) 4/5 6/6
Board meetings
Board and committee papers are circulated electronically before each meeting, utilising an online portal 
which also allows directors to share comments and items of interest. The business considered at each Board 
meeting includes the Chief Executive Officer’s report on the status of the business (incorporating industry 
and strategic developments) and the Chief Financial Officer’s report (incorporating financial, market and 
investor-related information). On a cyclical basis, Board agendas also include detailed assessments of risk, 
governance, corporate responsibility, public affairs, performance of the business, competitive landscape, R&D 
and organisation/succession planning. Strategy-focused meetings are held at least twice per year.
In the event that a director is unable to attend a meeting or participate by conference call, they receive and 
read the documents for consideration at that meeting, and have the opportunity to relay their comments 
and, if necessary, to follow up with the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer after the meeting. 
Corporate governance
A balanced Board structure Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 9
The non-executive directors are encouraged to suggest matters for Board discussions, and in 2015 they 
were active in contributing to the agenda for the strategy review and ensuring the amount of time spent on 
strategic and operational issues was appropriately balanced. 
During 2015, the non-executive directors supported the executive team to articulate and deliver the Group’s 
strategy in relation to China, the IoT market and ARM’s future investments. Key senior executives attend 
Board meetings throughout the year, which gives the non-executive directors visibility of executive talent 
below executive director level, direct information about business developments, and informs them about 
potential management succession. In particular, each year the general managers of the IP group present a 
review of past performance against key objectives and KPIs, and their proposals for the coming year.
During 2015, the Chairman held three meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives 
present, and the non-executive directors met on one occasion without the Chairman being present. 
In addition the Chairman had at least one face-to-face meeting individually with all directors of the Board and 
the Senior Independent non-executive Director (SID) also discussed the performance of the Chairman on an 
individual basis with each of the non-executive directors. 
Key performance indicators and linkage to bonus targets
   
Revenue 
Grow ARM’s business by winning market 
share, attracting new customers and entering 
new markets
Key
 Gain or maintain market share
 Increase value per smart device
 Generate new revenue streams
 Invest for the long term
   
Normalised Operating Profit
Generate increased returns for shareholders
Board Activities during 2015
Activity Actions/Progress Link to KPI
Reviewed M&A Strategy and discussed potential 
acquisitions
Acquired Wicentric, Inc. in February 2015
Acquired Sunrise Micro Devices, Inc. in April 2015
Acquired Discretix, Inc. (trading as Sansa Security, Inc.) 
in July 2015
Acquired trade and certain assets of Carbon Design 
Systems, Inc. (incl. IP) in October 2015
Ongoing review of M&A activity
 
Discussed the Group’s capital structure, dividends and 
buyback policy
Buyback programme took place during 2015 to offset 
the dilution effect of employee share awards.
Declared dividends.
Debated risk appetite and the development of risk 
appetite statements against the corporate risk register 
(CRR)
Ongoing review of the CRR by the Risk Review 
Committee and creation of appropriate risk appetite 
statements to ensure risk management is firmly 
embedded within the business.
Assessment of the robustness and effectiveness of the 
CRR and surrounding processes.
Discussed global sales development New sales organisation structure implemented and 
targets set for 2015 and beyond.
 
Conducted Board effectiveness review (internal) Priority areas for improvement identified and progress 
against 2014 priority areas measured.
Board met without Chairman present to discuss 
Chairman effectiveness.
April Strategy meeting – discussed new and emerging 
technology segments and investment strategy
Creation of new incubation model.
Clarified investment strategy; identified and confirmed 
market sectors of principal focus.
   
Discussed corporate responsibility strategy Deeper partnership with UNICEF.
Agreed CR strategy and spending for 2015 
and beyond.
Reviewed cyber risk and ARM’s risk appetite in 
relation to cyber risk
Various practical security enhancements implemented 
throughout 2015 and plans agreed for additional focus 
on key areas.
September Strategy meeting – received presentations 
from Executive Committee members and external 
partners in China. Discussed integration of acquisitions 
and succession planning
Agreed strategic objectives over a five-year horizon.
Agreed organisational strategy and proposed changes 
to organisational structure.
Conducted visits to ARM partners and met with 
local management.
   
2016 budget submission Agreed budget proposal designed to achieve 
long-term growth in profits, earnings per share and 
cash returns. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 10
Corporate governance
continued…
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which was last reviewed 
in February 2016. A copy of the schedule of matters reserved can be found on our website here:  
http://tinyurl.com/z4r36z9
Board responsibilities
Title Name Key responsibilities
Chairman Stuart Chambers Board leadership.
Board effectiveness.
Building constructive relationships between executive and non-executive directors.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance 
throughout the Group.
Chief Executive 
Officer
Simon Segars Executive Committee leadership.
Day-to-day management of the Group’s business.
Strategy implementation.
Stakeholder engagement.
Chief Financial 
Officer
Chris Kennedy Managing the financial aspects of the business.
Strategy implementation, in collaboration with the CEO and other Executive 
Committee members.
Independent  
Non-Executive 
Directors
Lawton Fitt
Larry Hirst
John Liu
Stephen Pusey
Janice Roberts
Constructively challenging the Executive Committee in its delivery of the Group’s 
strategy within the established risk and governance framework.
Reviewing and monitoring the integrity of all information (including financial information)  
which is made publicly available.
Ensuring appropriate succession plans are in place and are effective.
Agreeing strategy.
Establishing risk appetite and monitor risks.
Senior Independent  
Director
Andy Green Acts as sounding board for the Chairman.
Providing a communication channel between the Chairman and the  
non-executive directors. 
Performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Available to discuss matters with shareholders, if required.
Independence
The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors on appointment and continues to do 
so on an ongoing basis. It is the policy of the Board to review the continued appointment of non-executive 
directors after six years’ service. Kathleen O’Donovan, having served for a total of nine years, retired from 
the Board on 31 December 2015. Two new independent non-executive directors have been appointed 
during 2015.
All our non-executive directors are regarded as independent in character, judgement and behaviour, based 
on both participation and performance at Board and Committee meetings. There are no relationships or 
circumstances that are likely to affect the judgement of any of them. Stuart Chambers was regarded as 
independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman.
Company Secretary
Philip Davis took over the role of Secretary to the Board and Board committees from Patricia Alsop in 
May 2015 and all Board members have individual access to his advice. He ensures that the Board receives 
all relevant information in a timely manner, organises induction and training programmes for new directors, 
and facilitates the Board evaluation in years when this is conducted internally. He is also responsible for 
ensuring that the correct Board and committee procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate 
governance matters. The established procedure under which directors can, where appropriate, obtain 
independent legal or other professional advice at the Group’s expense is also administered through him.
Code Principle: Effectiveness
Board evaluation
In accordance with Code Principles, the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual review of its 
effectiveness. Our last externally facilitated review took place in 2013 with an internally facilitated review 
in 2014, and in light of the significant changes to Board composition during 2015 we decided once again to 
undertake an internal evaluation for this year. We updated our Board effectiveness questionnaire, which was 
circulated as an online survey. The focus of the 2015 evaluation was the extent of progress in relation to the 
action areas identified in the 2014 review, and the directors’ views on the key challenges the Group will face in 
2016. We intend to undertake an externally facilitated review during 2016.  Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 11
2014 action areas identified Action taken in 2015
Ensuring that the Board and committees have the skills and 
experience they need going forward
Following a rigorous process undertaken by the Nomination 
Committee, two new independent non-executive directors 
were appointed, including Lawton Fitt as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
Consideration was given to the composition of the Board 
Committees, and Stephen Pusey was appointed to the 
Remuneration Committee from 1 January 2016. 
The Board continues to review the expertise and experience of 
its membership, and to address any perceived gaps appropriately.
Further improving the culture and dynamics in the boardroom, 
with each Board member developing a clear understanding of the 
role of the Board and their individual role
The consensus from the 2014 Board evaluation was that culture 
and dynamics in the boardroom improved during 2014 and 
directors’ roles were better defined and understood. In 2015, the 
directors committed to spending more time together outside the 
formal setting of the boardroom to enhance their relationships. 
This was of particular importance in helping the newly appointed 
directors to settle into their roles as quickly as possible and the 
2015 evaluation found that the Board felt that the time spent on 
building their relationships had been useful.
Exiting 2015 with greater clarity and a more harmonised Board 
view on the long-term vision for the business and the consequent 
strategic priorities
The consensus from the 2015 effectiveness review was that 
considerable progress had been achieved in this area as a result of 
the strong Board focus on strategic priorities in 2015. However, 
this remains a priority for 2016.
Continuing to enhance the induction and ongoing training process 
for Board members
Directors attended various ARM events including the annual 
ARM Partner Meeting and the ARM TechCon, other industry 
events and external training courses. In 2015 it was agreed 
that attendance at events and training courses will be formally 
recorded. It was decided that the induction process had operated 
well for the new non-executive directors.
The 2015 evaluation covered:
 › Board structure and dynamics;
 › Board meetings;
 › meeting administration;
 › Board Committees – Audit, Remuneration and Nomination;
 › strategy review; and
 › risk management, corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
The overall conclusion was that the directors are satisfied that the Board works well and operates effectively 
in an environment where there is constructive challenge from the non-executive directors. They are also 
satisfied with the contribution made by their colleagues and that the newly appointed directors in particular 
have quickly been able to make a valuable contribution. There were certain areas for further action in 2016 
as follows:
 › training and development – recording training attendance and increase training opportunities;
 › focus of Board time – specific topic sessions scheduled;
 › risk management – streamline the presentation of information to the Board; and
 › strategy review actions – continued enhancement of strategy sessions.
Induction
A personalised induction programme is arranged for new directors, tailored to their specific requirements, 
the aim of which is to introduce them to key executives across the business and to enhance their knowledge 
and understanding of the Group and its activities. In 2015, this included comprehensive induction 
programmes for Chris Kennedy, Lawton Fitt and Stephen Pusey. Each director received a pack of information 
upon appointment, which included information about the Group and industry environment in which it 
operates, policies and procedures, the Board programme and governance and risk structure. This was 
followed up by site visits to Cambridge and San Jose at which individual meetings with key executives were 
held. Whilst all directors received information to help them gain a good understanding of the Group’s 
operations generally, Chris Kennedy and Lawton Fitt’s inductions were focused especially on the Group’s 
finance operations to enable them to fulfil their specific responsibilities more effectively. Induction for the 
directors who joined during 2015 is ongoing.
All members of the Board are encouraged to spend time outside Board meetings with members of the 
Executive Committee and senior management and a number of individual meetings took place during 2015, 
which will continue during 2016. All Board members are invited to attend the annual ARM Partner Meeting 
(APM) in the UK, which is the Group’s key customer event of the year and/or the ARM TechCon in the 
US. Board members are also encouraged to attend the annual Capital Markets Day. These events offer the 
opportunity to understand more about the business, products, technology development roadmap, customer 
base and investor perspective.
Training
Board members receive guidance on the regulatory regimes and corporate governance framework that 
the Group operates under. In April 2015 the Board received a regular annual update from the Company 
Secretary on current governance topics including executive remuneration and board diversity. The Board 
also participated in a detailed workshop led by the Group’s external auditors in July 2015, covering recent and 
forthcoming developments in corporate governance, audit, reporting, financial accounting and tax. Each non-
executive director sits on at least one committee and each committee receives training relevant to its remit 
through the provision of workshops led by external advisers. The Group has a commitment to training and 
all directors, executive or non-executive, are encouraged to attend APM and TechCon in order to remain 
current with ARM’s technology and Partners, as well as suitable training courses at the Group’s expense. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 12
Corporate governance
continued…
Code Principle: Accountability 
Risk Management and Internal Control (RMIC)
The ARM Management System (AMS) is the business management and governance system used across 
ARM. It captures how we do business through delivery of our strategy and objectives, and details the internal 
controls that we need to manage risks to the long- and short-term success of the business.
AMS is extremely important for our customers, ecosystem, shareholders and people. It provides confidence 
that we can run this complex business in a robust way, deliver quality products that meet our customers’ 
needs, and ensure that the risks to achieving our business strategy and objectives are understood and 
managed. AMS documents the details of our governance framework and covers the entire life cycle of risk 
management and internal control within ARM to: 
 › identify the risks that may impact the delivery or achievement of business strategy and objectives; 
 › design and operate the controls to manage the risks;
 › monitor the design and operating effectiveness of the controls; and 
 › manage the design, residual risk treatment plans and corrective actions as necessary. 
The diagram to the right illustrates the key principles associated with RMIC. The over-arching principle of 
leadership and culture informs all of our work on RMIC and our internal and external assurance approach 
assesses the degree to which the desired behaviours and risk culture are embedded within all our business 
processes. We firmly believe that a strong and well communicated culture of openness and transparency is 
our best and most fundamental defence against the principal risks to ARM’s business. 
The AMS design, which includes financial, compliance and operational controls, is fully documented and 
compliance is monitored through audits and periodic controls testing during each year. The effectiveness of 
individual controls is also reviewed with their owners within the operations and functions of the Group to 
ensure efficacy and relevance. The Business Assurance and Internal Audit function reports on the design 
and operating effectiveness of the AMS to the Audit Committee at least twice each year. The Compliance 
and Audit Committees also monitor the satisfactory remediation of any identified control issues with Group 
level significance.
The Group fully complies with the Code’s provisions on RMIC, having established procedures to implement in 
full the FRC “Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting”. 
 
Leadership 
and culture
Operate Identify
Monitor Manage
Risk management activities (RMA):
 › ARM Management System
 › Internal controls
 › Key performance indicators  
and key risk indicators
Risk in pursuit of vision and mission
 › Strategic planning aligned with 
opportunity and risk management
 › Risk identification
 › Risk assessment
 › Risk appetite
Assurance of RMA
 › Assurance scoped against RMA
 › Annual internal audit plan
 › Design and operating effectiveness
 › Committees and governance teams
Manage residual risk
 › Risk treatment plans
 › Group operations’ and functions’ 
objectives
 › Corrective actions
 › Internal control design Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 13
Key objectives: leadership, operation 
and governance of the Board.
Key objectives: the overall conduct of 
the Group’s business and setting the 
Group’s strategy.
Key objectives: ensures that 
disclosures to shareholders are 
accurate, complete and fairly 
present the Group’s financial position.
Key objectives: to make 
recommendations to the Board for 
future appointments to ensure that 
the Board comprises individuals 
with appropriate skills, knowledge 
and experience to be effective in 
discharging its responsibilities and 
to review succession planning.
Key objectives: to provide effective 
financial governance and to assist the 
Board in ensuring the integrity of the 
Group’s financial reporting. To provide 
oversight for the external and internal 
audit processes, to review the risk 
management and internal control 
framework and the effectiveness 
of risk management processes and 
internal controls.
Key objectives: to review and make 
recommendations to the Board on 
executive remuneration regarding 
the appropriate level for executive 
directors’ salaries, annual bonus 
targets and performance measures 
for senior management share-
based compensation.
Key objectives: to manage the Group’s 
business and, with the Executive 
Committee, to implement Group 
strategy, objectives and policies.
Key objectives: to manage the process 
to identify and evaluate risks which 
may impact the Group’s business 
strategy and objectives, to oversee 
risk treatment plans designed to 
mitigate residual risk, and to review 
risk appetite statements.
Key objectives: to focus on strategy, 
the day-to-day running of the 
business, financial and competitive 
performance, organisational 
development, succession planning 
and implementation of policies.
Key objectives: to oversee compliance 
throughout the business with all 
relevant international regulations 
and ensure effective review 
of AMS, internal controls and 
corrective actions.
Chairman
Stuart Chambers
Board
Ten directors – three 
executive directors, 
the Chairman and 
six independent  
non-executive directors
Disclosure Committee
Two executive directors, the 
Chairman, the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and 
three senior executives. 
Chairman Simon Segars
Nomination Committee
Four directors – three 
independent non-executive 
directors and Chairman 
Stuart Chambers
Audit Committee
Three directors –  two 
independent non-executive 
directors and Chairman 
Lawton Fitt
Remuneration Committee
Four directors – three 
independent non-executive 
directors and Chairman 
Larry Hirst
Chief Executive Officer
Simon Segars
Executive Committee
13 members including the 
executive directors, key 
group and function heads. 
Chairman Simon Segars
Compliance Committee
One executive director,  
four other Executive  
Committee members and  
four senior executives.  
Chairman Philip Davis
Risk Review Committee
Two executive directors, 
four other Executive 
Committee members and 
three senior executives. 
Chairman Mike Muller ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 14
In accordance with the new provisions contained 
in the Code, the Board has conducted a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
and have explained how they have assessed the 
prospects of the Group, over what period they 
have done so and why they consider that period 
to be appropriate in the Longer-Term Viability 
Statement which can be found on page 35 of the 
Strategic Report.
Compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act 2002 (US) has been successfully achieved for each 
financial year since it became effective for foreign 
private issuers in 2006. This is reported on in more 
detail in the Annual Report on Form 20-F that is filed 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Committee and management structure  
The committee structure through which the 
Board ensures that the Group’s RMIC framework 
is designed and operating effectively is shown on 
page 13. The Board delegates responsibility for 
reviewing and monitoring the Group’s internal 
controls to the Audit Committee and in turn the 
Compliance and Risk Review Committees report to 
the Executive Committee with specific items such as 
whistleblowing and effectiveness of internal controls 
also being reported to the Audit Committee. 
Together these committees are responsible for 
identifying and assessing risks which may impact the 
Group’s business strategy and objectives, and for 
monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and 
progress of risk treatment plans designed to further 
mitigate the residual risk, if judged necessary.
In addition, there are various committee, governance 
review team and operational review meetings that 
span the Group. These include the regular Executive 
Committee meetings chaired by the Chief Executive 
Officer and the weekly Business Review Meeting 
chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, the purpose 
of which is to monitor and control all main business 
activities and consider any other matters requiring 
approval. Topics reviewed include revenues, 
orders booked, costs, product and project delivery 
dates, and levels of defects found in products in 
development. Relevant issues are escalated to the 
Executive Committee which, in turn, raises relevant 
issues to the Board.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and approved 
the system of RMIC, including internal controls 
over the consolidation process and financial 
reporting, which have been in place for the year 
under review and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report and financial statements, and has 
described its findings on pages 19 and 20 of the Audit 
Committee report.
More information on industry trends and associated 
risks and opportunities are included in the risk 
management and principal risks section of the 
Strategic Report on pages 35 to 39 and in the 
Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 
31 December 2015 which is available on the Group’s 
website at http://tinyurl.com/hp66mpg and does not 
form part of this Annual Report.
Risk Review Committee
Strategic and operational risks are identified, 
prioritised and reported on within the Corporate 
Risk Register (CRR). The CRR includes a description 
of the overall risk, the risk factors, the risk owner and 
the risk management activities including operational 
and oversight activities as defined in the “three 
lines of defence” model. The three lines of defence 
are defined as operational controls (first line), risk 
management and compliance activities (second 
line), and independent sources of assurance such as 
internal audit (third line). During 2015 the CRR was 
refined with the addition of risk appetite statements 
to reflect the acceptance of differing levels of risk 
across the business. Residual risks are assessed in 
terms of likelihood and impact on the basis that 
the risk management activities assigned to them 
are operating effectively and an overall RAG (Red, 
Amber, Green) rating is generated, taking the risk 
appetite statement into account where appropriate. 
Each risk on the CRR is owned by a member of 
the Executive Committee. Risk treatment plans 
are managed within the relevant objectives of 
the Group’s operations and functions.  Risks are 
identified through senior management discussion 
(top down) and regular reporting from every part of 
the business (bottom up).
The Risk Review Committee typically meets on 
a quarterly basis to review the CRR and ensure 
that it remains live to the changing risk profile of 
the business. Each risk owner is required to review 
and demonstrate that risks are being appropriately 
managed via the internal controls and risk treatment 
plans, which are normally updated bi-annually. 
At each meeting, the Board and the Audit 
Committee receive copies of the minutes of the 
Risk Review Committee. These provide additional 
visibility of the range of risks, the ways in which 
such risks are managed, and management of the 
risk treatment plans to further mitigate where 
judged necessary. The Risk Review Committee 
reports formally on the CRR to the Executive 
Committee twice a year, where its findings are 
considered and challenged. These reports form 
the basis of regular reporting on principal risks at 
Board level, and facilitate the Board’s assessment 
of the principal risks facing the Group. The CRR, 
risk appetite and plans for further enhancing the 
Group’s risk management framework in 2016 were 
reviewed by the Board in July and again in November 
2015 and are an integral part of monitoring the 
development and implementation of the Group’s 
strategy. Risk appetite will continue to be discussed 
and refined during 2016. During 2015, the Board 
confirmed that the level of residual risk is regarded 
as acceptable and within normal parameters for a 
company operating in ARM’s sphere of business.
Compliance Committee
The Compliance Committee oversees compliance 
throughout the business with all relevant 
standards, international regulations and trading 
requirements, amongst them: direct oversight of 
internal controls, financial, employment, health 
and safety, environmental, business continuity, 
customer satisfaction and security processes and 
policies. The Compliance Committee reports to the 
Executive Committee and to the Audit Committee 
throughout the year and its minutes are reviewed by 
the Audit Committee and the Board.
Disclosure Committee
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for 
ensuring that disclosures made by the Group to 
its shareholders and the investment community 
are accurate, complete and fairly present the 
Group’s financial condition in all material respects. 
The Disclosure Committee includes the Chairman 
and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the 
Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer and 
meets immediately prior to each quarterly results 
announcement or more often as needed to consider 
and approve any disclosures.
Business Assurance and Internal 
Audit function
The remit of the Business Assurance and Internal 
Audit function is to provide assurance that the risk 
management and internal controls are designed 
and operating effectively and that corrective action 
is being taken in a timely manner. Each year, the 
Internal Audit function develops an annual audit 
plan. The annual audit plan is agreed by the Audit 
Committee, which monitors execution of the plan 
Corporate governance
continued… Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 15
throughout the year. Audits are designed to assess 
the design and operating effectiveness of controls 
and recommend improvements in related processes 
as necessary. 
The Group has certification for ISO 9001 (the 
international standard for Business Quality 
Management), ISO 22301 (Business Continuity) 
and ISO 27001 (Information Security), which was 
maintained throughout the year and was audited by 
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA). 
To demonstrate compliance with the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act, the Internal Audit function also maintains 
the documented controls over financial reporting 
and confirms the operation of them either by direct 
testing or through a monitored self-assessment 
programme. The management system is audited 
externally by LRQA, who support our COSO 
2013 (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of 
the Treadway Commission) entity level controls 
and corporate integrity assessment, which 
covers FRC guidelines on embedding risk culture. 
The effectiveness of the controls over financial 
reporting is also monitored by the Audit Committee, 
which receives regular reports of the testing 
conducted by internal and external auditors. 
Any significant control failings identified through 
the Internal Audit function or the external auditors 
are brought to the attention of the Compliance 
Committee and undergo a detailed process of 
evaluation of both the failing and the steps taken 
to remedy it. There were no significant control 
failures during 2015 or up to 15 February 2016, being 
the latest practicable date before the printing of 
this report.
Internal control management systems are designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk inherent 
in a fast-moving, high-technology business and can, 
therefore, provide only reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During 2015, an externally facilitated review of 
the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function 
took place which concluded that the Internal Audit 
function delivers appropriate assurance across the 
business efficiently and effectively. Some areas of 
focus were identified and these will be considered 
by management as part of the business planning 
process, to ensure that the Internal Audit function 
remains effective as the business continues to grow.
Whistleblowing procedures
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy 
for employees to confidentially report concerns 
about any unethical business practices to senior 
management in strict confidence and without fear 
of recrimination, via a number of routes. The policy 
was last reviewed and updated during 2014 with the 
aim of increasing employees’ understanding of the 
circumstances in which they should raise concerns 
and the process to do this, and during 2015 the 
effectiveness of the 2014 update was reviewed by 
the Compliance Committee. The Audit Committee 
receives details of any whistleblowing reports from 
the Compliance Committee.
There was one whistleblowing report in 2015, which 
was not found to involve any financial or other loss 
to the Group. It was thoroughly investigated and 
it was deemed appropriate that no further action 
was taken. In 2016 to date there have been no 
whistleblowing reports.
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption measures
The Group’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, 
which is available on the Group’s website, and the 
Company Rules incorporate appropriate provisions 
to meet our obligations under the UK Bribery Act 
2010. A training and communication programme for 
all employees is in place to ensure that employees 
understand the requirements of the Act and the 
reporting procedures. Tailored communications 
are directed at employees in roles or working in 
countries that are regarded as higher risk.
Arrangements with contractors and suppliers have 
been and will continue to be reviewed and updated 
to reflect the requirements of the Bribery Act. 
The Compliance Committee oversees the reporting 
procedures and monitors and escalates reports in 
appropriate circumstances. There were no reports 
of concern during 2015 or up to 15 February 2016, 
being the latest practicable date before the printing 
of this report.
Human rights and equal opportunities
The Group has signed the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and has integrated relevant human 
rights principles into its policies for employees and 
contractors. There is growing interest worldwide in 
the issue of the impact of business on human rights.
As a result of our work in 2013 with Shift, a specialist 
NGO working on business and human rights, we 
are confident that our risk in this area remains 
low. More detail is provided in our supplemental 
CR reporting which can be found on our website 
here: http://tinyurl.com/j4kzjy4 We have adopted 
a specific Human Rights Policy within our Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics, in addition to our 
existing policies on conflict minerals, business ethics, 
discrimination and export controls. Our Human 
Rights Policy underlines our commitment to aim to 
avoid any adverse impact on human rights in the way 
we conduct our operations, and designates contact 
points within the senior executive team for any 
employee to seek advice on any issue that might have 
human rights implications. 
The Group strives for equal opportunities for all its 
employees and does not tolerate any harassment of, 
or discrimination against, its staff. A more detailed 
description of our policies on diversity and equal 
opportunities is included in the Directors’ report 
on page 46. The Group endeavours to be honest 
and fair in its relationships with its customers 
and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen, 
respecting the laws of the countries in which 
it operates.
Environmental, social, corporate governance 
and ethical policies
Whilst the Group is accountable to its shareholders, 
it also endeavours to take into account the 
interests of all its stakeholders, including 
employees, customers and suppliers and the local 
communities and environments in which it operates. 
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial 
Officer take responsibility for these matters, which 
are considered at Board level. Full details of our CR 
strategy and achievements can be found in the main 
CR report (which does not form part of this Annual 
Report) on our website http://tinyurl.com/j4kzjy4 
and a summary of highlights from the year are 
included in the Sustainability section of the Strategic 
Report on page 44. Following the publication of the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) in September 2015, our CR report will 
describe how we are responding to, and aligning with 
the SDGs. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 16
Corporate governance
continued…
Code Principle: Relations with shareholders
Investor relations
The Board makes considerable efforts to establish 
and maintain good relationships with shareholders 
and the wider investment community. There is 
regular dialogue with institutional investors during 
the year, except during close periods. The main 
channel of communication continues to be through 
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial 
Officer and the VP of Investor Relations. 
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director 
and the other directors are available to engage in 
dialogue with major shareholders as appropriate.
The Board encourages communication with 
private investors and part of the Group’s website is 
dedicated to providing information for all investors, 
including responses to frequently asked questions, 
the investment case, product information, press 
releases, RNS and SEC announcements, and the 
Annual Report.
At present, over 29 sell-side analysts write research 
reports on the Group and their details appear on 
the Group’s website. Shareholders can also obtain 
telephone numbers from the website, enabling 
them to listen to earnings presentations and audio 
conference calls with analysts. In addition, webcasts 
or audiocasts of key presentations are made available 
through the website.
Members of the Board develop an understanding 
of the views of major shareholders through any 
direct contact that may be initiated by shareholders, 
or through analysts’ and brokers’ briefings. 
The Board also receives feedback from the Group’s 
brokers and financial PR advisers, who in turn 
obtain feedback from analysts and brokers following 
investor roadshows. All shareholders can register to 
receive the Group’s press releases via the internet 
here: http://tinyurl.com/j25tha3.
AGM
The Board actively encourages participation at 
the AGM, scheduled for 28 April 2016, which 
is the principal forum for dialogue with private 
shareholders. The Circular and Notice of AGM are 
being sent to shareholders concurrently with the 
distribution of this Report, which is well in advance 
of the required 21 clear days before the meeting. 
At the AGM, a presentation is made outlining 
recent developments in the business and an open 
question-and-answer session follows to enable 
shareholders to ask questions about the business in 
general. The Chairman, who chairs the Nomination 
Committee, will be present at the AGM. He will 
arrange for the respective Chairmen of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees to be available to 
answer questions and for all directors to attend.
All resolutions proposed at the 2016 AGM will 
be decided on a poll and the voting results will be 
published via RNS and the SEC, and made available 
on the Group’s website at http://tinyurl.com/zlyfj74. 
Details of the resolutions that will be proposed 
at the 2016 AGM can be found in the Directors’ 
report disclosures starting on page 44. 17 Glossary and Group directory Financial Report Governance ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015
We are committed to assisting 
the Board in ensuring the 
integrity of the Group’s financial 
reporting, audit processes, risk 
management and internal control. Lawton Fitt
Committee Chairman
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 18
Audit Committee report
Committee membership and responsibilities
Lawton Fitt became Chairman of the Committee 
on 1 January 2016, succeeding Kathleen O’Donovan 
who chaired the Committee from 31 January 201 1 
until 31 December 2015. Lawton is qualified as 
the Committee financial expert as defined in the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (US) and has recent and 
relevant financial expertise in compliance with the 
Code provision C3.1 and DTR 7.1.1 R. Our external 
auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, the VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP 
Business Assurance & Head of Internal Audit, the 
Head of Tax and the General Counsel & Company 
Secretary are invited to attend all meetings in order 
to ensure that all the information required by the 
Committee for it to operate effectively is available. 
The Group Chairman and other Board members 
also attend Committee meetings from time to time. 
In conjunction with each meeting, representatives of 
the Group’s external auditors have a private session 
with the Committee, without other management 
being present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to 
the Board on a regular basis on how the committee 
has discharged its responsibilities.
The Chairman of the Committee also has separate 
meetings with the VP Business Assurance & Head 
of Internal Audit, the Chairman of the Risk Review 
Committee, the external auditors, the Chief Financial 
Officer, the General Counsel & Company Secretary, 
the Chief Information Officer, the VP Investor 
Relations and the VP Finance, ARM Group during 
the year. This is to discuss their ongoing work and 
any areas of concern, to enable certain members 
of management to report on key areas of risk and 
control and to ensure that the agendas of the Audit 
Committee reflect developments in the business.
Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2015
Name of director Position
Meetings
attended/eligible
meetings
Lawton Fitt  
(appointed 1 September 2015)
Independent non-executive director, Committee Chairman  
from 1 January 2016 3/3
Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 7/7
Andy Green Senior Independent Director 7/7
Kathleen O’Donovan  
(retired 31 December 2015) Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairman 7/7
During 2015, the Chairman of the Committee and 
the external audit partner again organised a meeting 
for the UK-based PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC) audit and tax teams and the ARM finance 
and tax teams to discuss the audit approach, to 
understand the planning for the year end, and to gain 
insights into the corporate governance environment, 
updates to financial reporting requirements and the 
Group’s expectations from the internal and external 
audit processes. We consider this to be a valuable 
exercise which gives the ARM finance team and the 
external auditors the opportunity to reflect on the 
previous year’s audit and helps to ensure that our 
audit processes are continually improved. Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 19
Principal activities
Principal activities of the Committee during 2015 
were the monitoring and reviewing of:
 › the integrity of the financial statements 
of the Group, including any significant 
reporting judgements;
 › any formal announcements of the Group’s financial 
performance and the clarity of disclosures;
 › the Group’s risk management framework and 
internal controls and the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal controls over financial reporting; 
 › the status of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance;
 › the framework for ensuring compliance with legal 
requirements, accounting standards, the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and the requirements of the SEC;
 › the assessment of Going Concern and the Longer 
Term Viability Statement, in advance of their 
consideration by the Board;
 › whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable;
 › the work and results of Business Assurance and 
Internal Audit in relation to the 2015 Audit Plan 
and approving the 2016 Audit Plan;
 › the effectiveness and integrity of the 2015 external 
audit process; including assessing the external 
auditors’ independence and objectivity, the 
effectiveness of the audit process and fees, the 
engagement of the external auditors to supply 
non-audit services and assessing their nature, 
extent and cost effectiveness; as well as making 
recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment, remuneration and resignation or 
dismissal of the Group’s external auditors;
 › the process and procedures whereby employees 
can raise concerns regarding potential 
impropriety; and
 › the effectiveness of the Audit Committee and our 
own Terms of Reference.
The integrity of financial reporting and 
review of significant issues
The Committee reviewed the integrity of the 
financial statements of the Group and all formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s financial 
performance. Each quarter, the Committee 
reviewed accounting papers prepared by 
management on areas of financial reporting 
judgement. These included:
 › consideration of the accounting treatment of 
substantial transactions, including any judgemental 
matters in relation to revenue recognition for 
major licence contracts with customers, which 
concluded that revenue had been accounted 
for appropriately;
 › consideration of the identification of the Group’s 
operating segments and cash generating units and 
presentation of non-reportable segments of the 
Group which concluded that the business still has 
one reportable segment;
 › review of the Adjusted Performance Measures 
(APMs) used by the Group and referred to as 
normalised performance measures. Our aim is 
to ensure they are properly derived, consistently 
treated and transparently presented, and are 
appropriately balanced with regard to the 
required IFRS measures;
 › consideration of the judgements surrounding 
the goodwill impairment reviews performed 
in the fourth quarter of 2015. In light of the 
continuing strong performance of the Group in 
the year, the Committee was comfortable with 
management’s assessment that, after considering 
various scenarios incorporating various sensitivity 
and stress tests, no impairment in carrying value 
was required;
 › consideration of management’s judgement 
regarding the level of provision required to be 
carried in relation to ongoing litigation involving 
either the Group or its licensees, and in particular 
where the Group may be required to indemnify 
its licensees, including receiving regular updates 
from the Group’s General Counsel;
 › consideration of the key judgements made 
in estimating the Group’s tax charge and 
review of any provisions in respect of ongoing 
tax matters, together with assessment from 
independent experts;
 › consideration of the Group’s tax strategy and key 
developments that may influence the Group’s 
global tax position;
 › review of reports from the Compliance and 
Risk Review Committees as regards any matters 
relevant to the financial reporting of the Group; 
and
 › consideration of the accounting treatment 
applied to intangible assets, including goodwill, 
on acquisitions.
The effectiveness of risk management and 
internal controls
2015 was the first reporting period in which the 
Board was required to comply with the 2014 
revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
which included a new requirement at C.2.1 to 
conduct a robust assessment of the principal risks 
facing the Company, including those that would 
threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity. The Board has always believed 
that an effective and robust risk management 
framework and system of internal control is essential 
to achieving reliable business performance and we 
have an established process to identify and manage 
risk within the business. The Audit Committee 
oversees the design and effectiveness of this 
process; we will continue to focus on challenging and 
improving it throughout the year. You can read more 
about our principal risks on pages 35 to 39 of the 
Strategic Report.
We are pleased with the progress and 
improvements achieved in 2015 as described in 
the Corporate Governance report on pages 12 
to 15; however, we believe that there is no room 
for complacency when managing risk and internal 
controls in a fast-moving business environment and 
work in these areas will be ongoing in 2016 and 
beyond. We have seen continued improvement 
in the transparency and active ownership of risk 
management throughout the organisation, driven 
and supported by a strong tone at the top and the 
growing strength of the assurance provided by the 
three lines of defence model.  
The COSO framework of internal control 
continues to be embedded across the organisation. 
The processes and procedures for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant business, 
operational, financial, compliance and other risks 
have been successfully integrated into day-to-
day business operations through our business 
management and governance system known as AMS 
and the associated Audit Assurance System.
The AMS is fully documented and compliance is 
monitored through audits and periodic controls 
testing during each year. The effectiveness of 
individual controls is also reviewed with their owners 
within the operations and functions of the Group 
to ensure efficacy and relevance. The Business 
Assurance function reports on the status of the 
AMS to the Audit Committee at least twice each  ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 20
year. The Compliance and Audit Committees 
also monitor the satisfactory remediation of any 
identified control issues with Group-level significance.
The Audit Committee has conducted a review 
of the effectiveness of the Company’s risk 
management and internal control systems which 
included consideration of how risks are identified 
and evaluated, how mitigation plans are created, 
executed and monitored, and has accountability 
for risk mitigation is established. The annual plan 
which the Committee reviews covers all sources 
of assurance and a quarterly update on progress 
against plan is provided.  We reported to the Board 
on any relevant matters. There were no significant 
internal control failings or weaknesses which it was 
considered necessary to report.
The work of  Business Assurance & 
Internal Audit
ARM’s Internal Audit function develops an annual 
audit plan to provide assurance that controls 
are designed and operating effectively and that 
corrective action is being taken where necessary.
In 2015, we engaged KPMG to conduct a review of 
the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and 
put forward proposals for enhancing the function to 
ensure that it remains fit for purpose as the business 
grows. The review concluded that the Internal Audit 
function delivers appropriate assurance across the 
business efficiently and effectively. Some areas of 
focus were identified and these will be considered 
by management as part of the business planning 
process, to ensure that the Internal Audit function 
remains effective. We also reviewed the resources 
of the team, the plans for their deployment during 
the year and the manner in which key working 
relationships were managed between the Business 
Assurance team and the Compliance and Risk 
Review Committees, the external auditors PwC 
and LRQA.
As well as the committee’s formal meeting with the 
VP Business Assurance & Head of Internal Audit, 
the Chairman of the committee met with him 
informally throughout the year in order to provide 
the opportunity for open and timely dialogue. 
Typically there is a discussion about the content 
and quality of papers intended for the committee, 
emerging business risks, the quality of engagement 
with Internal Audit and any concerns that may 
have arisen.
Fair, balanced and understandable
ARM’s annual report takes a large part of the year 
to complete; from concept to design and image 
selection to content development, authoring and 
reviewing. A small core team creates the design and 
most of the content, and they call on colleagues 
across the business to add key insights and details. 
The report is continually reviewed throughout its 
planning and development stage by a wide range 
of internal and external experts. Together, they 
endeavour to ensure that ARM’s annual report is a 
fair reflection of its business and industry context; 
it is balanced, with emphasis on both the future 
opportunities and risks the business faces; and it 
is concise and understandable to a broad range of 
readers with different backgrounds, knowledge levels 
and requirements.
In line with the requirement in the Code; based 
on internal audit reviews and confirmations from 
management, the Committee and the Board believe 
that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Compliance with the Listing Rules of the 
FCA, the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (US)
The Audit Committee has reviewed the framework 
for ensuring compliance with the legal requirements 
of the FCA, SEC and UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Throughout 2015, the Group complied 
fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(September 2014), the UK Listing Rules, Disclosure 
and Transparency Regulations and also with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (US).
Going concern and longer-term viability
In advance of the consideration by the Board of its 
going concern evaluation, the Audit Committee 
reviewed the 2016 budget and longer-term plans and 
considered any reasonably likely scenarios that may 
occur. In 2015, the Committee also considered for 
the first time the proposed Longer-Term Viability 
Statement (LTVS) and reviewed the analysis which 
supported the time period on which the LTVS is 
based including the assumptions and qualifications 
underlying the stress-testing and scenario analysis. 
The Committee is satisfied that, at the time of 
approving the financial statements, it is appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements of both the Group and the 
parent Company and that the LTVS is appropriate. 
This view was supported by a sensitivity analysis and 
stress tests which showed that, across the three-year 
timeframe of the LTVS even extreme assumptions in 
the stress test did not alter the conclusion. 
External audit plan and approach
During the year we reviewed PwC’s audit strategy, 
the audit approach, key areas of focus, materiality 
and the audit plan. PwC explained its risk-based 
approach, including the interaction with its work on 
internal control for the purposes of expressing an 
opinion under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act. The results of those procedures were reported 
in November and December 2015 and January and 
February 2016. No material misstatements remained 
unadjusted in the financial statements.
In addition to the private meetings held with the 
external auditors and the Committee, the Chairman 
of the Committee meets with the PwC team on a 
regular basis to provide the opportunity for an open 
communication regarding any concerns, as well as to 
understand their assessment of key judgements as 
they arise.
External auditor effectiveness and 
partner rotation
PwC have been the Group’s auditors since it listed 
on the London Stock Exchange in April 1998. 
The external auditors are required to rotate 
the audit partner responsible for the Group and 
subsidiary audits every fifth year end. The last 
audit partner rotation took place early in 2012. 
The Committee considers that the relationship 
with the auditors is working well and remains 
satisfied with their objectivity and effectiveness. 
The Committee is also satisfied with the quality of 
challenge, scepticism and execution by the auditors 
and this view is supported by a review of the 
effectiveness of the external audit process, which 
was undertaken in December 2015 and reported on 
in January 2016 involving Board members and senior 
managers who interact with the auditors. The review 
was conducted with reference to the best practice 
Audit Committee report
continued… Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 21
guidance contained in the FRC’s Audit Quality 
practice aid, which was published in May 2015 and 
looked at the robustness of the audit, and the quality 
of delivery, people and service. The conclusion was 
that the auditors are effective.
Tenure of external auditors
The Committee has considered the 2014 
amendments to the EU Statutory Audit Directive 
(the Directive) with regard to audit tenure, which 
will come into force on 16 June 2016 and mandate 
a maximum audit tenure of 10 years, subject to 
certain exceptions. On the basis of the Committee’s 
continued satisfaction with the performance and 
effectiveness of PwC (as described above), it has 
not considered it necessary to date to require the 
firm to tender for the audit work. The Committee’s 
expectation remains that it will conduct an audit 
tender before 2018.
Auditor independence
The auditors are required to, and do, communicate 
with the Committee at least annually as to whether 
there are any threats to their independence and 
objectivity and, if there are, what safeguards have 
been applied. The Committee has reviewed the 
auditors’ transparency report, paying particular 
attention to the sections covering internal controls, 
independence policies and the results of external 
regulator reviews. Having reviewed the safeguards in 
place, and the contents of the transparency report, 
as well as noting the regular and recent rotation of 
the audit partner, the Committee is satisfied that 
the auditors’ procedures are sufficient to maintain 
their independence and objectivity. The Committee 
has also considered the level of non-audit fees and 
believes that these are at a level which does not 
compromise their objectivity or independence 
in any way. There are no contractual obligations 
restricting the Group’s choice of external auditor. 
The Committee also keeps under review the value 
for money of the audit.
Policy on auditors providing 
non-audit services
To avoid the possibility of the auditors’ objectivity 
and independence being compromised, there 
is an agreed policy in place on the provision of 
non-audit services by the auditors, which sets out 
arrangements for approving:
 › services that require general pre-approval by 
the Committee;
 › services that require specific pre-approval by the 
Committee before work commences; and
 › services that cannot be provided by the auditors.
This non-audit services policy is reviewed annually. 
The Committee has discussed the anticipated 
effects of the amendments to the Directive and will 
ensure that the non-audit services policy remains 
fully compliant with transposition of the Directive 
into UK legislation. The Group’s tax advisory work is 
carried out by the auditors only in cases where they 
are deemed to be best suited to perform the work 
in a cost-effective manner, given their familiarity with 
the Group’s business. In other cases, the Group has 
engaged another independent firm of accountants 
to perform tax advisory work. The Group does 
not normally award general consulting work to the 
auditors. Consulting work by PwC in respect of the 
Group’s procurement model, which commenced and 
was reported on during 2014, was finalised at the 
beginning of 2015. No other consulting work took 
place. From time to time, the Group will engage the 
auditors to perform work on matters relating to 
benchmarking of the Internal Audit function, human 
resources and royalty audits. A breakdown of fees 
paid to the auditors can be found in note 5 to the 
financial statements.
Lawton Fitt
Committee Chairman
17 February 2016 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 22 22 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015
The Nomination Committee’s 
goal is to ensure that the Board 
and its committees comprise 
individuals with the requisite 
skills, knowledge and experience 
to maximise effectiveness in 
discharging its duties. Stuart Chambers
Nomination Committee Chairman
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 23
Nomination Committee report
Nomination Committee effectiveness
2015 activities
The Committee continually reviews the skills, 
experience and attributes of the current 
directors, which informs the qualities to be sought 
when making future director appointments. 
Our goal remains to ensure that the Board and its 
committees comprise individuals with the requisite 
skills, knowledge and experience to maximise 
effectiveness in discharging its duties. In 2015, we 
finalised the appointment of our new CFO and 
made two appointment recommendations to the 
Board. The search for a replacement for Kathleen 
O’Donovan as Chairman of the Audit Committee 
commenced in February 2015. Having entered into 
discussions with a number of external search firms, 
we appointed Zygos Partnership to lead the search 
in April 2015. After a rigorous search process we 
recommended the appointment of Lawton Fitt 
to the Board. We also identified the need for a 
greater degree of technology expertise amongst the 
independent non-executive directors, and, following 
support from Lygon Group, we recommended 
the appointment of Stephen Pusey to the Board. 
There is no connection between the Group, or any 
individual director and either Zygos Partnership or 
Lygon Group.
At the end of 2014, the Board agreed that we should 
review the composition of each of the standing 
committees and make recommendations for any 
improvements which we identified. During 2015, 
we recommended the following appointments to 
committees in conjunction with the Chairmen of 
those committees:
 › John Liu – appointed to the Nomination 
Committee 5 February 2015
 › Lawton Fitt – appointed to the Audit 
Committee 1 September 2015 (Chairman from 
1 January 2016)
 › Stephen Pusey – appointed to the Remuneration 
Committee 1 January 2016
Nomination Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2015
Name of director Position
Meetings
attended/eligible
meetings
Stuart Chambers Chairman 4/4
Kathleen O’Donovan Senior Independent Director (retired 31 December 2015) 4/4
Andy Green
Independent non-executive director (Senior Independent Director 
from 1 January 2016) 4/4
John Liu Independent non-executive director (appointed 5 February 2015) 4/4
In addition to leading the process for Board 
appointments and making recommendations to 
the Board in relation to new appointments, the 
Committee also has a responsibility to contribute 
towards the Board’s development of an orderly 
succession plan for the appointment of directors and 
senior management. It was appropriate to involve 
the whole Board in this process and in September 
2015, the Board received a comprehensive 
presentation on succession planning. Following that 
session, the Nomination Committee met and 
discussed succession for each of the most senior 
appointments and a number of actions were agreed 
and will be taken forward during 2016. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 24
Nomination Committee report
continued…
Diversity
The Committee notes the findings of the fifth 
annual progress report by Lord Davies in respect of 
the proposals originally put forward in the Davies 
Review of 201 1. We recognise the importance 
of promoting gender equality on boards and 
throughout businesses.
We believe that diversity should be considered 
broadly, as well as focusing on gender. It is important 
to achieve the correct balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board, throughout senior 
management and across the organisation as a whole.
We will continue to make Board appointments 
on merit and also to value diversity in its broadest 
context. In summary, we are committed to 
recruitment which is based on equal opportunities 
for all, irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, 
disability, religious affiliation, sexual orientation or 
marital status. During 2016, the Committee will 
continue to review the composition of the Board 
and its committees to ensure that we continue to 
maintain, collectively, a highly effective Board.
The Board currently comprises three executive 
directors, the Chairman and six independent 
non-executive directors. At the year end there 
were eight men (80%) and two women (20%) 
which broadly reflects the gender diversity of ARM’s 
workforce as a whole. Other measures of diversity, 
such as tenure and industry experience are shown 
on page 6.
Stuart Chambers
Chairman
17 February 2016
As of the 31 December 2015, the gender splits 
for the Group are as follows:
For all ARM established employees
(does not include contractors)
Men 83%
Women 17%
For Senior Managers
Men 87%
Women 13%
The split for 2015 hires by gender is as follows:
Men 81%
Women 19%
For the Board
Men 80%
Women 20% Larry Hirst
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 25
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present you with ARM’s 
Remuneration report for 2015.
In 2015, the committee has continued to work 
to ensure that a consistent policy on pay applies 
across the Group and we have spent time 
reviewing the design of reward applicable to 
employees both at and below executive director 
level. Our aim is to ensure that remuneration 
policies and practices remain competitive within 
our industry to attract the best talent, whilst 
driving behaviours that are in the long-term 
interests of the Group and its shareholders.
The ARM Remuneration Policy received a 97% 
vote in favour at the 2014 AGM, which we believe 
reflected shareholders’ approval of a remuneration 
policy that drives performance, is aligned with Group 
strategy and shareholder value, and that is fair to both 
executives and shareholders. In this context, the 68% 
support for the annual report on Remuneration at the 
2015 AGM was a disappointing outcome. 
Our engagement with shareholders prior to the AGM 
indicated concerns about the structure of recruitment 
buy-out awards for our new Chief Financial Officer, 
Chris Kennedy, as disclosed in the 2014 Annual 
Report. In particular, there were concerns that 
part of the award was in cash (subject to clawback) 
and that none of the award was subject to explicit 
performance conditions.
At a glance 
Remuneration Strategy Our principles
The key focus of remuneration at ARM is long-term performance 
and delivery of value to shareholders. 
Executive director reward:
Fixed 
Salaries, pensions and benefits are appropriately competitive but 
are generally no higher than market median.
The Group’s strategy and business objectives are the primary 
considerations when selecting appropriate performance measures 
for our incentive plans.
Remuneration packages should be as simple as possible, whilst still 
taking into account the scale and complexity of the business and 
the requirements of investors. For this reason, generally only two 
incentive plans are in operation for executive directors – an Annual 
Bonus which is payable in cash and awards under the LTIP which are 
payable in shares.
Benchmarking provides a useful reference point but not a target 
range for salaries, incentives or other benefits.
Our shareholding requirements (200% of salary for executive 
directors and Executive Committee members) help to maintain 
commitment over the long term and ensure the interests of our 
senior management team are aligned with those of shareholders. 
Details of directors’ holdings are set out on page 35.
Variable
More than 70% of total potential remuneration is performance-
related.
LTIP – potential to earn significant remuneration when 
performance is above target but no shares vest if performance 
is below threshold. 50% of vested shares are subject to 
further deferral.
Bonus payments – no payment is made if financial performance 
is below threshold.
The Remuneration Committee has discussed the 
feedback received and understands the position of 
shareholders on this issue. The committee will take 
the feedback provided into account in the event of 
future executive director recruitment. 
We are aware of shareholders’ preference that 
companies should not make frequent changes to 
policy and we will propose changes only if we believe 
that they would lead to better alignment between 
pay, strategy and long-term business performance. 
No changes are proposed for 2016 and we intend to 
bring our updated Remuneration Policy to the 2017 
AGM for approval. Accordingly, we will consult with 
shareholders in the second half of 2016.
Directors’ Remuneration report ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 26
Summary of single figure total pay for 2015 (audited)
Executive director
Total amount  
of salary  
£000
All taxable 
benefits  
£000
Bonus  
payments  
£000
Money and 
other assets 
receivable for 
periods of more 
than one 
financial year  
£000
All 
pensions-related 
benefits  
£000
Other
 £000
Total  
£000
Simon Segars 575 82 378 360 68 – 1,463
Chris Kennedy 158 955 104 – 13 950 2,180
Mike Muller 302 15 181 340 34 – 872
Tim Score  
(retired 30 June 2015) 214 9 – 1,027 23 – 1,273
The full single figure table of remuneration with explanatory notes is on page 28
Key performance indicators and linkage to bonus targets
   
Revenue 
Grow ARM’s business by winning market 
share, attracting new customers and entering 
new markets
Key
 Gain or maintain market share
 Increase value per smart device
 Generate new revenue streams
 Invest for the long term
   
Normalised Operating Profit
Generate increased returns for shareholders
The Group’s strategy, key performance indicators and progress towards achieving them are described in 
more detail in the Strategic Report on pages 26 to 34. The adoption of revenue and normalised operating 
profit as performance measures for the bonus targets demonstrates alignment of executive reward with our 
strategic goals. 
Contents of the Remuneration Report
Annual Report on Remuneration 28
Single figure remuneration table 28
Remuneration details 29
Chairman and non-executive directors’ remuneration 34
Remuneration Committee – composition and activities in 2015 36
Remuneration Policy (as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM) 39
Group performance in 2015
ARM performed strongly in 2015. Group dollar revenues increased 15% and normalised diluted earnings per 
share by 25% (IFRS: 33%). However, across the three-year cycle on which LTIP vesting is calculated ARM’s 
share price was not in the top half of its comparator group and therefore did not achieve the relative Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) target. Bonuses earned by executive directors in respect of performance in 2015 
were in the range of 59.81% to 65.79% of salary. The Former Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DAB) vested in 
full, with the maximum 2:1 ratio of matching shares being earned. This was achieved because the normalised 
EPS growth upper target was reached for the three years making up the performance period.
Key activities of the committee in 2015 and 2016
Salary increases
In line with good practice for internal promotions, Simon Segars was appointed as Chief Executive Officer 
in July 2013 initially on a below-market salary, which was increased by 3% in 2014 and by 1 1.65% in January 
2015. For 2016, the committee reviewed his salary and overall package against best practice in UK companies 
of similar size and complexity (with reference to revenue and market capitalisation). Taking this and Simon’s 
individual performance over the previous year into account. we concluded that an increase of 6.09% from 
£575,000 to £610,000 for 2016 was appropriate, given his continued capability and performance and the 
increasing scale, profitability and complexity of the Group. This 6.09% increase compares with an average 
of 6.24% increase across the employee population as a whole. 
The committee also reviewed salaries for Chris Kennedy and Mike Muller, and determined that an increase of 
5% was appropriate. A review of Chris Kennedy’s salary was considered appropriate in light of the fact that 
his contract was agreed in January 2015, notwithstanding the fact that he did not commence employment 
until 1 September 2015.
Directors’ Remuneration report
continued… Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 27
It is anticipated that any future increases for all executive directors will continue to be aligned with those 
applicable to employees generally and will, as usual, be subject to continued high performance from both the 
individual and the Group.
Changes to LTIP leaver provisions
The committee reviewed the Company’s LTIP leaver provisions during the year, and minor revisions were 
made to further align with market practice and best practice. In particular, in respect of awards made in 2015 
and future years, good leavers’ awards will typically vest on the normal vesting date rather than immediately 
on termination, and any holding period will also apply.
Other activities included:
 › review of Group and individual executive directors’ performance against bonus targets for 2015;
 › setting of performance targets for the bonus plan for 2016;
 › review of performance targets for the LTIP awards in 2016;
 › review of a new all-employee share matching scheme, to be put to shareholders for approval at the 
2016 AGM for implementation in 2017. Executive directors will not participate in this plan unless or 
until permitted to do so by the Remuneration Policy;
 › review of updated plan rules for the 2006 Employee Equity Plan and the 2006 Employee Stock Purchase 
Plan, which expire in 2016; and
 › approval of treatment of exceptional items in respect of calculating annual bonus payments, resulting 
in actual revenue and normalised operating profit (NOP) being adjusted to remove the impact of the 
acquisitions made in 2015 and certain long-term strategic investments for the purposes of measuring 
annual bonus. The committee considers this to be reasonable since these represent activities that were 
outside of the original budget and target levels set. The impact was to reduce revenue achieved by $9.1m 
and to increase NOP by £4.2m. 
Other than in relation to the treatment of exceptional items in respect of the annual bonus, there were no 
other areas where the committee exercised discretion in 2015 or to date in 2016.
ARM is a high technology business that relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain top quality talent in 
all areas and particularly in engineering and computer science. The Remuneration Committee takes an active 
interest in the level and structure of pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, including how they compare 
to those of the executive directors. It has always been part of ARM’s ethos and is essential to our culture of 
collaboration and innovation to include all of our employees in our equity plans.
The rest of this report comprises two sections:
 › The Annual Report on Remuneration, which details remuneration arrangements for the directors as 
they operated in 2015, and explains the linkage between Group strategy, performance and remuneration. 
This report, including the Chairman’s introduction, will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 
2016 AGM.
 › Our Remuneration Policy (for information only), approved at the 2014 AGM, to which no changes are 
proposed for 2016. 
We look forward to receiving your support at the AGM on 28 April 2016.
Larry Hirst 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
17 February 2016 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 28
Annual Report on remuneration
We set out below how our Remuneration Policy was implemented during 2015 and how we plan to 
implement it in 2016.
Single figure remuneration (audited)
Executive director
Total amount  
of salary  
£000
All taxable 
benefits  
£000
Bonus  
payments  
£000
Money and 
other assets 
receivable for 
periods of more 
than one 
financial year  
£000
All 
pensions-related 
benefits  
£000
Other
£000
Total  
£000
Simon Segars 2015 575 82 378 360 68 – 1,463
Simon Segars 2014 515 155 281 1,277 56 – 2,284
Chris Kennedy 
2015 (appointed 
1 September 2015) 158 955 104 – 13 950 2,180
Chris Kennedy 2014 – – – – – – –
Mike Muller 2015 302 15 181 340 34 – 872
Mike Muller 2014 294 15 146 1,260 33 – 1,748
Tim Score 2015  
(retired 30 June 2015) 214 9 – 1,027 23 – 1,273
Tim Score 2014 427 27 212 1,825 46 – 2,537
Total 2015 1,249 1,061 663 1,727 138 950 5,788
Total 2014 1,236 197 639 4,362 135 – 6,569
This table, as well as the explanation below, has been audited by the Company’s auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Explanation of single figure remuneration (audited):
The single figure of remuneration table provides details of pay and benefits earned by a director in respect 
of the particular calendar year. Not all of the remuneration is paid in that year.
The bonuses earned during 2015 will be paid in cash in February 2016. 
The money and other assets receivable for periods of more than one financial year are the amounts received 
by directors on the vesting of shares in February 2016. These shares were awarded in February 2013 under 
two schemes: the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the matching element of the former DAB Plan. 
The amounts received are included in the single figure of remuneration for 2015 since the performance 
period for both these schemes concluded in 2015.
All the executive directors receive family healthcare and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits 
in kind. In addition, Mike Muller and Chris Kennedy receive car and fuel allowance. Simon Segars received 
£68,000 (2014: £143,000) for living, transportation and other allowances as part of his placement in the 
US. Chris Kennedy received a one-off cash award of £950,000 in January 2016 which is included in taxable 
benefits and a one-off award of RSUs of £950,000 in November 2015 which is included in other as part 
of his new Chief Financial Officer package. 
Share prices applicable to grant and vesting of share awards:
8 February 2013 – 924.5 pence 
8 February 2014 – 896.0 pence 
12 February 2015 – 1,087.0 pence 
1 1 February 2016 – 899.0 pence
Remuneration summary:
From 2014 onwards remuneration for executive directors has comprised three principal elements:
Base salary Cash bonus LTIP
Structure of executive directors’ remuneration 
% of salary
New
11
100
200
300
400
500
600 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 29
Base salary: to provide an appropriately competitive level of base salary in order to enable the Group 
to recruit, retain and reward executive directors of the calibre required to achieve the Group’s business 
strategy and goal of sustained growth in corporate performance. The committee considers corporate 
performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues when setting the remuneration 
of executive directors.
Annual bonus: maximum of 125% of base salary, paid in cash with the goal of incentivising executive directors 
to achieve profit and revenue targets that each account for 50% of target bonus. These targets are directly 
linked to the Group’s short-term financial and strategic goals and are regarded as the best drivers to increase 
market share and continue the Group’s outperformance of semiconductor market growth. 85% of base 
salary is payable at target. Bonus is subject to an individual performance multiplier, which flexes the payment 
by 0.75 to 1.25, subject to the overall maximum of 125% of salary.
LTIP: annual conditional share awards are made at 187.5% of base salary with the ability for vesting of 
between 0% and 200% of that amount after three years dependent on achievement of performance 
conditions. Dividend shares are added at vesting. The performance measures and rationale for choosing 
them are described in more detail on page 31.
There are further holding periods of one year for 25% of the vested shares and two years for a further 
25% of the vested shares. 
Full details of our Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM is set out on pages 39 
to 43.
Base salary increases for 2015 and 2016
Executive directors’ annual base salaries have been increased as follows:
From 1 January 
2015
% increase 
2014-2015
From 1 January 
2016
% increase 
2015-2016
Simon Segars £575,000 11.65% £610,000 6.09%
Tim Score £427,450 0.00% n/a n/a
Mike Muller £302,360 3.00% £317,500 5.01%
Chris Kennedy* £475,000 n/a £498,750 5.00%
* Chris Kennedy’s 2015 salary applies from 1 September 2015.
For 2015, the average increase in base salaries for the executive directors was 5.57% for the three individuals 
who served in both 2014 and 2015, compared with the average increase for the workforce as a whole of 
4.78%. For 2016, the average increase is 5.46% for the executive directors and 6.24% for the workforce as 
a whole. In line with good practice for internal promotions, Simon Segars was appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer in July 2013 initially on a below-market salary, which was increased by 3% in 2014 and a further 1 1.65% 
in January 2015. For 2016, the committee reviewed his salary and overall package against best practice in UK 
companies of similar size and complexity (with reference to revenue and market capitalisation), taking into 
account Simon’s individual performance over the previous year. This review concluded that an increase of 
6.09% from £575,000 to £610,000 for 2016 was appropriate given his continued capability and performance 
and the increasing scale and complexity of the Group. The new salary is within our Remuneration Policy and 
is consistent with ARM’s philosophy of setting salaries, bonuses and benefits at appropriately competitive 
levels, with the main emphasis on long-term, performance-driven share-based rewards.
Across the Group, the increase for 2016 is in a range of 4.2% for the US rising to 9.2% in Asia, reflecting local 
market conditions and salary inflation.
Annual Bonus Plan in respect of 2015 financial year
Since 2014, bonuses have been paid wholly in cash. Target bonus is 85% and maximum bonus is 125% 
of base salary.
Individual performance conditions linked to business strategy are specific to each executive director and 
are set annually. These flex the amount of bonus by a factor of 0.75 to 1.25, subject to the overall maximum 
of 125% of salary. The committee reviews the extent of achievement of specific individual performance 
conditions in arriving at the individual performance multiplier.
The committee retains discretion to adjust bonus targets for any financial year to reflect exceptional events 
including acquisitions or disposals. This  discretion was exercised in 2015 and actual revenue and normalised 
operating profit (NOP) were adjusted to remove the impact of the acquisitions made in 2015 and certain 
long-term strategic investments for the purposes of measuring annual bonus. The committee considers this 
to be reasonable since these represent activities that were outside of the original budget and target levels set. 
The impact was to reduce revenue achieved by $9.1m and to increase NOP by £4.2m.  ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 30
Annual Report on remuneration
continued…
2015 Bonus targets and achievement (audited):
Financial element outcomes: 
The financial targets that applied to the 2015 bonus and the achievement against those targets were: 
Weighting Threshold Budget Target Achievement
Bonus 
achievement 
Normalised Operating Profit 50% of max £406.4m £454.0m £471.0m £462.3m 37.22%
Group Revenue 50% of max US$1,292.6m US$1,450.3m US$1,540.0m US$1,479.5m 33.14%
Bonus outcome (% of Target) 0% 50% 100% 70.36%
Bonus achievement (% of salary) 0% 42.5% 85% 59.81%
* NOP for bonus purposes is calculated using the Group budget exchange rate of £1:US$1.60 for 2015.
 › For each element, bonus pays out linearly between the threshold and the budget and between the budget 
and target.
 › Above target, bonus continues to pay out linearly. Over-achievement of either the profit or revenue 
targets can compensate for a shortfall in the other (subject to the overall maximum of 125% of salary).
Individual performance outcomes (audited):
The individual performance multiplier is linked to targets and objectives that are specific to each executive 
director and set annually. It should be noted that, when applied to the executive directors, the individual 
performance multiplier normally falls within a relatively narrow range at the upper end. This results 
from the fact that maintaining a very high level of performance is a pre-requisite to continuation in the 
role of executive director. Performance is reviewed in-depth on at least an annual basis by the Chief 
Executive Officer (for the other executive directors) and by the Chairman for the Chief Executive Officer. 
These assessments are then reviewed by the Remuneration Committee. For performance in 2015, the 
individual performance conditions included objectives related to the following areas:
Simon Segars Achieving 2015 business performance targets 
Succession planning, key appointments and organisational effectiveness  
Strategy development
Chris Kennedy Organisational review, capital return strategy, effectiveness of CFO function
Mike Muller IoT strategy and organisation, R&D oversight to ensure long-term technology pipeline, 
university relationships
Tim Score Transitioning CFO role and responsibilities
The individual multipliers approved by the committee for 2015 are shown in the table below.
Overall bonus outcomes (audited)
The executive directors received the following bonus payments in respect of performance in 2015.
Executive director
Salary  
£000
Bonus outcome 
(% of salary)
Individual 
multiplier
Total bonus 
outcome  
(% of salary)
Bonus  
paid  
£000
Simon Segars 575 59.81% 1.1 65.79% 378
Chris Kennedy* 158 59.81% 1.1 65.79% 104
Mike Muller 302 59.81% 1.0 59.81% 181
Tim Score – – – – –
* Chris Kennedy’s bonus was pro-rated from his start date of 1 September 2015.
Annual bonus for 2016
The bonus opportunity in 2016 will remain 85% of salary for target performance, subject to an individual 
multiplier and an overall maximum of 125% of salary. The committee continues to consider growth in 
revenue and profit as the most appropriate drivers to increase market share and continue the Group’s 
outperformance of semiconductor market growth. The bonus structure for 2016 will be in line with that 
described above for 2015. The specific financial targets and individual performance conditions will be 
disclosed retrospectively in the 2016 Annual Report. The committee has recommended, and the Board is 
of the opinion, that the targets for the Annual Bonus Plan are commercially sensitive because they include 
budgeted numbers within the range of outcomes and it would be detrimental to the Group to disclose them 
in advance of, or during the relevant performance period.
Former Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DAB Plan)
Under the former DAB Plan, which operated for the last time in relation to 2013, 50% of bonus was 
compulsorily deferred into shares, which do not vest for three years. For the remaining awards, the last of 
which will vest in February 2017, at normalised EPS growth equal to the increase in the Consumer Prices 
Index (CPI) plus 4% per annum, the deferred shares will be matched on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 when 
normalised EPS growth is in excess of CPI plus 12% per annum. The deferred shares can be forfeited 
in the event of gross misconduct and the matching shares are subject to forfeiture for “bad leavers”. Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 31
Former DAB Plan vesting in 2016
Shares representing the deferred element of bonus earned in 2012 and awarded in 2013 vested on 
1 1 February 2016 with the maximum 2:1 ratio of matching shares being earned. This ratio was achieved 
because the Group’s performance equated to CPI plus 26.2% per annum compared to the upper limit 
of CPI plus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period, The amounts 
are shown below:
Executive director
Shares deferred 
as part of  
2012 bonus 
awarded in 2013
Number
Matching  
shares  
granted  
Number
Matching  
shares value 
£000
Dividend shares 
vesting
Number
Total award
Number
Simon Segars 20,045 40,090 360 379 60,514
Mike Muller 18,900 37,800 340 357 57,057
Total 38,945 77,890 700 736 117,571
The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 899 pence (based on the closing market price 
on the previous day).
In accordance with the rules of the DAB plan and the LTIP, on his retirement on 30 June 2015, Tim 
Score received the following shares calculated on a pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which 
the performance conditions were satisfied at that date:
DAB
Shares deferred 
as part of  
the bonus
Number
Matching  
shares  
granted  
Number
Matching  
shares value 
£000
Total award
Number
2013 28,637 48,523 456 77,160
2014 33,447 33,750 318 67,197
Total 62,084 82,273 774 144,357
LTIP
Conditional 
award
Number
Vested award 
Number
Total award 
Number
Market value at 
vesting 
£000
2014 TSR 44,724 6,102 6,102 57
2014 EPS 44,725 20,793 20,793 196
Total 89,449 26,895 26,895 253
The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 941 pence (based on the closing market price 
on the previous day).
LTIP vesting in 2016 (audited)
On 8 February 2013, the executive directors were granted awards under the LTIP with a face value of 100% 
of salary. The performance conditions were:
 › TSR vs. FTSE 350 Index (50% of the awards) – threshold vesting for median TSR, increasing on a straight-
line basis to full vesting for upper decile TSR.
 › TSR vs. FTSE All World Technology Index (50% of the award) – threshold vesting for median TSR, 
increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper decile TSR.
Actual Company TSR over the period was 17.9% and below the median TSR for both comparator groups. 
Therefore, the performance conditions were not satisfied in respect of the performance period ended 
31 December 2015 and therefore no shares vested.
LTIP – awards for 2015 (audited)
On 12 February 2015, Simon Segars and Mike Muller were granted awards under the LTIP; on 12 November 
2015 Chris Kennedy was granted awards under the LTIP; details are provided in the table below. The three-
year period over which performance will be measured will be by reference to results for the first quarter 
of 2015 against results for the fourth quarter of 2017 in respect of normalised EPS, and measured over 
1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017 in respect of TSR.
Executive director Date of grant
Awards made 
during the year
Market price on 
date of grant **
Face value on 
date of grant 
£000
Basis of grant  
(% of salary)
Maximum 
award (% of 
salary)
Simon Segars 12 February 2015 99,183 1,087p 2,156 187.5% 375%
Chris Kennedy* 12 November 2015 27,911 1,053p 588 187.5% 375%
Mike Muller 12 February 2015 52,155 1,087p 1,134 187.5% 375%
* Award for Chris Kennedy pro-rated from his start date.
** Share price on award date is based on the closing market price on the previous day.
The award is eligible to vest in its entirety on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to meeting 
performance conditions. Executive directors will additionally be required to hold 50% of any vested awards, 
with 25% released after four years and another 25% released after five years.
Performance measures for the LTIP were selected after careful consideration by the committee, and 
following consultation with larger shareholders. The committee believes that the use of both TSR and 
normalised EPS performance measures provides the best alignment to the Group’s long-term financial 
and strategic goals and encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder value. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 32
Annual Report on remuneration
continued…
The EPS range was set for awards made in 2014 following consultation with shareholders and remained 
unchanged for 2015. The committee will review applicability of performance conditions on an annual basis, 
so that in the event that exceptional circumstances arise, such as material corporate activity or substantial 
changes in market conditions, their impact can be considered against subsequent annual awards. If changes 
are to be proposed for any prospective LTIP award, it would be the committee’s intention to confirm any 
such change to shareholders in advance.
Analysts’ targets are acknowledged as important reference points for the markets, but there are a number of 
factors beyond the control of the Group and the executive directors that may impact medium- to long-term 
EPS performance (such as macro or semiconductor industry cycles and currency fluctuations). These may 
have impacts that would not necessarily be seen as underperformance by the Group. The committee is also 
keen not to encourage short-term views or behaviour where, in theory, investment in the long-term future 
(either organically or by acquisition) may be discouraged if the EPS range is set at too high a level.
The performance conditions for the 2015 LTIP awards were as follows:
EPS (50% of award): 25% of the maximum award vests at threshold and 100% at the upper performance 
target (straight-line in between). Threshold is three years EPS growth of 15% per annum (including CPI) 
and the upper performance target is three years EPS growth of 22% p.a. (including CPI).
TSR vs. FTSE 350 Index (25% of award): 25% of the maximum award vests at median and 100% vests 
at upper quintile (straight-line in between).
TSR vs. FTSE All World Technology Index (25% of award): 25% of the maximum award vests at median 
and 100% vests at upper quintile (straight-line in between).
LTIP awards for 2016
The following conditional awards over ordinary shares were made under the LTIP on 1 1 February 2016:
Executive director Date of grant
Awards made 
during the year
Face value on date 
of grant (% of salary)
Simon Segars 1 1 February 2016 127,224 375%
Chris Kennedy 1 1 February 2016 104,021 375%
Mike Muller 1 1 February 2016 66,219 375%
The mid-market closing price of an ordinary share on 10 February 2016, being the business day prior to the 
date of these conditional awards, was 899 pence.
Following review in December 2015, the committee has decided that the performance conditions should 
continue unchanged for 2016.
Pensions (audited)
The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a group personal pension 
plan, which is a money purchase scheme. For executive directors, the normal rate of Group contribution is 
10% of base salary, or 1 1% in the case of the Chief Executive Officer (plus, if applicable, additional amounts 
in accordance with the Group’s salary sacrifice scheme). Contributions to the scheme or the alternative cash 
allowance were fully paid with respect to the year. None of the executive directors has any entitlement to 
participate in a defined benefit pension scheme.
New Chief Financial Officer package
The appointment of Chris Kennedy as Chief Financial Officer designate was announced on 8 January 2015 
and he joined the Board as an executive director and Chief Financial Officer on 1 September 2015. The key 
elements of his agreed package for 2015, which are in line with our approved Remuneration Policy, are set 
out below. The below package was detailed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration. Please note the 
comments in the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s letter regarding shareholder feedback received, 
and the Group’s response.
Salary – £475,000, determined in January 2015.
Bonus – maximum 125% of salary, pro-rated for actual service in 2015 (four months), subject to the same 
performance conditions as apply to the other executive directors and an individual performance multiplier.
One-off cash award – a payment of £950,000 (less payroll taxes) was made in January 2016 to compensate 
for part of the equity benefits foregone in his previous role. The award will be subject to clawback in the 
event of resignation or termination for cause in the following 12 months.
RSU award – a grant of restricted stock units to compensate for the remainder of equity benefits foregone 
in his previous role with a value of up to £950,000 (the number of restricted stock units to be based on 
the share price at the date of grant). The units will vest in equal tranches over four years and be subject to 
forfeiture over the period.
In determining the buy-out awards (i.e. the one-off cash award and the RSU award), the committee 
considered a number of factors including the performance conditions attached to awards foregone, the 
likelihood of those conditions being met and the remaining vesting period of these awards. The total fair value 
of the awards is less than those foregone at easyJet plc, and the quantum reflects the strong likelihood of 
Chris Kennedy’s easyJet awards vesting in full. In terms of structure, cash and RSUs were chosen for simplicity 
and value for money for ARM shareholders, respectively.
LTIP award – an award in line with the approved Remuneration Policy, pro-rated for actual service in 2015 
(four months), subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the other executive directors.
Pension – an employers’ contribution of 10% of salary. Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 33
Performance graphs
A performance graph showing the Company’s TSR together with the TSRs for the FTSE All-World 
Technology Index and the FTSE 350 from 31 December 2008 is shown below. 
The committee considers the FTSE All World Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index 
contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe and therefore reflects the global environment in which the 
Group operates. In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the Group’s customers, as 
well as companies that use ARM technology in their end products.
The TSR for the Company’s shares was 1,175% over this period compared with 210% for the FTSE All World 
Technology Index for the same period.
ARM total shareholder return performance from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2015
Dec 10 Dec 09 Dec 08 Dec 11 Dec 13 Dec 12 Dec 14 Dec 15
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
ARM FTSE 350 FTSE All-World Technology Index  
CEO’s pay for the last seven financial years
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Warren East  
(retired 30 June 2013) 2,011 7,571 7,745 6,710 3,416 – –
Simon Segars (appointed CEO  
1 July 2013) – – – – 2,065 2,284 1,463
CEO’s total single figure £000* 2,011 7,571 7,745 6,710 5,481 2,284 1,463
Bonus % of maximum award % 67% 100% 100% 85% 91% 44% 53%
LTIP % of maximum vesting % 91% 100% 100% 100% 92% 47% –
DAB matching % of maximum vesting % 0% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
* Warren East retired on 30 June 2013 and was succeeded by Simon Segars. The CEO’s total single figure for 2013 represents the pay, 
benefits and pension received by Warren East for the first half of the year as well as the market value at vesting of the shares received 
by him on his retirement under the rules of the LTIP and DAB Plan. The figure also includes the pay, benefits, bonus and pension received 
by Simon Segars for the second half of the year as well as the market value of the shares received by him under the LTIP and DAB 
Plan in respect of the financial year to 31 December 2013. The percentage of maximum awards and vesting achieved in 2013 are those 
received by Simon Segars.
Comparison of CEO and employee pay and benefits (unaudited)
The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration from the prior 
year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all other employees. To provide a 
meaningful comparison, the analysis includes only salaried employees and is based on a consistent set of 
employees, i.e. the same individuals appear in the 2015 and 2014 populations.
Director CEO Employees
Increase, from 2014 to 2015, in:
Base salary 11.65% 4.78%
Benefits -29.14% 7.78%
Bonus 34.70% 22.64%
The following information is unaudited:
Relative importance of spend on pay (£m and percentage change) 
Sta pay Tax Dividends to shareholders Research and development costs
2014 2013
11
2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015
50
100
150
200
250
300
400
350
292.5
80.1
316.4
202.9
224.2
278.0
123.3
75.1
22.9%
99.0
23.6%
61.1
5.7%
57.8
10.5%
8.2%
17.1%
24.5%
24.0%
370.6
This graph shows the amount spent over the past three years on the remuneration of all employees 
(including the executive directors) compared with the amounts spent on other significant outgoings 
(i.e. distributions to shareholders, investment in research and development and tax). These were the three 
most significant outgoings for the Group in the last financial year. Staff pay includes salary, bonus, social 
security costs, pension and healthcare costs and share-based payment charges.
Compensation for loss of office (audited)
Tim Score retired from the board on 30 June 2015. His leaving arrangements are in line with those set out in 
his contract, i.e. a 12 month notice period providing salary and contractual benefits until the termination date. 
He did not receive an annual bonus or LTIP award in respect of 2015. His outstanding LTIP and DAB awards 
were adjusted in line with the Remuneration Policy for a good leaver at the time the awards were made, 
i.e. pro-rated to his termination date and vesting immediately, subject to performance.  ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 34
Annual Report on Remuneration
continued…
The committee notes that the Group’s LTIP leaver provisions were reviewed during the year, and minor 
revisions were made to further align with market practice and best practice. In particular, in respect of 
awards made in 2015 and future years, good leavers’ awards will vest on the normal vesting date rather than 
immediately on termination, and any holding period will apply.
Payments to past directors (audited)
No payments were made to past directors during 2015.
The potential awards held by the executive directors under the LTIP and DAB Plan as at  
31 December 2015 are as follows (audited):
Director Date of award
Potential  
number  
of shares 
receivable at 
threshold 
Number
Maximum 
potential  
number  
of shares 
receivable
Number
Market value  
at date  
of award
£
Maximum 
potential value  
at date  
of award
£000
Simon Segars 8 February 2013 LTIP 16,224 64,898 9.245 600
DAB 6,013 40,090 9.245 371
13 August 2013 LTIP 5,640 22,560 8.865 200
8 February 2014 LTIP 53,885 215,540 8.96 1,931
DAB 9,098 60,654 8.96 543
12 February 2015 LTIP 49,591 198,366 10.87 2,156
Total LTIP 125,340 501,364 4,887
Total DAB 15,111 100,744 914
Chris Kennedy  
(appointed 1 September 2015) 12 November 2015 LTIP 13,955 55,822 10.53 588
Total LTIP 13,955 55,822 – –
Mike Muller 8 February 2013 LTIP 15,413 61,654 9.245 570
DAB 5,670 37,800 9.245 349
8 February 2014 LTIP 30,714 122,858 8.96 1,101
DAB 6,750 45,002 8.96 403
12 February 2015 LTIP 26,077 104,310 10.87 1,134
Total LTIP 72,204 288,822 2,805
Total DAB 12,420 82,802 752
Chairman and non-executive directors’ remuneration
In line with fee arrangements in place in other companies of similar size and complexity, the Company 
implemented the following fee arrangements from 1 January 2016:
 › Chairman fee of £400,000 per annum.
 › A standard NED fee of £65,000 per annum. This was increased from £60,000 in 2015, and was adjusted 
after careful review, to reflect ARM’s position in the FTSE-100 and the increasing scale and complexity of 
the business.
 › Additional fees for Committee Chairmen of £20,000 per annum and for the Senior Independent Director 
of £16,000 per annum (last increased in 2015) to more fairly reflect the workload undertaken by them. 
Fees paid to the Chairman will remain at the same level in 2016 as for 2015, as will the additional fee paid 
to Committee Chairman and the Senior Independent Director. 
The fees paid to the Chairman and the non-executive directors in respect of 2014 and 2015 and proposed 
to be paid in 2016 are set out below:
Director
Total  
proposed fee for 
2016
£000
Actual  
fee 2015 
(audited)
£000
Actual  
taxable  benefits 
2015*** 
(audited)
£000
Actual  
total 2015 
(audited)
£000
Actual  
fee 2014 
(audited)
£000
Actual  
taxable benefits  
2014*** 
(audited)
£000
Actual  
total 2014 
(audited)
£000
Stuart Chambers 400 400 7 407 338 10 348
Lawton Fitt (appointed 
1 September 2015)** 85 20 1 21 – – –
Andy Green* 81 60 2 62 64 4 68
Larry Hirst 85 80 1 81 76 2 78
John Liu (appointed 
1 December 2014)** 65 62 1 63 5 1 6
Stephen Pusey (appointed 
1 September 2015) 65 20 – 20 – – –
Janice Roberts** 65 67 1 68 68 1 69
Kathleen 
O’Donovan (retired 
31 December 2015) – 96 – 96 92 1 93
* A one-off additional fee of £4,000 was paid to Andy Green in 2014 for attending ARM Asia Advisory Group meetings to reflect the 
additional time commitment.
** Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who are based outside the UK and travel to the UK for Board meetings as follows: 
Janice Roberts $2,500 per meeting,  John Liu £2,000 per meeting,  Lawton Fitt £2,000 per meeting. This is to reflect their additional time 
commitment.  This figure is not reflected in the total proposed fee for 2016.
*** T axable benefits consist of expenses paid to non-executive directors to travel to UK Board meetings. Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 35
Non-executive directors’ shareholdings in the Company (audited)
Director
Shareholding at 
date of report
Number
Shareholding at 
31 December 
2015 or date  
of retirement  
if earlier 
Number
Stuart Chambers 40,000 40,000
Lawton Fitt (appointed 1 September 2015) 210 210
Andy Green 5,250 5,250
Larry Hirst – –
John Liu – –
Stephen Pusey (appointed 1 September 2015) 6,329 6,239
Janice Roberts – –
Kathleen O’Donovan (retired 31 December 2015) – –
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are not eligible to participate in bonus or share 
incentive arrangements. Their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other benefits, and no 
element of their fees is performance-related.
Directors’ shareholdings in the Company (audited)
There is a requirement for executive directors to hold shares to the value of 200% of their salary as set out 
in the Remuneration Policy on page 41. All of the executive directors have holdings well in excess of this 
requirement, with the exception of Chris Kennedy who is yet to build sufficient holding, having joined the 
Group on 1 September 2015.
The directors’ beneficial interests in the Company’s ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each are as follows:
Shares
Director
Owned outright 
and vested at 
date of report
Owned  
outright and 
vested at 
31 December 
2015 or date of 
retirement if 
earlier
Vested but 
subject to 
holding at 31 
December 2015
Unvested  
and subject  
to deferral at 31 
December 2015
Unvested and 
subject to 
performance 
conditions at 31 
December 2015
Shareholding at 
31 December 
2015  
(% of salary/fee)
Requirement 
met? (based on 
share price on 
31 December 
2015 of 1039p)
Simon Segars 668,432 630,660 – – 602,108 1,140 Yes
Chris Kennedy 20,256 20,256 – 90,218 55,822 44 No
Mike Muller 1,336,000 1,305,760 – – 371,624 4,487 Yes
Tim Score (retired 
30 June 2015) n/a 799,454 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
In addition to the interests disclosed above, the executive directors have interests in dividend shares that 
could be awarded under the former and current LTIPs and the former DAB Plan, the amount of which will 
depend on the extent to which the performance criteria are satisfied and on the dividends declared during 
the performance period. The maximum potential shares under the LTIP and the matching shares under the 
DAB plan are subject to performance conditions.
No director has any outstanding interest in options at the date of this report. Except as described above, 
there have been no changes in directors’ interests since the end of the 2015 financial year up to the date of 
approval of the Remuneration Report.
Share dilution
It is proposed that the Group will continue to manage dilution within the context of maintaining award levels 
within a 10% limit over five years, the limit that has applied since 2003. We are aware that this is higher than 
the limit of 5% over ten years in respect of discretionary awards and 10% over ten years in respect of all 
schemes adopted by many UK companies and preferred by many institutional investors. The reasons for this 
higher limit, which was approved by shareholders when the former LTIP was introduced, are as strong today. 
These are:
 › the broad-based nature of our equity plans, under which shares are provided to all employees and are 
a key part of the Group’s employee reward package; and
 › the need to be able to compete with US companies world wide for the high-calibre engineers and 
executives required to secure the Group’s future success.
The committee is keenly aware of this issue, and expects to keep well below the 10% upper limit. 
Dilution over the past five years has been 3.8%. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 36
Annual Report on remuneration  
continued…
External roles
It is the Company’s policy to allow executive directors to hold a non-executive position at another company 
and to receive remuneration for their services. The Board believes that experience of the operations of 
other companies and their boards and committees is valuable to the development of the executive directors.
Details of executive directors’ roles within other companies and their remuneration are as follows:
Simon Segars became a non-executive director of Dolby Laboratories, Inc. on 3 February 2015. He received 
an award of 7,759 RSUs with a market value of $38.66 per share on that date and the award vested in full 
on 1 February 2016 with a market value of $35.78 per share. On 2 February 2016, he was granted a further 
award of 7,575 RSUs with a market value of $35.73 per share, which will vest in full on 1 February 2017. 
In addition, Simon Segars received fees totalling $40,673 up to 31 December 2015 (2014: n/a). Mike Muller is 
a non-executive director of Intelligent Energy plc and he received fees totalling £53,000 up to 31 December 
2015 (2014: £49,1 10). Chris Kennedy will take up a position as a non-executive director at Whitbread plc on 
1 March 2016 and his remuneration will be disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report.
Remuneration Committee
In this section we describe the composition and activities of the committee during 2015.
Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2015:
Name of director Position
Meetings attended/ 
eligible meetings
Larry Hirst Independent non-executive director 5/5
Andy Green Independent non-executive director 5/5
Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 5/5
Stephen Pusey joined the committee on 1 January 2016.
Given their diverse business experience, the independent non-executive directors who made up the 
committee in 2015 offer a balanced view and international expertise in relation to remuneration matters 
for the Group. Their biographies appear on pages 6 to 7.
Operation of the committee
The Chief Executive Officer, the EVP People and the VP Reward are normally invited to attend for at least 
part of each meeting to ensure that the committee is able to obtain their input. The Group Chairman also 
normally attends meetings by invitation. The Company Secretary advises the committee on corporate 
governance matters and acts as Secretary to the committee. None of these individuals are present when 
their own remuneration is discussed. External advisers also attend meetings by invitation. Their advice and 
recommendations are used as a guide but do not in any way replace the committee’s own deliberations 
and decisions.
The committee’s terms of reference are published on the corporate website at http://tinyurl.com/j7f25zj.
The principal items of business dealt with by the committee during 2015 and early 2016 are described in the 
Committee Chairman’s initial letter on page 25. Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 37
External advisers
The committee has access to independent professional advice on remuneration matters. Following a 
competitive tender process, Mercer Limited (Mercer) was appointed by the committee in April 2014 
and also provides advice to management on reward for the wider workforce. Mercer is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code of Conduct, which incorporates principles 
of transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care and confidentiality. On the basis of Mercer’s 
confirmation of adherence to this Code and the detailed advice it has given since appointment, committee 
members are satisfied that its advice is objective and independent and that its fees are in line with market 
practice. Fees are charged at an hourly rate based on an agreed fee rate and fee quotations are provided in 
advance for any significant elements of work.
Work undertaken by Mercer for the committee in 2015 included analysis and advice on the design of 
executive reward and the new share matching plan, review and making recommendations in relation to the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2015, analysis of executive benchmarking data and preparation for 
and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings. The committee also received advice from Kepler 
Associates (Kepler) (subsequently acquired by Mercer in June 2015) who provided independent verification 
of Total Shareholder Return (TSR) calculations for the LTIP. Kepler also provided a valuation model for the 
LTIP to the Group to assist with calculation of share compensation charges.
Fees paid to external advisers in the year were:
Name of advisor Fee Work undertaken
Mercer £61,185 Analysis and advice on exceutive 
director and broader executive 
packages, specific review of TSR 
comparator groups applicable to 
ARM, review and recommendation 
in relation to DRR for 2015, analysis 
of executive benchmarking data, 
preparation for and attendance at 
Remuneration Committee meetings, 
advice to the People team on aspects 
of reward and incentive.
Kepler £7,200 Independent verification of TSR, 
provision of a valuation model for 
the LTIP. 
2014 AGM – vote on Remuneration Policy
At the 2014 AGM voting on the Remuneration Policy was as follows:
97.58% vote in favour out of a total of 1,099,892,91 1 votes cast (with 2.42% votes against and 14,047,874 
votes withheld).
2015 AGM – Statement of voting
At the 2015 AGM voting was as follows:
Annual Report on Remuneration 67.9% vote in favour out of a total of 1,089,913,024 votes cast (with 32.1% 
votes against and 21,040,764 votes withheld).
Feedback from our shareholders ahead of the vote indicated concerns about the recruitment buy-out award 
for our new Chief Financial Officer, Chris Kennedy. In particular there were concerns that part of the award 
was in cash (subject to clawback) and that none of the award was subject to explicit performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee has discussed the feedback received and understands the position of 
shareholders on this issue. The committee will take the feedback provided into account in the event of future 
executive director recruitment and when a new Remuneration Policy is submitted at the 2017 AGM.
Remuneration Policy
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy in the table on pages 39 to 43 was approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2014. It applies to the executive directors at the date of this report and is 
intended to apply for three years from adoption in relation to any new executive director appointments. 
We believe that sustained growth can be successfully achieved only with a high level of employee engagement 
and motivation. We believe that it is in shareholders’ best interests that the Group is able to attract the 
best talent in the world within our specialised market. All elements of pay and benefits set out in the policy 
table are regarded as necessary to recruit, retain and motivate appropriately skilled executives and align 
their remuneration to the long-term success of the Group. The structure of appropriately competitive base 
salaries and higher potential incentives supports both short- and long-term strategy and has proved both 
motivational and successful in achieving strong business performance over the past few years.
This Remuneration Policy section of the report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the 
Large- and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
2013. The committee has also taken into account the principles set out in Schedule A to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2014) published by the Financial Reporting Council, the Listing Rules of 
the Financial Conduct Authority and the Investment Association’s Principles of Remuneration revised in 
November 2015. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 38
Annual Report on remuneration 
continued…
The committee considers corporate performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues 
when setting the remuneration of executive directors. It also takes account of pay and conditions elsewhere 
in the Group. In particular, the committee is mindful of the fact that all employees receive share awards under 
the Group’s equity plans.
The committee does not specifically consult with employees when setting and reviewing remuneration 
policy for the executive directors; however, it does review the salary increases for all Executive Committee 
members against the general employee pay award each year to ensure that there is fairness. Employees have 
an opportunity to raise any concerns over pay and benefits through the annual employee engagement survey 
or direct with their line manager. The EVP People and the VP Reward attend meetings by invitation and are 
available to answer the committee’s questions on wider employee remuneration matters.
Shareholding requirements
In order to align executives’ interests with those of shareholders over a longer time period, from 2014 
onwards all Executive Committee members have been required to build a shareholding of 200% of base 
salary (an increase from the previous level of 100% of base salary). For other participants in the LTIP, the 
shareholding requirement has increased from 50% to 100% of base salary. Unvested shares under the LTIP 
and former DAB Plan do not count towards the shareholding requirements. Until these levels are achieved, 
no more than 50% of shares received through vesting under the DAB Plan and LTIP (after the automatic 
sale of shares to satisfy tax liabilities) can be disposed of by participants. For 2014 a transitional arrangement 
applied for participants below Executive Committee level under which 20% of net shares vesting was 
retained. This increased to 50% for 2015 onwards.
Service contracts
In accordance with Code Provision D.1.5, our policy is that notice periods for executive directors are of 
one year’s duration and each of the executive directors’ service contracts reflects this. These agreements 
provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full time basis and contain restrictive 
covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-
competition, non-solicitation of the Group’s customers, non-dealing with customers, and non-solicitation 
of the Group’s suppliers and employees. In addition, each service contract contains an express obligation 
of confidentiality in respect of the Group’s trade secrets and confidential information and provides for the 
Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during 
the financial year are as follows:
Director Date
Simon Segars 17 July 2014
Chris Kennedy (joined 1 September 2015) 17 January 2015
Mike Muller 31 January 1996
Tim Score (retired 30 June 2015) 1 March 2012
Service contracts for the executive directors and appointment letters for the Chairman and non-executive 
directors are available to view in the Corporate Governance section of our website at http://tinyurl.com/z4r36z9.
The term of appointment for non-executive directors is three years, which can be rolled forward for two 
further periods each of three years, which would be subject to annual review. Appointments are subject to 
termination on three months’ notice. Fees paid to non-executive directors are reviewed annually with effect 
from 1 January. Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 39
Remuneration Policy
Remuneration Policy for executive directors 
Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Base salary
To provide an appropriately competitive level of base salary 
in order to enable the Group to recruit, retain and motivate 
executive directors of the calibre required to achieve the 
Group’s business strategy and goal of sustained growth in 
corporate performance.
Base salaries are reviewed annually by the committee and are 
paid monthly in cash.
Increases generally apply from January in each year. In its annual 
review or on promotion, the committee considers the following:
 › Pay levels at companies of similar size (by reference to 
market capitalisation and revenue) on a geographic and 
global basis.
 › External market conditions.
 › Pay and benefits elsewhere in the Group.
 › Individual performance, skills, experience and potential.
 › Corporate performance on environmental, social and 
corporate governance issues.
Clawback does not apply to base salary (in accordance with 
contractual agreements).
Base salaries are set at an appropriate level for each role, taking 
account of the factors described in this table.
Generally, salaries are no higher than market median, although 
higher salaries may be paid, if necessary, to recruit externally or to 
retain key executives.
In normal circumstances base salary increases will be determined 
by reference to average increases for employees across 
the Group.
Greater increases may be approved if there is a substantial 
change in a director’s role or responsibilities or if the salary is 
significantly below the current market rate. In such circumstances, 
increases may be phased over a number of years and be 
conditional on performance.
None, although the overall performance of each executive 
director is considered by the committee when reviewing base 
salaries. 
Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay in lieu of notice 
may be made at the discretion of the Group. This would include 
base salary and contractual benefits (pro-rated where applicable) 
and any untaken holiday.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also be paid by 
the Group.
Performance-related bonus
(in respect of 2014 financial year onwards) 
To incentivise executive directors to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly linked to the Group’s short-term 
financial and strategic goals.
Bonus, if earned, is paid wholly in cash for 2014 onwards.
Paid annually after the Preliminary Announcement for the prior 
year end.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Individual performance measures are focused on objectives that 
are specific to each executive director.
Clawback: provisions exist that require bonus to be forfeited 
(i.e. offset of bonus accruing in that year) or an equivalent value 
repaid in exceptional circumstances. These include material 
misstatement of published results and misconduct causing a 
material loss and would apply for two years from the payment 
of such bonus. The proportion of the bonus that would be 
repayable (and could be 100%) would depend on the extent to 
which the original bonus exceeds that which would have been 
paid if the results had been correctly stated, and also taking into 
account any negative impact of the re-statement.
Maximum bonus: 125% of base salary.
Bonus payable at target: 85% of base salary.
Target means the achievement of appropriate maximum targets 
in respect of both Normalised Operating Profit (NOP) and total 
revenue and prior to any personal performance adjustment.
Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of base salary 
Threshold means the minimum level of performance before 
bonus starts to accrue.
Amount is subject to achievement of two performance targets 
and then adjusted for individual performance: 
 › NOP (50% of target bonus).
 › Total revenue (50% of target bonus).
 › Individual performance measures specific to each executive 
director, which flex the amount of bonus by a factor of 
0.75 to 1.25.
Revenue and profit growth are regarded as the most appropriate 
short-term metrics for continuing the Group’s performance.
The committee retains discretion to adjust bonus targets for any 
financial year to reflect intervening events including acquisitions 
or disposals.
The numerical values of targets for any particular financial 
year will not be disclosed in advance or during that year as 
the committee considers this information to be commercially 
sensitive. The actual targets will be disclosed in the following 
financial year. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 40
Remuneration Policy
continued…
Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Performance-related bonus 
(in respect of years up to and including 2013)
To incentivise executive directors to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly linked to the Group’s short-term 
financial and strategic goals.
Revenue and profit growth are regarded as the most appropriate 
short-term metrics for continuing the Group’s performance.
Bonus earned in respect of 2013 was subject to the provisions of 
the DAB Plan. This was the final operation of the DAB Plan.
Bonus was split 50% cash and 50% deferred shares based on 
NOP , total revenue and individual performance.
There is compulsory deferral into shares for three years.
Bonus matching applies to deferred shares in the range of 0.3 for 
1 to 2 for 1 match subject to three-year EPS growth of CPI + 4% 
to CPI +12% per annum respectively.
Deferred and any matching shares in relation to 2013 
performance will be received in February 2017.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.*
Provisions exist that could result in immediate forfeiture of shares 
in the event of dismissal for gross misconduct, as determined by 
the committee and at its discretion.
Maximum and target bonus opportunity of 150% and 100% of 
salary respectively.
The targets for the 2013 bonus were:
 › 50% of target bonus was dependent on achieving a NOP 
target of £313.5 million** with 0% payout at £257.7 million 
rising in a linear way to 25% at £294.6 million. 
 › The NOP portion of bonus can continue to accrue linearly 
above the target of £313.5 million on a straight-line basis, 
subject to the overall maximum of 150% of base salary.
 › 50% of bonus was dependent on achieving a US$ 
revenue target of US$1,096 million** with 0% payout at 
US$913.2 million rising to 25% at $1,030.1 million.
 › The revenue portion of bonus can continue to accrue 
above the target of US$1,096 million so that for every 
1% increase in revenue, bonus is increased by 2.5% of 
the target, subject to the overall maximum of 150% of 
base salary.
 › Bonus amount is then subject to an individual performance 
multiplier which flexes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25 again 
subject to the overall maximum of 150% of base salary.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2013 
(first operation in 2014)
To incentivise executive directors to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly linked to the Group’s long-term 
financial and strategic goals.
To align executive directors’ interests with those of the 
shareholders through the performance conditions and share 
retention obligations. 
Annual conditional share awards are made at 187.5% of base 
salary with the ability for vesting of between 0% to 200% after 
three years dependent on achievement of the performance 
conditions, with a maximum of 375% of base salary.
50% of the vested shares will be subject to additional holding 
periods with 25% released after four years and the remaining 
25% released after five years. During these new holding periods, 
shares may not be sold even if the participant has left the Group.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.
Malus: The committee has discretion to reduce a share award 
(including to nil) prior to vesting where there are exceptional 
circumstances, which include a material misstatement in the 
Group’s published results, misconduct by the executive director 
that is deemed to have caused or contributed to a material loss 
as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions, or inappropriate 
values or behaviour.
Clawback: The committee has discretion to clawback shares 
and executive directors have an obligation under the Rules to 
transfer shares or pay over the proceeds of sale in exceptional 
circumstances (as described above). If sold at less than market 
value, the obligation is to pay market value at the date of disposal. 
Clawback would be less any tax and social security paid or due 
to be paid. The committee has discretion to set the length of 
the clawback period, which would normally be two years from 
acquisition of the shares.
Maximum limit of 600% in exceptional circumstances as 
determined by the committee. 
By way of example, exceptional circumstances could include 
the hiring of an exceptional senior executive director in a highly 
competitive market where we need to make an exceptional offer 
in order to recruit.
 › For the 2014 award vesting is based on:
 › Three-year Total Shareholder Return (TSR) growth 
relative to the FTSE All-World Technology Index (25%).
 › Three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE 350 (25%).
 › Three-year normalised EPS growth (50%) with threshold 
at 15% annual growth (including CPI) and the upper 
performance target at 22% annual growth (including CPI).
 › 25% of the respective TSR elements vest for 
median performance with 100% vesting for upper 
quintile performance.
Similarly 25% of the normalised EPS element vests at threshold 
performance with 100% vesting at the upper performance target 
with straight-line interpolation between these two points.
The committee will review the performance conditions for new 
awards annually.
The committee has discretion to waive or change a performance 
condition if anything happens that causes the committee 
reasonably to consider it appropriate, provided that any changed 
performance condition will be no more difficult to satisfy than 
the original condition was intended to be at the time the award 
was granted. Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 41
Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Shareholding requirement
To align executive directors’ interests with those of shareholders 
over a longer time period, they are required to build a 
shareholding of 200% of base salary.
Until 200% of salary is achieved, no more than 50% of shares 
received through the DAB Plan and LTIP (after the automatic sale 
of shares to satisfy tax liabilities) can be disposed of.
Unvested DAB Plan shares do not count towards the 
shareholding requirements.
Long Term Incentive Plan
(in respect of years up to and including 2013)
To incentivise executive directors to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly linked to the Group’s long-term 
financial and strategic goals.
To align executive directors’ interests with those of the 
shareholders through the performance conditions and share 
retention obligations. 
Annual conditional awards normally at 100% of salary with the 
potential for the award to vest at between 0% and 200% of 
salary for upper decile performance at the end of the three-year 
performance period.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.
Maximum award limit of 400% in exceptional circumstances was 
never used.
Vesting is based on:
 › Three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE All World 
Technology Index (50%).
 › Three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE 350 (50%).
 › Threshold vesting commencing at median ranking of TSR 
group (25% of respective TSR elements rising to 100% 
vesting for an upper decile ranking on a straight-line basis).
The committee has discretion to waive or change a performance 
condition in the event of circumstances which cause the 
committee to reasonably consider that:
(a)  the amended Performance Condition would be a fairer 
measure of performance and would be no easier to satisfy; or
(b)  the Performance Condition should be waived.
Pension
To provide pension contributions in line with market practice, 
which will enable directors to plan for retirement.
10% of base salary for executive directors and 1 1% for the Chief 
Executive Officer is paid either into the Group Personal Pension 
Plan or overseas equivalent, or as a cash allowance (subject to 
payroll deductions) for those in excess of the lifetime allowance 
applicable in the UK.
1 1% of base salary. Not applicable.
Other benefits
To provide competitive benefits in line with market practice 
to enable the Group to recruit and retain high-calibre 
executive directors.
To reward innovation and invention.
Other benefits are provided appropriate to the location of the 
executive director and include provision of a car or car and fuel 
allowance, long-term sickness and disability insurance, death 
in service benefit, and healthcare and travel insurance for the 
executive director and family.
Executive directors may also receive patent bonuses in line with 
the scheme operated by the Group from time to time for patent 
applications and on grants of patents.
Reasonable market cost of providing benefits.
The committee reserves the discretion to provide such situation-
specific benefits as may be required in the interests of the 
Group’s business, such as relocation. Full details of the exercise 
of any such discretion would be provided to shareholders in the 
next Remuneration report.
Not applicable. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 42
Remuneration Policy
continued…
Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Overseas benefits/Relocation allowances
To provide competitive benefits in line with market practice to 
enable the Group to recruit and retain high-calibre executive 
directors and move them to alternative locations when required 
by the needs of the business.
Executives based in countries outside their home country 
receive other benefits appropriate to the country in which they 
are working.
In the event that an executive director agrees to move from 
their home country temporarily, the relocation arrangements 
may include:
 › Housing allowance or settlement of actual costs;
 › Disturbance allowance to enable essential household 
purchases to be made;
 › Cost of living and transportation allowance for the 
duration of the assignment;
 › Flights home for executive and family;
 › School fees for executive director’s children;
 › Cost of personal tax advice;
 › Cost of visas for executive and family;
 › Cost of transporting executive and family’s 
personal effects;
 › Legal and estate agents fees associated with properties in 
home and overseas locations.
Reasonable market cost of providing benefits for the duration of 
the term abroad.
Not applicable.
One-off recruitment cash/equity awards
To provide an appropriately attractive package to persuade an 
external hire to accept an offer of employment and/or to buy out 
equity that would be lost on leaving previous employment.
An award of restricted stock units (RSUs) or a grant of options 
may be made under the Employee Equity Plan to a new recruit to 
compensate for equity awards foregone with previous employer 
and/or provide equity that vests in the three years prior to 
potential vesting of the first LTIP award. 
Alternatively, a cash payment or an additional LTIP award may be 
made to compensate.
Payment may be on taking up appointment or to coincide with 
vesting dates under the previous employer’s plan.
Malus and clawback provisions would apply.
The maximum would be a sum equal to the value of equity 
foregone, taking account of performance conditions attached to 
the award, likelihood of vesting, and accelerated payment.
The committee has discretion to determine appropriate 
performance conditions for any award of RSUs, any LTIP award, 
or any grant of options taking account of the circumstances of 
each individual case. Performance conditions would normally 
be applied on an equivalent basis to those applicable to awards 
made to other executive directors in the same calendar year. 
Performance conditions may, but would not necessarily, be 
applied to any cash payment.
Other Contributory Equity Plans 
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the share plan 
applicable to the country where they work. 
These plans provide an opportunity for executive directors to 
voluntarily invest in the Group.
ARM currently operates a Save as You Earn Option Scheme 
in the UK (and some other countries) and an Employee 
Stock Purchase Plan in the US (and some other countries), 
which enables employees to buy shares at a discount of up to 
20% of market value through regular monthly or fortnightly 
payroll deductions.
The maximum participation limits will not exceed those set by the 
relevant tax authorities from time to time.
Not applicable.
Fees for non-executive roles held outside 
the Group 
To provide executive directors with opportunities to widen their 
knowledge and experience of the operation of other company 
boards and committees, they are permitted to hold non-
executive positions at other companies.
Executive directors are permitted to retain any fees paid and/or 
shares offered in connection with external non-executive roles 
that they undertake.
The amounts received are disclosed annually. 
Details are provided on page 36.
Not applicable. Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 43
Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Non-executive directors’ (NED) and 
Chairman’s fees
To attract and retain an appropriately experienced Chairman 
and independent non-executive directors of suitable calibre to 
fulfil a range of different roles including financial expert/Audit 
Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other 
Committee Chairmen.
To pay fees that reflect responsibilities and workload undertaken, 
and which are competitive with peer companies. 
NED fees are proposed by the executive directors and approved 
by the Board as a whole. The Chairman’s fee is proposed by 
the committee and approved by the Board as a whole with the 
Chairman taking no part in the decision.
NED appointments are terminable on three months’ notice.
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis and take account of fees 
paid for similar roles by peer companies.
The NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive bonuses, 
pension contributions and nor can they participate in the LTIP or 
other equity plans. 
The overall fees paid to non-executive directors will remain 
within the limit stated in our Articles of Association, currently 
£1.0 million, as approved at the 2014 AGM.
Fees are set at an appropriate level taking into account the factors 
outlined in this table.
Additional fees are paid to the SID and Committee Chairmen.
An additional fee is paid to NEDs based outside the UK who 
undertake long-haul travel to attend Board meetings in the UK, to 
reflect the additional time commitment.
Not applicable.
Legacy arrangements 
(pre 27 June 2012)
None.
* Dividend shares are additional shares added at vesting equal to the amount of dividends that would have been paid during the deferral period for the DAB Plan and LTIP .
** Calculated at the Group budget exchange rate of £1:US$1.60.
In the event of termination of an executive director’s contract of employment, compensation would be based on salary and contractual benefits during the notice period and whether the departing director is deemed to be 
a good leaver under the rules of the Annual Bonus Plan, the 2013 LTIP, the former LTIP, and the former DAB Plan. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 44
The Directors’ report comprises pages 44 to 49 
of this report, together with the sections of the 
Annual Report incorporated by reference.
The directors present their report and the 
audited financial statements of the Group for the 
year ended 31 December 2015. The following 
additional disclosures are made in compliance 
with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2014).
Description of operations, principal activities 
and review of business
The principal operations and activities of the Group 
and its subsidiaries are the licensing, marketing, 
research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors, system IP, graphics processors, 
physical IP and associated systems IP, software 
and tools. The nature of the global semiconductor 
industry is such that most of the Group’s business 
originates overseas and, to serve its customers 
better, the Group has sales offices around the world. 
These include nine offices in the US, three in PR 
China and six in the rest of Asia. The Group has 
design offices worldwide with the larger engineering 
operations based in Cambridge, UK, San Jose and 
Austin, USA, and Bangalore, India. A full list of the 
Group’s offices is included on page 104 to 105.
ARM has its primary listing on the London Stock 
Exchange and is also listed on the NASDAQ Stock 
Market in the US.
More information about the business, its operations 
and key performance indicators is set out in the 
Strategic Report in the Overview on pages 4 to 
8, the Marketplace section on pages 9 to 15, the 
Financial Strategy section, on pages 52 to 54, the 
Risk Management section on pages 35 to 39, and the 
Corporate Responsibility summary on pages 44 to 
45. The Group’s statement on corporate governance 
can be found in the Corporate Governance 
report on pages 8 to 16 of this Governance and 
Financial Report. The Risk Management section 
and the Corporate Governance report form part 
of this section and are incorporated into it by 
cross reference.
Business model
A detailed description of ARM’s business model is set 
out on pages 24 to 25 of the Strategic Report.
Future developments
The Group’s stated objective is to establish a global 
standard for its RISC architecture, physical IP and 
other products in the embedded microprocessor 
and semiconductor markets. The directors believe 
that, in order to achieve this goal, it is important 
to expand the number and range of potential 
customers for its technology.
The Group intends to enter into licence agreements 
with new customers and to increase the range of 
new technology supplied to existing customers. 
Relationships will continue to be established 
with third-party tools and software vendors to 
ensure that their products will operate with the 
Group’s products. As a result of its position in the 
semiconductor industry, the Group is presented 
with many opportunities to acquire complementary 
technology or resources and it intends to continue to 
make appropriate investments and acquisitions from 
time to time.
Going concern 
After dividend payments of £107.8 million and 
share buybacks of £92.2 million, the highly cash 
generative nature of the business enabled the 
Group to increase its cash, cash equivalents and 
deposits to £950.9 million (net of accrued interest of 
£5.4 million) at the end of 2015. This was an increase 
from £861.7 million (net of accrued interest of 
£4.6 million) at the start of the year. After reviewing 
the 2016 budget and longer-term plans and 
considering any reasonably likely scenarios that may 
occur, the directors are satisfied that, at the time of 
approving the financial statements, it is appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements of both the Group and the 
parent Company. 
Longer-term viability statement
The directors have assessed the viability of the 
Group over a three-year period to December 2018, 
taking account of the Group’s current business 
and the potential impact of the principal risks and 
uncertainties documented in pages 35 to 39 of the 
Strategic Report. The longer-term viability statement 
can be found on page 35 of the Strategic Report. 
Risk management and internal controls
A description of the main features of the Group’s 
risk management framework and internal controls 
in relation to the preparation of the consolidated 
accounts can be found on pages 12 to 15 of the 
Governance & Financial Report.
Dividends
The directors recommend payment of a final 
dividend in respect of the year to 31 December 2015 
of 5.63 pence per share which, subject to approval 
at the AGM on 28 April 2016, will be paid on 13 May 
2016 to shareholders on the register on 22 April 
2016. This final dividend, combined with the interim 
dividend of 3.15 pence per share paid in October 
2015, makes a total of 8.78 pence per share for 
the year, an increase of 25% on the total dividend 
of 7.02 pence per share for 2014. The total cost of 
dividends paid or to be paid in respect of the year 
to 31 December 2015 is approximately £123 million.
Share buyback programme
The Group bought back 9,000,000 shares with 
a nominal value of 0.05 pence per share during 
2015 at an average cost of 1,024 pence per share. 
This represents 0.6% of the issued share capital of 
the Group. These shares are held in treasury and 
will be used to satisfy equity awards to employees. 
The purpose of the share buyback programme is to 
offset dilution and maintain the issued share capital at 
a broadly constant level. 750,000 shares have been 
re-purchased to date in 2016. The rolling authority 
to buy back shares given by the shareholders at the 
AGM in May 2015 remains in place and a resolution 
to authorise the directors to make purchases in 
appropriate circumstances will be proposed at the 
2016 AGM.
Directors’ report
Additional disclosures Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 45
Research and development (R&D)
Development of IP is at the heart of the Group’s 
activities and 74% of the Group’s workforce is 
employed in engineering activities. Within this, 
R&D is of major importance and, as part of its 
research activities, the Group collaborates closely 
with universities worldwide and plans to continue 
its successful engagement with the University 
of Michigan. 
Key areas of product development for 2016 include 
the development of further energy-efficient, high-
performance processors, such as ARM cores based 
on symmetric multicore and superscalar technology. 
Recent acquisitions are also expected to have a 
positive impact on future innovation in R&D.
The Group is investing in future physical IP 
development including low-power, low-leakage 
technologies for a range of chip manufacturing 
processes, to ensure leadership in this market. 
In addition, the Group will continue to develop and 
deliver tools, graphics processors and system IP to 
enable its customers to design and program SoCs.
The Group incurred R&D expenses of £278.0 million 
in 2015, representing 29% of revenues, compared 
with £224.2 million in 2014, representing 28% of 
revenues. R&D expenses have been charged in full to 
the income statement.
Donations
The directors decided that an increase in charitable 
giving was appropriate during 2015 and the Group 
made donations as follows:
2015 
£000
2014 
£000
Education 1,141 926
Health 722 117
Environment 103 101
Communities 101 117
Other 52 72
Total 2,119 1,333
ARM’s investment of £2.5 million in an interest-free 
charitable bond in Future Business, made in 2010, 
remains in place. Future Business is a Cambridge-
based social enterprise, which provides business 
advice, coaching and affordable workspace to 
entrepreneurs, start-up businesses, charities and 
voluntary organisations.
ARM employees are encouraged to offer their time 
and expertise to help charities and other groups 
in need. The Group operates a Matching Gift 
Donation programme for individual employees’ 
fundraising efforts. The Group does not make any 
political donations.
More details of the Group’s charitable work and 
fundraising activities can be found in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report available on the Group’s 
website at http://tinyurl.com/j4kzjy4.
Global greenhouse gas emissions
Our report covers emissions within operations that 
fall under the Group’s financial control. As such, data 
used represents our global operations with regional 
conversion factors applied as required.
Our emission factors are from Defra/DECC 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company reporting. 
Our environmental impact assessment of ARM’s 
operations includes energy use and air travel as our 
material CO 2e contributors. We have excluded non-
material emissions related to refrigerant losses in air 
conditioning systems, motor cars and waste streams.
2015 saw an improvement in our carbon 
performance based on intensity per employee in 
terms of our purchased electricity (scope 1 and 
2). This reduction is due to continued growth 
in our headcount during 2015 increasing at a 
more rapid rate than the growth in our overall 
estate. Our Scope 3 emissions, which mainly 
consist of air travel, remained stable during 2015. 
Based on headcount intensity we achieved an 1 1% 
improvement on our 2014 data. This was as a result 
of slightly fewer flight segments being flown coupled 
with an increase in headcount.
Methodology
The method we have used to calculate GHG 
emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised 
edition), using the location-based scope 2 calculation 
method, together with the latest emission factors 
from recognised public sources including, but not 
limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, 
the US Energy Information Administration, the 
US Environmental Protection Agency and the 
Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
Further detail on our emissions and the Group’s 
management of those emissions can be found in our 
Carbon Disclosure Project Submissions.
Reported Emissions 2015 2014
Scope 1 and 2 Emissions
Combustion of Fuel, Operation 
of Facilities, Electricity and Cooling 
Purchased (tonnes CO2e) 14,978 13,741
CO2e Intensity (Tonnes CO2e 
per Employee) 3.57 3.82
Scope 3 Emissions
Business Travel (Tonnes CO2e) 11,514 11,642
The Group’s ongoing environmental impact analysis 
informs management about key environmental 
factors and how it can reduce the impacts associated 
with them. The Group continued to enhance its 
environmental data collection and reporting ability 
during 2015 to support the work of our Energy Use 
and Climate Change Committee (EUCCC).
This is an Executive-sponsored steering group that 
directs activity relating to environmental stewardship 
and the management of our environmental aspects.
In 2015, ARM continued to strive for environmental 
accreditation in its new build projects. Our Austin 
design centre which completed in 2015, had 
environmental performance incorporated into the 
design brief and is expected to achieve Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold 
Accreditation. These building standards ensure high 
environmental performance of the Group’s built 
environment throughout its entire lifecycle. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 46
Directors’ report
continued…
The Group has continued to partner with companies 
working in the low-impact building technology field. 
We have installations in place with IntelliSense, 
Enlight and Alert Me in our Cambridge offices, 
improving our environmental performance using 
energy-efficient ARM technology and in our 
new Bangalore office space we have fitted IoT 
LED lighting. Areas such as lighting control and 
environmental monitoring of plant for improved 
building efficiency are being developed with these 
partners and will be extended to other key sites and 
new build projects. 
The Group’s environmental policy is published 
on our website within the CR report. In line 
with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of 
association enable the Group to send information 
to shareholders electronically and make documents 
available through the website rather than in hard 
copy, which provides both environmental and cost 
benefits. Shareholders can opt to continue receiving 
a printed copy of the Annual Report, subject 
to availability. 
Health and safety
The Group operates in an industry and in 
environments which are considered low risk from a 
health and safety perspective. However, the safety 
and welfare of employees, contractors and visitors 
is a priority in all Group workplaces worldwide. 
The Group continues to improve its management 
systems in this area with an audit programme 
that includes external auditing of processes and 
offices. More detail about the Group’s approach 
to environmental matters and health and safety is 
included in the CR report. 
Diversity and equal opportunities
The Group has a strong demand for highly qualified 
staff. It is proud of its diverse workforce which 
is made up of people of all ages from cultures 
and countries around the world. The Group is 
committed to promoting and ensuring equal 
treatment. No worker (potential or existing), client 
or customer will be discriminated against on grounds 
of their gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil 
partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, 
nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, 
disability or age. A description of the Nomination 
Committee’s approach to diversity is on page 24 of 
the Nomination Committee report.
Disability is not seen to be an inhibitor 
to employment or career development. 
Appropriate arrangements are made for the 
continued employment and training, career 
development and promotion of disabled persons 
employed by the Group. In the event of any staff 
becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs 
and abilities would be assessed and the Group would, 
where possible, seek to offer alternative employment 
to them if they were no longer able to continue in 
their current role.
Employee involvement
To help reach the best decision, and one that 
all employees can support, it is important that 
we include the views of those outside of the 
management team in the decision-making 
process. To this end, internal conferences and 
communications meetings involving employees 
from all parts of the Group in discussions on future 
strategy and developments are held regularly. 
Furthermore, employee share ownership is 
encouraged and all employees are able to participate 
in one of the Group’s share ownership schemes. 
The Group does not presently operate any collective 
agreements with any trade unions.
Information about the Group’s employees and 
policies are contained in the Our people section 
of the Strategic Report. Information about 
environmental matters, social and community 
policies and their effectiveness is contained in the 
Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic 
Report and in the full Corporate Responsibility 
Report available on our website.
ARM University Programme
The ARM University Programme aims to train the 
next generation of engineers on ARM and Partner-
based technologies through the production and 
dissemination of high-quality teaching materials and 
education kits to universities worldwide. By working 
closely with our ecosystem using various partnership 
models, the programme once again doubled its 
adopted course and laboratory base worldwide in 
2015 following a similar expansion in each of 2013 
and 2014. 
2015 also saw the development of new educational 
and training materials, and e-courseware products, 
which have been successfully licensed to various 
partners worldwide. The online deployment of our 
educational products in particular is scaling up the 
programme’s reach considerably. In addition, we 
have finalised the design of an infrastructure for an 
e-textbook publishing activity which will go hand-
in-hand with our e-courseware production activity. 
To further extend the benefits of our approach, the 
programme also developed a government relations 
strategy and plan in 2015, which is already bearing 
fruit, especially in China. Government relations 
are crucial to widening the adoption of standard 
educational formats and products, which the 
ARM University Programme is developing for 
the benefit of the ARM ecosystem as well as the 
wider education system. Indeed, we believe that 
the future success of STEM education depends on 
a much closer partnership between government, 
industry and educational institutions including schools 
and universities.
The Group and our Partners are seeing an increased 
benefit from the ARM University Programme’s 
activities as it educates hundreds of thousands of 
students worldwide utilising ARM technologies, 
preparing them for the vast and varied employment 
opportunities available in the ARM ecosystem.
Directors in the year
The following served as directors of the Company 
during the year ended 31 December 2015 and up to 
the date of signing:
 › Stuart Chambers (Chairman)
 › Simon Segars (Chief Executive Officer)
 › Chris Kennedy (Chief Financial Officer – 
appointed 1 September 2015)
 › Mike Muller (Chief Technology Officer)
 › Lawton Fitt (independent non-executive  
director – appointed 1 September 2015)
 › Andy Green (Senior Independent non-executive 
Director from 1 January 2016)
 › Larry Hirst CBE (independent  
non-executive director)
 › John Liu (independent non-executive director)
 › Stephen Pusey (independent non-executive 
director – appointed 1 September 2015)
 › Janice Roberts (independent  
non-executive director)
 › Tim Score (Chief Financial Officer – 
retired 30 June 2015)
 › Kathleen O’Donovan (Senior Independent 
Director and financial expert – 
retired 31 December 2015) Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 47
Election and re-election of directors
Chris Kennedy joined the Board on 1 September 
2015 as Chief Financial Officer and Lawton Fitt and 
Stephen Pusey joined the Board on 1 September 
2015 as independent non-executive directors and 
will be standing for election at the 2015 AGM. All of 
the other directors will be standing for re-election 
at the 2015 AGM. In line with the provisions of 
the Code, all directors will present themselves 
for re-election annually (if eligible) unless the 
directors have agreed otherwise. See pages 6 to 7 
for the biographies of the directors at the date of 
this report.
The interests of the directors in the Company’s 
ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all of which were 
beneficially held, are disclosed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 35.
The directors have the benefit of directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance.
Appointment of directors
ARM shareholders may by ordinary resolution 
appoint any person to be a director. ARM must have 
not less than two and no more than 16 directors 
holding office at all times. ARM may by ordinary 
resolution from time to time vary the minimum and/
or maximum number of directors.
The directors may appoint a director to fill a casual 
vacancy or as an additional director to hold office 
until the next AGM, who shall then be eligible 
for election.
Conflicts
The Board is fully aware of the other commitments 
of the Chairman and the executive and non-
executive directors. All directors have completed 
conflicts of interest questionnaires and any planned 
changes in their directorships outside the Group are 
subject to prior approval by the Board. No conflicts 
of interest arose in 2015 or to date in 2016, and no 
other situations have been identified that might lead 
to a conflict of interest. In circumstances where a 
potential conflict arises, the Board (excluding the 
director concerned) would consider the situation 
and either authorise the arrangement in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of 
Association or take other appropriate action.
Articles of association 
ARM’s articles of association may be amended 
only by a special resolution at a general meeting 
of shareholders.
Directors’ authority
The directors are responsible for the management 
of the business of ARM and may exercise all 
powers of ARM subject to applicable legislation and 
regulation and the articles of association.
At the 2015 AGM, the directors were given authority 
to buy back a maximum number of 141,146,510 
ordinary shares at a minimum price of 0.05 pence 
each. The maximum price was an amount equal 
to 105% of the average of the closing mid-market 
prices of ARM’s ordinary shares as derived from the 
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 
five business days immediately preceding the day 
on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be 
purchased. This authority will expire at the earlier 
of the conclusion of the 2016 AGM or 30 June 2016. 
During 2015 a total of 9,000,000 shares were re-
purchased and are held in treasury. Share buybacks 
are expected to continue to be made at a level which 
will broadly offset dilution resulting from employee 
share grants.
A resolution will be proposed as a special resolution 
at the 2016 AGM to give ARM authority to acquire 
up to 140,966,995 ordinary shares following expiry 
of the current authority. The directors will use this 
authority only after careful consideration, taking into 
account market conditions prevailing at the time, 
other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing 
levels and the overall position of ARM. In particular, 
this authority will be exercised only if the directors 
believe that it is in the best interests of shareholders 
generally and will increase earnings per share.
Share capital
At 31 December 2015, ARM’s share capital 
comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 0.05 
pence each and there were 1,412,436,842 ordinary 
shares in issue, of which 7,231,108 were held in 
treasury (2014: 7,852,543 shares held in treasury). 
The rights attached to treasury shares are restricted 
in accordance with the Companies Act. The rights 
attached to ordinary shares are as follows:
1. On a show of hands at a general meeting, every 
shareholder present in person (or, in the case of 
a corporation, present at the meeting by way of a 
representative) and entitled to vote shall have one 
vote and every proxy present who has been duly 
appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote on the 
resolution shall have one vote.
2. On a poll, every shareholder present in person 
(or in the case of a corporation, present at the 
meeting by way of a representative) or by proxy 
and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every 
ordinary share held.
3. Shareholders are entitled to a dividend where 
declared or paid out of profits available for 
such purposes.
4. Shareholders are entitled to participate in a return 
of capital on a winding-up.
The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for 
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy 
or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be 
passed at the AGM. All proxy votes are counted 
and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation 
to each resolution are announced at the AGM and 
published on ARM’s website after the meeting. ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 48
Directors’ report
continued…
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary 
shares in ARM other than:
 › restrictions that may from time to time be 
imposed by laws and regulations (for example, 
those relating to market abuse and insider dealing);
 › restrictions that may be imposed pursuant to the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority 
under which certain employees of ARM require 
the approval of the Company to deal in shares;
 › restrictions on the transfer of shares that may be 
imposed under article 61.2 of ARM’s articles of 
association or under Part 22 of the Companies 
Act 2006, in either case following a failure to 
supply information required to be disclosed 
following service of a request under section 793 
of the Companies Act 2006; and
 › restrictions on transfer of shares held under 
certain of the Company’s employee share plans 
while they remain subject to the plan.
Substantial shareholdings
The directors are aware of the following substantial 
interests in the issued share capital of the Company 
as at 15 February 2015:
Percentage  
of issued
Baillie Gifford & Co 9.57 
BlackRock, Inc. 5.08
Thornburg Investment Management 5.01
Fidelity Management and Research Corporation 4.92
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 3.02
Save for the above, the Company has not been 
notified, as at 15 February 2015, of any material 
interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest 
exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of 
the Company.
Qualifying indemnity provision
Article 139 of the Company’s articles of association 
provides for the indemnification of directors of the 
Company against liability incurred by them in certain 
situations, and is a “qualifying indemnity provision” 
within the meaning of section 236 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
The qualifying indemnity was in force during the 
financial year and up to the date of signing the 
Annual Report.
Change of control
All of ARM’s equity-based plans contain provisions 
relating to a change of control. Outstanding awards 
and options would normally vest and become 
exercisable on a change of control, subject to 
the satisfaction of any performance conditions at 
that time.
There are no significant agreements to which ARM 
is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a 
change of control.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management and policies 
and exposure to risks in relation to financial 
instruments are detailed in note 1c.
Essential contracts
There are no parties with whom the Group has 
contractual or other arrangements that are essential 
to the business of the Group.
No customer accounted for more than 10% of 
Group revenues in 2015 (2014: none).
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 1 10 Fulbourn Road, 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK, on 28 April 2015 at 
2.00pm. A presentation will be made at this meeting 
outlining recent developments in the business. 
All voting at the meeting will be conducted on a poll 
where every shareholder present in person or by 
proxy will have one vote for each share of which 
they are the owner. The Group will convey the 
results of the poll on the website after the AGM. 
Shareholders are invited to submit written questions 
in advance of the meeting. Questions should be 
sent to The Company Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 
1 10 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK.
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP as auditors to the Group will be proposed at the 
AGM. Details of other resolutions to be proposed 
at the meeting are set out in the Circular and Notice 
of AGM 2016, which will be made available to all 
shareholders together with a proxy card.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the directors have prepared the 
Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union, and the parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and 
applicable law). Under company law the directors 
must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company, and of the profit or loss of the Group for 
that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
the directors are required to:
 › select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
 › make judgements and accounting estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; 
 › state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards 
have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the Group 
and parent Company financial statements 
respectively; and
 › prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and 
explain the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, with regards to the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the Annual Report included 
on the Group’s website in accordance with the 
UK legislation governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements. Legislation in 
the UK governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions. Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 49
Each of the directors, whose names and functions 
are listed in the biographies on pages 6 to 7, confirm 
that to the best of their knowledge:
 › the Group financial statements, which have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; 
and
 › this Directors’ report on pages 44 to 49 and, 
within the Strategic Report, the Financial 
strategy section on pages 52 to 54 and the 
Risk management sections on pages 35 to 39 
comprise a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position 
of the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to auditors
In the case of each director in office at the date the 
Directors’ report is approved, that:
(a) so far as the director is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
(b) the director has taken all the steps that he or 
she ought to have taken as a director in order 
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Philip Davis
Company Secretary
ARM Holdings plc
Company Number: 2548782 Report on the Group financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, ARM Holdings plc’s Group financial statements (the “financial statements”):
 › give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit 
and cash flows for the year then ended;
 › have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) 
as adopted by the European Union; and
 › have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
 › the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015;
 › the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year 
then ended;
 › the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
 › the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the year then ended; and
 › the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes 
to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified 
as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements 
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas 
of focus
 › Overall Group materiality: £20.7 million which represents 5% of profit 
before taxation.
 › We conducted full scope audit procedures over ARM Limited and 
ARM Inc.
 › We performed specific audit procedures over certain account balances 
and transaction classes in other Group companies, focusing in particular 
on staff costs as total staff costs for the Group represent over 70% of the 
Group’s operating expenses.
 › Taken together, the Group companies over which we performed our 
audit work accounted for over 99% of the Group’s third-party revenues 
and over 80% of the Group’s expenses, profit before tax and net assets.
Our audit focused on the following areas based on materiality and risk:
 › Revenue recognition;
 › Valuation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of Sansa Security 
(“Sansa”);
 › Litigation and accounting for responses to Intellectual Property (“IP”) risk;
 › Taxation; and
 › Share-based payment charges.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) 
(“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the 
financial statements. In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example 
in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events 
that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of 
internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented 
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our 
resources and effort, are identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we 
tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. 
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of ARM Holdings plc
50 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Revenue recognition
See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report 
on page 1 9 for the directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates.
The timing of licence revenue recognition (which makes 
up 39% of the Group’s gross revenue of £968.3 million) is 
inherently complex.
Recognition of licence revenue involves a number of significant 
judgements by the directors, including:
 › determining whether contracts contain deliverables which 
should be separated for revenue recognition purposes and 
the most appropriate revenue recognition methodology for 
each of those elements;
 › determining the allocation of consideration on a fair value 
basis between components of multi-element contracts 
as noted above (where this can be supported based on 
evidence of stand-alone selling prices);
 › determining the point at which the inflow of cash can be 
deemed probable where a contract includes extended 
payment terms; and
 › assessing the degree of completion of contracts which 
are accounted for on a “percentage of completion” basis.
As described in note 1b, royalty revenues earned on sales by 
the Group’s customers of products containing ARM technology 
are recognised when the Group receives notification from 
the customer of product sales, which is typically in the quarter 
following shipment.
In addition, ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud 
in revenue recognition for every audit conducted under these 
auditing standards because of the pressure management may 
feel to achieve the planned results.
We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal 
controls that the Group uses to ensure the completeness, 
accuracy and timing of revenue recognised, including controls 
over the degree of completion of revenue contracts at year-
end. We found the operation of these controls to be 
effective, which provided us with audit evidence that 
licence revenue had been recorded accurately and in 
the correct period, in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policies. We read a sample of licence contracts 
selected on a high value basis and assessed whether the revenue 
recognition methodology and the Group’s accounting policy 
was consistent with accounting standards and had been applied 
consistently. Where a contract contained multiple elements, 
we considered management’s judgements as to whether there 
were elements that should be accounted for separately, and, in 
such cases, challenged the judgements made in the allocation 
of the consideration to each element by considering alternative 
judgements that could have been made.
We evaluated and challenged the significant judgements (including 
assumptions used) and estimates made by management in 
applying the Group’s accounting policy to specific contracts 
and separable elements of contracts by considering alternative 
judgements or assumptions that could have been made, and we 
obtained evidence to support them, including details of contractual 
agreements, delivery records, time records/sheets, cash receipts 
and project plans. We noted no instances of inappropriate 
revenue recognition arising in our testing.
For the contracts selected we inspected original signed contracts, 
re-performed management’s calculations and agreed the revenue 
recognised to the underlying accounting records. We did not 
identify any material exceptions in our testing. 
We challenged judgements made by the directors in determining 
whether the inflow of cash on future billing milestones could 
be considered probable by assessing the terms of the related 
contracts, the payment history of customers to whom such billing 
terms have been extended, and any external factors that provided 
evidence of a customer’s ability and intent to pay such amounts. 
We did not identify any instances of inappropriate 
recognition of revenue under extended billing 
milestones through our testing.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
We obtained management’s calculations of the degree of 
completion of contracts at year-end. We agreed a sample of 
source data used in management’s calculations to supporting 
evidence, and evaluated the judgements applied. We also 
considered the historical outturn of judgements made in prior 
periods. We did not identify any material exceptions 
in our testing. 
We tested royalty revenues by agreeing a sample of amounts 
recognised to customer notifications and cash receipts. 
No material exceptions were noted from our testing.
In response to the presumed risk of fraud, where revenue was 
recorded through journal entries we tested a sample of journals to 
establish whether there were any unusual items. No such items 
were identified from our testing.
Valuation of intangible assets arising on the 
acquisition of Sansa Security (“Sansa”)
See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report 
on page 1 9 for the directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates and note 1 9 for further information.
On 30 July 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of Sansa 
for consideration of $71.3 million (£46.0 million), as described in 
note 19. 
Accounting standards require that all assets and liabilities acquired 
in the business combination are recorded at fair values on 
acquisition. Judgement is required in identifying and valuing all 
the assets and liabilities acquired, in particular intangible assets. 
Intangible assets totalling $17.8 million (£1 1.5 million) were identified 
relating to technology and in-process research and development. 
The key judgements were in determining an appropriate 
methodology to value these assets and appropriate assumptions, 
including forecast revenue and profit, discount rate, useful 
economic lives and rates of obsolescence to determine the values. 
As the valuation of the intangible assets identified was immaterial 
to the Group, we focused on the risk of potential bias towards 
understatement of cash flows or overly conservative assumptions 
in order to reduce the valuation of intangible assets subject to 
amortisation and therefore reduce the amortisation impact on 
the Group’s income statement in future periods.
We evaluated the process used by the directors to identify 
intangible assets acquired in the business combination, considering 
the rationale for the acquisition and the nature of the Sansa 
business. We were satisfied that there were no material 
identifiable intangible assets other than those 
identified by management.
Using our valuation specialists, we evaluated the methodology 
and assumptions used by the directors in valuing the identified 
intangible assets. We evaluated the forecasts used and key 
assumptions made as follows:
 › We challenged revenue and profit growth assumptions 
(in relation to both the legacy businesses of Sansa and its 
future, in development revenue streams) by considering the 
top down method by which these forecasts were prepared 
and comparing the forecasts to the historical performance 
and stability of the Sansa business;
 › We corroborated the discount rate used by recalculating 
Sansa’s weighted average cost of capital using industry 
benchmarks and comparing this to the discount rate applied;
 › We challenged the useful economic lives and technology 
obsolescence rates by comparing these to other recent 
acquisitions and the expected period over which these 
technologies were expected to continue to generate future 
cash flows; and
 › We sensitised the impact of a reasonable change in the 
forecasts and assumptions used and considered whether 
these materially impacted on the valuation of acquired 
intangible assets.
51 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
We were satisfied that, though alternative valuation 
methods could have been applied to the valuation 
of acquired technology, the methodology applied 
did not have a material impact on the valuation 
of these assets. 
We were satisfied that the fair value of acquired 
intangible assets was supportable, and that the 
assumptions used in valuing the intangible assets 
were within an acceptable range. We were satisfied 
that there was no evidence of bias in assumptions 
and forecasts used by the directors to reduce the 
valuation of intangible assets subject to amortisation. 
We found that the valuation of acquired intangible 
assets was not materially sensitive to a reasonable 
change in the forecasts and assumptions used 
by management.
Litigation and accounting for responses to Intellectual 
Property (“IP”) risk
See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report 
on page 1 9 for the directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates and note 23 for further information.
The Group has exposure to patent infringement disputes, 
sometimes directly, but in most cases through indemnity provisions 
in its contracts with customers.
Judgements are made in determining the extent and amount of any 
provisions required or disclosures made for contingent liabilities.
We discussed litigation with the Group’s in-house legal counsel and 
obtained direct confirmations from external legal advisers. We 
assessed the adequacy of provisions recognised and disclosures 
made in the Group financial statements. We found that the 
determination of whether provision was required and 
the amount of any such provision were consistent with 
the legal advice and management’s assessment of 
potential settlement costs, based, where appropriate, 
on latest information including the extent to which 
each matter has evolved.
Where indemnification costs with a licensee and litigation 
settlements through purchase of a licence were expensed during 
the year, we vouched these to evidence of payment and examined 
the associated settlement contracts. We did not identify any 
material exceptions.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Taxation
See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report 
on page 1 9 for the directors’ disclosures of the related accounting policies, 
judgements and estimates and note 6 for specific taxation disclosures.
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge of £75.1 million 
is subject to a number of complexities, in particular because the 
Group operates in several jurisdictions.
Tax provisioning in relation to ongoing enquiries with local tax 
authorities is a specific area of judgement. In addition, the estimated 
impact on the Group’s UK deferred tax balances of the UK patent 
box regime and the level of provisioning in relation to identified tax 
risks is judgemental.
Using tax specialists in relevant jurisdictions, we tested the Group’s 
tax computations and assessed and challenged the judgements 
made considering their consistency with applicable legislation and 
practice, including evaluating management’s assessment of the likely 
resolution of uncertain tax positions. We found no material 
exceptions in our testing.
We read the Group’s correspondence with local tax authorities 
in the UK and US during the year and assessed the implications 
for tax provisioning. The evidence that we obtained from 
reading this correspondence supported the directors’ 
decisions regarding the level of tax provisioning.
We tested the calculation of the impact of the UK patent box 
regime on the Group’s effective current and deferred tax 
rates, evaluating the judgements made in determining the level 
of current and future taxable profit within the scope of this 
regime, and checked the application of the methodology to 
applicable legislation. We found no material exceptions 
in our testing.
Share-based payment charges
See note 1b to the financial statements for the directors’ disclosures 
of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note 20 
for more information.
The calculation of the Group’s share-based payment expense of 
£70.5 million is subject to a number of management determined 
assumptions in estimating the fair value of share awards granted 
in the year and the number of awards that are expected to vest. 
The Monte-Carlo option pricing model used to fair value the LTIP 
awards granted in 2015 is complex and requires technical expertise 
in choosing appropriate assumptions such as volatility and the 
calculation of the average correlation for the FTSE 350 and FTSE 
All World Technology Index. There is a risk that assumptions used 
may be significantly under or over stated, which could materially 
impact the Group’s share-based payment expense.
We tested the operating effectiveness of controls in place 
over the calculation and recording of the share-based payment 
expense. We found the operation of these controls to 
be effective, which provided us with audit evidence 
that share-based payment charges had been recorded 
accurately and in the correct period, in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policies.
We substantively tested the Group’s share-based payment 
calculations and the associated tax computations and challenged 
management’s assumptions in estimating the fair value of awards 
granted during the year and the number of awards that are 
expected to vest by considering the outturn of historical estimates 
made by management and market data. We traced inputs to 
the fair value calculation to underlying grant documents, option 
scheme rules and comparable market data. We did not identify 
any material exceptions in our testing.
We focused on and challenged the assumptions used in the Monte-
Carlo option pricing model for the LTIP awards granted in 2015 
by comparing them to external market data and other third-party 
evidence, and by considering the impact of reasonable alternative 
assumptions that could have been used. We found that the 
assumptions used were comparable with market data 
and other third-party evidence, and assumptions fell 
within a reasonable range.
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of ARM Holdings plc
continued…
52 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion 
on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the 
accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 38 companies, comprising the Group’s operating 
businesses and head office entities.
Our Group audit focused on the two largest companies of the Group (ARM Limited and ARM Inc.) which 
contribute over 99% of the Group’s third-party revenues, and more than 80% of the Group’s expenses, 
profit before tax and net assets. We performed full scope audit procedures at ARM Limited and ARM Inc.
We also performed specific audit procedures over certain account balances and transaction classes in other 
Group companies, focusing in particular on staff costs in other Group companies. We focused in particular 
on staff costs across the Group because total staff costs for the Group (including significant components) 
represented over 70% of the Group’s operating expenses. Transactions subject to specified procedures 
represented approximately 4% of the Group’s expenses.
All audit work in respect of the financial statements, including that on the Group consolidation, disclosures in 
the financial statements and all the areas of focus, was performed by the Group engagement team (including 
visits to ARM Inc.’s US-based operations) with the exception of taxation, where assistance was received from 
other PwC network firms in respect of judgements made in respect of tax charges in overseas jurisdictions.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative 
thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope 
of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement 
line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole 
as follows:
Overall Group materiality £20.7 million (2014: £15.7 million).
How we determined it Consistent with last year, 5% of profit before taxation.
Rationale for benchmark applied This is, in our view, the most relevant measure of the performance of the Group, 
and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our 
audit above £1.0 million (2014: £0.8 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 44, in relation 
to going concern. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are also required to report to you if we have anything material to add 
or to draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. We have nothing material to add or 
to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that the Group 
has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one 
year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the 
directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee 
as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
53 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 › Information in the Annual Report is:
 › materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 › apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 › otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
 › the statement given by the directors on page 20, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), that they consider the Annual 
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for members to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
 › the section of the Annual Report on page 19, as required by provision C.3.8 of the 
Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would 
threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to 
add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 › the directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of 
the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing 
the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to.
 › the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are 
being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to.
 › the directors’ explanation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of 
the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period 
they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their 
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be 
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of 
their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 44. Our review 
was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting 
their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the 
statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received 
all the information and explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures 
of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating 
to ten further provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of ARM Holdings plc
continued…
54 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on pages 48 to 49, the directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in 
giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom 
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient 
to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
 › whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed;
 › the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
 › the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, 
forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider 
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing 
the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 
31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having 
been audited.
Charles Bowman (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London 
17 February 2016
55 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December Note
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Revenues 2 968.3 795.2
Cost of revenues (39.3) (37.8)
Gross profit 929.0 757.4
Operating expenses
Research and development (278.0) (224.2)
Sales and marketing (106.1) (93.2)
General and administrative (138.8) (131.0)
Total operating expenses (522.9) (448.4)
Profit from operations 406.1 309.0
Investment income 12.1 11.3
Interest payable and similar charges (0.3) (0.3)
Share of results in joint ventures 26 (3.1) (3.5)
Profit before tax 5 414.8 316.5
Tax 6 (75.1) (61.1)
Profit for the year 339.7 255.4
Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings 339.7 255.4
Number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of shares 1,407.4 1,406.2
Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 12.9 14.9
Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,420.3 1,421.1
Basic EPS 24.1 18.2p
Diluted EPS 23.9 18.0p
All the profit for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to 
continuing operations. The Company has opted to present its own accounts under UK GAAP as shown 
on pages 94 to 100. 
Details of dividends paid and proposed are in notes 7 and 25 of the financial statements respectively.
For the year ended 31 December Note
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Profit for the year 339.7 255.4
Other comprehensive income:
Unrealised holding gain on available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to income 
statement (net of tax of £1.1 million (2014: £nil)) 10 (4.3) –
Unrealised holding gain on available-for-sale financial assets (net of tax of £4.4 million 
(2014: £1.1 million))* 10 17.7 4.3
Currency translation adjustment* 32.1 34.6
Other comprehensive income for the year 45.5 38.9
Total comprehensive income for the year 385.2 294.3
* These items may be reclassified to the income statement if certain conditions are met.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
56 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 December Note
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 16 40.5 54.1
Short-term deposits and similar instruments 16 617.8 620.8
Embedded derivatives 16 6.9 2.6
Accounts receivable 8 183.7 138.6
Available-for-sale financial assets 10, 16 23.1 –
Prepaid expenses and other assets 9 51.6 43.2
Current tax assets 22.9 8.9
Inventories 1.8 2.7
Total current assets 948.3 870.9
Non-current assets:
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 16 298.0 191.4
Loans and receivables 16 6.0 3.0
Available-for-sale financial assets 10, 16 11.6 23.7
Investment in joint ventures 26 2.6 3.0
Prepaid expenses and other assets 9 1.4 1.7
Property, plant and equipment 11 61.6 43.4
Goodwill 12 650.7 567.0
Other intangible assets 13 92.0 77.2
Deferred tax assets 6 48.0 55.9
Total non-current assets 1,171.9 966.3
Total assets 2,120.2 1,837.2
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. The financial statements on 
pages 56 to 93 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 February 2016 and were signed on its 
behalf by:
Simon Segars Chris Kennedy 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
At 31 December Note
2015  
£m
2014 
£m
Liabilities
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable 16 12.7 11.7
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 16 3.2 4.8
Accrued and other liabilities 14 100.7 80.6
Finance lease liabilities 15 5.2 3.9
Current tax liabilities 30.6 31.9
Deferred revenue 110.1 127.4
Total current liabilities 262.5 260.3
Non-current liabilities:
Accrued and other liabilities 14 6.3 –
Finance lease liabilities 15 6.1 2.6
Deferred tax liabilities 6 3.2 0.4
Deferred revenue 44.5 45.6
Total non-current liabilities 60.1 48.6
Total liabilities 322.6 308.9
Net assets 1,797.6 1,528.3
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company
Share capital 17 0.7 0.7
Share premium account 27.2 24.9
Capital reserve 354.3 354.3
Share option reserve 61.4 61.4
Retained earnings 1,213.3 991.8
Revaluation reserve 17.7 4.3
Cumulative translation adjustment 123.0 90.9
Total equity 1,797.6 1,528.3
57 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit before tax 414.8 316.5
Investment income (net of interest payable and similar charges) (11.8) (11.0)
Share of results of joint ventures 3.1 3.5
Profit from operations 406.1 309.0
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 42.0 35.6
Compensation charge in respect of share-based payments 70.5 68.5
Provision for impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 1.0
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (5.6) (0.3)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1
Provision for doubtful debts (0.1) 0.3
Non-cash foreign currency losses 2.9 3.4
Movement in fair value of currency exchange contracts (1.6) 9.9
Movement in fair value of embedded derivatives (4.3) (9.6)
Changes in working capital
Accounts receivable (37.2) (4.0)
Inventories 0.9 0.3
Prepaid expenses and other assets (17.4) (9.9)
Accounts payable 0.4 4.5
Deferred revenue (26.2) (24.8)
Accrued and other liabilities 22.5 (11.6)
Cash generated by operations before tax 453.4 372.4
Income taxes paid (73.9) (30.8)
Net cash from operating activities 379.5 341.6
For the year ended 31 December Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Investing activities
Interest received (net of interest paid of £0.3 million (2014: £0.3 million)) 11.1 13.3
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (30.5) (20.4)
Purchases of other intangible assets (10.5) (10.0)
Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets (3.8) (5.0)
Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 6.4 2.2
Purchase of short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments, net (102.8) (145.1)
Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash and borrowings acquired 19 (62.3) (12.8)
Investment in joint ventures 26 (2.7) –
Provision of loan to joint venture 16 (2.9) –
Net cash used in investing activities (198.0) (177.8)
Financing activities
Proceeds received on issuance of shares 17 2.3 6.8
Proceeds received on issuance of shares from treasury 7.1 –
Purchase of own shares 18 (92.2) (66.9)
Dividends paid to shareholders 7 (107.8) (86.1)
Repayment of borrowings – (1.2)
Repayment of finance lease liabilities (5.1) (6.4)
Net cash used in financing activities (195.7) (153.8)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (14.2) 10.0
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 54.1 43.8
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.6 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 40.5 54.1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
58 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Consolidated statement of changes 
in shareholders’ equity
Attributable to the owners of the Company
For the year ended 31 December
Share  
capital  
£m
Share  
premium  
account  
£m
Capital  
reserve*  
£m
Share  
option  
reserve**  
£m
Retained  
earnings  
£m
Revaluation  
reserve***  
£m
Cumulative  
translation  
adjustment  
£m
Total  
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014 0.7 18.1 354.3 61.4 820.6 – 56.3 1,311.4
Profit for the year – – – – 255.4 – – 255.4
Other comprehensive income:
Unrealised holding gain on available-
for-sale financial assets (net of tax of 
£1.1 million) – – – – – 4.3 – 4.3
Currency translation adjustment – – – – – – 34.6 34.6
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – 255.4 4.3 34.6 294.3
Shares issued on exercise of share options 
and awards (note 17) – 6.8 – – – – – 6.8
Dividends (note 7) – – – – (86.1) – – (86.1)
Purchase of own shares (note 18) – – – – (66.9) – – (66.9)
Credit in respect of employee share 
schemes – – – – 68.5 – – 68.5
Movement on tax arising on share options 
and awards – – – – 0.3 – – 0.3
– 6.8 – – (84.2) – – (77.4)
Balance at 31 December 2014 0.7 24.9 354.3 61.4 991.8 4.3 90.9 1,528.3
Attributable to the owners of the Company
For the year ended 31 December
Share  
capital  
£m
Share  
premium  
account  
£m
Capital  
reserve*  
£m
Share  
option  
reserve**  
£m
Retained  
earnings  
£m
Revaluation  
reserve***  
£m
Cumulative  
translation  
adjustment  
£m
Total  
£m
Balance at 1 January 2015 0.7 24.9 354.3 61.4 991.8 4.3 90.9 1,528.3
Profit for the year – – – – 339.7 – – 339.7
Other comprehensive income:
Unrealised holding gain on available-
for-sale financial assets (net of tax of 
£4.4 million) – – – – – 17.7 – 17.7
Unrealised holding gain on available-for-
sale financial assets reclassified to income 
statement (net of tax of £1.1 million) – – – – – (4.3) – (4.3)
Currency translation adjustment – – – – – – 32.1 32.1
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – 339.7 13.4 32.1 385.2
Shares issued on exercise of share options 
and awards (note 17) – 2.3 – – – – – 2.3
Dividends (note 7) – – – – (107.8) – – (107.8)
Purchase of own shares (note 18) – – – – (92.2) – – (92.2)
Proceeds from sale of own shares – – – – 7.1 – – 7.1
Credit in respect of employee share 
schemes – – – – 70.5 – – 70.5
Movement on tax arising on share options 
and awards – – – – 4.2 – – 4.2
– 2.3 – – (118.2) – – (115.9)
Balance at 31 December 2015 0.7 27.2 354.3 61.4 1,213.3 17.7 123.0 1,797.6
*  Capital reserve. In 2004, the premium on the shares issued in part consideration for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. was 
credited to reserves on consolidation in accordance with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985. The reserve has been classified as 
a capital reserve to reflect the nature of the original credit to equity arising on acquisition. 
** Share option reserve. This represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004. 
***  Revaluation reserve. The Company includes on its balance sheet equity investments, which are classified as available-for-sale financial 
assets. These are carried at fair value. Unrealised holding gains or losses on such investments are included, net of related taxes, within 
the revaluation reserve (except where there is evidence of permanent impairment, in which case losses would be recognised within 
the income statement). 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
59 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1  The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial 
risk management
1a General information about the Group
The business of the Group
ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies (“ARM” or “the Group”) design microprocessors, 
physical IP and related technology and software, and sell development tools, to enhance the performance, 
cost-effectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded microprocessor applications.
The Group licences and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, 
which in turn manufacture, market and sell microcontrollers, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) 
and application-specific standard processors (ASSPs) based on ARM’s technology to systems companies for 
incorporation into a wide variety of end products.
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise ARM’s technology, the Group is 
establishing its processor architecture and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor 
applications, including mobile phones, tablets, digital televisions and PC peripherals, enterprise networking 
and servers, and smart cards and microcontrollers.
The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to systems companies and provides support 
services to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers.
The Group’s principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
Incorporation and history
ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales. 
The registered office of the Company is 1 10 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK.
The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer (UK) Limited 
and Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until 
10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc. Its initial public offering was on 17 April 1998. 
Group undertakings include ARM Limited (incorporated in England and Wales), Geomerics Limited 
(incorporated in England and Wales), ARM France SAS (incorporated in France), ARM Germany GmbH 
(incorporated in Germany), ARM Norway AS (incorporated in Norway), ARM Sweden AB (incorporated 
in Sweden), ARM Finland Oy (incorporated in Finland), ARM Ireland Limited (incorporated in the Republic 
of Ireland), ARM Hungary KFT (incorporated in Hungary), ARM Inc. (incorporated in the US), ARM 
Technologies Israel Limited (incorporated in Israel), ARM Electronic Technology (Shanghai) Co. Limited 
(incorporated in PR China), ARM KK (incorporated in Japan), ARM Korea Limited (incorporated in South 
Korea), ARM Taiwan Limited (incorporated in Taiwan), and ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt. Limited 
(incorporated in India).
1b Summary of significant accounting policies
The significant accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements 
are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with 
the historical cost convention as modified by: the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale (AFS) financial 
assets and financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement (including embedded 
derivatives and derivative instruments).
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to make critical 
accounting estimates and judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and 
accompanying notes. These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical 
experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related 
actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Segmental reporting
The Group’s internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation 
that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio. As at 
31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, the Group’s internal organisation and management structure 
reflected this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) 
was provided with financial information. The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based 
on consolidated results of operations. The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Executive Committee of the Group. The result of this re-organisation is that the Group has one 
reportable segment, namely the IP Group (IPG). Other revenue and costs not related to IPG are separately 
disclosed in note 2.
Notes to the financial statements
60 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Impairment of goodwill
The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually. This requires an estimation of the value-in-use of 
the assets to which goodwill is allocated. As discussed in detail in note 12, estimating the value-in-use requires 
the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the assets and also to choose a 
suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of those cash flows. The discount rate is based 
on an estimate of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital. The Group uses a post-tax discount rate of 
10% (2014: 10%) (pre-tax discount rate of approximately 1 1% (2014: 1 1%)). The Group reviews the carrying 
value of its assets including goodwill at the cash-generating unit level.
Revenue recognition
The Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies. In particular, as discussed 
in detail in the revenue recognition policy on page 62, estimates are made in relation to the use of the 
percentage-of-completion accounting method, which requires that the extent of progress toward completion 
of contracts can be anticipated with reasonable certainty. The use of the percentage-of-completion method 
is itself based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, there is an insignificant risk that 
customer acceptance is not obtained. The Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of 
the extent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future economic benefit to the Group. 
In addition, when allocating revenue to various components of arrangements involving several components, 
it is assumed that the fair value of each element can be estimated reliably. The complexity of the estimation 
process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the 
revenue recognition policy affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. If different assumptions 
were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
Legal settlements and other contingencies
Determining the amount to be accrued for legal settlements requires the directors to estimate the 
committed future legal and settlement fees the Group is expecting to incur, either where suits are filed 
against the Group for infringement of patents, or where the Group may be required to indemnify a licensee. 
The directors assess the extent of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinions 
received from external counsel and then estimate the level of accrual required.
New standards, amendments and interpretations
New and amended standards adopted by the Group
There are no new or amended standards adopted by the Group in the year which have had a material impact 
on the Group.
Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted
IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial 
liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that 
relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed 
measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised 
cost, fair value through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and fair value through profit and loss. The basis 
of classification depends on the entity’s business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the 
financial asset. Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit and 
loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI but not recycling. There is 
now a new expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. 
For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and measurement except for the recognition 
of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair value through 
profit and loss. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge 
effectiveness tests. It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument 
and for the “hedged ratio” to be the same as the one management actually uses for risk management 
purposes. Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that currently prepared under 
IAS 39. The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is 
permitted, subject to EU endorsement. The Group is currently assessing IFRS 9’s full impact. 
IFRS 15 “Revenue recognition” deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful 
information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue 
and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer 
obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the 
good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 “Revenue” and IAS 1 1 “Construction contracts” and related 
interpretations. The standard has been deferred pending further discussion regarding its implementation 
and is now effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier application is permitted, 
subject to EU adoption. The Group continues to assess the impact of IFRS 15 and is developing processes and 
systems to enable the transition to the new standard.
IFRS 16 “Leases” replaces the current guidance in IAS 17. Under IAS 17, lessees were required to make a 
distinction between a finance lease (on balance sheet) and an operating lease (off balance sheet). IFRS 16 now 
requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a ‘right-of-use asset’ for 
virtually all lease contracts. The standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with 
earlier application permitted if IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’, is also applied. The Group 
is currently assessing IFRS 16’s full impact.
61 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition
The Group follows the principles of IAS 18 “Revenue”, in determining appropriate revenue recognition 
policies. In principle, therefore, revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the 
following conditions have been satisfied:
 › The Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods. 
 › The Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with 
ownership or effective control over the goods sold.
 › The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
 › It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
 › The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following conditions have 
been satisfied:
 › The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
 › It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
 › The stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably.
 › The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within 
the Group.
Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology, royalties arising from the resulting sale 
of licensees’ ARM technology-based products, revenues from support, maintenance and training and the sale 
of development boards and software toolkits.
Licence revenues:
Revenue from standard licence products that are not modified to meet the specific requirements of each 
customer is recognised when all of the conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have 
been satisfied:
 › The significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a licence arrangement has been 
agreed and the IP has been delivered to the customer.
 › Continuing managerial involvement and effective control over licensed IP is relinquished at the point at 
which the IP is delivered to the customer.
 › The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; any consideration due under the licensing arrangement 
that is not deemed to be reliably measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably.
 › It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group; any 
economic benefits of the transaction that are deemed unlikely to flow to the Group are deferred until it 
becomes probable that they will flow to the Group.
The majority of the Group’s revenues come from the licensing of IP and subsequent receipt of royalty 
revenues and there are therefore very few direct costs associated with the sale of goods; where there are 
direct costs of revenues, these are measured with reference to the purchasing agreements in place with the 
Group’s suppliers.
Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each 
customer. Revenue from the sale of such licences is recognised on a percentage-of-completion basis over the 
period from signing of the licence to completion of ARM’s contractual obligations. Under the percentage-
of-completion method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the 
period in which the likelihood of such losses is determined. The percentage-of-completion is measured by 
monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project compared with the total 
estimated project requirement, which approximates to the extent of performance. After project completion, 
provisions for additional post-delivery warranty work are recognised in research and development expenses.
Where invoicing milestones in licence arrangements are such that the receipts fall due significantly outside the 
period over which the customisation is expected to be performed or significantly outside its normal payment 
terms for standard licence arrangements, the Group evaluates whether it is probable that economic benefits 
associated with these milestones will flow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially 
be included in the arrangement consideration.
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
62 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued
In particular, it considers:
 › whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be raised in the expected timeframe, particularly 
where the invoicing milestone is in some way dependent on customer activity;
 › whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Group’s contractual obligations 
have been, or will be, fulfilled;
 › whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expected to be incurred will indeed be incurred 
before the customer will accept that a future invoice may be raised; 
 › the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar customers supports the 
conclusions reached.
Where the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits 
associated with such future milestones will flow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such 
milestones are excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient evidence that it is 
probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. The Group does 
not discount future invoicing milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial.
Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each 
of the individual components based on each component’s fair value, where fair value is the selling price of 
an item when sold separately. Where a component in a multiple-component agreement has not previously 
been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors including, 
but not limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the 
component relative to the book prices of the other components in the agreement. If fair value of one or 
more components in a multiple-component agreement is not determinable (where such component is not 
considered incidental to the overall arrangement), the entire arrangement fee is deferred until such fair value 
is determinable, or the component has been delivered to the licensee. Where, in substance, two or more 
components of a contract are linked and fair values cannot be allocated to the individual components, the 
revenue recognition criteria are applied to the components as if they were a single component.
Agreements including rights to unspecified future products (as opposed to unspecified upgrades and 
enhancements) are accounted for using subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of 
the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the first product.
Royalty revenues:
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Group’s customers of products containing ARM technology. 
Royalty revenues are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the 
transaction will flow to the Group, and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, which the Group 
considers to be receipt of notification from the customer of product sales. Notification is typically received in 
the quarter following shipment of the products by the customer.
Other revenues:
In addition to licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support 
(in the form of support, maintenance and training) which consists of the right to receive services and/or 
unspecified product upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a when-and-if-available basis. Fees for 
post-delivery service support are generally specified in the contract. Revenue related to post-delivery service 
support is recognised based on fair value, which is determined with reference to contractual renewal rates. 
Where renewal rates are specified, revenue for post-delivery service support is recognised on a straight-
line basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by the Group with the 
licensee. Services, such as training, that the Group provides which are not essential to the functionality of 
the IP are separately stated and priced in the contract and, therefore, accounted for separately. Revenue is 
recognised as services are performed and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the 
transaction will flow to the Group.
Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence (such 
as off-the-shelf software) are recognised upon delivery, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred to the customer. At that time, the Group has no further obligations except that, where 
necessary, the costs associated with providing post-delivery service support have been accrued. 
For all types of revenue, if the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, 
the excess amount is recorded as amounts recoverable on contracts within accounts receivable. The excess 
of amounts invoiced over revenue recognised is recorded as deferred revenue.
Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a 
business over the fair value of the assets, including any intangible assets identified, and liabilities acquired. 
Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses. In determining the fair value of 
consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of completion, the fair 
value of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent 
consideration is based upon the probability of any performance conditions being met and thus whether any 
further consideration will be payable.
63 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued
(b) Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are 
capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the Group is 
expected to benefit from them. Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business 
application software, and that are incurred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into 
operational use, are capitalised. External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance 
the future economic benefit of the asset acquired.
Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible assets purchased as part of a business 
combination, the directors are primarily responsible for determining the fair value of acquired 
intangible assets. 
In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combination may meet the 
criteria set out in IFRS 3 (revised), “Business combinations”, for recognition as intangible assets other than 
goodwill. Management tracks the status of in-process research and development of intangible assets such 
that their amortisation commences when the assets are brought into use. 
Order backlog is derecognised when it has been fully amortised.
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, 
which are adjusted (if appropriate) at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected 
useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal economic lives used for this purpose are:
Computer software Three to five years
Patents and licences Three to eleven years
In-process research and development One to five years
Developed technology One to seven years
Existing agreements and customer relationships  One to six years
Core technology Five years
Trademarks and tradenames One to five years
Order backlog One year
Income taxes
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date in the countries where the Group’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. 
Management periodically evaluates individual positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis 
of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
The benefit of UK research and development is recognised under the UK’s Research and Development 
Expenditure Credit (RDEC) scheme. The benefit is recorded as income included in profit before tax, netted 
against research and development expenses as the RDEC is of the nature of a government grant. 
Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences 
are expected to reverse. The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will arise against which the temporary differences will be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arising in 
the same tax jurisdiction are offset, where the taxation authority permits a single net payment.
In 2013, a decision to elect into the UK patent box regime was made. The UK patent box regime seeks to 
tax all profits attributable to patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%. The rules are to be phased in 
over five years from 1 April 2013 – a company will be entitled to only 60% of the deduction in financial year 
2013/14, rising to 100% by 2017/18. As “relevant” patent box profits are taxed at 10% and other profits are 
taxed at UK statutory rates, deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the average rates expected 
to apply on realisation or settlement.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on best estimates of potential additional 
taxes payable. Provisions are calculated individually based upon advice received from tax advisers and relevant 
correspondence received from tax authorities. Provisions are re-assessed by management at each period end 
date based upon any relevant new information received. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is 
different from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions 
in the period in which such determination is made.
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
64 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued
In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on 
exercise of certain employee share options or vest of share awards under each jurisdiction’s tax rules. 
As explained under “Share-based payments” below, a compensation expense is recorded in the Group’s 
income statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and 
awards. As there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is 
recorded. The deferred tax asset arising is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to 
be obtained in the future (based on the Company’s share price at the balance sheet date) with the cumulative 
amount of the compensation expense recorded in the income statement. If the amount of estimated future 
tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of the compensation expense at the statutory rate, the excess 
is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
Impairment of assets
Non-financial assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation 
but are tested annually for impairment. Non-financial assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed 
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the non-financial asset’s carrying amount exceeds 
its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and 
value-in-use. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible 
reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
The annual impairment tests in 2015 and 2014 showed there was no impairment with respect to goodwill. 
Furthermore, no trigger events have been identified that would suggest the impairment of any of the Group’s 
other intangible assets.
The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that tangible fixed assets are 
impaired. If there is such an indication, the Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets’ 
recoverable amounts, which are the higher of the assets’ fair values less costs to sell and their values-in-use. 
If the recoverable amounts are less than the carrying amounts an impairment loss is recognised, and the 
assets are written down to their recoverable amounts.
In the case of equity securities classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the 
security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are permanently impaired. If any 
such evidence exists for AFS financial assets, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between 
the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that financial asset 
previously recognised in the income statement – is recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses 
recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed.
Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under “Accounts receivable” below.
Provisions
Provisions for legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of past events; and it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation; and the amount of the outflow can be reliably estimated.
Segment reporting
The Group’s internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation 
that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio. As at 
31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, the Group’s internal organisation and management structure 
reflected this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) 
was provided with financial information. The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based 
on consolidated results of operations. The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Executive Committee of the Group. The result of this re-organisation is that the Group has one 
reportable segment, namely the IP Group (IPG). Other revenue and costs not related to IPG are separately 
disclosed in note 2.
Principles of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its 
subsidiaries. Intra-group transactions, including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated 
on consolidation. All subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies.
 › Business combinations
  The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition. 
Assets and liabilities existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their 
condition at that date.
  Earn-outs paid as part of an acquisition are assessed on an individual basis and treated as either part of the 
acquisition consideration or as employee compensation depending on the nature of the agreement.
 › Subsidiaries 
 Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group 
controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the 
entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully 
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from 
the date that control ceases.
65 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued
 › Associates 
  Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally 
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are 
accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment is initially 
recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Group’s share of 
the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
 › Joint ventures
  Joint ventures are all arrangements in which the Group has joint control with one or more other 
parties, whereby each party has a right to a share of the net assets of the arrangement. Investments in 
joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the 
investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise 
the Group’s share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
Research and development expenditure
All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred. Where a product is 
technically feasible, production and sale are intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured 
reliably, and sufficient resources are available to complete the project, development costs are capitalised and 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product. The Group believes 
its current process for developing products is essentially completed concurrently with the establishment of 
technological feasibility, which is evidenced by a working model. Accordingly, development costs incurred 
after the establishment of technological feasibility have not been significant and, therefore, no costs have been 
capitalised to date.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as 
an expense in the period in which it is incurred. Any collaborative agreement whereby a third-party agrees 
to partially fund the Group’s research and development is recognised over the period of the agreement as a 
credit within research and development expenses.
Government grants
Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are recognised as receivable when there is 
reasonable assurance that they will be received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied with. 
They are credited to the income statement in the same period as the related research and development costs 
for which the grant is compensating. The grant income is presented as a deduction from the related expense.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. In accordance with IFRS 2 
“Share-based payments”, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. 
Fair value is predominantly measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model. A Monte-Carlo simulation is 
used for certain share awards that have market-based performance conditions. The fair value determined at 
the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group operates Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase 
Plan (ESPP) in the UK, US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries. Options under the 
SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of 
announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning and 
end of the scheme for the ESPP. The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which 
stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months. The Group has recognised a compensation 
charge in respect of the SAYE plans and ESPPs. The charges for these are calculated as detailed above.
The Group also has an LTIP on which it is also required to recognise a compensation charge under IFRS 2, 
calculated as detailed above.
The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expenses, sales and 
marketing expenses, and general and administrative expenses on the basis of headcount.
Employer’s taxes on share options
Employer’s National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the 
exercise of certain share options and vesting of share awards. In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a 
cash-settled transaction. A provision is made, calculated using the intrinsic value of the relevant options and 
awards at the balance sheet date, and pro-rated over the vesting period of the options and awards.
Retirement benefit costs
The Group contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and 
the US and to government pension schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, 
Israel and India. The Group contributes to these plans based upon various fixed percentages of employee 
compensation, and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
66 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Operating leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are 
classified as operating leases. Costs, net of any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are charged on a 
straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on such a basis.
Finance leases
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee are 
classified as finance leases. Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair 
value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of 
the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease liability. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged 
directly to the income statement.
Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which that entity operates, except that of ARM Technologies Israel Limited 
which is US dollars. The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentation 
currency of the Group.
(b) Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into 
the functional currency of each Group entity at actual rates of exchange at the date of transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at closing 
rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences have been included in general and 
administrative expenses.
(c) Group companies The results and financial positions of all Group entities (none of which has the currency 
of a hyper-inflationary economy) not based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows:
(i)  Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the 
balance sheet date.
(ii)  Income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at the rates of exchange at the 
time of each transaction during the period.
(iii)  All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity, being taken through 
other comprehensive income via the cumulative translation adjustment.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised through 
other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and 
liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rates of exchange.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group utilises currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related 
to accounts receivable, denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the business. 
The Group’s currency exchange contracts do not subject the Group to risk from exchange rate movements 
because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions 
being hedged. The currency exchange contracts are recorded at fair value and the related foreign currency 
accounts receivable are revalued to spot rates at each period end. The fair value of forward exchange 
contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The fair value of 
foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management and the respective banks 
holding the currency instruments. All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the 
contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the income statement. The Group does 
not enter into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
Embedded derivatives
In accordance with IAS 39 “Financial instruments: recognition and measurement”, the Group has reviewed 
all its contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not 
meet certain requirements set out in the standard. From time to time, the Group may enter into contracts 
denominated in a currency (typically US dollars) that is neither the functional currency of the Group entity 
nor the functional currency of the customer or the collaborative partner. Where there are uninvoiced 
amounts on such contracts, the Group carries such derivatives at fair value. The resulting gain or loss is 
recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses.
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is 
accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividends
Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, but are 
disclosed as a component of the movement in shareholders’ equity. A liability is recorded for a dividend when 
the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution 
when paid.
67 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury stock, 
which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume 
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Company had two categories of dilutive potential 
ordinary shares during the year: those being share options granted to employees and directors where 
the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year 
and the awards and contingently issuable shares granted under the Company’s RSU, DAB Plan, and LTIP 
schemes. As at 31 December 2015 no shares granted under the 2013, 2014 and 2015 LTIPs with market-
based performance conditions were included since the current expectation is that these shares will not vest. 
Shares granted with EPS related performance conditions have been included to the extent that it is expected 
that the shares will vest. 
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are shown on 
the face of the consolidated income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks, and other short-term highly-liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less. The carrying amount approximates to fair value 
because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments
The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original maturity dates of greater than three months 
and maturing in less than one year to be short-term deposits. Deposits with a maturity date of greater than 
one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term.
The Group has also placed money with certain banks in the form of Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes 
which have similar characteristics to term deposits and may be short- or long-term.
Accounts receivable
Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value. A provision for impairment of trade receivables 
is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of the receivables.
Accounts receivable are first assessed individually for impairment. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, 
probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in 
payments (more than 90 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired. 
Where there is no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group of 
receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment.
In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance 
account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within general and administrative 
expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade 
receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and 
administrative expenses in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised 
impairment loss. The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs 
directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. External costs and 
internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the asset.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss. Depreciation of 
these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated 
residual values, which are adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the 
expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal economic lives used for this purpose are:
Freehold buildings  25 years
Leasehold improvements  Five to ten years or term of lease, whichever is shorter
Computer equipment  Three to five years
Fixtures, fittings and motor vehicles  Three to five years
Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is 
deemed to have occurred. Asset lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are 
recognised within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
68 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, 
loans and receivables, and available-for-sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial 
assets were acquired. Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
(a) Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income 
statement are financial assets held-for-trading – that is, assets that have been acquired principally for the 
purpose of selling in the short-term. Assets in this category are classified as current assets. They are initially 
recognised at fair value with transaction costs being expensed in the income statement. Specifically, the 
Group’s currency exchange contracts and embedded derivatives fall within this category. Gains or losses arising 
from changes in the fair value of “financial assets at fair value through the income statement” are presented in 
the income statement within general and administrative expenses in the period in which they arise.
(b) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable 
payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities 
greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are classified as non-current assets. “Accounts 
receivable”, “cash and cash equivalents”, and “short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments” are 
classified as “Loans and receivables” (see note 16).
Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost.
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets (AFS) AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated 
in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless 
management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Publicly-traded investments are classified as AFS. Initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs on the 
trade date, they are revalued at market value at each period end. Unrealised holding gains or losses on such 
securities are recognised, net of related taxes, through other comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve 
except where there is evidence of permanent impairment (see below). 
Equity investments that are not publicly traded are also classified as AFS and are initially recorded at fair value 
plus transaction costs. Given that the markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value 
by using valuation techniques. The estimated fair value of these investments approximated to cost less any 
permanent diminution in value (based on estimates determined by management), except where independent 
valuation information is obtained. Unrealised holding gains or losses on such securities are recognised, net of 
related taxes, through other comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve, except where there is evidence 
of permanent impairment (in which case the loss is recognised through the income statement within general 
and administrative expenses or exceptional items where appropriate). When securities classified as AFS are 
sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised through other comprehensive income are recycled 
through the income statement.
Accounts payable
Accounts payable are recognised at face value as they are settled within 12 months.
Treasury shares 
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, 
including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the owners 
of the Company until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Where such shares are subsequently sold or 
reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the 
related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
Share capital
Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
1c Financial risk management
The Group operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry, which has been characterised 
by price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and 
heightened foreign and domestic competition. Significant technological changes in the industry could affect 
operating results.
The Group’s operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, 
securities price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated the responsibility for monitoring financial risk 
management to a sub-committee of the Board. The policies set by the directors are implemented by the 
Group’s finance and treasury departments. The Group has a treasury policy that sets out specific guidelines 
to manage currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where 
it would be appropriate to use financial instruments to manage these.
Currency risk
The Group’s earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally 
in respect of the US dollar, reflecting the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated 
in US dollars, while a significant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling. The Group seeks to use 
currency exchange contracts and currency options to manage the US dollar/sterling risk as appropriate, by 
monitoring the timing and value of anticipated US dollar receipts (which tend to arise from low-volume, 
high-value licence deals and royalty receipts) in comparison with its requirement to settle certain expenses 
in US dollars. The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regular basis and hedges this exposure using 
currency exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollars as appropriate. Such contracts 
are entered into with the objective of matching their maturity with projected US dollar cash receipts.
69 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1c Financial risk management continued
The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of the foreign currency denominated assets and 
liabilities of its overseas subsidiaries. At present, the Group does not consider this to be a significant risk since 
the Group does not intend to move assets between Group companies.
The Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting, and all movements in the fair value of derivative 
foreign exchange instruments are recorded in the income statement, offsetting the foreign exchange 
movements on the accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits balances 
being hedged.
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the euro and 
Japanese yen. The Group is also required to settle certain expenses in these currencies, primarily in its 
French, German and Japanese subsidiaries, and as the net amounts involved are not considered significant, the 
Group does not take out forward-settling currency exchange contracts in these currencies.
Interest rate risk
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID or base rate equivalents and is therefore 
exposed to cash flow interest rate risk. The proportion of funds held in fixed rather than floating rate 
deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined under “Liquidity risk” below. Other financial 
assets, such as AFS financial assets, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
The Group had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate fluctuations in place at the 
year-end since the level of financing was not considered significant, and as such no hedge accounting is 
applied. The Group’s cash flow is carefully monitored on a daily basis. Excess cash, considering expected 
future cash flows, is placed on either short- or long-term deposits to maximise the interest income thereon. 
Daily surpluses are swept into higher-interest earning accounts overnight.
Securities price risk
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on AFS financial assets. As there can be no guarantee 
that there will be a future market for these securities (which are generally unlisted at the time of investment) 
or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate each investment opportunity on its 
merits before committing the Group’s funds. The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular 
basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best interests of the Group. Funds for such 
ventures are limited in order that the financial effect of any potential decline of the value of investments will 
not be substantial in the context of the Group’s financial results.
Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial 
instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, 
including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk. The amount of 
exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the directors.
The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value 
transactions. The Group performs credit checks on all customers (other than those paying in advance) in 
order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its invoices as they become due. As such, the balance 
of accounts receivable not owed by large companies is still deemed by the directors to be of low risk of 
default due to the nature of the checks performed on them, and accordingly a relatively small allowance 
against these receivables is in place to cover this low risk of default.
The Group generally does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are large, 
well-established companies. The Group has not experienced any significant losses related to individual 
customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geographic area.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and the directors do not expect any significant 
losses from non-performance by these counterparties, other than those already provided for.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy is to maintain balances of cash and cash equivalents, and short- and long-term deposits 
and similar instruments, such that highly liquid resources exceed the Group’s projected cash outflows at all 
times. Surplus funds are placed on fixed- or floating-rate deposits depending on the prevailing economic 
climate at the time (with reference to forward interest rates) and also on the required maturity of the 
deposit (as driven by the expected timing of the Group’s cash receipts and payments over the short to 
medium term).
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s short- and medium-term expected cash flows. 
This is carried out at both a local and a Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group 
as required.
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
70 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1c Financial risk management continued
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an 
appropriate capital structure to have sufficient capital to make strategic investments, including acquisitions. 
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term deposits and 
capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company, as disclosed on the consolidated balance sheet.
The Group’s strategy is to have a capital structure that takes into account opportunities to invest in long-
term profitable growth, prevailing trading conditions and the desire to improve balance sheet efficiency over 
time. The Group introduced a dividend in 2004 which has grown each year since. Between 2005 and 2008, 
an ongoing share buyback programme was in place whereby 16% of the issued share capital was bought 
back at an average price of £1.22. In 2015, the interim dividend was increased by 25% and the directors are 
proposing a 25% increase in the final dividend, reflecting the Board’s long-term confidence in the business. 
As well as continuing to grow the dividend, the Board has undertaken a limited share buyback programme to 
maintain a flat share-count over time. During 2015, 9.0 million shares (2014: 7.9 million) were repurchased for 
£92.2 million (2014: £66.9 million). The capital structure is continually monitored by the Group.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to 
shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt.
Valuation hierarchy
The Group classifies its financial instruments as follows: level 1 instruments are those valued using unadjusted 
quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments; level 2 instruments are those valued using 
techniques based significantly on observable market data; and level 3 instruments are those valued using 
information other than observable market data. The Group recognises transfers into and out of fair value 
hierarchy levels as of the date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer.
The Group has a team that performs the valuations of financial assets required for financial reporting 
purposes, including level 3 fair values. This team reports to the Chief Financial Officer and to the 
Audit Committee.
The fair value of accounts and other receivables, other current financial assets, cash and cash equivalents, 
short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments, and accounts and other payables approximate to their 
carrying amount.
2 Segmental reporting
The Group’s internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation 
that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio. As at 
31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, the Group’s internal organisation and management structure 
reflected this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) 
was provided with financial information. The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based 
on consolidated results of operations. The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Executive Committee of the Group. The result of this re-organisation is that the Group has one 
reportable segment, namely the IP Group (IPG). 
In  the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group incurred other costs of £19 million and generated other 
revenues of £4 million that were not related to IPG.  
During the year ended 31 December 2015, no customer accounted for more than 10% of the Group’s total 
revenues (2014: no customer accounted for more than 10%).
Geographical information
The Group manages its business on a global basis. The operations are based in three main geographical 
areas. The UK is the home country of the parent Company. The main operations are in the following 
principal territories:
 › Europe
 › United States
 › Asia Pacific
71 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 2 Segmental reporting continued
Analysis of revenue by destination*:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
United States 365.7 321.8
PR China 187.0 116.8
Taiwan 141.8 133.7
South Korea 99.8 68.5
Japan 70.9 60.4
Singapore 29.9 18.5
Switzerland 26.7 17.9
Germany 11.1 12.3
Netherlands 9.4 8.1
Russia 2.5 11.3
Rest of Europe 19.5 21.9
Rest of Asia Pacific 3.5 2.4
Rest of North America 0.5 1.6
968.3 795.2
* Destination is defined as the location of the Group’s customers’ operations.
The Group’s revenue within the home country of the parent Company amounted to £5.1 million and 
£7.8 million for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 respectively. The Group’s exports from the UK 
were £950.7 million and £778.9 million for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 respectively.
Analysis of revenue by origin:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Europe* 960.3 786.9
United States 8.0 8.3
968.3 795.2
* Includes the UK, which had total revenues of £955.8 million in 2015 (2014: £786.7 million).
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Royalties – Processors 463.1 326.0
Royalties – Physical IP 46.9 36.5
Licensing – Processors 326.6 309.1
Licensing – Physical IP 54.0 52.1
Software and tools 37.3 35.0
Services 40.4 36.5
968.3 795.2
Analysis of non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets):
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Europe* 343.9 237.7
United States 28.1 23.4
Asia Pacific 9.2 5.2
381.2 266.3
*  Includes the UK, which had non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets) of £341.0 million in 
2015 (2014: £235.5 million), of which long-term deposits accounted for £298.0 million (2014: £191.4 million).
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
72 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 3 Key management compensation and directors’ emoluments
Key management compensation
The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and non-
executive directors of ARM Holdings plc together with the Executive Committee (comprising all directors 
of ARM Limited and certain senior management). These persons have authority and responsibility for 
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly. At 31 December 2015, 
key management comprised 20 people (2014: 20).
The aggregate amounts of key management compensation are set out below:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 8.1 6.9
Share-based payments 6.0 7.9
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.4
14.4 15.2
Directors’ emoluments
The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Company are set out below:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 3.8 2.8
Aggregate payments for pension-related benefits 0.1 0.2
Aggregate gains on exercise of share options – 0.1
Aggregate amounts receivable in shares under the DAB Plan 5.3 2.5
Aggregate amounts receivable under the LTIP 2.0 2.5
11.2 8.1
Detailed disclosures of directors’ emoluments are shown on page 28. Details of directors’ interests in share 
options and awards are shown on pages 31 to 35, which form part of the financial statements.
4 Employee information 
The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the 
year was:
2015  
Number
2014  
Number
By activity
Research and development 2,639 2,173
Sales and marketing 498 481
General and administrative 465 418
3,602 3,072
Staff costs (for the above persons)
Wages and salaries 246.7 203.6
Medical care costs 9.0 6.1
Share-based payments (note 20) 70.5 68.5
Social security costs 32.7 29.1
Movement on provision for social security costs on share awards (1.4) (2.4)
Other pension costs 13.1 11.5
370.6 316.4
73 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature
The following items have been charged/(credited) to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Staff costs, including share-based payments (note 4) 370.6 316.4
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 3.5 3.8
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – owned assets (note 1 1) 17.3 14.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – under finance leases (note 1 1) 5.4 5.0
Amortisation of other intangible assets (note 13)
– Cost of revenues 0.3 0.3
– Research and development expenses 9.7 7.5
– Sales and marketing expenses 0.1 0.2
– General and administrative expenses 9.2 8.5
Government grants – research and development expenditure credit (9.6) (8.8)
Impairment of non-current AFS financial assets (note 10) 0.3 1.0
Net profit on disposal of AFS financial assets (5.7) (0.3)
Other operating lease rentals payable
– Plant and machinery 28.4 26.0
– Property 16.3 11.3
Accounts receivables impairment (including movement in provision) (note 8) (0.1) 0.3
Fair value movement on embedded derivatives (4.3) (9.6)
Other foreign exchange (gains)/losses (3.2) 6.8
Services provided by the Group’s auditor and its associates
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the 
Group’s auditor and its associates:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company and consolidated 
financial statements 0.3 0.3
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– The audit of the Group’s subsidiaries 0.2 0.2
– Audit-related assurance services (services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) 0.4 0.4
Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services 0.9 0.9
– Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1
– All other non-audit services* – 0.1
1.0 1.1
* All other non-audit services includes the provision of advice relating to the Group’s procurement model in 2014.
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
74 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 6 Tax
Analysis of charge in the year:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Current tax:
Current tax on profits for the year 71.3 54.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.9) (1.0)
Total current tax 69.4 53.5
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5.7 8.6
Adjustment in respect of prior years – (1.0)
Total deferred tax 5.7 7.6
Income tax expense 75.1 61.1
Analysis of tax on items charged to equity:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Deferred tax charge on outstanding share options and awards 4.0 10.6
Current tax benefit on share options and awards (8.2) (10.9)
Deferred tax charge on AFS financial assets 3.3 1.1
The tax charge for the year was different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK,  
as explained below:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Profit before tax 414.8 316.5
Profit before tax at the corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 84.0 68.1
Effects of:
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.9) (2.0)
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 6.9 6.3
Research and development tax credits (3.8) (3.7)
Current impact of the UK patent box regime (21.9) (15.9)
US deferred tax assets not recognised * – 0.9
Foreign withholding tax 1.6 (2.5)
Impact of share-based payments 3.8 5.2
Other** 6.4 4.7
Total taxation 75.1 61.1
* Includes California R&D tax credits not recognised as future California tax is not expected to absorb all of the tax benefit. 
** Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes and potential additional tax payable on income.
75 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 6 Tax continued 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate 
relevant to each tax jurisdiction.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
At 1 January 55.5 65.2
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertakings (4.7) (0.4)
Income statement charge (5.7) (7.6)
Adjustment in respect of share-based payments (4.0) (10.6)
Movement from current tax assets 6.4 9.3
Revaluation of AFS financial asset (3.3) (1.1)
Exchange differences 0.6 0.7
At 31 December 44.8 55.5
Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences 
giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is not probable that the unrecognised portion of these assets will 
be recovered. 
The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 2015 was £5.6 million (2014: £5.8 million). 
The unrecognised deferred tax assets relate to historic losses of acquired subsidiaries and California research 
and development tax credits. The losses may remain unutilised due to restrictions imposed by local tax 
legislation and availability of relevant future profits.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further £49.3 million (2014: £43.1 million) of unremitted 
earnings of overseas subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of 
these differences and either it is possible that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future or no 
tax is payable on the reversal.
During 2015, the UK Government published draft legislation introducing a new Patent Box regime based 
on the newly adopted modified nexus approach for IP assets submitted after 30 June 2016. UK taxpayers 
that have already submitted assets under the current form of the Patent Box will be allowed to continue to 
claim benefit through the current regime until 30 June 2021 for those assets. If these taxpayers also submit 
assets post 30 June 2016 then the benefits relating to these assets will be claimed under the new regime. 
Such taxpayers will operate under both regimes until 30 June 2021 when all benefits claimed through the 
Patent Box will be through the modified nexus approach. These changes have not been enacted at the 
balance sheet date and therefore are not taken into account in the measurement of deferred tax.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax 
jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) during the year are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only 
offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred tax assets
Amounts  
relating to  
share-based 
payments  
£m
Temporary  
differences 
relating to  
fixed assets  
£m
Tax losses  
and R&D  
tax credits 
carried 
forward  
£m
Temporary  
differences  
relating to  
liabilities  
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 January 2015 24.3 1.7 25.9 8.1 – 60.0
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking – – 0.1 – – 0.1
Movement from current tax assets – – 6.4 – – 6.4
Income statement credit/(charge) 1.3 (1.7) (7.6) 0.5 1.8 (5.7)
Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding 
share options and awards (4.0) – – – – (4.0)
Exchange differences – – 0.9 – – 0.9
At 31 December 2015 (prior to offsetting) 21.6 – 25.7 8.6 1.8 57.7
Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities (9.7)
At 31 December 2015 (after offsetting) 48.0
At 1 January 2014 32.8 3.9 22.1 8.0 0.9 67.7
Movement from current tax assets – – 9.3 – – 9.3
Income statement credit/(charge) 2.1 (2.2) (6.2) 0.1 (0.9) (7.1)
Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding 
share options and awards (10.6) – – – – (10.6)
Exchange differences – – 0.7 – – 0.7
At 31 December 2014 (prior to offsetting) 24.3 1.7 25.9 8.1 – 60.0
Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities (4.1)
At 31 December 2014 (after offsetting) 55.9
The deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year is £29.7 million (2014: £32.0 million).
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
76 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 6 Tax continued 
Deferred tax liabilities
Amounts relating  
to intangible  
assets arising  
on acquisition  
£m
Temporary  
difference on  
AFS financial  
assets  
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 January 2015 3.1 1.1 0.3 4.5
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertakings 4.8 – – 4.8
Movement through reserves – 3.3 – 3.3
Exchange differences 0.3 – – 0.3
At 31 December 2015 (prior to offsetting) 8.2 4.4 0.3 12.9
Offsetting of deferred tax assets (9.7)
At 31 December 2015 (after offsetting) 3.2
At 1 January 2014 2.5 – – 2.5
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 0.4 – – 0.4
Income statement charge 0.2 – 0.3 0.5
Movement through reserves – 1.1 – 1.1
At 31 December 2014 (prior to offsetting) 3.1 1.1 0.3 4.5
Offsetting of deferred tax assets (4.1)
At 31 December 2014 (after offsetting) 0.4
The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is £1.3 million (2014: £1.0 million).
7 Dividends
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Final 2013 paid at 3.60 pence per share – 50.7
Interim 2014 paid at 2.52 pence per share – 35.4
Final 2014 paid at 4.50 pence per share 63.5 –
Interim 2015 paid at 3.15 pence per share 44.3 –
107.8 86.1
In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 
2015 of 5.63 pence per share, which will absorb an estimated £79 million of shareholders’ funds. Subject to 
approval at the 2016 AGM, it will be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders who are on the register of 
members on 22 April 2016.
8 Accounts receivable
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Trade debtors (including receivables from related parties – see note 24) 133.5 138.5
Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors (1.0) (9.0)
Trade debtors, net 132.5 129.5
Amounts recoverable on contracts 51.2 9.1
Current accounts receivable 183.7 138.6
Movements in the Group’s provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
At 1 January (9.0) (9.7)
Charge to income statement 0.1 (0.3)
Utilised 6.5 2.5
Reclassification from deferred income 1.5 (1.4)
Foreign exchange (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December (1.0) (9.0)
See also note 16 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Group’s gross trade debtors.
9 Prepaid expenses and other assets
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Other receivables 22.9 19.3
Prepayments 28.7 23.9
Current prepaid expenses and other assets 51.6 43.2
Plus: non-current prepaid expenses and other assets 1.4 1.7
Total prepaid expenses and other assets 53.0 44.9
77 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 10 Available-for-sale financial assets
Non-current available-for-sale financial assets
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Net book value
At 1 January 23.7 13.9
Additions 3.8 5.0
Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 2.8 5.4
Transfer to current (3.8) –
Disposals (15.0) –
Foreign exchange translation 0.4 0.4
Impairment recognised through income statement (general and administrative expenses) (0.3) (1.0)
At 31 December 11.6 23.7
Current available-for-sale financial assets
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Net book value
At 1 January – 1.2
Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 19.3 –
Transfer from non-current 3.8 –
Disposals – (1.2)
At 31 December 23.1 –
Non-current investments
Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are generally early-stage development 
enterprises, which are generating value for shareholders through research and development activities, and 
most do not currently report profits. The fair value of these investments is considered to approximate to 
cost or is determined using independent valuation information where available. Non-current available-for-sale 
investments noted above are considered to be level 3 financial assets (see note 16). 
Included within the £15.0 million disposals noted in the above table were £8.7 million ($12.9 million) of 
convertible loan notes in Sunrise Micro Devices, Inc. which were converted on acquisition on 15 April 2015 
(see note 19).
A permanent 10% fall in the underlying value of those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested 
and does not have independent valuation information (e.g. through the occurrence of transactions in the 
relevant entity’s equity instruments) as at 31 December 2015 would have reduced the Group’s post-tax profit 
by £1.0 million (2014: £1.5 million) and resulted in a £nil (2014: £nil) reduction in other components of equity.
Current investments
During 2015 there has been a transfer out of level 3 and into level 1 financial instrument assets. This is a result 
of Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd listing on the Shenzhen stock exchange in China. This financial asset 
is considered to be a current level 1 asset since it has an active market. The value of this investment as at 
31 December 2015 is £23.1 million. At 31 December 2014, the Group had no listed investments.
The Group’s investments include the following companies:
 › Ambiq Micro Inc.
 › Cambridge Innovation Capital plc
 › Cyclos Semiconductor Inc.
 › Marmalade Technologies Limited (formerly Ideaworks 3D Limited)
 › Shanghai Walden Venture Capital Enterprise
 › Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd
 › Triad Semiconductor Inc.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Current:
Listed equity securities – China 23.1 –
Non-current:
Unlisted equity securities – UK 6.6 6.5
Unlisted equity securities – US 1.6 1.6
Unlisted equity securities – ROW 3.4 7.4
Convertible loan notes – UK – 1.3
Convertible loan notes – US – 6.9
Total available-for-sale financial assets 34.7 23.7
Available-for-sale financial assets are held in the following currencies:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Sterling 11.6 15.5
US dollars – 8.2
Chinese Yuan 23.1 –
Total available-for-sale financial assets 34.7 23.7
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
78 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1 1 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold  
buildings  
£m
Leasehold  
improvements  
£m
Computer  
equipment  
£m
Fixtures, fittings  
and motor  
vehicles  
£m
Assets in the  
course of  
construction  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 0.2 20.0 70.5 8.2 1.0 99.9
Additions – 10.1 24.7 4.2 0.6 39.6
Acquisitions – 0.1 0.4 0.1 – 0.6
Transfers – – 1.4 – (1.4) –
Disposals – (5.2) (9.9) (1.1) (0.1) (16.3)
Exchange differences – 0.6 1.1 0.3 – 2.0
At 31 December 2015 0.2 25.6 88.2 11.7 0.1 125.8
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2015 0.1 9.8 41.4 5.2 – 56.5
Charge for the year – 3.3 17.7 1.7 – 22.7
Disposals – (5.2) (9.7) (1.1) – (16.0)
Exchange differences – 0.3 0.6 0.1 – 1.0
At 31 December 2015 0.1 8.2 50.0 5.9 – 64.2
Net book value  
At 31 December 2015 0.1 17.4 38.2 5.8 0.1 61.6
Freehold  
buildings  
£m
Leasehold  
improvements  
£m
Computer  
equipment  
£m
Fixtures, fittings  
and motor  
vehicles  
£m
Assets in the  
course of  
construction  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 0.2 24.2 49.4 7.0 0.7 81.5
Additions – 3.0 21.8 1.6 1.9 28.3
Acquisitions – – 0.1 0.2 – 0.3
Transfers – – 1.0 – (1.0) –
Reclassification* – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Disposals – (7.8) (3.6) (0.6) – (12.0)
Exchange differences – 0.6 1.8 – (0.3) 2.1
At 31 December 2014 0.2 20.0 70.5 8.2 1.0 99.9
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 0.1 14.5 28.9 4.4 – 47.9
Charge for the year – 2.8 15.1 1.2 – 19.1
Acquisitions – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.2
Disposals – (7.7) (3.3) (0.6) – (11.6)
Exchange differences – 0.2 0.6 0.1 – 0.9
At 31 December 2014 0.1 9.8 41.4 5.2 – 56.5
Net book value  
At 31 December 2014 0.1 10.2 29.1 3.0 1.0 43.4
* Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets (software).
Included within computer equipment are assets with net book value of £13.7 million (2014: £9.5 million) held 
under finance leases.
79 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 12 Goodwill
IP Group  
£m
IoT   
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 January 2014 520.1 5.8 525.9
Exchange differences 29.7 0.4 30.1
Acquisition – Duolog (note 19) 10.7 – 10.7
Acquisition – Offspark (note 19) – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2014 560.5 6.5 567.0
Exchange differences 26.4 1.6 28.0
Acquisition – Wicentric (note 19) 1.8 – 1.8
Acquisition – SMD (note 19) 6.5 – 6.5
Acquisition – Sansa (note 19) 7.1 28.7 35.8
Acquisition – Carbon (note 19) 11.6 – 11.6
At 31 December 2015 613.9 36.8 650.7
The Group has been investing in activities related to the Internet-of-Things (IoT). On 30 July 2015, the Group 
acquired the share capital of Discretix, Inc (trading as Sansa Security, Inc (Sansa)). The majority of the goodwill 
and assets acquired as part of this acquisition are considered to be related to IoT. IoT is now considered to 
be a separate cash-generating unit from IPG. The goodwill allocated to IoT has been subject to a separate 
impairment review, as goodwill is monitored by the Group at the cash-generating unit level.
During the fourth quarter of 2015, the directors tested the Group’s goodwill balances for impairment in 
accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of assets”. Their recoverable amounts have been measured based on a 
value-in-use calculation.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were:
IP Group:
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal 
growth rate after 2025 of 3% per annum. The ten-year forecast is based on the Group’s detailed strategic 
plan for years one to three extrapolated for the remaining years. Given the long-term nature of the ARM 
licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess 
the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review.
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by 
senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARM’s historical 
experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to rise steadily over the period of the calculation.
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill is appropriate and that the assumptions 
used in estimating its recoverable amount are appropriate. Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in 
the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions 
would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated recoverable amount 
exceeds the carrying value.
IoT:
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal 
growth rate after 2025 of 3% per annum. The ten-year forecast is based on the Group’s detailed strategic 
plan for years one to three extrapolated for the remaining years. Given the long-term nature of the plan for 
this cash-generating unit it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess the expected 
future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review. 
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by 
senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARM’s historical 
experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions. Significant revenue growth is planned 
starting from the current immaterial level.
Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to improve from losses in the early years to 
approximately 40% over the period of the calculation.
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill is appropriate and that the assumptions 
used in estimating its recoverable amount are appropriate. In making this assessment the directors have 
considered possible scenarios that could result in an impairment. The calculation is most sensitive to variations 
in the revenue assumptions where a reduction in planned revenues of greater than 30% could result in an 
impairment of goodwill.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation or the Group’s current plans for this cash-
generating unit could change, the directors believe that based on the existing strategy it is reasonable 
to value the goodwill attributed to IoT at its purchased value and that no impairment is necessary as at 
31 December 2015.
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
80 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 13 Other intangible assets
Computer  
software  
£m
Patents and  
licences  
£m
In-process  
research and  
development  
£m
Developed  
technology  
£m
Existing  
agreements  
and 
customer  
relationships  
£m
Core  
technology  
£m
Trademarks  
and  
tradenames  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2015 20.7 99.1 6.2 50.3 55.2 17.5 4.7 253.7
Additions 2.3 9.1 – – – – – 11.4
Acquisitions – – 3.0 18.2 1.2 – – 22.4
Disposals (0.6) – – – – – – (0.6)
Exchange differences 0.1 – 0.4 1.1 2.2 0.9 0.2 4.9
At 31 December 2015 22.5 108.2 9.6 69.6 58.6 18.4 4.9 291.8
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2015 15.5 35.5 6.2 41.9 55.2 17.5 4.7 176.5
Charge for the year 3.1 12.7 0.2 3.2 0.1 – – 19.3
Disposals (0.6) – – – – – – (0.6)
Exchange differences 0.1 – 0.3 0.9 2.2 0.9 0.2 4.6
At 31 December 2015 18.1 48.2 6.7 46.0 57.5 18.4 4.9 199.8
Net book value  
At 31 December 2015 4.4 60.0 2.9 23.6 1.1 – – 92.0
The net book value of patents and licences includes a patent licence agreement for interconnect technology 
used in SoCs, with a carrying value of £12.5 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: £14.2 million) and a remaining 
useful life of seven years, and IP rights acquired with a carrying value of £27.7 million at 31 December 2015 
(2014: £32.5 million) and a remaining useful life of six years.
Computer  
software  
£m
Patents and  
licences  
£m
In-process  
research and  
development  
£m
Developed  
technology  
£m
Existing  
agreements  
and 
customer  
relationships  
£m
Core  
technology  
£m
Trademarks  
and  
tradenames  
£m
Total  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 19.4 100.9 5.8 46.7 52.8 16.5 4.4 246.5
Additions 2.6 5.1 – – – – – 7.7
Acquisitions – – – 2.7 – – – 2.7
Reclassification* 0.3 – – – – – – 0.3
Disposals (1.7) (6.9) – – – – – (8.6)
Exchange differences 0.1 – 0.4 0.9 2.4 1.0 0.3 5.1
At 31 December 2014 20.7 99.1 6.2 50.3 55.2 17.5 4.7 253.7
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 14.3 31.4 5.8 39.0 52.6 16.1 4.4 163.6
Charge for the year 3.0 11.0 – 1.9 0.2 0.4 – 16.5
Disposals (1.9) (6.9) – – – – – (8.8)
Exchange differences 0.1 – 0.4 1.0 2.4 1.0 0.3 5.2
At 31 December 2014 15.5 35.5 6.2 41.9 55.2 17.5 4.7 176.5
Net book value  
At 31 December 2014 5.2 63.6 – 8.4 – – – 77.2
* Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets (software).
81 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 14 Accrued and other liabilities
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Accruals:
 Provision for payroll taxes on share awards 11.4 12.8
 Employee bonus and sales commissions 28.2 19.3
 Other accruals (including £6.3 million non-current (2014: £nil)) 55.0 37.3
Total accruals 94.6 69.4
Other taxation and social security 5.2 4.7
Other payables 7.2 6.5
Total accrued and other liabilities 107.0 80.6
15 Finance lease liabilities
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments:
 Within one year 5.5 4.1
 In the second to fifth years inclusive 6.2 2.6
 Less: future finance charges (0.4) (0.2)
Present value of lease obligations 11.3 6.5
Amounts due for settlement within 12 months 5.2 3.9
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 6.1 2.6
Present value of lease obligations 11.3 6.5
The Group has entered into three- and four-year finance lease arrangements in respect of certain 
IT equipment.
16 Financial instruments
(a) Financial instruments by category
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
Financial assets
Loans and 
receivables  
£m
Assets at fair  
value through  
the income  
statement  
£m
Available- 
for-sale  
£m
Total  
£m
At 31 December 2015
Cash and cash equivalents 40.5 – – 40.5
Short-term deposits and similar instruments 617.8 – – 617.8
Embedded derivatives – 6.9 – 6.9
Accounts receivable (gross of impairment provision) 184.7 – – 184.7
Available-for-sale financial assets – listed – – 23.1 23.1
Total current financial assets 843.0 6.9 23.1 873.0
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 298.0 – – 298.0
Loans and receivables 6.0 – – 6.0
Available-for-sale financial assets – unlisted – – 11.6 11.6
Total non-current financial assets 304.0 – 11.6 315.6
Total financial assets 1,147.0 6.9 34.7 1,188.6
At 31 December 2014
Cash and cash equivalents 54.1 – – 54.1
Short-term deposits and similar instruments 620.8 – – 620.8
Embedded derivatives – 2.6 – 2.6
Accounts receivable (gross of impairment provision) 147.6 – – 147.6
Total current financial assets 822.5 2.6 – 825.1
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 191.4 – – 191.4
Loans and receivables 3.0 – – 3.0
Available-for-sale financial assets – unlisted – – 23.7 23.7
Total non-current financial assets 194.4 – 23.7 218.1
Total financial assets 1,016.9 2.6 23.7 1,043.2
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
82 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 16 Financial instruments continued 
(a) Financial instruments by category continued
Financial liabilities
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December:
Accounts payable 12.7 11.7
Accrued and other liabilities* 57.0 46.8
Finance lease liabilities 11.3 6.5
81.0 65.0
Liabilities at fair value through the income statement at 31 December:
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 3.2 4.8
Total financial liabilities 84.2 69.8
*  Non-financial liabilities are excluded from the accrued and other liabilities balance, as this analysis is required only for financial 
instruments.
Valuation hierarchy
As at 31 December 2015, the Group’s financial instrument assets consisted of embedded derivatives (level 2) 
of £6.9 million (2014: £2.6 million) and AFS financial assets (level 1) of £23.1 million (current) (2014: £nil 
(current) and (level 3) of £1 1.6 million (non-current) (2014: £23.7 million non-current). 
As at 31 December 2015, the Group’s financial instrument liabilities consisted of currency exchange contracts 
at fair value through the income statement (level 2) of £3.2 million (2014: £4.8 million). 
The Level 1 AFS financial asset consists of a listed equity investment. The fair value is determined with 
reference to prices quoted on the relevant exchange at the balance sheet date.
Level 2 currency exchange contracts comprise forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options. 
The fair value of the forward exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates as quoted in an 
active market. The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management 
and the respective banks holding the currency instruments. 
Level 2 embedded derivatives are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an 
active market.
Level 3 AFS financial assets consist of unlisted equity investments and other current investments. 
The estimated fair value of the unlisted equity investments approximates to cost less any permanent 
diminution in value (based on management’s estimate of forecast profitability and achievement of set 
objectives by the relevant entity), except where independent valuation information is obtained, e.g. 
through the occurrence of funding or other transactions in the relevant entity’s equity instruments.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the level 3 calculation could change, the directors believe that 
no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in a significant change in fair value.
Maturity of financial liabilities
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the 
remaining period from the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table 
are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as 
the impact of discounting is not significant.
Less than  
six months  
£m
Between  
six months and  
one year 
£m
Between  
one and  
two years  
£m
Over  
two years  
£m
At 31 December 2015:
Accounts payable 12.7 – – –
Accrued and other liabilities 54.3 0.9 1.8 –
Finance lease liabilities 3.0 2.2 3.5 2.6
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 2.4 0.8 – –
At 31 December 2014:
Accounts payable 11.7 – – –
Accrued and other liabilities 46.8 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 2.3 1.6 2.1 0.5
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 3.2 1.2 0.4 –
83 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 16 Financial instruments continued 
(a) Financial instruments by category continued
Loans and receivables
During 2010, the Group invested £2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business. 
This was recognised in loans and receivables at its initial fair value of £1.9 million, measured using the effective 
interest method, which resulted in a charge of £0.6 million being recognised as interest payable and similar 
charges during 2010. During 2013 the Group invested a further £0.7 million with Future Business. 
In addition, the Group is owed a balance of £2.9 million from its joint venture Trustonic at 31 December 2015 
(2014: £nil) in respect of loans and other amounts receivable. 
The carrying value of the total loans amounted to £6.0 million at 31 December 2015 (2014: £3.0 million), with 
£0.1 million being recognised as interest receivable during 2015 (2014: £0.1 million).
The Group had no borrowings during 2015 and 2014.
Short-term deposits and similar instruments The effective interest rate on short-term deposits and similar 
instruments outstanding at the year-end was 1.35% (2014: 1.29%) and these deposits have an average 
maturity of 189 days (2014: 205 days).
Long-term deposits and similar instruments The effective interest rate on long-term deposits and similar 
instruments outstanding at the year-end was 1.52% (2014: 1.61%) and these deposits have an average 
maturity of 522 days (2014: 576 days).
Derivative financial instruments
This table analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on 
the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed 
in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Amounts due within 12 months equal their carrying 
balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Less than  
three months  
m
Over three  
months but  
less than  
six months  
m
Between  
six months  
and one year  
m
Greater than  
one year  
m
Foreign exchange forward contracts – held-for-trading at  
31 December 2015
Outflow $160.0 $40.0 $20.0 –
Inflow £106.3 £26.5 £13.4 –
Foreign exchange options – held-for-trading at 31 December 2015
Outflow (maximum) $51.8 $51.8 $59.5 –
Inflow (maximum) £35.1 £35.1 £40.4 –
Foreign exchange forward contracts – held-for-trading at 31 December 
2014
Outflow $133.0 $28.0 $13.0 –
Inflow £83.6 £17.9 £8.4 –
Foreign exchange options – held-for-trading at 31 December 2014
Outflow (maximum) $59.1 $59.3 $88.5 $24.0
Inflow (maximum) £37.3 £37.4 £56.6 £16.0
Fair value of currency exchange contracts
The fair value of currency exchange contracts is estimated using the forward rates. The estimation of the 
fair value of the liability in respect of currency exchange contracts was £3.2 million at 31 December 2015 
(2014: £4.8 million). The resulting gains and losses on the movement of the fair value of currency exchange 
contracts are recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, amounting to 
a gain of £1.6 million (2014: loss of £9.4 million). 
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
84 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 16 Financial instruments continued 
(b) Credit quality of financial assets
Trade debtors
On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on 
a line-by-line basis. Either a provision is made or the lack thereof is justified, with review by senior members 
of the Group’s finance team.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Trade debtors (gross of impairment provision):
Not yet due 101.6 86.5
Under 90 days overdue 26.4 31.0
Over 90 days overdue but not provided for 4.5 12.0
Fully provided for 1.0 9.0
Total 133.5 138.5
As shown above, at 31 December 2015, trade debtors less than 90 days overdue (excluding those amounts 
that are not yet due) amounted to £26.4 million. Of those outstanding at 31 December 2015, £18.6 million 
had been collected by 15 February 2016 and £6.9 million was owed by large, established customers. Similarly, 
debtors more than 90 days overdue and not provided for amounted to £4.5 million, of which £0.6 million 
had been collected by 15 February 2016 and £2.5 million was owed by large, established customers. For the 
remainder, discussions regarding repayment are ongoing and repayment schedules have been agreed with the 
customers concerned. These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in accordance with the control outlined 
above. No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these debts as they are not felt to pose a 
material threat to the Group’s future results.
As shown above, at 31 December 2015, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to £1.0 million 
(2014: £9.0 million). All of the trade debtors provided for at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 
were over six months overdue.
At 31 December 2015, one customer (2014: no customer) accounted for over 10% of accounts receivable.
Credit risk
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is 
limited to financial institutions with either a Moody’s rating of at least A2/P-1, a Fitch rating of at least  
A/F1, or UK building societies with over £2 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where the 
cash holding concerned is immaterial. At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the majority of the Group’s 
cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments were deposited with 
major clearing banks and building societies in the UK and US in the form of money market deposits and 
corporate bonds for varying periods of up to three years. At 31 December 2015, over 99% (2014: 99%) 
of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, and short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments were 
deposited with major clearing banks and building societies fulfilling these criteria. 
Interest rate risk
At 31 December 2015, the Group had £956.1 million (2014: £873.1 million) of interest-bearing assets. 
At 31 December 2015, 95% (2014: 93%) of interest-bearing assets (comprising cash and cash equivalents, 
short- and long-term deposits and similar instruments, loans and receivables, and the Group’s loan to joint 
venture) are at fixed rates and are therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk. Had interest rates been 
1% (100 basis points) lower throughout the year, interest receivable would have reduced by approximately 
£8.5 million (2014: £7.3 million) and profit after tax by £6.8 million (2014: £5.8 million).
Currency risk
At 31 December 2015, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $220 million 
(2014: $174 million) for sterling. In addition, the Group utilises option instruments which have various 
provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either the Group or the counterparty the option 
to exercise. At 31 December 2015, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group 
may, under certain circumstances, be required to sell up to $163 million (2014: $231 million) for sterling. 
A common scenario with options of this type is that the spot price at expiry is such that neither the Group 
nor the counterparty chooses to exercise the option. At 31 December 2015, the Group had $196 million 
(2014: $212 million) of accounts receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and US dollar cash and 
cash equivalents, and short-term deposits of $18 million (2014: $41 million). Thus, the Group’s US dollar 
assets were less than currency exchange contracts and currency options outstanding at the year-end. 
Management assesses the volume and timing of currency exchange contracts taking into consideration both 
the current and expected future level of US dollar assets. Based on the predictable nature of the Group’s 
cash flows, the Group typically has a greater value of currency exchange contracts outstanding than US dollar 
assets held. 
At 31 December 2015, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other variables 
held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been £5.3 million lower (2014: £4.0 million lower), 
mainly as a result of the mix of financial instruments at respective year-ends. 
85 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 17 Share capital
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Authorised
2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2014: 2,200,000,000) 1.1 1.1
2015 2014
Number of 
shares m Value £m
Number of 
shares m Value £m
Issued and fully paid
At 1 January 1,412.2 0.7 1,400.3 0.7
Allotted under employee incentive schemes 0.2 – 11.9 –
At 31 December 1,412.4 0.7 1,412.2 0.7
During 2015, the aggregate consideration received on issue of new share capital allotted under employee 
incentive schemes was £2.3 million (2014: £6.8 million).
18  Own shares held
Treasury stock 
£m
At 1 January 2015 66.9
Purchase of own shares 92.2
Issuance of shares (87.1)
At 31 December 2015 72.0
During the year, £92.2 million (2014: £66.9 million) of shares were repurchased, representing 9.0 million 
(2014: 7.9 million) shares. At 31 December 2015, 7.2 million (2014: 7.9 million) shares were held as treasury 
stock. Own shares held have a nominal value of 0.05 pence and in total represent 0.5% of called-up 
share capital. 
19 Acquisitions
The Group acquired the entire share capital of three companies in 2015: Wicentric, Inc., acquired on 
5 February 2015, Sunrise Micro Devices, Inc. (SMD), acquired on 15 April 2015 and Discretix, Inc. (trading as 
Sansa Security, Inc. (Sansa)), acquired on 30 July 2015. In addition the Group acquired the trade and certain 
assets of Carbon Design Systems, Inc. (Carbon) on 19 October 2015.
Wicentric is a Bluetooth
®
 Smart stack and profile provider and SMD is a provider of sub-one volt radio 
intellectual property (IP). The IP of both companies is being integrated to form a portfolio that will 
complement ARM’s existing processor and physical IP, targeting end markets requiring low-power wireless 
communications such as the IoT.
The following table summarises the consideration and provisional fair values of the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed at the date of each acquisition. 
Wicentric  
5 February 2015
SMD  
15 April 2015
£m $m £m $m
Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property,  
plant and equipment 0.2 0.3 0.9 1.3
Intangible assets 0.4 0.6 4.6 6.7
Accrued and other liabilities (0.1) (0.2) (0.5) (0.7)
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (0.1) (0.2) (1.6) (2.3)
Net assets acquired 0.4 0.5 3.4 5.0
Goodwill 1.8 2.7 6.5 9.6
Consideration 2.2 3.2 9.9 14.6
The full consideration was paid in cash for Wicentric. The majority of the consideration for SMD consisted 
of convertible loan notes (and interest accrued) with a fair value of £9.2 million ($13.5 million), with the 
remainder of the consideration settled in cash. All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have been 
charged to the income statement.
From their dates of acquisition to 31 December 2015, the acquisitions of Wicentric and SMD contributed 
£1.0 million in revenue and incurred a pre-tax loss of £3.5 million. If both companies had been consolidated 
from 1 January 2015, the consolidated income statement would have included an additional £1.0 million of 
revenue and £5.2 million of pre-tax loss.
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
86 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 19 Acquisitions continued
Sansa is a provider of hardware security IP and software for advanced system-on-chip components deployed 
in IoT and mobile devices. The company currently enables security in more than 150 million products a 
year and Sansa technology is deployed across a range of smart connected devices and enterprise systems. 
The acquisition complements the ARM security portfolio, which includes ARM TrustZone
®
 technology and 
SecurCore
®
 processor IP.
Carbon is a leading supplier of cycle-accurate virtual prototyping solutions, to deliver design optimisation, 
time-to-market and cost-efficiency gains for its Partners.
The following table summarises the consideration and provisional fair values of the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed at the date of each acquisition. 
Sansa 
30 July 2015
Carbon  
19 October 2015
£m $m £m $m
Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property,  
plant and equipment 4.8 7.4 0.1 0.1
Intangible assets 11.5 17.8 5.9 9.1
Accrued and other liabilities (3.1) (4.8) (1.8) (2.8)
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (3.0) (4.7) – –
Net assets acquired 10.2 15.7 4.2 6.4
Goodwill 35.8 55.6 11.6 18.0
Consideration 46.0 71.3 15.8 24.4
The full consideration was paid in cash for both Sansa and Carbon. All transaction expenses incurred by the 
Group have been charged to the income statement. The rationale for the acquisition of Sansa is to accelerate 
the Group’s business into the IoT services market and to enhance future revenue streams rather than to 
directly exploit the IP acquired. Consequently the majority of the value to the Group is as an enabler to the 
existing business which has resulted in the high proportion of goodwill as a percentage of the consideration.
From 30 July 2015 to 31 December 2015, the acquisition of Sansa contributed £4.3 million in revenue and 
incurred a pre-tax profit of £0.4 million. If Sansa had been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated 
income statement would have included an additional £10.2 million of revenue and £0.5 million of pre-tax loss.
From 19 October 2015 to 31 December 2015, the acquisition of Carbon contributed £0.7 million in revenue 
and incurred a pre-tax profit of £0.1 million. If Carbon had been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the 
consolidated income statement would have included an additional £4.0 million of revenue and no pre-tax 
profit or loss.
For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the workforce of the companies, including the 
founders and the management teams, the Group paid a premium for all four companies, giving rise to 
goodwill. All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess over net assets 
being recognised as goodwill.
Two acquisitions were made in 2014: Duolog Holdings Limited, acquired on 27 May 2014 for €13.9 million 
(£1 1.4 million), and Offspark BV, acquired on 14 November 2014 for €1.5 million (£1.2 million). The Group 
acquired the entire share capital of both entities, which have been accounted for as acquisitions. 
Duolog, a company based in Ireland and Hungary, is a leader in design configuration and integration 
technology for the semiconductor industry. The acquisition strengthens the Group’s IP configuration and 
integration capability, helping ARM Partners design and deploy system IP and manage increasing SoC 
integration complexity.
Offspark BV, a company based in the Netherlands, is a company providing specialised services in the field of 
digital security focusing on online security, secure hardware and software and (practical) cryptography.
For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the workforce of the companies, including the 
founders and the management team, the Group paid a premium for both companies, giving rise to goodwill. 
All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess over net assets being 
recognised as goodwill.
The following table summarises the consideration and final fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed at the date of each acquisition. 
Duolog  
27 May 2014
Offspark  
14 November 2014
£m €m £m €m
Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property,  
plant and equipment 1.2 1.6 0.1 0.2
Intangible assets 1.7 2.0 1.0 1.2
Accrued and other liabilities (0.8) (1.0) – –
Loans payable (1.2) (1.5) – –
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (0.2) (0.3) (0.2) (0.3)
Net assets acquired 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.1
Goodwill 10.7 13.1 0.3 0.4
Consideration 11.4 13.9 1.2 1.5
The consideration for both acquisitions was paid in cash. All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have 
been charged to the income statement within general and administrative expenses.
87 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 19 Acquisitions continued
From 27 May 2014 to 31 December 2014, the acquisition of Duolog contributed £1.3 million in revenue and 
incurred a pre-tax loss of £0.7 million. If Duolog had been consolidated from 1 January 2014, the consolidated 
income statement would have included £3.1 million of revenue and £0.5 million of pre-tax loss. The trading 
results of Offspark would have had no significant impact on the results of the Group.
Other:
During 2015 the Group also made payments in respect of time-based and performance bonuses of £1.1 million 
(2014: £1.4 million) due as a result of the acquisition of Prolific Inc in 201 1, £0.3 million (2014: £0.3 million) due 
as a result of the acquisition of Sensinode in 2013, £0.3 million (2014: £nil) due as a result of the acquisition of 
Duolog and £0.2 million (2014: £nil) due as a result of the acquisition of Geomerics in 2014.
During 2014 the Group made a payment of £1.8 million in respect of time-based and performance bonuses 
due as a result of the acquisition of Obsidian Software Inc in 201 1. 
20 Share-based payments
Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather 
than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price. 
The main RSU awards (to employees in all jurisdictions other than France) vest 25% on each anniversary over 
four years. RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after 
three and four years.
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB Plan. Under the DAB Plan, which is for directors and selected 
senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus 
into shares on a compulsory basis. These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a matching award 
will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time. This scheme 
was replaced after the February 2014 grant with a cash-only bonus. For details of the new scheme, see the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 29.
The Company also operates the LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share 
awards are made and vest depending on the Company’s TSR performance and normalised EPS performance 
over the three-year performance period. Grants were made for the last time under the former LTIP scheme 
in February 2013 for which the number of shares vesting depends only on the TSR performance of the 
Group. For details of the new scheme, see the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 31.
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group. 
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of 
savings is three or five years. The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share price prior to the 
announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the 
savings have been completed. The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees 
in the UK, US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries, namely the ESPP. The number of 
options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is six months, 
with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of 
the scheme.
The Group has in the past issued share options under several additional schemes, whereby shares in the 
Company can be granted to employees and directors. Options are granted with a fixed exercise price 
equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant. These schemes are the UK Inland 
Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan (the “Executive Scheme”), the Unapproved Scheme 
(the “Unapproved Scheme”), the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the 
acquisition of Artisan in 2004. Share options in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Company 
reserves the right to award options to employees going forward. Shares relating to these schemes have all 
vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2014 or 
2015. All shares issued under these schemes have either lapsed or been exercised as at 31 December 2014.
As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses arising from these share-based compensation schemes of £70.5 million 
(2014: £68.5 million) were charged to the income statement in the year. This is in line with the Group’s 
policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these remuneration schemes as 
outlined in note 1b.
The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option 
pricing model, except for the ESPP whose fair value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest. 
The following assumptions for each option grant during 2015 and 2014 were as follows:
Grant date 26 Jun 2015 30 Apr 2015 31 Oct 2015 23 Jun 2014 30 Apr 2014 31 Oct 2014
Scheme SAYE ESPP ESPP SAYE ESPP ESPP
Share price at grant date £11.480 £11.140 £10.250 £8.89 £9.095 £8.385
Exercise price £9.344 £7.438 £8.712 £7.344 £7.73 £7.13
Number of employees 410 935 1,629 520 684 892
Shares under option 327,021 403,562 482,833 651,142 280,996 361,083
Vesting period (years) 3–5 – – 3–5 – –
Expected volatility 29%–34% – – 33%–35% – –
Expected life (years) 3–5 – – 3–5 – –
Risk-free rate 0.5% – – 0.5% – –
Dividend yield 0.61% – – 0.64% – –
Fair value per option £3.247–£4.094 £3.7025 £1.5380 £2.630–£3.180 £1.365 £1.258
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
88 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 20 Share-based payments continued 
The fair value of RSUs and DAB awards granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes 
option pricing model. As all are share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have 
an exercise price of £0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes model. The fair value of LTIP awards granted in 2014 
and 2015 with non-market-based performance conditions (i.e. based on EPS performance) have also been 
estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
For LTIP awards with market-based performance conditions issued from 2014 the fair value is based upon 
Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the comparator companies in the FTSE 350 and the FTSE All 
World Technology Index (AWTI). The Monte-Carlo simulation incorporates a range of other assumptions 
based on the TSR comparator companies; the assumptions given below relate to the Group.
The assumptions for each grant during 2015 were as follows:
Black-Scholes model assumptions
Grant date 12 Feb 2015 12 Feb 2015 12 Feb 2015 8 May 2015 8 May 2015
Scheme RSU French RSU LTIP (EPS) RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date £10.87 £10.87 £10.87 £11.35 £11.35
Number of employees 3,052 126 58 145 13
Shares awarded 4,403,182 145,485 615,651 324,414 19,304
Vesting period (years) 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility 28%-33% 30%-33% 30% 28%-32% 29%-32%
Expected life (years) 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield 0.65% 0.65% 0.65% 0.62% 0.62%
Fair value per share £10.593-£10.800 £10.593-£10.731 £10.661 £11.073-£11.280 £11.073-£11.210
Grant date 13 Aug 2015 13 Aug 2015 12 Nov 2015 12 Nov 2015
Scheme RSU French RSU RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date £9.16 £9.16 £10.53 £10.53
Number of employees 618 16 286 7
Shares awarded 1,589,361 19,187 646,514 6,627
Vesting period (years) 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility 29%-32% 29%-32% 30% 30%
Expected life (years) 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield 0.84% 0.84% 0.73% 0.73%
Fair value per share £8.859-£9.084 £8.859-£9.008 £10.228-£10.454 £10.228-£10.378
The assumptions for each grant during 2014 were as follows:
Black-Scholes model assumptions
Grant date 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014 8 May 2014
Scheme DAB RSU French RSU LTIP (EPS) RSU
Share price at grant date 8.96 8.96 8.96 8.96 8.715
Number of employees 54 2,625 114 59 149
Shares awarded 509,078 4,455,185 165,927 745,615 391,556
Vesting period (years) 3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4
Expected volatility 35% 31%-36% 31%-36% 35% 31%-36%
Expected life (years) 3 1-4 2-4 3-5 1-4
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield 0.64% 0.64% 0.64% 0.64% 0.65%
Fair value per share £8.791 £8.735-£8.903 £8.735-£8.847 £8.791 £8.490-£8.658
Grant date 8 May 2014 13 Aug 2014 13 Aug 2014 12 Nov 2014 12 Nov 2014
Scheme French RSU RSU French RSU RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date 8.715 8.95 8.95 8.745 8.745
Number of employees 6 170 2 333 2
Shares awarded 7,089 380,617 6,882 755,115 2,092
Vesting period (years) 2-4 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility 31%-36% 29%-35% 30%-35% 29%-34% 30%-34%
Expected life (years) 2-4 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield 0.65% 0.68% 0.68% 0.70% 0.70%
Fair value per share £8.490-£8.602 £8.709-£8.889 £8.709-£8.828 £8.504-£8.684 £8.504-£8.623
89 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 20 Share-based payments continued 
Monte-Carlo model 
assumptions for LTIP
Grant date 12 Feb 2015 12 Feb 2015 12 Nov 2015 12 Nov 2015 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014
Scheme (FTSE 350) (FTSE AWTI) (FTSE 350) (FTSE AWTI) (FTSE 350) (FTSE AWTI)
Share price at grant date £10.87 £10.87 £10.53 £10.53 £8.96 £8.96
Number of employees 58 58 2 2 59 59
Shares awarded 307,884 307,885 8,618 8,618 372,793 372,793
Vesting period (years) 3 3 3 3 3 3
Expected volatility 31% 31% 30% 30% 35% 35%
Expected life (years) 3-5 3-5 3-5 3-5 3-5 3-5
Risk-free rate 0.64% 0.64% 0.64% 0.64% 1.0% 1.0%
Dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Fair value per share £13.242 £13.479 £11.092 £12.343 £6.952 £7.560
The expected volatility was primarily based upon historical volatility adjusted for past one-time events that 
are not expected to re-occur. The expected life is the expected period to exercise.
A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the year to 31 December 2015 is shown below. 
Share awards do not have an exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of 
awards, with no corresponding weighted average exercise prices.
2015 2014
Options 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
RSUs/ 
LTIP/DAB  
Number
Options 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
RSUs/ 
LTIP/DAB  
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 1,575,069 £5.661 18,897,280 1,969,919 £3.385 20,227,656
Granted 1,213,416 £8.459 9,718,744 1,293,221 £7.368 9,666,289
Forfeited (81,879) £6.804 (1,003,267) (90,322) £5.197 (667,923)
Lapsed – – – (29,458) £0.725 –
Exercised (1,499,297) £6.276 (8,398,143) (1,568,291) £4.329 (10,328,742)
Outstanding at 31 December 1,207,309 £7.632 19,214,614 1,575,069 £5.661 18,897,280
Exercisable at 31 December 1,363 £3.962 – 4,283 £4.464 –
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise or vest of the above share options and awards was 
£10.72 (2014: £8.94). 
The following options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December:
2015
Exercise price (£)
Number 
outstanding
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Expected  
Years
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Contractual  
Years
Outstanding options:
3.962 – 9.344 1,207,309 7.63 2.27 2.52
Total 1,207,309 7.63 2.27 2.52
Outstanding RSU/LTIP/DAB awards:
0.00 (RSUs) 15,553,164 – 1.32 1.32
0.00 (LTIP) 2,975,379 – 1.36 1.36
0.00 (DAB) 686,071 – 0.70 0.70
Total 19,214,614 – 1.30 1.30
2014
Exercise price (£)
Number 
outstanding
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Expected  
Years
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Contractual  
Years
Outstanding options:
1.948 – 7.96 1,575,069 5.66 2.10 2.35
Total 1,575,069 5.66 2.10 2.35
Outstanding RSU/LTIP/DAB awards:
0.00 (RSUs) 14,702,277 – 1.26 1.26
0.00 (LTIP) 2,800,003 – 1.36 1.36
0.00 (DAB) 1,395,000 – 1.06 1.06
Total 18,897,280 – 1.26 1.26
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
90 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 21 Capital and other financial commitments
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in the financial statements 7.5 2.9
Other financial commitments (expenditure on investments) 3.2 5.4
22 Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
At 31 December 2015, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
2015 2014
Land and  
buildings  
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
Land and  
buildings  
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
The future aggregate minimum lease 
payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases are as follows:
Within one year 15.1 20.0 35.1 11.6 5.3 16.9
Later than one year and less than five years 38.4 24.3 62.7 31.7 – 31.7
After five years 15.0 – 15.0 9.3 – 9.3
At 31 December 68.5 44.3 112.8 52.6 5.3 57.9
The Group leases office buildings and EDA tools software under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. 
The remaining lease terms are between one and nine years, and the majority of lease agreements are 
renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
23 Financial contingencies
It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss 
suffered by the licensee in the event that the technology licensed is held to infringe the IP of a third party. 
Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemnification to its licensees. The obligation for 
the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually contingent upon a third party 
bringing an action against the licensee alleging that the technology licensed by the Group to the licensee 
infringes such third party’s IP rights. The indemnification obligations typically survive any termination of the 
licence and will continue in perpetuity.
The Group does not provide for any such indemnities unless it has received notification from the other party 
that they are likely to invoke the indemnity. A provision is made if both of the following conditions are met: 
(i) information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that a 
liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements; and (ii) the amount of the liability can be 
reasonably estimated. Any such provision is based upon the directors’ estimate of the fair value of expected 
costs of any such claim.
At present, the Group is not a party in any legal proceedings in which the directors believe that it is probable 
that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group. Currently, there are 
legal proceedings against some of the Group’s licensees in which it is asserted that certain of the Group’s 
technology infringes third-party patents, but in each of those proceedings the Group either presently has 
no obligation to indemnify, because certain preconditions to indemnification have not been satisfied by such 
licensees, or to the extent that there is any present obligation to indemnify, the Group does not believe 
that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group. 
If preconditions to indemnification are satisfied then an indemnification obligation may arise which could 
result in a material liability for the Group. 
24 Related party transactions
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group incurred subscription costs of £7.0 million from 
Linaro Limited (“Linaro”), an associated company of the Group,  representing ARM’s committed aggregate 
contributions to Linaro for a period of two years (2014: £nil). In respect of the subscription fees, the Group 
was invoiced £3.5 million during the year to 31 December 2015 (2014: £3.5 million). As at 31 December 2015, 
£1.1 million (2014: £1.1 million) was owed to Linaro.
In addition, the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro amounting to £1.3 million 
(2014: £1.1 million). All fees have been charged in accordance with the terms of the agreement. 
As at 31 December 2015, £0.4 million (2014: £0.3 million) was owed to the Group.
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 26.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3.
There were no other related party transactions during 2015 which require disclosure.
25 Post-balance sheet events
After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2015 of 5.63 pence per 
share. Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders on the 
register on 22 April 2016. The final dividend has not been recognised as a distribution during the year ended 
31 December 2015.
91 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 26 Subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures
Subsidiaries
Details of subsidiary undertakings are shown below. All investments are indirectly held unless otherwise shown.
Name of undertaking 
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity
Parent
 proportion of  
nominal value  
of issued shares 
held (%)
Proportion of total 
Group nominal value of  
issued shares held (%)
ARM Limited England  
and Wales 
Marketing, research and 
development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and graphics IP
less than 1 100*
ARM Belgium Services BVBA Belgium Administration – 100
ARM Electronic Technology 
(Shanghai) Co, Limited
PR China Marketing, research and 
development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and graphics IP
– 100
ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt. 
Limited
India Marketing, research and 
development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP
– 100
ARM Finance Overseas Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100
ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100
ARM Finance UK Three Limited England and Wales Holding company – 100
ARM Finance UK Two Limited England and Wales Holding company – 100
ARM Finland Oy Finland Development of IoT technology – 100
ARM France SAS France Marketing, research and 
development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP
– 100 
ARM Germany GmbH Germany Marketing of RISC-based 
microprocessor IP . Marketing,
and research and development of 
microcontroller tools
– 100
ARM Germany d.o.o. Slovenia Marketing of RISC-based 
microprocessor IP . Marketing,
and research and development of 
microcontroller tools
– 100
ARM Holdings US, Inc US Holding company – 100
ARM Hungary KFT Hungary Development of system IP – 100
ARM Inc. US Marketing, research and 
development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP
– 100
ARM Ireland Holdings Limited Ireland Holding company – 100
ARM Ireland Limited Ireland Development of system IP – 100
ARM Ireland Research Limited Ireland Development of system IP – 100
Name of undertaking 
Country of 
incorporation Principal activity
Parent
 proportion of  
nominal value  
of issued shares 
held (%)
Proportion of total 
Group nominal value of  
issued shares held (%)
ARM IP Limited England and Wales IP holding company 100 100
ARM Korea Limited South Korea Marketing of RISC-based 
microprocessor IP
– 100
ARM KK Japan Marketing of RISC-based 
microprocessor IP
– 100
ARM Norway AS Norway Research and development of 
graphics IP
– 100 
ARM PIPD Holdings One, LLC US Holding company – 100
ARM PIPD Holdings Two, LLC US Holding company – 100
ARM Sweden AB Sweden Research and development of 
graphics IP
– 100
ARM Sansa Holdings, Inc US Dormant – 100
ARM Taiwan Limited Taiwan Marketing, research and 
development of RISC-based
microprocessors and physical IP
– 100
ARM Technologies Israel Limited Israel Development of IoT technology and 
system IP
– 100
ARM Technologies Investments 
Limited
England and Wales Holding company 100 100
ARM UK Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company – 100
Advanced RISC Machines Limited England and Wales Dormant – 100
Discretix KK Japan Dormant – 100
Duolog Technologies Corp Ireland Dormant – 100
Geomerics Limited England and Wales Research and development of 
graphics IP
– 100
Keil Software, Inc US Dormant – 100
Obsidian Software, Inc US Dormant – 100
Offspark BV Netherlands Dormant – 100
Sunrise Micro Devices, Inc US Dormant – 100
*  The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM 
Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited. Both ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% 
owned within the Group..
Notes to the financial statements  
continued…
92 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 26 Subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures continued
Associate
During 2010, the Group became a founder member of Linaro, a not-for-profit engineering company created 
to foster innovation in the Linux community. Linaro (a company incorporated in England and Wales) is a 
company limited by guarantee and as such has no shareholders. The Group controls only 25% of the board 
and therefore considers Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary. The Group has not recognised any 
associate profit or loss, or net assets on the basis that the entity is not-for-profit. 
Joint ventures
In 2012 the Group invested £7.5 million ($12.0 million) in a joint venture, Trustonic Limited (a company 
incorporated in England and Wales, based in Cambridge, UK), with a further investment during 2013 
amounting to £3.7 million (€4.4 million), maintaining a 40% shareholding. The other two joint venture parties 
each owned 30% of the joint venture. With the establishment of industry standards and demand for security 
enhanced services, the focus of Trustonic is to accelerate the wide deployment of secure, smart devices. 
The joint venture was reorganised in May 2015 such that the shareholding of one party has been acquired 
by the other two joint venture members. The joint venture is now controlled and owned equally by ARM 
and one other party, both with 50% shareholdings as at 31 December 2015. The reorganisation generated 
goodwill of £1.4 million. The carrying value of the Group’s investment is £1.0 million at 31 December 
2015. This investment has been classified as a joint venture since the Group and its venture partner have 
joint control over the relevant activities of the business, including the appointment of directors and the 
determination of the operations of the company.
In 2015, the Group invested £1.6 million (CNY 15.9 million) in a joint venture, ARM Innovation Ecosystem 
Accelerator Co. Ltd (AIEA) (a company incorporated in PR China, based in Beijing), representing a 49.9% 
shareholding. The collaboration creates an Internet of Things one-stop shop for startups and established 
OEMs, providing integrated hardware and software expertise as well as resources from the ARM 
ecosystem. This investment has been classified as a joint venture since the Group and its venture partner 
have joint control over the relevant activities of the business, including the appointment of directors and the 
determination of the operations of the company.
Investment in joint ventures
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January 3.0 6.5
Investment 2.7 –
Share of results for the period (3.1) (3.5)
At 31 December 2.6 3.0
The Group’s share of the results of the joint ventures and its aggregated assets and liabilities, are as follows:
Trustonic Limited
Current 
assets 
£m
Non-
current 
assets 
£m
Current 
liabilities 
£m
Non-current  
liabilities  
£m
Currency  
translation  
£m
Income  
£m
Expenses  
£m
Tax  
£m
Loss for  
the year 
£m
At 31 December 2015 3.1 3.6 (5.1) (2.0) – 3.6 (6.8) 0.1 (3.1)
At 31 December 2014 2.6 4.6 (4.2) (0.3) 0.3 3.2 (6.9) 0.2 (3.5)
AIEA
Current 
assets 
£m
Non-
current 
assets 
£m
Current 
liabilities 
£m
Non-current  
liabilities  
£m
Currency  
translation  
£m
Income  
£m
Expenses  
£m
Tax  
£m
Loss for  
the year 
£m
At 31 December 2015 1.6 – – – – – – – –
At 31 December 2014 – – – – – – – – –
The Group’s share of joint venture capital commitments amount was £nil at 31 December 2015 
(2014: £0.2 million).
93 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 At 31 December Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 4 587.4 697.1
Current assets
Debtors 5 324.8 0.5
Cash at bank and in hand 0.3 1.1
325.1 1.6
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (0.7) (167.0)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 324.4 (165.4)
Total assets less current liabilities 911.8 531.7
Net assets 911.8 531.7
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 7 0.7 0.7
Share premium account 8 27.2 24.9
Share option reserve 8 61.4 61.4
Profit and loss account 8 822.5 444.7
Total shareholders’ funds 911.8 531.7
The financial statements on pages 94 to 100 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 February 2016 
and were signed on its behalf by:
Simon Segars,   Chris Kennedy,  
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Company balance sheet/ 
UK GAAP
Company cash flow statement/
UK GAAP
For the year ended 31 December Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Profit before tax 500.2 (0.1)
Changes in working capital
Debtors (324.3) 1.0
Other liabilities 13.9 145.7
Cash generated by operations before tax 189.8 146.6
Net cash inflow from operating activities 189.8 146.6
Financing activities
Proceeds received on issuance of shares 9.4 6.8
Purchase of own shares (92.2) (66.9)
Dividends paid to shareholders (107.8) (86.1)
Net cash used in financing activities (190.6) (146.2)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (0.8) 0.4
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1.1 0.7
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 0.3 1.1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
94 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Attributable to the owners of the Company
For the year ended 31 December
Share  
capital  
£m
Share  
premium  
account  
£m
Share  
option  
reserve  
£m
Profit and loss 
account  
£m
Total 
shareholders’ 
funds  
£m
Balance at 1 January 2014 0.7 18.1 61.4 529.3 609.5
Loss for the financial year – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Shares issued on exercise of share options and awards – 6.8 – – 6.8
Dividends – – – (86.1) (86.1)
Purchase of own shares – – – (66.9) (66.9)
Credit in respect of employee share schemes – – – 68.5 68.5
– 6.8 – (84.5) (77.7)
Balance at 31 December 2014 0.7 24.9 61.4 444.7 531.7
Profit for the financial year – – – 500.2 500.2
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 500.2 500.2
Shares issued on exercise of share options and awards 
(note 8) – 2.3 – – 2.3
Proceeds on sale of own shares – – – 7.1 7.1
Dividends paid (note 3) – – – (107.8) (107.8)
Purchase of own shares (note 8) – – – (92.2) (92.2)
Credit in respect of employee share schemes – – – 70.5 70.5
– 2.3 – 377.8 380.1
Balance at 31 December 2015 0.7 27.2 61.4 822.5 911.8
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Company statement of changes in  
shareholders’ equity/UK GAAP
95 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1 Principal accounting policies
The individual financial statements have been prepared in compliance with United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102, ‘‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the 
United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland’’ (‘‘FRS 102’’) and the Companies Act 2006.
The Company’s functional and presentational currency is pounds sterling.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
The Company has adopted FRS 102 in these financial statements. This is the first year that the Company has 
presented its results under FRS 102. The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended 
31 December 2014. There is no impact on these financial statements as a result of the transition to FRS 102 
other than the presentation of a cash flow statement and limited additional disclosures.
Under FRS 102, a company which is a member of a group that prepares publicly available consolidated 
financial statements, which give a true and fair view, is able to apply certain financial statement disclosure 
exemptions. The Company intends to apply these exemptions to the Company financial statements of ARM 
Holdings plc from the year ending 31 December 2016. Shareholders wishing to object to the use of these 
disclosure exemptions should notify the Company Secretary at the Company’s registered office.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with 
the historical cost convention.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 102 requires the use of certain critical 
accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the 
Company’s accounting policies. There are no areas involving a significant degree of judgement or critical 
estimates that are significant to these financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost. Where an acquisition 
satisfies the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated 
at the nominal value of shares issued plus the fair value of any other consideration.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at 
actual rates of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies have been translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. 
Exchange differences have been included in operating profit.
Notes to the financial statements/
UK GAAP
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments The Company does not have any financial instruments, other than intercompany 
creditors and debtors, and cash. Due to the short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers the 
fair value of these items to equal the carrying value. Intercompany debtors and intercompany creditors are 
measured at amortised cost.
Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments, including an LTIP, to certain 
employees of subsidiary undertakings. In accordance with FRS 102, equity-settled share-based payments are 
measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model 
or, where appropriate, a Monte-Carlo simulation. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-
settled share-based payments is expensed in the accounts of the subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group. 
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of 
savings is three or five years. The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share price prior to the 
announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the 
savings have been completed. The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees 
in the UK, US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries, namely the ESPP. The number of 
options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is six months, 
with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of 
the scheme.
The Company does not have any employees and as such all share-based payments have been recorded as 
capital contributions to all subsidiaries. The Company recharges the relevant amount of the share-based 
payments to its UK and US subsidiaries. Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying 
value of its investments.
Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct 
issue costs.
Treasury shares The Company has a share buyback programme under which the Company is able to purchase 
its own shares and hold them as treasury shares. These shares will be used to satisfy employee share awards. 
In accordance with FRS 102, the Company recognises these shares at cost as a deduction in arriving at 
shareholders’ funds.
96 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1 Principal accounting policies continued
Dividends A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not 
reversed at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the timing 
difference is expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
2 Profit/(loss) for the financial year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent Company’s profit and loss account 
has not been included in these financial statements. The parent Company’s profit after taxation, including 
dividends receivable and before dividends payable was £500.2 million (2014: loss of £0.1 million). 
The Company has no employees; all three executive directors (as at 31 December 2015) have contracts 
of service with ARM Limited, a subsidiary of the Company. The emoluments of two of these directors 
are paid by ARM Limited, and one of the directors is paid by ARM Inc, the details of which are disclosed in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report within this Annual Report. Audit fees are disclosed in note 5 to the 
consolidated financial statements on page 74.
3 Dividends paid and proposed
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Final dividend paid of 4.5 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2014  
(2014: 3.60 pence in respect of 2013) 63.5 50.7
Interim dividend paid of 3.15 pence (2014: 2.52 pence) per ordinary share 44.3 35.4
107.8 86.1
In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 
2015 of 5.63 pence per share which will absorb an estimated £79 million of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid 
on 13 May 2016 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 22 April 2016, subject to approval 
by the shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
4 Investments
The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was £587.4 million at 
31 December 2015 and £697.1 million at 31 December 2014. The Company took advantage of merger relief 
in 2004 and did not record the premium on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components 
Inc. (now ARM Inc.), and thus did not record the premium within the value of the investment in the Company 
balance sheet at that time.
 
Investments in  
subsidiary 
undertakings  
£m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January 2015 697.1
Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 70.5
Recharge to subsidiaries of share-based payments (180.2)
At 31 December 2015 587.4
Where options and awards over the Company’s shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary 
undertakings, the fair value of employee services performed (equal to the share-based payments) has 
been recorded as a capital contribution. The Company recharges the relevant amount of the share-based 
payments to ARM Limited and ARM Inc. Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying 
value of its investments. The recharge to subsidiaries of share-based payments is in excess of the capital 
contributions arising from share-based payments in the current year due to a one-off cumulative recharge 
of a number of years of share option charge to ARM Limited.
The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
97 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 4 Investments continued
Interests in Group undertakings
Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Name of undertaking
Country  
of incorporation
Description  
of shares held
Proportion of  
nominal value  
of issued shares held
ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares less than 0.01%*
ARM IP Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares 100%
ARM Technology Investments Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
*  The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM 
Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited. Both ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% 
owned within the Group.
The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and graphics IP. The remaining shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date 
by ARM Finance UK Limited (AFL) and ARM Finance UK Three Limited (AFL3) (with AFL3 itself being an 
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AFL). The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediate 
holding companies. The principal activity of ARM IP Limited is to act as a holding company for some of the 
Group’s patents. The principal activity of ARM Technology Investments Limited is to act as a holding company 
for some of the Group’s investments. The full list of Group undertakings is included in Note 26 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
5 Debtors
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 323.5 –
Prepayments and accrued income 1.0 0.1
Deferred tax assets* 0.3 0.4
324.8 0.5
*  A deferred tax asset in respect of timing differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that profits will be 
available in the future to offset these losses.
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – 166.4
Accruals 0.7 0.6
0.7 167.0
7 Called-up share capital
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Authorised
2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2014: 2,200,000,000) 1.1 1.1
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
1,412,436,842 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each (2014: 1,412,160,836) 0.7 0.7
2015 2014
Number of 
shares m Value £m
Number of 
shares m Value £m
Issued and fully paid
At 1 January 1,412.2 0.7 1,400.3 0.7
Allotted under employee incentive schemes 0.2 – 11.9 –
At 31 December 1,412.4 0.7 1,412.2 0.7
There is a single class of ordinary shares. There are no restrictions on the distribution of dividends and the 
repayment of capital.
276,006 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consideration of £2.3 million 
(2014: 1 1,897,032 ordinary shares for cash consideration of £6.8 million) as a result of the exercise of share 
options at various times during the year.
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP  
continued…
98 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 7 Called-up share capital continued
Share options and awards
The Company had the following options and awards outstanding over ordinary shares of 0.05 pence at 
31 December 2015:
Year of grant Number of options
Range of  
exercise prices  
£
Weighted average  
exercise price  
£
Latest date  
of exercise
SAYE 2011 30,125 4.464 4.464 31 January 2017
2012 90,703 3.9616 3.9616 31 January 2018
2013 179,603 7.96 7.96 31 January 2019
2014 591,688 7.344 7.344 31 January 2020
2015 315,190 9.344 9.344 31 January 2021
Total options 1,207,309 3.9616-9.344 7.632
Year of grant
Number  
of share awards Latest vest date
RSU 2012 721,946 12 November 2016
2013 3,773,782 12 November 2017
2014 4,119,793 12 November 2018
2015 6,937,643 12 November 2019
15,553,164
LTIP 2013 520,901 8 February 2016
2014 1,210,409 13 February 2017
2015 1,244,069 8 February 2018
2,975,379
DAB 2013 280,942 8 February 2016
2014 405,129 8 February 2017
686,071
Total awards 19,214,614
Total options and awards 20,421,923
Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather 
than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price. The main RSU awards (to employees in all jurisdictions 
other than France) vest 25% on each anniversary over four years. RSU awards to our French employees vest 
50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB Plan. Under the DAB Plan, which is for directors and selected 
senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus 
into shares on a compulsory basis. These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a matching award 
will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time. This scheme 
was replaced after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus. For details of the new 
scheme, see the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 29. The Company also operates the LTIP, also 
for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending on the 
Company’s TSR performance and EPS performance over the three-year performance period. Grants were 
made for the last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it was replaced by a new LTIP for 2014 grants 
onwards. For details of the new scheme, see the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 31.
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group. 
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of 
savings is three or five years. The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share price prior to the 
announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the 
savings have been completed. The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees in 
the US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries, namely the ESPP. The number of options 
granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is six months, with the 
option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
The Group has in the past issued share options under several additional schemes, whereby shares in the 
Company can be granted to employees and directors. Options are granted with a fixed exercise price 
equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant. These schemes are the UK Inland 
Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan (the “Executive Scheme”), the Unapproved Scheme 
(the “Unapproved Scheme”), the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the 
acquisition of Artisan in 2004. Share options in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Company 
reserves the right to award options to employees going forward. Shares relating to these schemes have all 
vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2014  
or 2015. All shares issued under these schemes have either lapsed or been exercised as at 31 December 2015.
For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to 
closing option balances, and related items, please refer to note 21 in the consolidated financial statements.
99 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 8 Reserves
Share premium  
account  
£m
Share option  
reserve  
£m
Profit and loss  
account  
£m
At 1 January 2015 24.9 61.4 444.7
Purchase of treasury shares – – (92.2)
Proceeds on sales of own shares – – 7.1
Premium on issue of shares on exercise of share options 2.3 – –
Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments – – 70.5
Profit attributable to shareholders – – 500.2
Equity dividends payable – – (107.8)
At 31 December 2015 27.2 61.4 822.5
The share option reserve represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan 
Components Inc. in 2004. 
The Company considers the share option reserve and share premium account as non-distributable. 
Within the profit and loss reserve are credits in respect of FRS 102 employee share-based payments 
in respect of services performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded as a capital 
contribution. The Company also considers these credits as non-distributable. At 31 December 2015, 
approximately £660 million of the profit and loss reserve is deemed distributable (2014: £179 million).
During 2015, the Company purchased a total of 9.0 million (2014: 7.9 million) shares from the market at a cost 
of £92.2 million (2014: £66.9 million). At 31 December 2015, 7,231,108 shares are still held by the Company. 
Offset within the profit and loss reserve, therefore, is an amount of £72.0 million (2014: £66.9 million) 
representing the cost of own shares held. These shares are expected to be used for the benefit of the 
Group’s employees and directors to satisfy share options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and conditional share 
awards in future periods.
The quantum and frequency of share repurchases is not predetermined and will take into account prevailing 
market conditions, the short- to medium-term cash needs of the business and the level of employee share-
based remuneration going forward.
9 Capital commitments
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2015 and 2014.
10 Financial commitments and contingencies
At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating 
leases and no contingencies.
1 1 Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under 
FRS 102, where transactions and balances between wholly owned Group entities have been eliminated 
on consolidation.
12 Post-balance sheet events
After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2015 of 5.63 pence per 
share. Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders on the 
register on 22 April 2016. The final dividend has not been recognised as a distribution during the year ended 
31 December 2015.
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP  
continued…
100 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Report on the Company financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion, ARM Holdings plc’s Company financial statements (the “financial statements”):
 › give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015;
 › have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and
 › have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), comprise:
 › the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015;
 › the Company cash flow statement for the year then ended;
 › the Company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the year then ended; and
 › the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes 
to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified 
as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice), including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
 › materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 › apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 › otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 › we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 › adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 › the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures 
of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of ARM Holdings plc
101 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on pages 48 to 49, the directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person 
to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of:
 › whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed;
 › the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
 › the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, 
forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider 
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing 
the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 
31 December 2015.
Charles Bowman (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London 
17 February 2016
Independent auditors’ report to the  
members of ARM Holdings plc 
continued…
102 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
ARM7/9/11 ARM7 processor was one of ARM’s first commercial products. ARM9 and 
ARM1 1 processors followed later.
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs.
big.LITTLE Combination of two different ARM processors on a single chip: one (big) 
that delivers high-performance when needed with the other (LITTLE) 
running most of the time, enabling long battery-life.
CAGR Compound annual growth rate.
Cortex ARM’s latest family of processors.
DTV Digital TV.
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor 
companies, foundries, OEMs and software providers.
Fabless 
semiconductor company
A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips. These chips 
are typically manufactured by a foundry. For example MediaTek, Marvell 
and Qualcomm.
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company that manufactures computer chips on 
behalf of fabless semiconductor companies. For example TSMC and UMC.
Intellectual Property (IP) ARM designs technology for use in computer chips. The general term 
for the products that are designs only, or are creations of the mind, is 
intellectual property. 
Internet of Things (IoT) An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet 
either directly or indirectly via a smartphone. From pedometers to 
thermostats to street lights. 
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partners. 
They pay an upfront fee, which is reported as “licence revenue”.
LTE Long Term Evolution (or 4G) is the next generation wireless standard 
for mobile phones. It is optimised for data streaming allowing internet 
connections at speeds similar to broadband in the home. 
Mali ARM’s family of 3D graphics processors.
Microcontroller (MCU) A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which has been or 
can be used in many applications. Most ARM processors are used in either 
an SoC or MCU.
Glossary
Original Equipment 
Manufacturer (OEM)
An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones. 
For example Apple, HTC and LG.
Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARM’s processor technology.
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation of an SoC design.
Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
Processor Optimisation 
Pack (POP)
Physical IP components that have been selected and optimised to implement 
a processor on a specific foundry’s manufacturing process.
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology. 
The royalty is usually a percentage of the selling price of the chip and is 
reported as “royalty revenue”.
STB Set-top box.
System-on-Chip (SoC) An SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated 
into a single chip. Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or MCU.
103 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Group directory
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400 
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410
ARM Limited 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 8LT 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 427700 
Fax: +44 (0) 1628 427701
Rockingham Court 
152 Rockingham Street 
Sheffield S1 4EB 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1 14 282 8000 
Fax: +44 (0) 1 14 282 8001
Blackburn Design Centre 
Belthorn House 
Walker Road 
Blackburn BB1 2QE 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1254 893900 
Fax: +44 (0) 1254 893901
4th Floor 
York House 
Manchester 
Cheshire M2 3BB 
Tel: +44 (0) 161 234 9420
CPC1, Capital Park 
Cambridge Road 
Fulbourn 
Cambridgeshire CB21 5XE 
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400 
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410
Building 100-200, Rustat House 
Clifton Road 
Cambridge CB1 7EG 
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400 
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410
City House 
126-130 Hills Road 
Cambridge CB2 1RE
Geomerics Limited 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400
ARM France SAS 
12 Avenue des Prés 
BL 204 Montigny le 
Bretonneux 
78059 Saint Quentin en 
Yvelines, Cedex 
France 
Tel: +33 1 39 30 47 89 
Fax: +33 1 39 30 47 88
25 Allée Pierre Ziller 
Le Paros 
BP 70124 
F-06903 Sophia Antipolis Cedex 
France 
Tel: +33 4 97 23 51 00 
Fax: +33 4 97 23 51 99
Miniparc Polytec 
60 Rue des Berges 
F-38000 Grenoble 
France 
Tel: +33 4 56 38 47 00 
Fax: +33 4 56 38 47 01
ARM Germany GmbH 
Bretonischer Ring 16 
D-85630 Grasbrunn 
Germany 
Tel: +49 89 456 040-0 
Fax: +49 89 456 040-19
Obrtna Cesta 18 
SL-8310 
Sentjernej 
Slovenia
ARM Norway AS 
Olav Tryggvassons gt. 39-41 
701 1 Trondheim 
Norway 
Tel: +47 7318 7500 
Fax: +47 7351 3181
ARM Sweden AB 
Emdalavägen 6 
SE-223 69 Lund 
Sweden 
Tel: +46 46 31 31 00
ARM Finland Oy 
Konekuja 2 
Fl-90620 Oulu 
Finland 
Tel: +358 10 387 8680
ARM Belgium 
Services BVBA 
Mechelsesteenweg 277 
1800 Vilvoorde 
Belgium 
Tel: +32 2 3045598
ARM Hungary Kft 
Budapest 
Karolyi u. 9. 
1053 Hungary 
Tel: +36 (1) 327 5626 
Fax: +36 (1) 327 5699
ARM Ireland Limited 
2nd Floor, Lyrr Building (phase 3) 
Mervue Industrial Estate 
Galway, Ireland 
Tel: +353 (91) 337 917
ARM Technologies Israel 
Grand Netter Industrial Zone 
Beit Intergma 
Ha Alon St 
Kfar Netter 40593 
ARM Inc. 
150 Rose Orchard Way 
San Jose, CA 95134-1358 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
Fax: +1 408 576 1501
Encino Trace 
5707 Southwest Pkwy 
Building 1, Suite 100 
Austin, TX 78735 
United States 
Tel: +1 512 327 9249 
Fax: +1 512 314 1078
125 Nagog Park 
Acton, MA 01720 
United States 
Tel: +1 (978) 264 7300 
Fax: +1 (978) 264 9990
2 Venture Suite 470 
Irvine, CA 92618 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
Fax: +1 949 623 8305
4965 Preston Park Blvd 
Suite 650 
Plano, TX 75093 
United States 
Tel: +1 972 312 1 107 
Fax: +1 972 312 1 159
5375 Mira Sorrento Place 
Suite 540 
San Diego, CA 92121 
United States 
Tel: +1 858 453 1900
2320 130th Avenue NE 
Suite 220 
Bellevue, WA 98005 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500
350 Fairway Drive 
Suite 200 
Deerfield Beach, FL 33441 
United States 
Tel: +1 561 451 4100 
Fax: +1 561 826 7599
145 South 79th Street 
Suite 48, 
Chandler, AZ 85226  
United States
104 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 ARM KK 
Shinyokohama Square Bldg. 17F 
2-3-12 Shin-Yokohama 
Kohoku-Ku, Yokohama-Shi 
Kanagawa 222-0033 
Japan 
Tel: +81 45 477 5260 
Fax: +81 45 477 5261
ARM Korea Limited 
7th Floor Kyungdong Building 
4-4 Sunae-dong 
Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si 
Gyeonggi-do 463-020 
South Korea 
Tel: +82 31 780 0200 
Fax: +82 31 780 0201
ARM Embedded  
Technologies Pvt. Limited 
Bagmane World Technology  
Center – SEZ 
Citrine Block, 5th and 6th Floor 
Marathahalli Outer Ring Road 
Mahadevapura 
Bangalore 560048 
Tel: +91 80 4928 2000 
Fax: +91 80 41 12 7403
Unit no: F2 (II), 2nd Floor 
S.B. Towers, Plot no: IA/I  
Sector 16A 
Film City, Noida – 201301 
Uttar Pradesh, India 
Tel. +91 120 3870100 
Fax +91 120 3870299
ARM Electronic Technology 
(Shanghai) Co. Ltd 
35F, Building B,  
New CHJ International 
Business Centre 
No. 391 Guiping Road 
Xuhui District 
Shanghai 200233 
PR China 
Tel: +86 21 6154 9000 
Fax: +86 21 6154 9100
Room 602, Ideal Plaza 
58 West Road 
North 4th Ring Road 
Haidian District 
Beijing 100080 
PR China 
Tel: +86 10 8217 2000 
Fax: +86 10 8217 2010
Room 3501, Tower 3, Kerry Plaza 
No.1-1, 4th Central Road 
Futian District 
Shenzhen 518006 
PR China 
Tel: +86 755 3290 0600 
Fax: +86 755 3290 0610
ARM Taiwan Limited 
8F, No. 36, Ruihu Street 
Nei-Hu District 
Taipei City 
11494 
Taiwan (R.O.C) 
Tel: +886 2 8752 1700 
Fax: +886 2 2627 1682
4F, No. 5, Gorgye E 
7th Road East Dist. 
Hsinchu City 300 
30078 
Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
Tel: +886 3 565 7100 
Fax: +886 3 567 7128
Key shareholder information
ARM Holdings plc is the  
parent Company of the Group 
Company Number: 2548782 
Incorporated in England & Wales 
Domiciled in the UK 
Public company limited by shares
Secretary and registered office 
Philip Davis 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom
Independent auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
1 Embankment Place 
London WC2N 6RH 
United Kingdom
Stockbrokers  
UBS Limited 
2 Finsbury Avenue 
London EC2M 2PP 
United Kingdom
Goldman Sachs 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2BB 
United Kingdom
Registrars  
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom
Shareholder Helpline 
0871 384 2139
Depositary 
The Bank of New York Mellon 
101 Barclays Street 
New York 
New York 10286 
United States 
Principal Legal advisers 
UK Law 
Slaughter and May 
One Bunhill Row 
London EC1Y 8YY 
United Kingdom
US Law 
Davis Polk & Wardwell 
99 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7NG 
United Kingdom
For more shareholder information  
please contact Ian Thornton at  
investor.relations@arm.com 
Our website contains information for 
shareholders, including regular strategic, 
business and financial updates.
www.arm.com/ir
105 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 1
ARM Holdings plc
1 10 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0)1223 400410
www.arm.com
twitter: @ARMHoldings
youtube.com/armflix
linkedin.com/company/arm
