 What science can do
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Learn about our main therapy areas: Welcome to the AstraZeneca  
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015.
We are a global, science-led 
biopharmaceutical business and  
in this Annual Report we report on 
the progress we made in 2015 in 
pushing the boundaries of science  
to deliver life-changing medicines.
AstraZeneca.  
What science can do.
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity
We have pushed the boundaries of science in 
respiratory disease for 40 years
 See page 26
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases
We take an integrated patient approach to 
reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality
 See page 30
Oncology
We are committed to advancing the science  
of oncology
 See page 34
Pushing the 
boundaries 
Breaking through  
conventional thinking 
Redefining the 
treatment paradigm
From page 4, Pascal Soriot, our  
Chief Executive Officer, reviews the 
progress we made during the year  
in delivering our strategy.  
 
Our Chief Financial Officer,  
Marc Dunoyer, reviews our financial 
performance from page 62.
From page 82, Leif Johansson,  
our Chairman, reviews how our 
governance and approach to 
remuneration support delivery  
of the strategy.
Important information for readers of this Annual Report 
For more information in relation to the inclusion of reported performance, 
Core financial measures and constant exchange rate (CER) growth rates 
as used in this Annual Report, please see the Financial Review on page 
64. Throughout this Annual Report, growth rates are expressed at CER 
unless otherwise stated.
Definitions
The Glossary and the Market definitions table from page 247 are  
intended to provide a useful guide to terms and AstraZeneca’s definitions 
of markets, as well as to acronyms and abbreviations, used in this 
Annual Report.
Use of terms 
In this Annual Report, unless the context otherwise requires, 
‘AstraZeneca’, ‘the Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to AstraZeneca PLC 
and its consolidated entities.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 
A cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements and other 
essential information relating to this Annual Report can be found on 
page 251.
Directors’ Report 
The following sections make up the Directors’ Report, which  
has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006: 
> Business Review: Research and Development
> Resources Review: Employees
>  Corporate Governance: including the Audit Committee Report  
and Corporate Governance Report
> Directors’ Responsibility Statement
> Development Pipeline
> Sustainability: supplementary information
> Shareholder Information 
> Corporate Information
Strategic Report 
The following sections make up the Strategic Report, which has  
been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006:
> AstraZeneca at a glance
> Chief Executive Officer’s Review
> Strategy
> Therapy Area Review
> Business Review
> Resources Review
> Financial Review
Front cover: 
New approaches in the treatment of asthma
AstraZeneca is developing a therapy aimed  
at producing long-term benefit in asthma by 
addressing imbalances in the immune system 
that may be an underlying cause of the disease. 
Rather than simply treating symptoms by 
relaxing airway constriction and dampening 
inflammation in the lung, this therapy aims to 
target toll-like receptor 9 in dendritic cells in the 
lung. This could potentially change the way 
immune cells communicate with each other and 
restore a healthy balance to the immune system. Financial highlights
Total Revenue* 
up 1% at CER to $24,708 million (down 7%  
at actual rate of exchange) 
Net cash flow from operating activities
down 53% (at actual rate of exchange) to 
$3,324 million
2013
2014
2015 $24,708m
$26,547m
$25,806m 2013
2014
2015 $3,324m
$7,058m
$7,400m
$24.7bn $3.3bn
Core operating profit
up 6% at CER to $6,902 million (down 1%  
at actual rate of exchange)
Reported operating profit 
up 100% at CER to $4,114 million (up 93%  
at actual rate of exchange)
2013
2014
2015 $6,902m
$6,937m
$8,390m 2013
2014
2015 $4,114m
$2,137m
$3,712m
$6.9bn $4.1bn
Core EPS 
for the full year up 7% at CER to $4.26 
(unchanged at actual rate of exchange) 
Reported EPS 
for the full year up 137% at CER to $2.23  
(up 128% at actual rate of exchange) 
2013
2014
2015 $4.26
$4.28
$5.05 2013
2014
2015 $2.23
$0.98
$2.04
$4.26 $2.23
 Financial Review from page 62
Contents
Strategic Report
AstraZeneca at a glance 2
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 4
Strategy 8
Therapy Area Review 24
    Respiratory, Inflammation  
and Autoimmunity  26
   Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases 30
   O nc olo g y 34
Business Review 42
Resources Review 52
Financial Review 62
Corporate Governance
Chairman’s Statement 82
Corporate Governance Overview 84
Board of Directors 86
Senior Executive Team 88
Corporate Governance Report 90
Audit Committee Report 98
Directors’ Remuneration Report 103
Financial Statements
Auditor’s Reports (Group) 136
Consolidated Statements 140
Group Accounting Policies 144
Notes to the Group Financial Statements 149
Group Subsidiaries and Holdings 194
Auditor’s Report (Company) 196
Company Statements 197
Company Accounting Policies 199
Notes to the Company Financial  
Statements 200
Group Financial Record 202
Additional Information
Marketed Products 203
Development Pipeline 205
Patent Expiries 210
Risk 212
Geographical Review 227
Sustainability:  
supplementary information 234
Financials (Prior year) 236
Shareholder Information 240
Corporate Information 245
Trade Marks 246
Glossary 247
Index 250
For more information within  
this Annual Report
 For more information see  
 www.astrazeneca.com
This Annual Report is also available on our website,  
www.astrazeneca.com/annualreport2015
*  As detailed on page 144, Total Revenue consists  
of Product Sales and Externalisation Revenue.
1 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report AstraZeneca at a glance
Respiratory, Inflammation  
and Autoimmunity
Cardiovascular  
and Metabolic diseases
Oncology Infection, Neuroscience  
and Gastrointestinal
$4,987m 
Product Sales  
2014: $5,063m
2013: $4,677m
$9,489m 
Product Sales  
2014: $9,802m
2013: $8,830m 
$2,825m 
Product Sales  
2014: $3,027m
2013: $3,193m 
$6,340m 
Product Sales  
2014: $8,203m
2013: $9,011m 
Highlights
 > Respiratory sales up by 7%, 
including 25% in Emerging Markets, 
before completion of the acquisition 
of Takeda’s respiratory business
 > Sales of Symbicort down by 3% 
 > Brilinta/Brilique sales up by 44%, 
including 64% in the US
 > Diabetes sales up by 26%, including 
76% in Emerging Markets 
 > Sales of Crestor fell by 3% reflecting 
competition from generic statins and 
pricing pressure
 > Oncology sales up by 7%
 > New Oncology included for the first 
time (comprising Lynparza, Iressa 
(US) and Tagrisso)
 > Lynparza launched in 15 markets  
and sales of $94 million
 > Sales of Nexium declined by 26%, 
including 52% in the US following 
loss of exclusivity
 > Sales of Seroquel XR fell by 12%  
and Synagis fell by 26%
AstraZeneca is a global, science-led biopharmaceutical business…
…with an on-market portfolio in our chosen therapy areas.
NMEs in Phase III, pivotal Phase II  
or under regulatory review 15
 Therapy Area Review from page 24 and 
Research and Development from page 42
Small molecules
Main therapy areas Opportunity-driven
Biologics Immunotherapies Protein engineering Devices
Cardiovascular  
and Metabolic 
diseases
Oncology Respiratory, 
Inflammation and 
Autoimmunity
Personalised healthcare and translational science capabilities
Infection, Neuroscience  
and Gastrointestinal
We have distinctive R&D capabilities, a growing late-stage pipeline…
2012
2013
2014
2015 15
13
11
6
 Sales and Marketing from page 48, Financial Review from page 62 and Geographical Review from page 227
2 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report North America Europe International and Japan
$10,007m 
Product Sales  
2014: $10,710m 
2013: $10,328m
$5,323m 
Product Sales  
2014: $6,638m 
2013: $6,658m
$8,311m 
Product Sales  
2014: $8,747m 
2013: $8,725m
Employees
7,600 5,900 21,900
Highlights
 > Sales in the US declined by 6% reflecting entry  
of generic Nexium products and adverse Synagis 
guideline changes 
 > Favourable performances were delivered by Brilinta, 
Farxiga, Bydureon and Lynparza as well as the 
acquired Respiratory medicines, Tudorza and Daliresp 
 > Sales in Canada grew by 4%
 > Sales declined by 6%
 > Strong growth for Diabetes medicines was  
offset by generic competition facing Crestor and  
Seroquel XR
 > 14% decline in Symbicort sales reflected adverse 
pricing movements driven by competition from 
analogues in key markets 
 > Emerging Markets revenue grew by 12%  
to $5,822 million, including China sales  
growth of 15%
 > Sales in Japan grew by 4% to $2,020 million
 > Opened facility in Russia
…and a strong global commercial presence, with strength in Emerging Markets.
...and our disciplined  
capital allocation enables 
commitment to a  
progressive dividend.
61,500 
employees worldwide
12,500
employees in
Manufacturing  
and Supply
8,900 
employees in R&D
$3,443m $2.80
 Employees from page 52
Increasing our proximity to bioscience clusters and co-locating around three strategic R&D centres
 > Gaithersburg, Maryland US > Cambridge, UK > Gothenburg, Sweden
Our talented employees are committed to achieving our Purpose in a sustainable way …
Net cash shareholder distributions
increased to $3,443 million 
Dividend per Ordinary Share 
unchanged
2013
2014
2015 $3,443m
$3,242m
$2,979m 2013
2014
2015 $2.80
$2.80
$2.80
All growth rates at CER.
All employee numbers are approximate  
as at 31 December 2015.
 Business Review from page 42
3 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Chief Executive Officer’s Review
importantly, offer patients a new treatment 
option in a disease where very few  
solutions exist.
Another significant development in 
Oncology came with our agreement in 
December to invest in a majority equity 
stake in Acerta Pharma, a company 
focused on haematology which represents 
a natural fit with our existing Oncology 
pipeline. The acquisition provides us with 
access to acalabrutinib (ACP-196), a 
potential best-in-class small molecule  
oral BTK inhibitor, which is expected to 
transform the treatment landscape for  
B-cell malignancies, the most common 
forms of blood cancers, and has potential in 
solid tumours and autoimmune diseases.
The acquisition of Acerta Pharma  
will also reinforce our growing position in 
haematology – building on our agreement 
with Celgene, in April, to develop durvalumab 
across a range of blood cancers.
Innovation in Cardiovascular and 
Metabolic diseases
Also in December, we completed our 
acquisition of ZS Pharma. This transaction 
provides access to the potassium-binding 
compound ZS-9, a potential best-in-class 
treatment for hyperkalaemia (high potassium 
levels in the bloodstream). The acquisition 
represents a good fit with our pipeline and 
portfolio in Cardiovascular and Metabolic 
diseases (CVMD), which focuses on 
reducing morbidity, mortality and organ 
damage by addressing multiple risk factors 
across cardiovascular disease, diabetes  
and chronic kidney disease. 
The first stage of our strategic journey 
involved strengthening our product pipeline 
and building our Growth Platforms. We are 
now well into the second stage of that 
journey, as we manage a transitional period 
of patent expiries, and are on track to 
continue driving our Growth Platforms  
and launch our new products.
The increased momentum we built in  
2015 was exemplified by a number of 
developments towards the end of the  
year in each of our main therapy areas  
that will help deliver our strategy.
Leadership in Oncology
The first of those events was the approval  
in November of Tagrisso in the US. This 
approval marks a significant milestone in 
AstraZeneca’s journey, and in our leadership 
in Oncology. Tagrisso is the first treatment 
approved for patients with a very specific 
form of non-small cell lung cancer who 
present with a genetic mutation in the 
epidermal growth factor receptor but also 
have a secondary mutation, T790M. Its 
story is remarkable and, as shown over,  
it demonstrates our ability to successfully 
deliver our pipeline and, even more 
2015 was an exceptional year for AstraZeneca as we 
made significant progress in meeting both our near-  
and longer-term strategic goals. Building on the solid 
foundations of the previous two years, our success during 
2015 was based on a strong commitment to our values.  
It was this focus that made the year a great one for 
science and patients.
 It was this focus 
that made the year a 
great one for science  
and patients.”
4 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  Transforming Respiratory treatment
Another development in December, was  
our agreement to acquire Takeda’s core 
respiratory business. When completed, this 
agreement will expand our ownership of 
rights to roflumilast (Daliresp/Daxas), the  
only approved oral PDE4 inhibitor for the 
treatment of COPD. The agreement builds 
on our acquisition from Actavis, in March,  
of the rights to market Daliresp in the US. 
This important agreement will also provide 
us with access to other marketed medicines 
that complement our growing portfolio. 
Importantly, it will support our return to 
growth after 2017 and our goal to transform 
the way respiratory disease is treated.
Achieve scientific leadership
In addition to these developments, in the 
week before Christmas, we received our 
sixth approval for the year from the FDA. 
Subsequently, in February 2016, we 
received approval from the EU for Tagrisso 
for lung cancer. 
However, in what was a very busy and 
successful year, my Review can only  
give a flavour of what we achieved. The 
2015 Strategic priorities overview, shown  
on the right, lists some of our other 
achievements, as well as the challenges  
we faced. All these are explored in more 
detail throughout our Strategic Report.
So far as achieving scientific leadership is 
concerned, one measure of the distance  
we have come is in the recognition we have 
received through ‘high-impact’ publications 
in major relevant scientific journals. 
AstraZeneca people had 58 such articles 
published in 2015 compared with seven  
in 2010 – a more than eightfold increase.
Artistic impression of 
osimertinib binding to 
mutant EGFR.
AstraZeneca: Values in action  
Tagrisso (osimertinib) highlights how living our values can 
ensure we achieve our goals. It started with inspiration  
and effort of our scientists to design a compound precisely 
targeting the biological dysfunction associated with a specific 
form of non-small cell lung cancer. And, by putting patients 
first, working collaboratively and following the science, we 
delivered the fastest development journey in our history: less 
than three years from first patient dosed to approval. It was 
then shipped to patients in less than six hours.
Achieve scientific leadership
 > 6 approvals of NMEs or major LCM  
projects in major markets
 – Oncology: Iressa (US); Tagrisso 
(AZD9291/osimertinib) (US);  
Faslodex 500mg (China)
 – CVMD: Bydureon Dual Pen (Japan); 
Brilinta (US for treatment of history  
of heart attack)
 – RIA: Zurampic (US)
 > 2 Phase III NME starts: 
 – anifrolumab for lupus
 – PT010 for COPD
 > 12 NME or major LCM regulatory 
submissions in major markets
 > Accelerated reviews included
 – Brilinta FDA granted Priority Review  
for PEGASUS
 – Tagrisso FDA and PMDA granted 
Priority Review. EMA accelerated 
assessment
 – FDA granted Fast Track status for 
anifrolumab for systemic lupus 
erythematosus; durvalumab for head  
and neck cancer; and tremelimumab  
for mesothelioma
 > 20 projects discontinued
 
Return to growth
 > 1% increase in Total Revenue  
to $24,708 million at CER; comprising  
Product Sales of $23,641 million (down 1%)  
and Externalisation Revenue of 
$1,067 million (up 140%)
 – Based on actual exchange rates, Total 
Revenue declined by 7%, reflecting the 
particular weakness of key trading 
currencies against the US dollar
 > 11% increase in Growth Platforms revenue 
contributing 57% of Total Revenue
 – Respiratory: up 7%, before completion  
of the acquisition of Takeda’s respiratory 
business
 – Brilinta/Brilique: up 44% underpinned by  
a recently-extended US label and positive 
CHMP opinion
 – Diabetes: up 26%, including 76% in 
Emerging Markets; global Farxiga/Forxiga 
growth of 137%
 – Emerging Markets: up 12%, including 
China and Latin America each growing  
by 15%
 – Japan revenue: up 4%
 – New Oncology: contributed $119 million, 
comprising Lynparza, Iressa (US) and 
Tagrisso
 > US revenue was down 6% to $9,474 million; 
Europe down 6% to $5,323 million; and 
Established ROW was stable at 
$3,022 million (at CER)
Great place to work
 > Our quarterly employee survey (pulse) showed belief in our strategy stood at 89%  
(compared with 86% in our 2014 all-employee survey)
 > Exceeded our targets for senior leaders: women (42% versus 41%) and country of origin 
from an Emerging Market or Japan (15.6% versus 13%)
 > Exceeded our target by screening more than one million people in Kenya for hypertension  
as part of our Healthy Heart Africa programme
2015 Strategic priorities overview 
5 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
acquired compounds. This exceeds the 
target set in 2013 of nine to 10 NMEs in 
Phase III/pivotal Phase II studies or under 
regulatory review by 2016.
Collaboration as a way of life
2015 was also a good year for 
collaborations which are an integral part  
of our business model and culture. They 
improve the productivity of our R&D and 
help maximise the value of our pipeline.  
With 10 deals we considerably exceeded 
our target. Some of these, such as our 
agreement with Celgene, are examples of 
strategic collaborations to broaden and 
accelerate the development of key pipeline 
assets. This is explained in more detail in  
the Business model on page 8.
As well as externalising some of our early 
development projects outside our main 
therapy areas, we also divest medicines that 
can be better deployed by a partner with a 
primary focus in that area. Examples in 2015 
included the divestment of Entocort, our 
gastrointestinal medicine. Both routes allow 
us to leverage the capabilities and expertise 
of others, focus our own resources and 
deliver the greatest benefit to patients  
and shareholders. 
Scientific collaborations also help us  
push the boundaries of science. For 
example, during the year we announced 
four collaborations aimed at harnessing  
the power of CRISPR (clustered regularly-
interspaced short palindromic repeats), 
including one with The Wellcome Trust 
Sanger Institute in Cambridge, UK –  
see over.
A pipeline ahead of plan
Our pipeline is also a measure of our 
progress and 2015 was a year of 
considerable success. Of our six approvals 
for the year, the approval, in September,  
of Brilinta in the US for the treatment of 
patients with a history of heart attack 
beyond the first year was particularly 
impressive: it took just nine months to move 
from the presentation of top-line PEGASUS 
TIMI-54 data to launch.
During the year we also made 12 major 
regulatory submissions. After our partner 
Amgen decided to terminate our 
collaboration on brodalumab in May, our 
subsequent collaboration with Valeant,  
with their specific expertise in dermatology, 
enabled submissions to be made in the  
US and EU by the end of the year. In July, 
results of a Phase III study for selumetinib 
did not meet its primary endpoint for uveal 
melanoma. As for saxagliptin/dapagliflozin, 
its submission in the EU and elsewhere 
remains on track despite a Complete 
Response Letter being received from  
the FDA in October.
External recognition of the strength of our 
pipeline was provided by the number of 
accelerated reviews received by our 
candidate drugs during the year, including 
those for cancer, respiratory diseases and 
lupus. Internally, six Phase III investment 
decisions and 1 1 Phase II starts stand 
testament to the quality of the projects  
in development which will help deliver 
sustainable growth.
Even after the approvals we received during 
the year, and the 18 approvals of the last 
two years, we ended 2015 with 15 projects 
in late-stage development, including recently 
Great people are central to our 
success and being a great place  
to work is at the heart of our 
efforts to release the talents  
of our employees. 
Strategic Report 
In this Strategic Report, we outline our 
business model, the marketplace in which 
we operate and the strategic priorities we 
decided upon in response to those 
conditions. We define our measures of 
success (our key performance indicators) 
and the risks we have identified to 
achieving our strategy.
Subsequent sections explore our therapy 
areas as well as our business units and 
the resources we are able to deploy in 
their support.
We also highlight how commitment to our 
values contributes to our success.
6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  Return to growth
We delivered a strong pipeline and financial 
performance in 2015 as we began the next 
phase in our strategic journey. As the 2015 
Strategic priorities overview shows, Total 
Revenue in 2015 was up 1% at CER.  
The overview also shows the success  
we have had with our Growth Platforms 
where Product Sales grew by 1 1% and 
represented 57% of Total Revenue.
Our top-line and gross-margin growth 
underpinned continued investment in  
R&D. Core R&D costs were up by 21%  
in the year which reflected the investment  
in the pipeline.
Investing in China for the long term
The extent of our ambition was 
demonstrated by our strategic investments, 
announced in December, to accelerate the 
delivery of innovative medicines to patients 
in China, the world’s second largest 
economy and our second largest market, 
and to support the delivery of our strategy.
These initiatives will see AstraZeneca 
become the first multinational 
pharmaceutical company operating in  
China to commit to local development of  
its innovative global portfolio from research 
to commercialisation. Just as importantly, 
these initiatives will allow us to better 
integrate Chinese requirements into our 
global portfolio decisions. 
Great place to work
Great people are central to our success and 
being a great place to work is at the heart  
of our efforts to release the talents of our 
employees. So, for example, during 2015, 
we held over 70 People Development Week 
events to help our staff take ownership  
of their personal development. A talented 
workforce is also diverse and I am pleased 
that we managed to exceed our targets for 
women and country of origin among our 
senior leaders. I take pride in the fact that 
our efforts are being increasingly recognised 
in external awards for the work environment 
we have instilled.
That environment is nurtured by our 
investment in strategic R&D centres, such 
as Cambridge, UK where we now have 
more than 1,600 employees and where the 
construction of our R&D centre and global 
headquarters is progressing rapidly. These 
investments help create an environment  
of innovation and a focus on science and 
patients. They also attract a lot of talent  
from academia and other companies.
A great place to work also has to be one 
where we do the right thing – for the 
patients who take our medicines, as well as 
the planet and society as a whole. If we are 
to deliver business success over the longer 
term, then sustainability has to be in our 
DNA. As the Chairman outlines in more 
detail in his Statement, the steps we are 
taking in this regard reflect a determination 
to do our fair share.
Looking ahead
The investments we made in 2015 were 
designed to ensure we achieved a balance 
between meeting our short-term goal of 
returning to growth and then delivering 
sustainable growth over the longer term as 
we build a sustainable, durable and more 
profitable business.
As we face the transitional period of patent 
expiry for Crestor in the US, we’re confident 
that our strong execution on strategy, 
combined with the benefits of focused 
investments and new launches, keeps us on 
track to return to sustainable growth in line 
with our targets. The weakness of key 
trading currencies against the US dollar has 
continued. Based on average exchange 
rates in January 2016 and our published 
currency sensitivities, an adverse impact  
of around 3% from currency movements on 
Total Revenue and Core EPS in 2016 would 
be anticipated.
Appreciation
I am confident that in AstraZeneca we  
have the people who can overcome our 
short-term challenges and deliver longer-term 
sustainable growth. In that regard I would 
particularly like to welcome Pam Cheng and 
Sean Bohen who joined us during the year.  
In doing so, I would like to thank David Smith 
and Briggs Morrison whom Pam and Sean 
replaced, for the contributions they made to 
our strategic journey.
In closing, I would like to pay tribute to 
everyone in AstraZeneca for making 2015  
a tremendous year. I have every confidence 
in their ability to continue that success in the 
years ahead.
Pascal Soriot 
Chief Executive Officer
Values in action: We follow the science 
Genetic engineering is not new. The Human 
Genome Project produced a complete  
genetic blueprint for building a human in 
2003 but, until now, scientists have been 
unable to manipulate genes simply and 
effectively. A new technology called CRISPR 
is changing that by allowing the genome  
of several different species to be edited 
precisely. We are using CRISPR to identify 
new targets for medicines and develop new 
models to test compounds which align more 
closely with human disease.
CRISPR gene 
editing tool.
7 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Business model
Our Purpose and Values drive what we do – and how we do it. This includes our 
business model and our determination to create sustainable value across every 
medicine’s life-cycle. 
Externalisation
Our business model includes externalisation as part of our portfolio management 
strategy and is a result of increasing R&D productivity and a focus on three  
main therapy areas. Externalisation activities relate to specific risk- and 
reward-sharing strategic collaborations that provide greater access to strong 
science and broaden, accelerate and maximise the development and 
commercialisation potential for some of our medicines and help bring those 
medicines to patients faster. Milestone payments and royalties arising from 
externalisation activities are included in the income statement as Externalisation 
Revenue. Externalisation allows us to leverage the capabilities and expertise  
of others, focus on our main therapy areas and deliver the greatest benefit to 
patients and shareholders.
Externalisation activities in 2015 included our collaboration with Celgene, 
leveraging the expertise of AstraZeneca in immuno-oncology along with the 
experience of Celgene in the study and treatment of blood cancers, for the 
development and commercialisation of durvalumab across a range of 
haematological malignancies. Similarly, our collaboration with Lilly, entered  
into in 2014, combines the scientific expertise from our two organisations and, 
by sharing the risks and cost of late-stage development, aims to accelerate the 
advancement of AZD3293 and progress a new approach to support the treatment 
of Alzheimer’s disease patients around the world. AstraZeneca retains 
significant interest, and continued participation, in the key decision making 
undertaken within these strategic collaborations.
 Financial Review on page 62
Science-led biopharmaceutical  
company in three therapy areas
AstraZeneca’s investor proposition
Productive  
R&D
Disciplined  
capital allocation
Commitment to  
progressive dividend
Strong  
business
Sustainable  
organisation
 > Platform of small 
molecules and 
biologics
 > Sustainable model  
and growing early-
stage pipeline
 > Growing late-stage 
pipeline with immuno-
oncology strength
 > Protein engineering
 > Strong portfolio of 
established products
 > Global scale with 
Emerging Markets 
strength
 > Six platforms driving 
growth towards a 
balanced portfolio  
of primary care and 
specialty care 
medicines
 > Durability through 
devices and 
companion diagnostics
 > Innovative, 
entrepreneurial 
culture
 > Strong talent base
 > Efficient and 
productive 
organisation
 > Balanced pipeline  
to drive sustainable 
growth
Inputs
How it works
Demographic trends are favourable to our 
industry’s long-term growth; while innovative 
scientific research continues to deliver  
new ways of fulfilling unmet medical need. 
As the Marketplace section from page 12 
demonstrates, however, the economic, social 
and political environment presents not only 
significant opportunities but challenges  
as well.
To achieve our Purpose, we seek to maximise 
the value of our resources, including our 
employees, IP and partners. 
 Resources Review from page 52
We have strong commercial franchises that 
focus on Respiratory, Inflammation and 
Autoimmunity; Cardiovascular and Metabolic 
diseases; and Oncology. We have combined a 
broad portfolio of primary care and specialty 
care medicines with a global reach. We 
believe our capabilities, pipeline and portfolio 
will enable us to build on our leading 
positions in Established Markets and achieve 
further growth in Emerging Markets. 
 Therapy Area Review from page 24
Purpose and Values
Sustainability
  In the wider world from page 55
Strategic priorities
Our strategic priorities reflect how we 
aim to achieve our Purpose. They are to 
 Strategic priorities from page 16
Strategic Report    Strategy
8 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Business model Outputs
Returns to shareholders
Revenue from the sale of our medicines 
generates cash flow, which helps us fund 
business investment. It also enables us  
to meet our debt service obligations and 
follow our progressive dividend policy.  
This involves balancing the interests  
of our business, financial creditors  
and shareholders. 
 Financial Review from page 62
Improved health
Continuous scientific innovation is vital  
to achieving sustainable healthcare as it 
creates value by
 > improving health outcomes and 
transforming patients’ lives
 > enabling healthcare systems to reduce 
costs and increase efficiency
 > improving access to healthcare and 
healthcare infrastructure
 > helping develop the communities  
in which we operate through local 
employment and partnering.
We strive to operate in accordance with 
a disciplined, value-creation framework 
that supports investment to generate 
cash flows that we return to investors 
and reinvest in the business. We also 
invest in targeted business development 
to strengthen our portfolio, pipeline  
and capabilities.
Our success depends on the creation 
and protection of our IP rights. 
Developing a new medicine is risky, 
costly and time consuming: requiring 
significant investment over many years, 
with no guarantee of success. For 
investments to be viable, we must 
protect new medicines from being 
copied for a reasonable period of time. 
The loss of key product patents has 
affected sales significantly in recent 
years and will continue to do so.  
As such, one of our main goals is to 
sustain the cycle of innovation and 
continually refresh our portfolio of 
patented products.
 Life-cycle of a medicine overleaf
We push the boundaries of science to deliver life-changing medicines.
Our Purpose underpins everything we do. It gives us a reason to come 
to work every day. It reminds us why we exist as a company. It helps 
us deliver benefits to patients and create value for shareholders. It also 
sets the context for our employees’ activities and the roles of our 
teams, partners and other collaborators.
We follow the science. We put patients first. We play to win. 
We do the right thing. We are entrepreneurial.
These Values determine how we work together and the  
behaviours that are integral to our drive for success. Our Values 
guide our decision making, define our beliefs and foster a strong 
AstraZeneca culture.
These priorities reflect the choices we have 
made to focus our R&D and commercial 
investments, prioritise and accelerate 
promising assets and business development, 
and transform our innovation model and the 
way we work. 
1 2 3
Achieve scientific  
leadership
Return  
to growth
Be a great  
place to work
How we create and sustain value over 
the life-cycle of a medicine across our 
chosen therapy areas
We want to be valued and trusted by our stakeholders as a source of great medicines over the long term. To that end, our sustainability 
commitments, which are driven by our Purpose and Values, underpin our business model. Those commitments are aligned to, and support  
the delivery of, our business strategy.
Investment in the R&D, Manufacturing and 
Supply, and Sales and Marketing of innovative 
medicines. This includes targeted business 
development through collaboration, in-licensing 
and acquisitions.
Reinvestment of returns from sales, 
externalisation (see page 8) and divestments  
to develop and sustain the next generation of 
innovative medicines.
Outputs 
Inputs 
Our  
Purpose
 
Investment in discovery, development and commercialisation of patent-protected medicines
  Reinvestment of returns 
    
9 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  
Reinvestment of returns          
 
Investment in discovery, development and commercialisation of patent-protected medicines          
Life-cycle of a medicine
As a global science-led biopharmaceutical company, our activities span 
the entire life-cycle of a medicine from Research and Development to 
Manufacturing and Supply to the global Sales and Marketing of primary 
care and specialty care medicines that transform lives.
Primary care and specialty care
Primary care is general healthcare provided 
by doctors who ordinarily have first contact 
with patients and who may have continuing 
care for them. Specialty care is specific 
healthcare provided by medical specialists 
who do not generally have first contact with 
patients. Specialty care medicines generally 
treat more severe diseases and an increasing 
number of specialty care medicines require  
a diagnostic test for patient eligibility or to 
achieve the best outcomes. 
Small molecule drugs
 > Typically composed of 20 to 100 atoms 
with a well-defined chemical structure
 > Potential for off target activity
 > Manufactured through chemical 
synthesis. Identical copies can be made
 > Wide variety of administration routes, 
such as oral, inhaled, injected or  
topical delivery
Large molecule drugs (biologics)
 > Small biologics (eg peptides) typically  
200 to 3,000 atoms. Large biologics  
(eg antibodies), typically 5,000 to  
50,000 atoms
 > High selectivity and specificity; potentially 
immunogenic
 > Manufactured in a living system such as  
a microorganism, or plant or animal cells
 > Administration route often intravenous, 
intramuscular or other parenteral route
1
Find potential medicine 
 > Identify unmet medical need aligned with our 
three therapy areas and undertake scientific 
research to identify potential new medicines
 > Initiate process of seeking patent protection
2
Pre-clinical studies 
 > Conduct laboratory and animal studies to 
understand if the potential medicine is safe to 
introduce into humans and in what quantities
 > Determine likely efficacy, side effect profile  
and maximum dose estimates
3
Phase I studies 
 > Begin clinical studies with small groups of 
healthy human volunteers (small molecules)  
or patients (biologics) to understand how the 
potential medicine is absorbed into the body, 
distributed around it and excreted
 > Determine approximate dosage and identify 
side effects 
4 
Phase II studies
 > Conduct studies on small- to medium-sized 
groups of patients to test effectiveness and 
tolerability of the medicine and determine 
optimal dose
 > Design Phase III studies to generate data 
needed for regulatory approvals and  
pricing/reimbursement globally
5
Phase III studies
 > Engage in studies in a larger group of patients 
to gather information about effectiveness and 
safety of the medicine and evaluate the overall 
benefit/risk profile
 > Initiate branding for the new medicine in 
preparation for its launch
6
Regulatory submission and pricing
 > Seek regulatory approvals for manufacturing, 
marketing and selling the medicine
 > Submit clinical data to regulatory authorities 
(and, if requested, generate further data 
increasingly in real-world settings) to 
demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the 
medicine to enable them to decide on whether 
to grant regulatory approvals
Research and development phases 10–15 years 
7
Launch new medicine
 > Raise awareness of patient benefit and 
appropriate use, market and sell medicine
 > Clinicians begin to prescribe medicines  
and patients begin to benefit
 > Continuously monitor, record and analyse 
reported side effects. Review need to update 
the side effect warnings to ensure that patients’ 
wellbeing is maintained
 > Assess real-world effectiveness, and 
opportunities to support patients and 
prescribers, to achieve maximum benefit  
from the medicine
Launch phase 5–10 years Post-exclusivity 20+ years
8
Post-launch research and development
 > Conduct studies to further understand the 
benefit/risk profile of the medicine in larger  
and/or additional patient populations
 > Life-cycle management activities to broaden 
understanding of a medicine’s full potential
 > Consider additional diseases or aspects of 
disease to be treated by or better ways of 
administering the medicine
 > Submit data packages with requests for 
life-cycle management to regulatory authorities 
for review and approval
9
Post-exclusivity
 > Patent expiry and generic entry
 > Reinvestment of returns
Strategic Report    Strategy
10 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 1  
Find potential  
medicine
2  
Pre-clinical 
studies 
3
Phase I  
studies
4  
Phase II  
studies
5  
Phase III  
studies
6 
Regulatory 
submission  
and pricing
7
Launch new  
medicine
8
Post-launch 
research and 
development
9
Post- 
exclusivity
Our  
Purpose
Outputs 
> Returns to shareholders
> Improved health
Inputs 
>  Applying our resources to 
meet unmet medical need
 
Reinvestment of returns          
 
Investment in discovery, development and commercialisation of patent-protected medicines          
 
Research and development phases 10–15 years
 
Launch phase 5–10 years        
 
 
 20+ years         
 
Post-exclusivity
 Research and Development from page 42
 Manufacturing and Supply from page 46 
 Sales and Marketing from page 48
Note: This is a high-level overview of a medicine’s life-cycle 
and is illustrative only. It is neither intended to, nor does  
it, represent the life-cycle of any particular medicine or  
of every medicine discovered and/or developed by 
AstraZeneca, or the probability of success or approval  
of any AstraZeneca medicine.
11 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Marketplace
Despite global economic, political and social challenges, 
the pharmaceutical industry is expected to enjoy long-
term growth. This is due to favourable demographic 
trends and significant unmet medical need.
$140bn
Global investment in pharmaceutical  
R&D expected to reach an estimated 
$140 billion in 2015, a 30% increase  
from $108 billion in 2006. 
The global context
According to the International Monetary 
Fund (IMF), a return to robust and 
synchronised global expansion remains 
elusive six years after the world economy 
emerged from its broadest and deepest 
post-war recession. Moreover, downside 
risks to the world economy appear more 
pronounced, particularly for emerging 
market and developing economies, and 
including renewed concerns about China’s 
growth potential.
The demand for healthcare, however, 
continues to increase. While this is a 
favourable trend for long-term industry 
growth, challenges remain. These include 
expiring patents, competition from and 
growing use of generic medicines,  
obtaining regulatory approval, securing 
reimbursement for new medicines, 
improving R&D productivity and attaining 
pricing and sales sufficient to generate 
revenue and sustain the cycle of innovation. 
Expanding patient populations 
The number of people accessing healthcare 
is increasing, as is healthcare spending, 
particularly by the elderly. For example, 
WHO estimates that, by 2050, the world’s 
population aged 60 years and older is 
expected to total two billion, up from  
900 million in 2015 and that, by then,  
80% of all older people will live in low- and 
middle-income countries. As the diagram 
on pages 14 and 15 shows, we expect 
developing markets to continue to boost 
pharmaceutical growth. 
Unmet medical need
The prevalence of non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs), such as cancer and 
cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory 
diseases, is increasing worldwide. NCDs are 
Overview
 > Global pharmaceutical sales grew by 9.5% in 2015
 > The sector remains highly competitive
 > Patient populations are expanding and ageing
 > Non-communicable diseases kill 38 million people each year
 > The costs of developing a new medicine continue to rise
 > Priority Reviews and Breakthrough Therapies are becoming more prevalent
 > A highly regulated sector reflects the demand for safe, effective and  
high-quality medicines
 > Pricing and reimbursement continue to be challenging
 > Patents are expiring on some of the biggest-selling drugs ever produced
 > The sector faces challenges in building and maintaining trust
84.0%
Generics constituted 84.0%  
of prescriptions dispensed 
in the US.
Strategic Report    Strategy
12 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 often associated with ageing populations 
and lifestyle choices, including smoking,  
diet and lack of exercise. Many NCDs 
require long-term management. WHO 
estimates that NCDs kill 38 million people 
each year and disproportionately affect 
low- and middle-income countries where 
nearly three-quarters of these deaths occur. 
For example, more than 60% of the world’s 
total new annual cancer cases occur in 
Africa, Asia and Central and South America. 
These regions account for 70% of the 
world’s cancer deaths.
The pharmaceutical sector: 
opportunities and challenges
As shown in the table on the right, global 
pharmaceutical sales grew by 9.5% in 2015. 
Established Markets saw average revenue 
growth of 9.3% and Emerging Markets 
revenue growth at 10.3%. The US, China, 
Japan, Germany and France are the world’s 
top five pharmaceutical markets. In 2015, 
the US had 45.7% of global sales (2014: 
44.6%; 2013: 43.2%). 
Science and technology 
Innovation is critical to addressing unmet 
medical need. The delivery of new 
medicines will rely on a more advanced 
understanding of disease and the use of 
new technology and approaches, including 
personalised healthcare (PHC) and 
predictive science. 
Technological breakthroughs in the design 
and testing of novel compounds present 
fresh opportunities for using small molecules 
as the basis for new medicines. The use  
of large molecules, or biologics, has also 
become an important source of innovation. 
Biologics are among the most commercially 
successful new products. By 2020, biologics 
are expected to account for 46% of the  
total sales revenue of the world’s top 100 
pharmaceutical products, having risen from 
21% in 2006. As such, most pharmaceutical 
companies now pursue R&D in both small 
molecules and biologics.
Priority Reviews and Breakthrough 
Therapies are becoming more prevalent 
with more than half the Center for Drug 
Evaluation and Research NME approvals  
in 2015 receiving a Priority Review and, 
almost a quarter having a Breakthrough 
Therapy designation. Between the inception 
of the Breakthrough Therapy designation 
programme in October 2012 and the end of 
2015, the FDA has granted more than 100 
such requests, and one-third of these have 
already resulted in product approvals. 
The cost of developing new medicines 
continues to rise. Global R&D investment is 
expected to reach $140 billion in 2015. While 
the growth rate of R&D spend has slowed in 
recent years, pharmaceutical companies 
continue to deliver new medicines. In 2015 
the FDA approved 45 NMEs compared with 
41 in 2014 and 27 in 2013. The number of 
approvals in 2015 is the largest since 1996 
when 59 NMEs were approved.
To ensure sustainable returns on R&D 
investment, the industry is working to 
increase its success rate in developing 
commercially viable new drugs while 
achieving a lower, more flexible cost base. 
Regulators and payers, however, are 
demanding greater evidence of comparative 
effectiveness of medicines. This increases 
development times and costs. 
Fortunately, innovative technology is helping 
accelerate product approvals. A greater 
emphasis on Proof of Concept is also 
helping to improve productivity and reduce 
costs by showing the potential efficacy of 
drugs earlier in the development process.
Regulatory requirements 
A highly regulated biopharmaceutical 
industry reflects the public’s expectation of 
safe, effective and high-quality medicines. 
Meeting this expectation requires 
responsible testing, manufacturing and 
marketing. It also relies on maintaining 
effective working relationships with health 
authorities worldwide, including the FDA in 
the US, the EMA in the EU, the PMDA in 
Japan, and the CFDA in China. Increasingly, 
regulation and governmental policy are 
being introduced to stimulate innovation in 
drug development. In the US, for example, 
the 21st Century Cures Act, passed by the 
House of Representatives in July 2015, and 
the related Senate Innovation for Healthier 
Americans Legislative Initiative, are focused 
on accelerating the discovery, development 
and delivery of promising new treatments for 
patients. Similarly, the PDUFA reauthorisation 
legislation considered by the US Congress 
in 2017 is anticipated to contain proposals 
aimed at accelerating innovation and 
modernising the regulatory environment. 
Additionally, the growing complexity and 
globalisation of clinical studies have led to  
an increase in public-private consortia. Such 
consortia, which include industry, academia 
Global pharmaceutical sales
World $bn
2013
2014
2015 904
826
759
$904bn (9.5%)
US $bn
2013
2014
2015 413
369
328
$413bn (12.0%)
Europe $bn
2013
2014
2015 194
182
177
$194bn (6.3%)
Established ROW $bn
2013
2014
2015 100
96
94
$100bn (4.3%)
Emerging Markets $bn
2013
2014
2015 198
179
160
$198bn (10.3%)
Data based on world market sales using AstraZeneca market 
definitions as set out in the Market definitions on page 247. 
Source: IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2015 (including 
US data). Reported values and growth are based at CER. Value 
figures are rounded to the nearest billion and growth 
percentages are rounded to the nearest tenth. 
13 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Marketplace continued 
Estimated pharmaceutical sales and market growth – 2019
North America EU South East and East Asia Latin America
$574bn
7.0%
$224bn
3.3%
$206bn
7.1%
$90bn
6.4%
Africa CIS Middle East Other Europe (Non-EU countries)
$32bn
9.6%
$27bn
6.9%
$27bn
7.4%
$22bn
6.8%
The study of paediatric populations 
continues to present challenges to the 
industry as differences between study 
requirements and timeframes may vary 
significantly among health authorities. 
However, there have been efforts to provide 
incentives to stimulate paediatric research. 
An example is EMA’s initiative offering 
free-of-charge meetings early in drug 
development. Increased interest in the 
availability of the paediatric rare disease 
voucher programme in the US is another 
noteworthy development.
Regulatory requirements for the registration 
of biosimilar products continue to be 
developed and become better defined.  
This includes the publication of a new 
pathway for China and the first biosimilar 
product approval in the US. However, 
significant areas of regulatory policy are  
still evolving. Among these are transparency 
of data to support approval of claims  
for biosimilarity in labelling, standards  
for interchangeability and pharmaceutical 
substitution, and traceability of 
pharmacovigilance reports through  
naming conventions that permit 
differentiation of products. For more 
information about biosimilars, please see 
Patent expiries and genericisation below.
Pricing of medicines
Pricing and reimbursement remain 
challenging in many markets. Most 
pharmaceutical sales are generated in  
highly regulated markets where 
governments, insurers and other private 
payers exert various controls on pricing  
and reimbursement. These include 
limitations on pharmaceutical spending  
and the cost of readmitting patients to 
hospital. Implementation of certain reforms 
and shifting market dynamics are further 
and government bodies, aim to drive 
innovation, streamline regulatory processes, 
and define and clarify approval requirements 
for innovative drug and biologic products.
Regulatory health authorities continue  
to implement programmes intended to 
address unmet medical need and to  
speed up patient access to transformative 
medicines. This is demonstrated by  
the Breakthrough Therapy programme 
employed by the FDA and the EMA’s piloting 
of a programme to implement ‘adaptive 
pathways’, or ‘staggered approval’, to 
improve timely patient access to new 
medicines. In Japan, the SAKIGAKE 
strategy is fostering a more favourable 
environment for drug development and 
accelerating the availability of currently 
unapproved medicines for serious and 
life-threatening diseases. The lengthy review 
process in China extends new medicine 
approval periods to as long as five years. 
This challenges the ability of pharmaceutical 
companies to deliver innovative medicines 
and treat unmet medical need in China. 
However, proposed revisions to China’s 
Drug Administration Law, which are under 
review, may help address this issue. 
Greater transparency and public access  
to regulatory submissions that support 
approval of new medicines continues  
to be an area of interest. A recent example 
involves the EMA policy on publication  
of clinical data for medicinal products for 
human use, which provides guidance for  
the publication of clinical reports that 
underpin the EMA’s decision making.  
These clinical reports include the overviews, 
summaries and clinical study reports 
submitted by the applicant, together with 
documentation of statistical methods. 
constraining healthcare providers, while 
difficult economic conditions burden 
patients who pay out-of-pocket for 
medicines. Pharmaceutical companies  
are now expending significant resources  
to demonstrate the economic as well as 
therapeutic value of their medicines.
In the US, the Affordable Care Act (ACA)  
has had a direct impact on healthcare 
activities. It continues to reshape the market 
through various provisions designed to 
reduce cost and improve healthcare and 
patient outcomes. We, along with other 
pharmaceutical companies, are working 
with policymakers and regulators to help 
contain costs, improve outcomes and 
promote an environment that fosters 
medical and scientific innovation.
In Europe, governments continue to 
implement price control measures for 
medicines, including mandatory discounts, 
clawbacks and price referencing rules. 
These measures are decreasing drug 
prices, particularly in the challenged 
economies of Greece, Romania and Italy.  
In France, price negotiations are particularly 
challenging due to budget pressures.  
In Germany, Europe’s largest pharmaceutical 
market, manufacturers must now prove the 
added benefit of their drug over existing 
alternatives if they are to avoid relegation  
to a single reimbursement level (or reference) 
for each drug group.
In China, pricing practices remain a priority 
for regulators. Though free pricing has been 
introduced, provincial and hospital tenders 
continue to put increasing pricing pressures 
on pharmaceutical companies. In Russia 
and selected Middle East markets, 
governments are encouraging local 
manufacturing by offering more favourable 
Strategic Report    Strategy
14 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Japan Indian subcontinent
$82bn
1.3%
$35bn
12.3%
Oceania
$13bn
1.8%
  Estimated pharmaceutical sales – 2019.
 
Ex-manufacturer prices 
at CER. Source: IMS Health.
  Estimated pharmaceutical market growth – 2014 to 2019. 
Compound annual growth rate. Source: IMS Health.
pricing legislation. In Japan, mandated 
biennial cuts are likely to continue. In Latin 
America, pricing is increasingly controlled by 
governments as, for example, in Colombia. 
Patent expiries and genericisation 
Patent protection for pharmaceutical 
products is finite. Patents are expiring  
on some of the biggest-selling drugs ever 
produced and payers, physicians and 
patients have greater access to generic 
alternatives (both substitutable and 
analogue) in many important drug classes. 
These generic alternatives are primarily 
lower priced because generic manufacturers 
are largely spared the costs of R&D and 
market development. As a result, demand 
for generics is high. For prescriptions 
dispensed in the US in 2015, generics 
constituted 84.0% of the market by volume 
(2014: 83.4%). 
Generic competition can also result from 
patent disputes or challenges before patent 
expiry. Increasingly, generics companies  
are launching products ‘at risk’, for example, 
before resolution of the relevant patent 
litigation. This trend, which is likely to 
continue, creates significant market 
presence for the generic version while the 
litigation remains unresolved. Given the 
unpredictable nature of patent litigation, 
some companies have settled such 
challenges on terms acceptable to the 
innovator and generic manufacturer. While 
competition authorities generally accept 
such agreements as a legitimate way to 
settle these disputes, they have questioned 
some settlements as being anti-competitive. 
 For more information about price controls, 
reductions and US healthcare reform, and price 
regulation in our major markets, please see 
Geographical Review from page 227 and Risk 
from page 212 
Biologics typically retain exclusivity for  
longer than traditional small molecule 
pharmaceuticals, with less generic 
competition. With limited experience to date, 
the substitution of biosimilars for the original 
branded product has not followed the same 
pattern as generic substitution in small 
molecule products and, as a result, erosion 
of the original biologic’s branded market 
share has not been as rapid. This is due to 
biologics’ complex manufacturing processes 
and the inherent difficulties in producing a 
biosimilar, which could require additional 
clinical trials. However, with regulatory 
authorities in Europe and the US continuing 
to implement abbreviated approval pathways 
for biosimilar versions, innovative biologics 
are likely to face increased competition. 
Similar to biologics, some small molecule 
pharmaceutical products are in complex 
formulations and/or require technically 
challenging manufacturing and thus may  
not follow the pattern of generic market 
erosion seen with traditional, tabletted 
pharmaceuticals. For those products, the 
introduction of generic alternatives (both 
substitutable and analogue) can be slower. 
Building trust
The pharmaceutical industry faces 
challenges in building and maintaining  
trust, particularly with governments and 
regulators. This reflects the past decade’s 
legal disputes between pharmaceutical 
companies and governmental and 
regulatory authorities. To address this 
challenge, companies are strengthening  
a culture of ethics and integrity, adopting 
higher governance standards and improving 
relationships with employees, shareholders 
and other stakeholders.
Numerous companies, including those in 
the pharmaceutical industry, have been 
investigated by the China Public Security 
Bureau following allegations of bribery, and 
criminal and financial penalties have been 
imposed. Investigations by the DOJ and 
SEC under the Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act are continuing as are investigations by 
the UK Serious Fraud Office under the UK 
Bribery Act. Information about material legal 
proceedings can be found in Note 27 to the 
Financial Statements from page 186.
Strategic responses 
Our industry remains highly competitive.  
It includes large, research-based 
pharmaceutical companies (such as 
AstraZeneca) that discover, develop and  
sell innovative, patent-protected prescription 
medicines and vaccines, smaller 
biotechnology and vaccine businesses, and 
companies that produce generic medicines. 
While many of our peers face similar 
challenges, they tackle them in different 
ways. Some companies have pursued a 
strategy focused on branded prescription 
pharmaceuticals. Others have diversified  
by acquiring or building branded generics 
businesses or consumer portfolios. A 
number of companies are focused on 
improving R&D productivity and operational 
efficiency. Other companies have looked  
to geographic expansion, especially in 
Emerging Markets and Japan. Across the 
industry, business development deals 
(including licensing and collaborations),  
and competition for business development 
opportunities continued in 2015. It is 
estimated that the value of mergers 
announced in the healthcare sector during 
the year amounted to more than $650 
billion, accounting for 14% of all merger  
and acquisition activity.
15 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report What do we need to do? How are we implementing this? For more information 
Achieve scientific leadership
Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas Our focus is on Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity; Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases; and Oncology. We are 
also taking an opportunity-driven approach to Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal disorders.
We are working across small molecules, biologics, immunotherapies, protein engineering and devices.
Therapy Area Review from page 24
Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline We are accelerating and investing in key R&D programmes. 15 new molecular entities (NMEs) are in Phase III/pivotal Phase II 
or under regulatory review compared with our March 2013 target of nine to 10 by the end of 2016. 
Between 2013 and the end of 2016, we have the potential for 12 to 16 Phase II starts; 14 to 16 NME and major line extension 
regulatory submissions; and eight to 10 NME and major line extension regulatory approvals.
We are strengthening our early-stage pipeline through novel science and technology.
Pipeline and Therapy Area Introduction
from page 24
Development Pipeline from page 205
Transform our innovation and culture model Our two autonomous biotech units, MedImmune and IMED, drive science and innovation, and GMD drives our late-stage 
development unit.
Research and Development from page 42
We are focusing on novel science, such as immune-mediated therapy combinations and personalised healthcare (PHC).
To increase our proximity to bioscience clusters, we are co-locating around three strategic centres in Cambridge, UK; 
Gaithersburg, Maryland US; and Gothenburg, Sweden. These moves will leverage our capabilities and foster collaboration 
with leading scientists and research organisations.
Accelerate through business development We are working to reinforce our therapy areas and are strengthening our portfolio and pipeline through targeted business 
development, including collaborations, in-licensing and acquisitions. 
We are collaborating strategically to broaden and accelerate the development of key pipeline assets (externalisation) and 
divesting non-core assets to realise value.
In the wider world from page 55
Return to growth
Focus on Growth Platforms Brilinta/Brilique – We are working to deliver Brilinta/Brilique’s potential to reduce cardiovascular deaths through ongoing clinical 
studies and plans for market leadership. 
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases  
from page 30
Diabetes – We are working to maximise the potential of our broad and innovative non-insulin, anti-diabetic portfolio  
to transform patient care.
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases  
from page 30
Emerging Markets – We are focused on delivering innovative medicines by accelerating our investment in Emerging Markets 
capabilities, with a focus on China and other leading markets, such as Russia and Brazil. We are also expanding our 
commercial reach through multi-channel marketing and sales force excellence and building strong local medical and scientific 
affairs teams. Transformation of our capabilities is supporting new products and improving access and affordability. 
Sales and Marketing from page 48
Respiratory – We are working to maximise pipeline value, devices and medicines to fulfil unmet medical need and improve 
patient outcomes in asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
Respiratory, Inflammation and 
Autoimmunity from page 26
Japan – We are strengthening our Oncology franchise and working to maximise the success of our Diabetes medicines and 
established brands: Symbicort, Nexium and Crestor.
Sales and Marketing from page 48
New Oncology – Became our sixth Growth Platform in January 2015 and includes Lynparza, Iressa (US) and Tagrisso. We are 
aiming to deliver six new cancer medicines to patients by 2020.
Oncology from page 34
Transform through specialty care, devices  
and biologics
We are transforming our business to become more sustainable, durable and profitable. This involves focusing on specialty 
care medicines, devices and biologics. Biologics now account for half of the NMEs in development, potentially enhancing asset 
longevity. A greater focus on innovative and differentiated delivery devices affords patient choice while ensuring product 
durability. Our new specialty care portfolio is expected to balance our strength in primary care medicines.
Therapy Area Review from page 24
 Be a great place to work
Evolve our culture We are working to improve our employees’ identification with our Purpose and Values and to promote greater understanding  
of and belief in our strategy.
We are investing in and implementing tailored leadership development programmes. 
Employees from page 52
Simplify our business We are developing simpler, more efficient processes and flattening our organisational structure to encourage accountability 
and improve decision making and communication. 
Attract and retain the best talent We are accelerating efforts to attract diverse, top talent with new capabilities.
Deliver business success over the long term We are supporting the sustainable delivery of our business strategy while delivering wider benefits to society and  
the environment.
In the wider world from page 55
Achieve our Group  
financial targets
Drive on-market value We invest in R&D and on-market Growth Platforms to return to growth. Our aim is to deliver industry-leading productivity  
by restructuring to create scope for investment and a flexible cost base.
Financial Review from page 62
Maintain a progressive dividend Our policy is to maintain or grow dividend per share.
Maintain a strong balance sheet Target a strong, investment-grade credit rating, operational cash balance and periodic share repurchases.
Strategic priorities
We are focused on 
returning to growth in  
our chosen therapy areas 
through a science-led 
innovation strategy.  
This strategy is based on 
investing in three therapy 
areas, building a strong  
and balanced portfolio  
of primary care and 
specialty care medicines, 
and accelerating key  
R&D programmes. It  
also involves engaging  
in targeted business 
development and  
leveraging our strong  
global commercial 
presence, particularly  
in Emerging Markets. 
Strategic Report    Strategy
16 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 What do we need to do? How are we implementing this? For more information 
Achieve scientific leadership
Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas Our focus is on Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity; Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases; and Oncology. We are 
also taking an opportunity-driven approach to Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal disorders.
We are working across small molecules, biologics, immunotherapies, protein engineering and devices.
Therapy Area Review from page 24
Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline We are accelerating and investing in key R&D programmes. 15 new molecular entities (NMEs) are in Phase III/pivotal Phase II 
or under regulatory review compared with our March 2013 target of nine to 10 by the end of 2016. 
Between 2013 and the end of 2016, we have the potential for 12 to 16 Phase II starts; 14 to 16 NME and major line extension 
regulatory submissions; and eight to 10 NME and major line extension regulatory approvals.
We are strengthening our early-stage pipeline through novel science and technology.
Pipeline and Therapy Area Introduction
from page 24
Development Pipeline from page 205
Transform our innovation and culture model Our two autonomous biotech units, MedImmune and IMED, drive science and innovation, and GMD drives our late-stage 
development unit.
Research and Development from page 42
We are focusing on novel science, such as immune-mediated therapy combinations and personalised healthcare (PHC).
To increase our proximity to bioscience clusters, we are co-locating around three strategic centres in Cambridge, UK; 
Gaithersburg, Maryland US; and Gothenburg, Sweden. These moves will leverage our capabilities and foster collaboration 
with leading scientists and research organisations.
Accelerate through business development We are working to reinforce our therapy areas and are strengthening our portfolio and pipeline through targeted business 
development, including collaborations, in-licensing and acquisitions. 
We are collaborating strategically to broaden and accelerate the development of key pipeline assets (externalisation) and 
divesting non-core assets to realise value.
In the wider world from page 55
Return to growth
Focus on Growth Platforms Brilinta/Brilique – We are working to deliver Brilinta/Brilique’s potential to reduce cardiovascular deaths through ongoing clinical 
studies and plans for market leadership. 
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases  
from page 30
Diabetes – We are working to maximise the potential of our broad and innovative non-insulin, anti-diabetic portfolio  
to transform patient care.
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases  
from page 30
Emerging Markets – We are focused on delivering innovative medicines by accelerating our investment in Emerging Markets 
capabilities, with a focus on China and other leading markets, such as Russia and Brazil. We are also expanding our 
commercial reach through multi-channel marketing and sales force excellence and building strong local medical and scientific 
affairs teams. Transformation of our capabilities is supporting new products and improving access and affordability. 
Sales and Marketing from page 48
Respiratory – We are working to maximise pipeline value, devices and medicines to fulfil unmet medical need and improve 
patient outcomes in asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
Respiratory, Inflammation and 
Autoimmunity from page 26
Japan – We are strengthening our Oncology franchise and working to maximise the success of our Diabetes medicines and 
established brands: Symbicort, Nexium and Crestor.
Sales and Marketing from page 48
New Oncology – Became our sixth Growth Platform in January 2015 and includes Lynparza, Iressa (US) and Tagrisso. We are 
aiming to deliver six new cancer medicines to patients by 2020.
Oncology from page 34
Transform through specialty care, devices  
and biologics
We are transforming our business to become more sustainable, durable and profitable. This involves focusing on specialty 
care medicines, devices and biologics. Biologics now account for half of the NMEs in development, potentially enhancing asset 
longevity. A greater focus on innovative and differentiated delivery devices affords patient choice while ensuring product 
durability. Our new specialty care portfolio is expected to balance our strength in primary care medicines.
Therapy Area Review from page 24
 Be a great place to work
Evolve our culture We are working to improve our employees’ identification with our Purpose and Values and to promote greater understanding  
of and belief in our strategy.
We are investing in and implementing tailored leadership development programmes. 
Employees from page 52
Simplify our business We are developing simpler, more efficient processes and flattening our organisational structure to encourage accountability 
and improve decision making and communication. 
Attract and retain the best talent We are accelerating efforts to attract diverse, top talent with new capabilities.
Deliver business success over the long term We are supporting the sustainable delivery of our business strategy while delivering wider benefits to society and  
the environment.
In the wider world from page 55
Achieve our Group  
financial targets
Drive on-market value We invest in R&D and on-market Growth Platforms to return to growth. Our aim is to deliver industry-leading productivity  
by restructuring to create scope for investment and a flexible cost base.
Financial Review from page 62
Maintain a progressive dividend Our policy is to maintain or grow dividend per share.
Maintain a strong balance sheet Target a strong, investment-grade credit rating, operational cash balance and periodic share repurchases.
17 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Key performance indicators
How we performed against the indicators by which we measure our success.
Achieve Group financial targets 
Total Revenue
1
Net cash flow from operating 
activities
$24,708m $3,324m 
2013
2014
2015 $24,708m
$26,547m
$25,806m 2013
2014
2015 $3,324m
$7,058m
$7,400m
CER growth
2015 +1%
2014 +5%
2013 -7%
Actual growth
2015 -7%
2014 +3%
2013 -9%
Actual growth
2015 -53%
2014 -5%
2013 +7%
Total Revenue comprised Product 
Sales of $23,641 million (down by  
1%) and Externalisation Revenue of 
$1,067 million (up by 140%). Decline  
in Total Revenue at actual exchange 
rates reflected the particular weakness 
of key trading currencies against the 
US dollar.
1
  As detailed on page 144, Total Revenue 
consists of Product Sales and 
Externalisation Revenue.
Cash generated from operating 
activities reflects a modest increase  
in investment in working capital of  
$49 million compared to a decline of 
$2,508 million in 2014. Working capital 
improvements made in 2014 have been 
sustained minimising the impact of 
increased acquired diabetes and 
launch product inventory balances.
Dividend per share
2
Core EPS
$2.80 $4.26
2013
2014
2015 $2.80
$2.80
$2.80 2013
2014
2015 $4.26
$4.28
$5.05
Dividend is consistent with the 
progressive dividend policy pursuant  
to which the Board intends to maintain 
or grow the dividend each year. 
CER growth
2015 +7%
2014 -8%
2013 -23%
Actual growth
2015 0%
2014 -15%
2013 -26%
2
  First and second interim dividend  
for the year.
Increase in Core EPS demonstrated 
resilience in face of patent expiries  
as we position ourselves for a return 
to growth.
 Financial Review from page 62
Achieve scientific leadership
Phase III investment decisions NME or LCM project regulatory 
submissions in major markets
Clinical-stage strategic 
transactions
6 12 10
2013
2014
2015 6
9
3 2013
2014
2015 12
6
3 2013
2014
2015 10
3
7*
Anifrolumab; AZD9291 + durvalumab; 
PT010; durvalumab + tremelimumab 
(NSCLC); durvalumab + tremelimumab 
(bladder and head and neck); AZD9291 
adjuvant.
Brilinta PEGASUS (US, EU, Japan);  
CAZ AVI (EU); Tagrisso (AZD9291) 
(US, EU, Japan); cediranib (EU); 
saxagliptin/dapagliflozin (EU); PT003 
(US); brodalumab (US, EU).
Licensing and/or acquisition 
opportunities helped us achieve  
our 2016 target three years ahead of 
schedule and contribute to meeting  
our target of sustainable delivery of  
two NMEs annually by 2020.
*  Four for early-stage (Phase I/II) 
opportunities, and three for late-stage 
(Phase II+) opportunities.
NME Phase II starts/
progressions
NME and major LCM regional 
approvals 
11 6
2013
2014
2015 11
13
13 2013
2014
2015 6
12
3
MEDI8897; MEDI-551; MEDI7510; 
AZD3241; AZD9412; AZD7594; 
AZD5069; AZD9150; AZD3759; 
MEDI6012; MEDI8852.
Bydureon Dual Pen (Japan); Iressa  
(US); Brilinta (US for treatment of 
history of heart attack); Tagrisso 
(AZD9291) (US); Zurampic (US); 
Faslodex 500mg (China). 
 Therapy Area Review from page 24
Strategic Report    Strategy
18 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Return to growth
Brilinta/Brilique Diabetes Japan
$619m 
sales
$2,224m 
sales
$2,020m 
sales
2013
2014
2015 $619m
$476m
$283m 2013
2014
2015 $2,224m
$1,870m
$787m 2013
2014
2015 $2,020m
$2,227m
$2,485m
CER growth
2015 +44%
2014 +70%
2013 +216%
Actual growth
2015 +30%
2014 +68%
2013 +218%
CER growth
2015 +26%
2014 +139%
2013 +75%
Actual growth
2015 +19%
2014 +138%
2013 +75%
CER growth
2015 +4%
2014 -3%
2013 +4%
Actual growth
2015 -9%
2014 -10%
2013 -14%
Growth was underpinned by 
recently-extended US label and positive 
CHMP opinion. Sales in the US and EU 
increased by 64% and 18% respectively 
and Emerging Market growth also 
continued, most notably in China.
Growth of 26% delivered, including 
76% in Emerging Markets. Farxiga/
Forxiga grew by 137% to $492 million, 
with both US and EU growing strongly. 
Growth in sales of 4% driven by 
strong performance of Nexium, 
Crestor, Symbicort and the Diabetes 
franchise, offsetting the headwinds 
from generic competition.
Emerging Markets Respiratory New Oncology
$5,822m 
sales
$4,987m 
sales
$119m 
sales
2013
2014
2015 $5,822m
$5,827m
$5,389m 2013
2014
2015 $4,987m
$5,063m
$4,677m 2013
2014
2015 $119m
N/A
N/A
CER growth
2015 +12%
2014 +12%
2013 +8%
Actual growth
2015 0%
2014 +8%
2013 +6%
CER growth
2015 +7%
2014 +10%
2013 +7%
Actual growth
2015 -2%
2014 +8%
2013 +6%
New Oncology is included for the first 
time (comprising Lynparza, Iressa 
(US) and Tagrisso). 
Contributions to growth of 12% were 
generated from across the region. 
Around 60% of Emerging Markets 
sales were derived outside China. 
Growth of 7% was driven primarily by 
the performance of Pulmicort Respules 
in Emerging Markets, where Pulmicort 
sales grew by 35%.
 Sales and Marketing from page 48 and Geographical Review from page 227
Achieve scientific leadership
Phase III investment decisions NME or LCM project regulatory 
submissions in major markets
Clinical-stage strategic 
transactions
6 12 10
2013
2014
2015 6
9
3 2013
2014
2015 12
6
3 2013
2014
2015 10
3
7*
Anifrolumab; AZD9291 + durvalumab; 
PT010; durvalumab + tremelimumab 
(NSCLC); durvalumab + tremelimumab 
(bladder and head and neck); AZD9291 
adjuvant.
Brilinta PEGASUS (US, EU, Japan);  
CAZ AVI (EU); Tagrisso (AZD9291) 
(US, EU, Japan); cediranib (EU); 
saxagliptin/dapagliflozin (EU); PT003 
(US); brodalumab (US, EU).
Licensing and/or acquisition 
opportunities helped us achieve  
our 2016 target three years ahead of 
schedule and contribute to meeting  
our target of sustainable delivery of  
two NMEs annually by 2020.
*  Four for early-stage (Phase I/II) 
opportunities, and three for late-stage 
(Phase II+) opportunities.
NME Phase II starts/
progressions
NME and major LCM regional 
approvals 
11 6
2013
2014
2015 11
13
13 2013
2014
2015 6
12
3
MEDI8897; MEDI-551; MEDI7510; 
AZD3241; AZD9412; AZD7594; 
AZD5069; AZD9150; AZD3759; 
MEDI6012; MEDI8852.
Bydureon Dual Pen (Japan); Iressa  
(US); Brilinta (US for treatment of 
history of heart attack); Tagrisso 
(AZD9291) (US); Zurampic (US); 
Faslodex 500mg (China). 
 Therapy Area Review from page 24
19 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Key performance indicators continued
Be a great place to work
Organisational structure – 
percentage of employees within six 
management steps of the CEO
Employee belief in our strategy Employees who would recommend 
AstraZeneca as a great place to work
71% 89% 83%
2013
2014
2015 71%
75%
70% 2013
2014
2015 89%
1
86%
2
84%
3
2013
2014
2015 83%
1
82%
2
N/A
This is a key indicator of our progress 
in driving accountability and 
improving decision making  
and communication.
This is a key indicator of employee 
engagement. 
This is a key indicator of whether 
employees believe AstraZeneca is  
a great place to work.
1
  Source: January 2016 pulse survey across a 
sample of the organisation.
2
 Source: Global FOCUS all-employee survey.
3
  Source: January 2014 pulse survey across a 
sample of the organisation.
1
  Source: January 2016 pulse survey across a 
sample of the organisation.
2
 Source: Global FOCUS all-employee survey.
 Employees from page 52
Do business sustainably
Dow Jones Sustainability  
Index ranking 
Confirmed breaches of external 
sales and marketing codes or 
regulations globally 
Operational carbon footprint
1
 Screening, diagnosis and 
treatment of hypertension as  
part of Healthy Heart Africa 
programme
Top 5%
of companies
11confirmed breaches 704 kt CO 2e 1 million 
patients
2013
2014
2015 84%
79%
85% 2013
2014
2015 11
6
11 2013
2014
2015 704 kt CO2e
735 kt CO2e
704 kt CO2e 2013
2014
2015 1m
N/A
N/A
Met the target of maintaining position 
in the Dow Jones Sustainability World 
and Europe Indexes comprising the top 
10% of the largest 2,500 companies 
with a score of 84%.
Continue to report and learn from 
confirmed breaches of external codes 
arising from external scrutiny and 
voluntary disclosure by AstraZeneca.
Our 2015 operational carbon footprint 
met our target emission of 714 kt CO 2e 
and represents a 21.2% reduction from 
our 2010 baseline. Our overall target of 
a 20% reduction from a 2010 baseline 
of 893 kt CO 2e by the end of 2015 has 
been achieved.
1
  Operational carbon footprint is emissions 
from all sources, excluding those from 
patient use of our inhalers.
In our first full year of Healthy Heart 
Africa, we exceeded our 2015 target 
by screening one million patients in 
Kenya for hypertension during 
demonstration projects.
 Sustainability from page 55
Strategic Report    Strategy
20 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Risk overview
What may challenge the delivery of our strategic priorities.
Managing risk 
As a global, science-led biopharmaceutical 
business, we face a diverse range of  
risks and uncertainties. These could 
adversely affect our business. Our  
approach to risk management is therefore 
designed to encourage clear decision 
making on which risks we take and how  
we manage these risks. Fundamental to  
this process is a sound understanding  
of every risk’s potential strategic, 
commercial, financial, compliance,  
legal and reputational implications.
We work to ensure that we have effective 
risk management processes in place to 
support the delivery of our strategic 
priorities. This enables us to meet the 
expectations of our stakeholders and 
upholds our Values. We monitor our 
business activities and external and internal 
environments for new, emerging and 
changing risks to ensure that these are 
managed appropriately.
The Board believes that existing robust 
processes and clear accountabilities, as 
described below, provide it with adequate 
information on the Principal Risks and 
uncertainties we face.
Risk management embedded in 
business processes 
We strive to embed sound risk management 
in our strategy, planning, budgeting and 
performance management processes. 
The Board has defined the Group’s risk 
appetite, expressing the acceptable levels  
of risk for the Group using three key 
dimensions. These are: (i) earnings and cash 
flow; (ii) return on investment; and (iii) ethics. 
Annually, the Group develops a long-term 
business plan to support the delivery of its 
strategy. The Board reviews this to ensure 
that the plan conforms to its risk appetite. 
Our risk management approach is aligned 
to our strategy and business planning 
processes. We cross-check financial risks 
and opportunities identified through the 
business planning process and integrate our 
findings into the overall risk management 
reporting. Line managers are accountable 
for identifying and managing risks and for 
delivering business objectives in accordance 
with the Group’s risk appetite. 
Within each SET function, leadership teams 
discuss the risks the business faces. Every 
year, we map these risks to AstraZeneca’s 
risk ‘taxonomy’. This process provides a 
Group-wide assessment that is shared  
with the Board, Audit Committee and SET. 
Quarterly, each SET function identifies any 
changes to these risks, its mitigation plans 
and new and emerging risks. The quarterly 
updates are assimilated into a Group Risk 
Report for the Board, Audit Committee and 
SET. Supporting tools are in place to assist 
risk leaders and managers in managing, 
monitoring and planning for risk and we 
continue to work on developing our risk 
management standards and guidelines. 
We also develop business continuity  
plans to address situations in which  
specific risks have the potential to severely 
impact our business. These plans include 
training and crisis simulation activities for 
business managers.
 More information about our Global Compliance 
function and the Code of Conduct can be found in 
the Corporate Governance Report from page 90
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Board has determined that a three-year 
period to 31 December 2018 constitutes  
an appropriate period over which to provide 
its viability statement. 
The Board considers annually and on  
a rolling basis, a three-year bottom-up 
detailed business plan. The Board also 
considers a 10-year long-term strategic plan 
but, given the inherent uncertainty involved, 
believes that the three-year statement 
presents readers of the Annual Report with 
a reasonable degree of assurance while still 
providing a longer-term perspective.
The three-year detailed business plan 
captures risks to the sales and cost 
forecasts at a market and SET function level 
and is used to perform central net debt and 
headroom profile analysis. This analysis 
considers a severe but plausible downside 
scenario incorporating the Principal Risks 
such as market pricing and access, delivery 
of pipeline and loss of IP . The resilience of 
the Group to absorb further Principal Risk 
events such as regulatory/litigious fines  
has also been analysed. The Group has 
adequate resilience against these and the 
other Principal Risks due to our diversified 
product portfolio; our global footprint;  
our robust supply infrastructure; our access 
to external financing, which includes 
committed facilities; and our ability to 
manage our cost base.
Based on the results of this analysis, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company will be able to continue  
in operation and meet its liabilities as  
they fall due over the three-year period  
of their assessment.
Oversight and monitoring 
Board: defines the Group’s risk appetite, 
which enables the Group, in both 
quantitative and qualitative terms,  
to judge the level of risk it is prepared  
to take in achieving its overall objectives. 
SET: responsible for overseeing and 
monitoring the effectiveness of the risk 
management processes implemented  
by management.
Management: Global Compliance, 
Finance and Internal Audit Services 
support SET by advising on policy  
and standard setting, monitoring and 
auditing, communication and training,  
as well as reporting on the adequacy  
of line management processes as they 
apply to risk management.
21 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Risk category and Principal Risks Context/potential impact Management actions Trend versus prior year Link to strategy
Product pipeline and intellectual property
Delivery of pipeline and new 
products
The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, risky  
and lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other resources.  
A project may fail or be delayed at any stage of the process due to a number  
of factors, which could reduce our long-term growth, revenue and profit
 > Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline
 > Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations
 > Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas
Increasing importance of pipeline 
contribution given loss of exclusivity  
on key brands
  
Meet quality, regulatory and 
ethical drug approval and 
disclosure requirements
Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals impact patients and market access,  
and can materially affect our business or financial results
 > Quality management systems incorporating monitoring, training and assurance activities
 > Collaborating with regulatory bodies and advocacy groups to monitor and respond to 
changes in the regulatory environment including revised process, timelines and guidance
 
Secure and protect product IP Discovering and developing medicines requires a significant investment of resources. 
For this to be a viable investment, through generation of sufficient revenues, new 
medicines must be safeguarded from being copied with a reasonable amount  
of certainty for a reasonable amount of time
 > Active management of IP rights
  
Commercialisation
Externally driven demand, 
pricing, access and competitive 
pressures
Operating in over 100 countries, we are subject to political, socio-economic and 
financial factors both globally and in individual countries. There can be additional 
pressure from governments and other healthcare payers on medicine prices and sales 
in response to recessionary pressures, reducing our revenue, profits and cash flow
 > Focus on Growth Platforms
 > Demonstrating value of medicines/health economics 
 > Global footprint
 > Diversified portfolio
 
Global economic conditions placing 
downwards pressure on healthcare 
spending and therefore revenue
  
Quality and execution of 
commercial strategies
If commercialisation of a product does not succeed as anticipated, or its rate of sales 
growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may not be able to fully 
recoup the costs in launching it
 > Focus on Growth Platforms
 > Accelerate through business development and strategic collaborations  
and alliances 
 
Loss of exclusivity on key brands 
increases challenge to achieve our 
short- to medium-term targets
  
Supply chain and business execution
Maintain supply of compliant, 
quality product
Delays or interruptions in supply can lead to recalls, product shortages, regulatory 
action, reputational harm and lost sales
 > Business continuity and resilience initiatives, disaster and data recovery  
and emergency response plans
 > Contingency plans including dual sourcing, multiple suppliers and stock levels
 > Quality management systems 
 
Supply chain evolving to incorporate  
new supply chains and to support 
product launches
  
Information technology and 
data security and privacy
Significant disruption to our IT systems, including breaches of data security or  
failure to integrate new systems, could harm our reputation and materially affect  
our financial condition or results of operations. This could lead to regulatory penalties 
or non-compliance with laws and regulations
 > Disaster and data recovery plans 
 > Strategies to secure critical systems and processes  
Several key transformational 
programmes involving large IT-related 
aspects
 
Delivery of gains from 
productivity initiatives
Inappropriately managed initiatives could lead to low employee engagement and 
reduced productivity; increased absence and attrition levels; or even industrial action. 
All could adversely impact the value of the initiative
 > Appropriate project governance structure and oversight 
 > Regular review of strategic initiatives by appropriate senior executive and Board  
level committees
 
Ongoing restructuring and footprint 
projects including Cambridge relocation 
in the UK
    
Attract, develop, engage and 
retain talented and capable 
employees at all levels
Failure to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may weaken our succession 
plans for critical positions in the medium term. Failure to engage our employees could 
impact productivity and turnover. Both could adversely affect the achievement of our 
strategic objectives
 > Evolve our culture
 > Focus on simplification
 > Development of our employees 
 
Ongoing restructuring and footprint 
projects including Cambridge relocation 
in the UK
   
Legal, regulatory and compliance
Safety and efficacy of marketed 
products
Patient safety is very important to us and we strive to minimise the risks and 
maximise the benefits of our medicines. Failure to do this could adversely impact  
our reputation, our business and the results of operations, and could lead to product 
liability claims
 > Robust processes and systems in place to manage patient safety and efficacy trends as 
well as externally reported risks through regulatory agencies and other parties. This 
includes a comprehensive pharmacovigilance programme supplemented by close 
monitoring and review of adverse events
  
Defence of product, pricing and 
practices litigation
Investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, divert management attention  
or damage our reputation and demand for our products. Unfavourable resolutions 
could subject us to criminal liability, fines or penalties, adversely affecting our 
financial results
 > Combined internal and external counsel management
  
Meet regulatory and ethical 
expectations on commercial 
practices and scientific 
exchanges
Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in civil 
and/or criminal legal proceedings and/or regulatory sanctions, fines or penalties, 
impacting financial results
 > Strong ethical and compliance culture 
 > Established compliance framework in place including annual Code of Conduct training 
for all employees
 
Increasing government and regulatory 
scrutiny and evolving compliance 
challenges as complexity of business 
relationships increases
  
Economic and financial
Achieve strategic plans and 
meet targets and expectations
Failure to successfully implement our business strategy may frustrate the 
achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations. This failure could,  
in turn, damage our reputation and materially affect our business, financial  
position or results of operations
 > Focus on Growth Platforms
 > Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas
 > Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations
 > Appropriate capital structure and balance sheet
 > Portfolio-driven decision making process governed by committees 
 
Increasing requirement to balance long- 
and short-term investments as we 
navigate a period of loss of exclusivity  
on key brands
    
Risk overview continued
Principal Risks 
This table provides insight into 
the Principal Risks that could 
have a materially adverse effect 
on the business or results of 
operations. We outline why 
effective management of these 
risks is important and relevant  
to the business, how we are 
managing them and which  
risks are rising, falling or have 
remained static during the  
past 12 months.
Increasing risk
Decreasing risk
Unchanged
Trend key
Strategy key
 Achieve scientific leadership
 Return to growth
 Be a great place to work
 Achieve Group financial targets
 Further information on our key 
risk management and assurance 
processes can be found in Risk  
from pages 212 to 226 which  
also includes a description of 
circumstances under which 
principal and other risks and 
uncertainties might arise in the 
course of our business and their 
potential impact
22 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Strategy Risk category and Principal Risks Context/potential impact Management actions Trend versus prior year Link to strategy
Product pipeline and intellectual property
Delivery of pipeline and new 
products
The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, risky  
and lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other resources.  
A project may fail or be delayed at any stage of the process due to a number  
of factors, which could reduce our long-term growth, revenue and profit
 > Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline
 > Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations
 > Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas
Increasing importance of pipeline 
contribution given loss of exclusivity  
on key brands
  
Meet quality, regulatory and 
ethical drug approval and 
disclosure requirements
Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals impact patients and market access,  
and can materially affect our business or financial results
 > Quality management systems incorporating monitoring, training and assurance activities
 > Collaborating with regulatory bodies and advocacy groups to monitor and respond to 
changes in the regulatory environment including revised process, timelines and guidance
 
Secure and protect product IP Discovering and developing medicines requires a significant investment of resources. 
For this to be a viable investment, through generation of sufficient revenues, new 
medicines must be safeguarded from being copied with a reasonable amount  
of certainty for a reasonable amount of time
 > Active management of IP rights
  
Commercialisation
Externally driven demand, 
pricing, access and competitive 
pressures
Operating in over 100 countries, we are subject to political, socio-economic and 
financial factors both globally and in individual countries. There can be additional 
pressure from governments and other healthcare payers on medicine prices and sales 
in response to recessionary pressures, reducing our revenue, profits and cash flow
 > Focus on Growth Platforms
 > Demonstrating value of medicines/health economics 
 > Global footprint
 > Diversified portfolio
 
Global economic conditions placing 
downwards pressure on healthcare 
spending and therefore revenue
  
Quality and execution of 
commercial strategies
If commercialisation of a product does not succeed as anticipated, or its rate of sales 
growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may not be able to fully 
recoup the costs in launching it
 > Focus on Growth Platforms
 > Accelerate through business development and strategic collaborations  
and alliances 
 
Loss of exclusivity on key brands 
increases challenge to achieve our 
short- to medium-term targets
  
Supply chain and business execution
Maintain supply of compliant, 
quality product
Delays or interruptions in supply can lead to recalls, product shortages, regulatory 
action, reputational harm and lost sales
 > Business continuity and resilience initiatives, disaster and data recovery  
and emergency response plans
 > Contingency plans including dual sourcing, multiple suppliers and stock levels
 > Quality management systems 
 
Supply chain evolving to incorporate  
new supply chains and to support 
product launches
  
Information technology and 
data security and privacy
Significant disruption to our IT systems, including breaches of data security or  
failure to integrate new systems, could harm our reputation and materially affect  
our financial condition or results of operations. This could lead to regulatory penalties 
or non-compliance with laws and regulations
 > Disaster and data recovery plans 
 > Strategies to secure critical systems and processes  
Several key transformational 
programmes involving large IT-related 
aspects
 
Delivery of gains from 
productivity initiatives
Inappropriately managed initiatives could lead to low employee engagement and 
reduced productivity; increased absence and attrition levels; or even industrial action. 
All could adversely impact the value of the initiative
 > Appropriate project governance structure and oversight 
 > Regular review of strategic initiatives by appropriate senior executive and Board  
level committees
 
Ongoing restructuring and footprint 
projects including Cambridge relocation 
in the UK
    
Attract, develop, engage and 
retain talented and capable 
employees at all levels
Failure to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may weaken our succession 
plans for critical positions in the medium term. Failure to engage our employees could 
impact productivity and turnover. Both could adversely affect the achievement of our 
strategic objectives
 > Evolve our culture
 > Focus on simplification
 > Development of our employees 
 
Ongoing restructuring and footprint 
projects including Cambridge relocation 
in the UK
   
Legal, regulatory and compliance
Safety and efficacy of marketed 
products
Patient safety is very important to us and we strive to minimise the risks and 
maximise the benefits of our medicines. Failure to do this could adversely impact  
our reputation, our business and the results of operations, and could lead to product 
liability claims
 > Robust processes and systems in place to manage patient safety and efficacy trends as 
well as externally reported risks through regulatory agencies and other parties. This 
includes a comprehensive pharmacovigilance programme supplemented by close 
monitoring and review of adverse events
  
Defence of product, pricing and 
practices litigation
Investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, divert management attention  
or damage our reputation and demand for our products. Unfavourable resolutions 
could subject us to criminal liability, fines or penalties, adversely affecting our 
financial results
 > Combined internal and external counsel management
  
Meet regulatory and ethical 
expectations on commercial 
practices and scientific 
exchanges
Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in civil 
and/or criminal legal proceedings and/or regulatory sanctions, fines or penalties, 
impacting financial results
 > Strong ethical and compliance culture 
 > Established compliance framework in place including annual Code of Conduct training 
for all employees
 
Increasing government and regulatory 
scrutiny and evolving compliance 
challenges as complexity of business 
relationships increases
  
Economic and financial
Achieve strategic plans and 
meet targets and expectations
Failure to successfully implement our business strategy may frustrate the 
achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations. This failure could,  
in turn, damage our reputation and materially affect our business, financial  
position or results of operations
 > Focus on Growth Platforms
 > Focus on innovative science in three therapy areas
 > Strengthen pipeline through acquisitions, licensing and collaborations
 > Appropriate capital structure and balance sheet
 > Portfolio-driven decision making process governed by committees 
 
Increasing requirement to balance long- 
and short-term investments as we 
navigate a period of loss of exclusivity  
on key brands
    
23 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Pipeline and Therapy Area Introduction
Our business model describes how we create and sustain value over the life-cycle  
of a medicine across our therapy areas. In this section, we review our therapy areas, 
including our portfolio of marketed products, pipeline projects, strategic priorities, 
capabilities, resources and business development activities. 
protein engineering technologies and 
delivery devices across these therapy  
areas. Our goal is to deliver life-changing 
medicines to patients while creating value 
for shareholders. Our approach to Infection, 
Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal (ING)  
is opportunity-driven.
Our Global Product and Portfolio Strategy 
group (GPPS) leads our therapy area 
Overview
As outlined in Strategic priorities from page 
16, a key element of our drive to achieve 
scientific leadership is our focus on 
innovative science in three therapy areas: 
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity 
(RIA); Cardiovascular and Metabolic 
diseases (CVMD); and Oncology. We  
apply our distinctive capabilities to small 
molecules, biologics, immunotherapies, 
activities. GPPS also serves as the bridge 
between our R&D and Sales and Marketing 
functions and works to provide strategic 
direction from early-stage research to 
commercialisation. It also helps us to 
integrate our corporate, portfolio, therapy 
area and product strategies. This, in turn, 
drives scientific innovation, prioritises 
investment, supports the growth of our 
therapy areas, and accelerates business 
development. GPPS also works closely with 
healthcare providers, regulatory authorities 
and payers to ensure our medicines help  
to fulfil unmet medical need and provide 
economic as well as therapeutic benefits. 
Putting patients first
In keeping with our value of putting patients 
first, we formed a Patient Centricity team in 
2015 to better connect patients with our 
science and to help ensure we deliver 
medicines they value. In 2015, we connected 
with more than 30,000 patients through our 
new alliance with PatientsLikeMe, a virtual 
patient community, and are exploring similar 
partnerships with other organisations to 
ensure we understand our patients’ 
requirements better.
Our products 
While this Therapy Area Review concentrates 
on our key marketed products, many of our 
other products are crucial to our business  
in certain countries in Emerging Markets.
For more information on our potential  
new products and product life-cycle 
developments, please see the therapy  
area pipeline tables on pages 26, 30, 34  
to 35, and 39 and the Development Pipeline 
table from page 205. For information on 
patent expiries of our key marketed 
products, please see Patent Expiries  
from page 210.
Indications for each product described in 
this Therapy Area Review may vary among 
countries. Please see local prescribing 
information for country-specific indications 
for any particular product.
Key pipeline 
progressions Product Achievement
Phase III NME 
starts 
anifrolumab Phase III programme commenced for systemic lupus 
erythematosus
PT010 Phase III programme commenced for COPD
Expedited review Brilinta FDA granted Priority Review for PEGASUS
Tagrisso 
(AZD9291)
FDA and PMDA granted Priority Review. EMA accelerated 
assessment
anifrolumab FDA granted Fast Track status for systemic lupus 
erythematosus
durvalumab FDA granted Fast Track status for head and neck cancer
tremelimumab FDA granted Fast Track status for mesothelioma
Regulatory filings Brilinta Regulatory submissions accepted in US, EU and Japan for 
Brilinta to reduce the rate of cardiovascular death, myocardial 
infarction (MI) and stroke in patients with acute coronary 
syndrome or a history of MI
cediranib MAA accepted by EMA for treatment of recurrent platinum-
sensitive ovarian cancer
PT003 NDA accepted by FDA for treatment of COPD 
Tagrisso 
(AZD9291)
Regulatory submission accepted by the FDA, EMA and PMDA 
for treatment of 2nd line or greater EGFRm T790M NSCLC
CAZ AVI MAA accepted by EMA for treatment of serious bacterial 
infection, including complicated intra-abdominal infection and 
complicated urinary tract infection
saxagliptin/ 
dapagliflozin FDC
MAA accepted by EMA for treatment of Type 2 diabetes
brodalumab Regulatory submission accepted by EMA and FDA for psoriasis
Regional 
approvals
Bydureon Pen Japanese regulatory approval for treatment of Type 2 diabetes
Iressa US regulatory approval for treatment of EGFRm NSCLC
Brilinta Regulatory approval in US for Brilinta to reduce the rate of 
cardiovascular death, MI and stroke in patients with acute 
coronary syndrome or a history of MI
Tagrisso 
(AZD9291)
Regulatory approval in US for treatment of 2nd line or greater 
EGFRm T790M NSCLC; CHMP issues Positive Opinion to EMA 
and EU approval received in February 2016
Zurampic 
(lesinurad)
Regulatory approval in US; CHMP issues Positive Opinion  
to EMA
Faslodex 500mg Regulatory approval in China for breast cancer
Discontinued 
projects
20 projects discontinued
24 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Therapy Area Review Global Product Sales by therapy area
2015 2014 2013
Sales
$m
Actual
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth
%
CER
growth
%
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases 9,489 (3) 4 9,802 11 12 8,830 (7) (6)
Oncology 2,825 (7) 7 3,027 (5) (2) 3,193 (9) (2)
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity 4,987 (2) 7 5,063 8 10 4,677 6 7
Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal 6,340 (23) (16) 8,203 (9) (7) 9,011 (14) (13)
Total 23,641 (9) (1) 26,095 1 3 25,711 (8) (6)
Our pipeline includes 146 projects of which 125 are in the clinical phase of development.
Development pipeline overview
Phase I Phase II Late-stage development LCM projects
 > 44 projects in Phase I including:
 – 34 NMEs
 – 3 significant additional 
indications for projects that 
have reached Phase III
 – 7 oncology combination projects
 > 33 projects in Phase II,  
including:
 – 26 NMEs 
 – 5 significant additional 
indications for projects that 
have reached Phase III
 – 2 oncology combination 
projects
 > 34 LCM projects* > 35 projects in late-stage 
development, either in Phase 
III/pivotal Phase II studies or 
under regulatory review:
 – 15 NMEs
 – 13 projects exploring 
additional indications for 
these NMEs
 – 6 projects already approved 
or launched in the EU, 
China, Japan and/or the US
 – MEDI-550 pandemic 
influenza vaccine pending 
acceptance of regulatory 
submission
* Only includes material projects.
For those of our products subject to 
litigation, information about material legal 
proceedings can be found in Note 27 to  
the Financial Statements from page 186. 
Development pipeline
The Development pipeline overview above 
summarises our development pipeline as at  
31 December 2015.
We continue to maintain a clinical portfolio  
of more than 100 projects, and are making 
significant progress in advancing our 
late-stage programmes through regulatory 
approval. The portfolio has reached a 
steady state, with new project starts and 
progressions netted out against project 
 Details of relevant risks are set out in  
Risk from page 212
termination and rationalisation decisions. 
Twenty projects were discontinued in  
2015, 1 1 for poorer than anticipated safety 
and efficacy results, eight as a result of 
strategic shift in the environment or portfolio 
prioritisation, and one because of a change 
in regulatory requirements.
During 2015, 18 NMEs progressed to their 
next phase of development. We also started 
a number of oncology trials during the 
course of the year, of which 12 were 
oncology combination trials. Importantly, 
many of our late-stage programmes 
achieved key milestones, with 12 NME or 
major LCM regulatory submissions within 
the year, and six major approvals. Expedited 
regulatory reviews indicate the degree of 
medical need that many of these 
programmes aim to address.
Progress against targets
We remain on track to meet the pipeline 
aspirations that we have previously 
communicated for the period from 2013  
to the end of 2016: 12 to 16 Phase II starts;  
14 to 16 NME and line extension regulatory 
submissions; and eight to 10 NME and line 
extension regulatory approvals. Moreover, 
we had 15 NME projects in pivotal studies 
or under regulatory review at the end of 
2015, versus 13 at the end of 2014. This 
demonstrates the sustainability of our 
pipeline and our ability to deliver new 
medicines to patients. 
 For more information on the risks associated 
with biologics and our products, please see Risk 
from page 212
44 33 35 34
25 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Respiratory, Inflammation  
and Autoimmunity
2015 was a year of robust performance and significant 
pipeline evolution with inhaled therapies and biologics  
for asthma and COPD. We also have promising assets  
in the inflammatory and autoimmune disease areas. 
Our strategic priorities 
We have an industry-leading pipeline in 
Respiratory, which is an important platform 
for our return to growth. Our goal is to 
establish a leading position in asthma and 
COPD treatment, by delivering a range  
of differentiated inhaled therapies, novel 
combinations and devices, and biologics.
In Inflammation and Autoimmunity, we  
aim to develop innovative, first- and 
best-in-class therapies.
Asthma and COPD 
Asthma is a common and chronic condition 
that affects the lungs’ airways. Inflammation 
and narrowing of the airways may cause 
wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness 
and coughing. Asthma is a major cause of 
chronic morbidity. Asthma that is not well 
controlled by existing treatments remains  
a significant unmet medical need.
Currently, fixed-dose combinations (FDCs) 
of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) with  
a long-acting beta 2-agonist (LABA) such  
as Symbicort help treat moderate-to-severe 
asthma. We are exploring the use of 
Symbicort dosed ‘as needed’ in mild 
asthma patients. For specific patient groups, 
including more severe, refractory patients 
who experience severe or frequent 
exacerbations and a reduced quality of life, 
our effort is focused on developing targeted 
biologic therapies. We are also placing 
emphasis on better understanding patient 
phenotypes to enable targeted therapies 
and to go beyond symptom control. 
COPD is a progressive and chronic disease. 
It includes various lung conditions, such  
as chronic bronchitis and emphysema. 
Currently, medication has only a limited 
impact on the course of COPD and the 
prognosis for patients remains poor.
Therapy area world market
(MAT/Q3/15) 
$102.0bn
Annual worldwide market value
Respiratory
  Asthma $21.6bn
  Chronic obstructive  
pulmonary disease  
(COPD) $16.0bn
  I d io p a t h ic 
pulmonary  
fibrosis (IPF) $0.2bn
  O t h e r $24.2bn
Inflammation  
and Autoimmunity
  G o u t $1.3bn
  Pso r i a s i s $6.6bn
  Psoriatic arthritis  
$4.7bn
   Rheumatoid arthritis  
$18.9bn
   Systemic lupus  
erythematosus  
(SLE) $1.1bn
   I B D $7.4bn  
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity
Phase I Phase II Phase III LCM Projects
Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule
lesinurad + 
+ allopurinol
MEDI4920  —abediterol — AZD9412
#
  ➔ PT003 GFF  F
(COPD) 
brodalumab
#
  F
(psoriasis) 
Duaklir Genuair 
AZD1419
#
 — MEDI5872
#
  — AZD7594  ➔ mavrilimumab
#
  — PT010  ➔
(COPD)
benralizumab
#
  —
(severe asthma) 
Symbicort —
SYGMA
AZD7986  +MEDI7836 +AZD7624 — abrilumab
#
  — Zurampic (US)  
(gout)
benralizumab
#
  —
(COPD) 
Symbicort  — 
Breath Actuated Inhaler
AZD8871  + anifrolumab
#
 +
 
(subcutaneous)
RDEA3170 — MEDI9929
#
  — tralokinumab  —
(severe asthma)
AZD8999 — PT010 — 
(asthma) 
tralokinumab  +
(atopic dermatitis)
anifrolumab
#
  ➔
(SLE)
AZD9567 + MEDI2070
#
 —
MEDI-551
#
 ➔
(neuromyelitis optica)
anifrolumab
#
 +
(lupus nephritis)
Key
+  Addition
— No change
➔ Progression
 Approved/launched
# Partnered product
F New filing
26 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Therapy Area Review AstraZeneca is 
developing a TLR-9 
receptor agonist (shown 
here) aimed at producing 
long-term benefit in 
asthma by addressing 
imbalances in the 
immune system that 
may be an underlying 
cause of the disease.
Pushing the 
boundaries
27 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
For 40 years, AstraZeneca has pushed the 
boundaries of science and helped millions of  
patients with respiratory disease. Now in RIA,  
we are advancing a pipeline of inhaled and  
biologic treatments, drug combinations and  
devices, and other therapies that aim to transform  
disease management. Respiratory, Inflammation  
and Autoimmunity continued
The aim of COPD treatments is to reduce 
symptoms and prevent exacerbations.  
A class of FDCs of a long-acting muscarinic 
antagonist (LAMA) and LABA, known  
as LAMA/LABAs, is likely to become a  
1st line therapy for symptomatic moderate-
to-severe COPD patients. For patients  
who have either experienced or have a  
high risk of experiencing exacerbations,  
an ICS/LABA FDC such as Symbicort  
is recommended.
Our 2015 focus
Our Symbicort products improve the health 
of COPD and asthma patients by providing 
rapid relief of symptoms and long-term 
anti-inflammatory control. We continue  
to invest in this brand and are exploring a 
new indication in mild asthma through the 
SYGMA trial programme, enhancing our 
inhaled devices and patient support 
programmes, and by expanding indications 
such as the recently approved change to 
the Symbicort Turbuhaler label in Europe  
to include more moderate COPD patients. 
Pulmicort is a leading ICS therapy for 
asthma. Despite generic competition in 
many Established Markets, sales continue 
to grow, driven by Emerging Markets. More 
information about litigation relating to 
Pulmicort Respules can be found in Note 27 
to the Financial Statements from page 186.
In 2015, we launched Duaklir Genuair (a 
LAMA/LABA) for maintenance symptom 
control in COPD patients. Our portfolio also 
includes Eklira Genuair (aclidinium, a LAMA) 
for patients with symptomatic mild-to-
moderate COPD. In February 2015, we 
announced an agreement with Actavis  
to acquire the rights to its branded 
respiratory business in the US and Canada. 
This included the rights to develop and 
commercialise on-market products Tudorza 
Pressair (aclidinium, a LAMA) and Daliresp 
(a PDE4 inhibitor) for COPD. In December 
2015, we announced that we had entered 
into a definitive agreement to acquire the 
core respiratory business of Takeda.  
The deal includes the acquisition of non-US 
rights to Daliresp, which is known as Daxas 
in certain countries. The transaction is 
anticipated to close in early 2016.
In the pipeline 
We received positive results from  
the Phase III PINNACLE programme 
investigating the potential of PT003 to 
improve lung function in patients with 
COPD. PT003 is a twice-daily, fixed-dose 
combination of glycopyrronium (a LAMA) 
and formoterol fumarate (a LABA). PT003  
is the first LAMA/LABA combination to be 
delivered in a pressurised metered-dose 
inhaler (pMDI), using the proprietary  
porous particle co-suspension technology 
developed by Pearl Therapeutics. We are 
also developing PT010 as a twice-daily  
triple combination LAMA/LABA/ICS 
(composed of glycopyrronium, formoterol 
and budesonide, a key component of 
Symbicort) in a pMDI device for severe 
COPD. It has progressed to Phase III in 
COPD and may be one of the first products 
to deliver the three therapeutic agents via 
one inhaler.
Benralizumab is a biologic (MAb) in Phase III 
development for the treatment of severe 
uncontrolled asthma and COPD. It targets 
the IL -5 receptor and depletes eosinophils, 
which play a key role in inflammatory 
respiratory disease. The global Phase III 
results for benralizumab in severe asthma 
are expected in 2016. We anticipate making 
US and European regulatory submissions 
later in 2016. Phase III results and regulatory 
filing in COPD are expected in 2018. 
Tralokinumab is a MAb that binds to IL -13. 
Phase II data from tralokinumab suggest 
that IL -13 neutralisation can improve lung 
function and reduce asthma exacerbation 
rate in a subpopulation of moderate-to-
severe asthma patients who are 
uncontrolled with standard of care therapy. 
In August 2014, we initiated a Phase III 
programme to evaluate the safety and 
efficacy of tralokinumab in reducing asthma 
exacerbations in adults and adolescents 
with severe, inadequately controlled asthma. 
The Phase III asthma programme is on track 
to deliver results in early 2017 .
Inflammation and Autoimmunity
Gout is a serious, chronic, progressive,  
and debilitating form of inflammatory arthritis  
that affects more than 15.8 million people  
in major markets. The underlying cause of 
gout is hyperuricemia (elevated serum uric 
acid), which leads to the deposition of 
crystals primarily in the joints and in  
other tissues. This can result in recurrent  
attacks of inflammatory arthritis and,  
if left uncontrolled, can lead to chronic, 
progressive arthritis, and tophus (visible 
deposits of urate crystals) formation.
Values in action: Follow the science 
Patients with SLE or lupus have only seen 
one new treatment for their disease in almost 
60 years and clinical development remains 
challenging. With anifrolumab, we followed 
the science behind the potential therapeutic 
benefits of blocking the interferon pathway 
as a new treatment strategy. Our Phase II 
data confirmed this approach and the FDA 
has granted the anifrolumab SLE 
programme Fast Track designation. 
Our marketed products
 > Accolate (zafirlukast)
 > Bricanyl Respules (terbutaline) 
 > Bricanyl Turbuhaler (terbutaline)
1
 > Daliresp/Daxas (roflumilast)
 > Duaklir Genuair (aclidinium/formoterol)
 > Eklira Genuair/Tudorza/Bretaris (aclidinium)
1
 > Oxis Turbuhaler (formoterol)
1
 > Pulmicort Turbuhaler/ 
Pulmicort Flexhaler (budesonide)
 > Pulmicort Respules (budesonide)
2
 > Rhinocort (budesonide)
 > Symbicort pMDI (budesonide/formoterol)
 > Symbicort Turbuhaler (budesonide/formoterol)
1
1
  In a dry powder inhaler.
2
  budesonide inhalation suspension.
 Full product information on page 203
329m
 
The global prevalence of COPD is 
estimated to be 329 million people and  
WHO predicts that COPD will become  
the third leading cause of death  
worldwide by 2030.
Source: Vos et al 2012 WHO. 
28 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Therapy Area Review mavrilimumab, and two RDEA3170 trials  
in Japan and the US), two Phase III trial 
programmes (brodalumab and Zurampic) 
along with the initiation of various Phase II 
trials, demonstrates the success of our R&D 
efforts to deliver new medicines quickly.
In December 2015, the FDA approved 
Zurampic 200mg tablets in combination 
with a xanthine oxidase inhibitor (XOI) for the 
treatment of hyperuricemia associated with 
gout in patients who have not achieved 
target serum uric acid (sUA) levels with an 
XOI alone. Also in December 2015, the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP) of the EMA adopted  
a Positive Opinion recommending the 
marketing authorisation of Zurampic 200mg 
tablets for the adjunctive treatment of 
hyperuricemia in adult gout patients (with  
or without tophi) who have not achieved 
target sUA levels with an adequate dose  
of an XOI alone. 
Zurampic inhibits the urate transporter, 
URAT1, which is responsible for the majority 
of the renal reabsorption of uric acid. By 
inhibiting URAT1, Zurampic increases uric 
acid excretion and thereby lowers sUA. 
RDEA3170 is a potent selective uric acid 
reabsorption inhibitor, also intended for use 
as a combination urate-lowering therapy 
with XOIs. RDEA3170 is our lead 
investigational urate-lowering therapy (ULT) 
in Asia and is entering Phase IIb in both 
Japan and the US.
Anifrolumab is a developmental MAb that 
targets the type I interferon (IFN) receptor 
inhibiting the activity of all type I IFNs, which 
play a central role in lupus. Phase II trial 
results presented in November 
demonstrated that anifrolumab significantly 
reduced disease activity in moderate-to-
severe SLE patients as measured by several 
SLE composite endpoints. It also improved 
symptoms of lupus such as rash and 
arthritis. Anifrolumab is currently in Phase III 
development for SLE. A Phase II trial in 
lupus nephritis and Phase I subcutaneous 
administration study were initiated in late 
2015. The FDA assigned anifrolumab Fast 
Track designation for SLE, which facilitates 
the development and expedites the review 
process of medicine candidates that treat 
serious conditions and fill an unmet medical 
need. Sifalimumab is a developmental MAb 
that specifically blocks the action of 
interferon alpha. Driven by data from the 
Phase II trials in SLE for both sifalimumab 
and anifrolumab, we have progressed 
anifrolumab into Phase III and therefore we 
do not intend to further develop sifalimumab 
in SLE.
Brodalumab is a human MAb that targets 
the interleukin-17 (IL -17) receptor to treat 
moderate-to-severe psoriasis. The Phase III 
programme in psoriasis included three 
studies evaluating treatment with 
brodalumab, two of which compared 
brodalumab with ustekinumab and/or 
placebo. Results from all three clinical trials 
showed that all primary and secondary 
endpoints were met. Brodalumab showed 
superiority to ustekinumab in both 
comparative studies. In May 2015, Amgen 
terminated its participation in the co-
development and commercialisation of 
brodalumab. In September 2015, we 
announced a collaboration agreement with 
Valeant. This granted an exclusive licence 
for Valeant, as an expert in dermatology, to 
develop and commercialise brodalumab 
globally except in Japan and certain Asian 
countries. AstraZeneca submitted global 
regulatory filings on behalf of Valeant for 
brodalumab in psoriasis in late 2015.  
Valeant assumes decision making on future 
development and all development costs 
associated with the regulatory approval  
for brodalumab.
Mavrilimumab, an investigational MAb  
that inhibits a key pathway in the 
development of rheumatoid arthritis, 
achieved its primary endpoints in a Phase 
IIb study. Results, which were announced  
in May 2014, showed that mavrilimumab 
improved signs and symptoms of 
rheumatoid arthritis, measures of disability 
and patient-reported outcomes.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), or 
lupus, is an autoimmune disease. It occurs 
when the immune system produces 
antibodies that, instead of targeting viruses 
or other foreign invaders, attack healthy 
tissue in the body including skin, joints, 
kidney, the brain and blood vessels. SLE 
can cause a wide range of symptoms. 
Among these are pain, rashes, fatigue, 
swelling in joints, and fevers. SLE is 
associated with a greater risk of death from 
causes such as infection, nephritis and 
cardiovascular disease. Current treatment of 
SLE focuses on suppressing symptoms and 
controlling disease flares and, in the case of 
lupus nephritis, preventing renal failure.
Although a biologic medicine was launched 
for SLE in 201 1, most therapies used are 
off-label and significant unmet medical need 
remains. Most emerging biologics are likely 
to be used in combination with standard 
therapies, such as corticosteroids and 
immunosuppressants.
Psoriasis is a chronic disease in which the 
immune system causes skin cells to grow 
rapidly. Instead of being shed, the skin cells 
pile up, causing painful and itchy, red, scaly 
patches that can bleed. Approximately 125 
million people worldwide suffer from 
psoriasis. Despite available treatment options 
for moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, 
many patients do not experience a resolution 
of underlying inflammation, clearing of 
symptoms or an improved quality of life. 
Rheumatoid arthritis is currently treated with 
generic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic 
agents and, where appropriate, biologics. 
There is a need for novel treatments, since 
only about a third of patients treated with 
biologics achieve their treatment goals. 
Although tumour necrosis factor (TNF) 
alpha-blockers are currently the primary 
treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, use of 
other biologic approaches is expected  
to increase. Novel oral drugs targeting 
intra-cellular signalling pathways may 
provide anti-TNF-like levels of efficacy  
and potentially more convenient dosing, 
especially in patients who do not use 
injectable biologics.
In the pipeline 
We are strengthening our pipeline and 
improving treatment options and clinical 
outcomes for patients with inflammation  
and autoimmunity diseases. Completion  
of four Phase II trials (anifrolumab and 
300m
 
It is estimated that approximately 
300 million people worldwide  
suffer from asthma. 
Source: Massoli et al, 2004. 
29 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Cardiovascular  
and Metabolic diseases
We push the boundaries of science to create life-changing 
medicines for patients that reduce morbidity, mortality 
and organ damage by addressing multiple risk factors. 
Our strategic priorities
Our strategy and focus is on bringing 
life-changing medicines to patients to 
reduce morbidity, mortality and organ 
damage by addressing multiple risk  
factors across cardiovascular (CV) disease, 
including thrombosis (blood clotting), 
atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), 
dyslipidaemia (abnormal levels of blood 
lipids), and hypertension, diabetes and 
chronic kidney disease (CKD). 
Despite improvements in the diagnosis and 
treatment of CVMD, unmet medical need 
remains high. The prevalence of these 
diseases and associated complications 
continues to increase worldwide.
We invest heavily in clinical development 
and life-cycle management. Nearly 60,000 
patients participate in our R&D-led CV trials 
at more than 5,700 sites worldwide. We are 
also concentrating on diabetes research, 
which includes more than 50 clinical studies 
worldwide with an enrolment target of nearly 
40,000 patients.
We are expanding our core capabilities and 
research programmes into new modalities 
and regenerative medicine. Our aim is to 
provide new treatment paradigms for heart 
failure, diabetes and CKD. To help achieve 
scientific leadership, we are engaging in 
collaborations that focus on scientific 
innovation in CVMD. For example, in 2015, 
we entered into collaborations with the 
French National Institute of Health and 
Medical Research (Inserm) to investigate 
new therapeutic approaches to Type 2 
diabetes and CKD, with the University of 
Michigan to advance the treatment of CKD 
through the improved understanding of the 
disease and with Professor Doug Melton, 
Harvard Stem Cell Institute, applying 
revolutionary techniques transforming 
human stem cells into beta cells that  
secrete insulin. 
 For information on our CV collaborations, 
please see the Research and Development section 
from pages 42 to 45
Cardiovascular disease 
Acute coronary syndromes (ACS) is an 
umbrella term for sudden chest pain and 
other symptoms due to ischaemia 
(insufficient blood supply) to the heart. ACS 
is associated with considerable mortality 
and morbidity. There is a significant need  
to improve patient outcomes and reduce 
treatment costs. 
Therapy area world market
(MAT/Q3/15) 
$173.0bn
Annual worldwide market value
  High blood pressure 
$38.9bn
  Abnormal levels of  
blood cholesterol 
$26.8bn
  Diabetes $58.7bn
  Thrombosis $8.8bn
  Other $39.8bn 
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases (CVMD)
Phase I Phase II Phase III Applications 
under review
LCM projects
Small molecule Large molecule Large molecule Small molecule Small molecule
AZD4076 + MEDI8111 — MEDI6012 ➔ Brilinta/Brilique  —ZS-9 + Brilinta/Brilique  —
EUCLID
Farxiga/Forxiga* —
DECLARE-TIMI 58
MEDI0382 + Epanova
#  
(approved but not 
launched)
Brilinta/Brilique  F 
PEGASUS-TIMI 54 
Farxiga/Forxiga* —
Type 1 diabetes
MEDI4166 + Farxiga/Forxiga*  — Brilinta/Brilique  —
SOCRATES
Kombiglyze XR/ —
Komboglyze** 
roxadustat
#
  — Brilinta/Brilique — 
THEMIS
Onglyza  —
SAVOR-TIMI 53
Brilinta/Brilique + 
HESTIA
saxagliptin/ F
dapagliflozin FDC
Bydureon  —
EXSCEL
Xigduo XR/  —
Xigduo
Bydureon  
Dual Chamber Pen
Bydureon  —
weekly suspension
Epanova  —
STRENGTH
30 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Therapy Area Review
Key
+  Addition
— No change
➔ Progression
 Approved/launched
F New filing
# Partnered product
*  Farxiga in the US; Forxiga 
in the rest of the world
**  Kombiglyze XR in the US; 
Komboglyze in the EU Breaking through 
conventional 
thinking
Because we know that cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) is a well-known 
consequence of diabetes and chronic 
kidney disease (CKD), AstraZeneca 
takes an integrated patient approach  
and seeks to further reduce 
cardiovascular (CV) morbidity and 
mortality, and organ damage by 
addressing multiple CV risk factors.
Pancreatic beta cells at different  
stages of regeneration: AstraZeneca  
is investing in research that could 
stimulate the regeneration of beta  
cells in the pancreas with the aim  
of stopping the progression of, or 
reversing, the course of diabetes.
31 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Cardiovascular  
and Metabolic diseases continued
Our 2015 focus 
Brilinta/Brilique, one of our Growth Platforms, 
is an oral antiplatelet treatment for ACS. It is 
approved in over 100 countries, including 
the US, Canada and Brazil under the trade 
name Brilinta, and in the EU, Iceland and 
Norway under the trade name Brilique. It is 
currently under regulatory review in three 
additional countries. Since launch, more 
than one million patients have been treated 
with Brilinta/Brilique, and it has been 
included in 12 major ACS treatment 
guidelines globally. In August 2015, the 
European Society of Cardiology updated 
NSTE-ACS guidelines and continued to 
recommend ticagrelor over clopidogrel in 
ACS for all patients at moderate-to-high  
risk of ischaemic events, regardless of initial 
treatment strategy and including those 
pre-treated with clopidogrel. 
The PEGASUS-TIMI 54 study investigated 
the efficacy and safety of ticagrelor at both 
60mg and 90mg twice daily, plus low-dose 
aspirin, compared to placebo plus low-dose 
aspirin, for the long-term prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in patients who 
had suffered a heart attack one to three 
years prior to study enrolment. Both 90mg 
and 60mg study doses of ticagrelor with 
aspirin significantly reduced the primary 
composite endpoint of CV death, myocardial 
infarction (MI, also known as heart attack)  
or stroke compared to placebo and aspirin. 
The full results of the study were published 
in the New England Journal of Medicine  
in March 2015. 
In September 2015, the FDA approved a 
new 60mg dosage strength for Brilinta  
to be used in patients with a history of heart 
attack beyond the initial one-year treatment 
with Brilinta 90mg to reduce the rate of 
cardiovascular death, MI and stroke in 
patients with ACS. In December, CHMP  
of the EMA adopted a Positive Opinion 
recommending approval of Brilique 60mg 
for the treatment of patients with a history  
of heart attack and at high risk of having a 
further coronary event. The opinion states 
that treatment may be started as continuation 
therapy after an initial one-year treatment 
with dual anti-platelet therapy. In the US, we 
are in early stages of patent litigation against 
multiple generic companies after they sent 
so-called ‘Paragraph IV notices’ challenging 
patents listed in the FDA Orange Book with 
reference to Brilinta.
The SOCRATES trial evaluating the efficacy 
of Brilinta/Brilique compared to aspirin in 
reducing thrombotic events in patients with 
acute ischaemic stroke and high-risk 
transient ischaemic attack, saw its last 
patient randomised in November 2015. This 
trial is scheduled to report data in the first half 
of 2016. SOCRATES involves 13,200 patients 
in 33 countries and is part of the broader 
PARTHENON life-cycle programme for 
Brilinta/Brilique (discussed further overleaf). 
Crestor is approved in 109 countries  
for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and 
hypercholesterolaemia (elevated 
cholesterol). The medicine has been shown 
to effectively lower low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL -C) and achieve LDL -C 
goals and to increase high-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL -C) and reduce 
atherosclerotic plaque. Crestor faces 
competition from atorvastatin (Lipitor) and 
other generic products. The substance 
patent protecting Crestor in the US expired 
on 8 January 2016 and the existing 
paediatric exclusivity period expires  
on 8 July 2016. Subsequently, generic 
competition from various companies  
is expected in the US market. Actavis  
is permitted to begin selling generic 
rosuvastatin in the US in May 2016 as  
the result of a litigation settlement with 
AstraZeneca. Patents protecting Crestor 
have been challenged in various 
jurisdictions. Details of these matters  
are included in Note 27 to the Financial 
Statements, from page 186. 
Epanova (omega-3-carboxylic acids) is the 
first FDA approved prescription omega-3 
fatty acid in free fatty acid form. It has the 
potential to help patients with severe 
hypertriglyceridaemia by reducing high 
Values in action: We play to win 
Acquiring ZS Pharma gave us access to the 
potassium-binding compound ZS-9,  
a potential best-in-class treatment for 
hyperkalaemia (high potassium levels) 
which affects more than three million people 
in the US alone who suffer from chronic 
kidney disease and chronic heart disease. 
With submissions under way, we expect 
ZS-9 to accelerate our return to growth.
Our marketed products
Cardiovascular disease
 > Atacand
1
/Atacand HCT/Atacand Plus 
(candesartan cilexetil)
 > Brilinta/Brilique (ticagrelor)
 > Crestor
2 
(rosuvastatin calcium)
 > Plendil (felodipine)
 > Seloken/Toprol-XL (metoprolol succinate)
 > Tenormin
3
 (atenolol)
 > Zestril
4 
(lisinopril dihydrate)
Metabolic disease
 > Bydureon (exenatide XR injectable suspension)
 > Byetta (exenatide injection) 
 > Farxiga/Forxiga (dapagliflozin)
 > Kombiglyze XR (saxagliptin and metformin HCl) 
 > Komboglyze (saxagliptin and metformin HCl) 
 > Onglyza (saxagliptin) 
 > Symlin (pramlintide acetate)
 > Xigduo (dapagliflozin and metformin HCI)
 > Xigduo XR (dapagliflozin and metformin HCI)
 Full product information on page 203
1
 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd.
2
   Licensed from Shionogi. The extension of the global 
licence agreement with Shionogi for Crestor and the 
modification of the royalty structure became effective 
1 January 2014.
3
  Divested US rights to Tenormin to Alvogen Pharma  
US Inc. effective 9 January 2015.
4
  Licensed from Merck. Divested US rights to Zestril to 
Alvogen Pharma US Inc. effective 9 January 2015.
17.5m
An estimated 17.5 million people die 
annually from CV disease, representing 
31% of all global deaths. More than 
three-quarters of these deaths occur  
in low- to middle-income countries.*
415 million people worldwide have diabetes; 
WHO projects that diabetes will be the 
seventh leading cause of death in 2030.**
* Source: WHO Factsheet 2015 (data from 2012).  
** Source: IDF Atlas 2015 and WHO Factsheet 2015.
32 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Therapy Area Review triglycerides (TG) levels. Epanova is approved 
in the US as an adjunct to diet to reduce  
TG levels in adult patients with severe 
hypertriglyceridaemia (TG levels ≥500mg/dL).
Clinical studies
In addition to the PEGASUS and SOCRATES 
trial described above, Brilinta/Brilique is 
being studied in two other clinical trails 
under the PARTHENON programme.
PARTHENON is AstraZeneca’s largest ever 
CV outcomes programme involving nearly 
80,000 patients. It includes five key studies 
covering broad patient populations across 
varying timescales and aims to support four 
new indications for Brilinta/Brilique over the 
next four years.
AstraZeneca continues to explore the unmet 
medical need in cholesterol management, 
building on the well-established clinical trial 
programme for Crestor. Crestor has been 
studied in more than 120 ongoing or 
completed clinical trials and involving more 
than 67 ,000 patients worldwide over the 
past 13 years.
We are also committed to further evaluating 
the clinical profile of Epanova and identifying 
other patient groups it may benefit. 
AstraZeneca recently commenced a 
large-scale CV outcomes trial, (STRENGTH), 
STatin Residual risk reduction with EpaNova 
in hiGh cardiovascular risk paTients with 
Hypertriglyceridaemia, to evaluate the  
safety and efficacy of Epanova on CV 
outcomes in combination with statin therapy 
for the treatment of patients with mixed 
dyslipidaemia who are at increased risk  
of cardiovascular disease. 
Metabolic and renal diseases
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic progressive 
disease that accounts for more than 90%  
of diabetes cases worldwide. Disease 
prevalence continues to grow, particularly 
among those at a younger age, and many 
patients require multiple medications. 
Various oral generic and branded treatments 
exist and newer classes of treatments 
continue to enter the market.
Our 2015 focus
AstraZeneca is focused on redefining the 
Type 2 diabetes treatment approach and 
harnessing complementary mechanisms  
of action, as well as evaluating potential 
cardiovascular outcomes benefit. Our 
current portfolio is well-positioned to enable 
combination treatment, and data from our 
Phase III programmes is expected to further 
This announcement does not affect 
interactions with other health authorities as 
part of these application procedures for the 
FDC, including an ongoing review by the EU 
for the FDC.
The Phase III programme for a once-weekly 
suspension of Bydureon continues  
to progress. 
Through our strategic collaboration with 
FibroGen and Astellas, we continue to 
develop roxadustat, a potential first-in-class 
oral compound in Phase III development  
for the treatment of anaemia in patients  
with CKD, including those who are dialysis 
dependent and non-dialysis dependent. 
Roxadustat is in Phase III in the US, Europe 
and China, and is just completing Phase II  
in Japan. The Phase III programme consists  
of seven studies enrolling more than 7 ,000 
patients worldwide. To date, roxadustat has 
been studied in over 1, 100 subjects in 
completed Phase I and II studies. 
In December 2015, we acquired ZS Pharma 
to strengthen our CVMD portfolio. This 
provided us access to ZS-9, a potential 
best-in-class treatment for hyperkalaemia 
which complements our increasing focus on 
CKD. ZS-9 has been submitted for approval 
in the US, EU and Australia. In November 
2015, data presented at the American 
Society of Nephrology meeting showed 
positive interim results from ZS005,  
a long-term safety study of ZS-9. 
Clinical studies
The Dapagliflozin Effect on CardiovascuLAR 
Events (DECLARE) study, a large CV 
outcomes trial to assess the impact of 
Farxiga/Forxiga on CV risk/benefit, when 
added to a patient’s current anti-diabetes 
therapy, continued in 2015. 
The trial will enrol approximately 17 ,000 adult 
patients with Type 2 diabetes. DECLARE 
was fully enrolled in 2015 and is expected  
to be completed in 2019.
The Exenatide Study of Cardiovascular 
Event Lowering (EXSCEL) study also 
continued during 2015. This study, which 
began in 2010 and is expected to end in 
2017 is evaluating the impact of Bydureon, 
in addition to usual care on CV outcomes  
in patients with Type 2 diabetes.
 For more information please see Financial 
Review from page 62
support the outcomes benefits of the  
new class. 
We have a broad anti-diabetes portfolio  
with products in the three fastest growing 
classes of diabetes treatments (SGLT2, 
GLP-1 and DPP-4).
In 2015, we saw ongoing approvals and 
launches for Farxiga/Forxiga for the 
treatment of Type 2 diabetes. Starting with 
the EU in 2012, it is now approved in over  
50 countries. It is under regulatory review  
in 20 additional countries. 
Xigduo is approved in 33 countries, 
including the US with Xigduo XR (ongoing 
approvals in 2016 expected). In 2015, we 
continued to see the approval and launch of 
the Bydureon Pen, which is now launched  
in 17 countries globally, including the US, 
Japan and key European countries. The 
Bydureon Pen is a pre-filled, single-use pen 
injector. In the US, we are engaged in patent 
litigation against multiple generic companies 
after they sent so-called ‘Paragraph IV 
notices’ challenging patents listed in the FDA 
Orange Book with reference to Onglyza. A 
trial is scheduled to take place during 2016. 
In April 2015, an FDA Endocrinologic and 
Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee voted 
13 to one that the results of the Saxagliptin 
Assessment of Vascular Outcomes 
Recorded in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus 
(SAVOR) study demonstrated that the use of 
saxagliptin in patients with Type 2 diabetes 
has an acceptable cardiovascular risk 
profile. AstraZeneca will conduct further 
investigation to better understand the signal 
of hospitalisation for heart failure found in 
the SAVOR results. 
In the pipeline
We are developing an FDC of saxagliptin 
and dapagliflozin, which combines two 
complementary mechanisms designed to 
help more patients with Type 2 diabetes 
reach their treatment goals. In October 2015, 
AstraZeneca received a Complete Response 
Letter (CRL) from the FDA regarding the 
NDA for the investigational FDC of saxagliptin 
and dapagliflozin for the treatment of adult 
patients with Type 2 diabetes. The CRL 
states that more clinical data are required  
to support the application. We are working 
closely with the FDA to determine the 
appropriate next steps for the NDA and 
remain committed to the development of 
saxagliptin and dapagliflozin. We will file 
additional clinical data from a study which  
is now completed and continue our 
conversations with the FDA. 
33 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Oncology
Our combination-focused pipeline exploits the power  
of four scientific platforms, and we are driven by an 
ambition to help eliminate cancer as a cause of death 
through scientific discovery and collaborations.
Oncology
Phase I Phase II Phase III LCM projects
Small molecule Large molecule Combination  
molecules
Small molecule Large molecule Combination  
molecules
Small molecule Large molecule Combination  
molecules
Small molecule Combination 
molecules
AZD0156 + MEDI0562
#
 + Tagrisso  — 
(AZD9291)
combination  
TATTON
AZD1775
#
 — MEDI-551
#
  — AZD5069  +
+ durvalumab
# 
AZD9150
#
+ durvalumab
#
cediranib  F
ICON6 
durvalumab
#
 +
HAWK
 
durvalumab
#
 +
+ tremelimumab
ALPS
Faslodex —
FALCON
Tagrisso  + 
(AZD9291)
+ durvalumab
#
 
CAURAL 
AZD2811 + MEDI0639
#
  — durvalumab
#
  —
+ dabrafenib
+ trametinib
AZD2014 — MEDI-573
#
  — durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
(gastric cancer)
selumetinib
#
  —
ASTRA
durvalumab
#
 —
PACIFIC
durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
ARCTIC
Lynparza —
GOLD
AZD5312
#
  — MEDI0680  — durvalumab
#
  —
+ Iressa
Tagrisso  ➔ 
(AZD9291)
BLOOM
AZD3759
BLOOM
durvalumab
#
 — selumetinib
#
  —
SELECT-1
moxetumomab
#
 — durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
CONDOR
Lynparza —
OlympiA
AZD6738  — MEDI1873  + durvalumab
#
  —
+ MEDI0680
AZD4547  — Tagrisso  F  
(AZD9291)
AURA, AURA 2
tremelimumab —
DETERMINE
durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
DANUBE
Lynparza —
OlympiAD
AZD8186  — MEDI3617
#
  — durvalumab
#
  +
+ MEDI6383
#
AZD5363
#
  — acalabrutinib  + durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
EAGLE
Lynparza +
POLO
AZD8835  —MEDI4276 + durvalumab
#
  —
+ tremelimumab
(solid tumours)
savolitinib
#
  — Tagrisso  — 
(AZD9291)
AURA 3
durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
KESTREL
Lynparza —
SOLO-1
AZD9150
#
  — MEDI-565
#
  — MEDI-551
#
 —
+ rituximab
selumetinib
#
  — durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
MYSTIC
Lynparza —
SOLO-2
AZD9496 — MEDI6383
#
  — durvalumab
#
 +
+ tremelimumab
NEPTUNE
Lynparza +
SOLO-3
MEDI9197 + MEDI9447  + Lynparza —
prostate (Phase II)
durvalumab
#
 — Tagrisso  ➔ 
(AZD9291)
FLAURA
Tagrisso  + 
(AZD9291)
ADAURA
Our strategic priorities
For more than 40 years we have developed 
cancer drugs. Many of these have increased 
survival rates for patients around the world. 
Significant unmet medical need remains for 
therapies that increase survival, cure rates 
and time to recurrence. Our vision is to help 
meet this need by redefining the cancer 
treatment paradigm. We are doing this 
through scientific innovation, accelerated 
clinical programmes and collaboration. 
Several submissions are under way and we 
aim to deliver at least four new cancer 
therapies and 12 new line extensions by 
2020. In 2015, we decided to consider all 
new Oncology launches, including Lynparza, 
Iressa (US) and Tagrisso, as our sixth 
Growth Platform, under the designation  
of New Oncology.
Our broad pipeline of next-generation 
medicines is focused on four main disease 
areas – breast, ovarian, lung and 
haematological cancers, using four key 
approaches: immunotherapy, tumour drivers 
and resistance mechanisms, DNA damage 
repair, and antibody-drug conjugates. 
Therapy area world market
(MAT/Q3/15) 
$72.2bn
Annual worldwide market value
  Chemotherapy  
$19.2bn
  Hormonal therapies  
$10.0bn
  M on o c l on a l 
antibodies (MAbs) 
$22.4bn
  Small molecule 
tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors (TKIs)  
$18.6bn
  Immunotherapies 
$2.0bn
Strategic Report    Therapy Area Review
Key
+  Addition
— No change
➔ Progression
 Approved/launched
F New filing
# Partnered product
34 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 35
Redefining  
the treatment 
paradigm
Even as research and development continues to 
break boundaries in how we understand and fight 
cancer, there are still more than eight million lives 
lost every year to the disease. At AstraZeneca,  
we are committed to advancing the science of 
oncology to deliver life-changing medicines to 
people most in need.
Antibody that blocks 
inhibitory signals from 
the tumour to cells  
of the immune system 
resulting in enhanced 
anti-tumour immunity.
Oncology
Phase I Phase II Phase III LCM projects
Small molecule Large molecule Combination  
molecules
Small molecule Large molecule Combination  
molecules
Small molecule Large molecule Combination  
molecules
Small molecule Combination 
molecules
AZD0156 + MEDI0562
#
 + Tagrisso  — 
(AZD9291)
combination  
TATTON
AZD1775
#
 — MEDI-551
#
  — AZD5069  +
+ durvalumab
# 
AZD9150
#
+ durvalumab
#
cediranib  F
ICON6 
durvalumab
#
 +
HAWK
 
durvalumab
#
 +
+ tremelimumab
ALPS
Faslodex —
FALCON
Tagrisso  + 
(AZD9291)
+ durvalumab
#
 
CAURAL 
AZD2811 + MEDI0639
#
  — durvalumab
#
  —
+ dabrafenib
+ trametinib
AZD2014 — MEDI-573
#
  — durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
(gastric cancer)
selumetinib
#
  —
ASTRA
durvalumab
#
 —
PACIFIC
durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
ARCTIC
Lynparza —
GOLD
AZD5312
#
  — MEDI0680  — durvalumab
#
  —
+ Iressa
Tagrisso  ➔ 
(AZD9291)
BLOOM
AZD3759
BLOOM
durvalumab
#
 — selumetinib
#
  —
SELECT-1
moxetumomab
#
 — durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
CONDOR
Lynparza —
OlympiA
AZD6738  — MEDI1873  + durvalumab
#
  —
+ MEDI0680
AZD4547  — Tagrisso  F  
(AZD9291)
AURA, AURA 2
tremelimumab —
DETERMINE
durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
DANUBE
Lynparza —
OlympiAD
AZD8186  — MEDI3617
#
  — durvalumab
#
  +
+ MEDI6383
#
AZD5363
#
  — acalabrutinib  + durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
EAGLE
Lynparza +
POLO
AZD8835  —MEDI4276 + durvalumab
#
  —
+ tremelimumab
(solid tumours)
savolitinib
#
  — Tagrisso  — 
(AZD9291)
AURA 3
durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
KESTREL
Lynparza —
SOLO-1
AZD9150
#
  — MEDI-565
#
  — MEDI-551
#
 —
+ rituximab
selumetinib
#
  — durvalumab
#
  +
+ tremelimumab
MYSTIC
Lynparza —
SOLO-2
AZD9496 — MEDI6383
#
  — durvalumab
#
 +
+ tremelimumab
NEPTUNE
Lynparza +
SOLO-3
MEDI9197 + MEDI9447  + Lynparza —
prostate (Phase II)
durvalumab
#
 — Tagrisso  ➔ 
(AZD9291)
FLAURA
Tagrisso  + 
(AZD9291)
ADAURA Oncology continued
 > Immunotherapy: Our ambition is to be  
a scientific leader in immunotherapy, a 
promising therapeutic approach that 
harnesses the patient’s own immune 
system to help fight cancer. We are 
working to understand how cancer 
evades the immune system and to identify 
approaches that enhance the immune 
system’s ability to fight cancer.
 > Tumour drivers and resistance 
mechanisms: Potent inhibition of genetic 
disease drivers is a clinically validated 
approach to shrink tumours and improve 
progression-free survival. Tumours, 
however, eventually develop resistance  
to these therapies. Our programmes seek 
to develop therapies that target resistance 
mechanisms and the mutations that 
cause cancer cells to proliferate. 
 > DNA damage repair: Exploiting 
mechanisms that selectively damage 
tumour cell DNA is another clinically 
validated approach to shrink tumours  
and improve progression-free survival. 
Our programmes focus on identifying  
and exploiting vulnerabilities unique to 
tumour cells to kill the tumour cells while 
minimising toxicity to the patient.
 > Antibody-drug conjugates: The use  
of antibody-drug conjugates is a clinically 
validated, highly potent approach that 
selectively targets cancer cells. We  
seek to combine innovative antibody 
engineering capabilities with cytotoxic 
drug molecules to attack and kill the 
tumour while minimising toxicity to  
the patient. 
We are also focused on identifying and 
developing combination therapies. Our 
immuno-oncology portfolio, which we 
believe is one of the most comprehensive  
in our industry, enables us to explore and 
exploit scientific and biological synergies  
to pursue combinations that improve 
outcomes and maximise patient benefit. 
Our 2015 focus
Our marketed oncology products generated 
sales of more than $2.8 billion worldwide  
in 2015. We continue to explore ways to 
maximise the benefit of our medicines  
for patients.
Iressa was the first EGFR-TKI to be 
approved in advanced NSCLC. Now 
approved in 90 countries, it is the leading 
EGFR-TKI for patients with advanced 
EGFRm NSCLC in Europe and Asia.  
It received US approval in July 2015.  
Iressa is also the first EGFR-TKI to include 
blood-based diagnostic testing where  
a suitable tumour sample is not available  
in its European label. 
Faslodex 500mg is approved in more than 
80 countries, including the EU, the US  
and Japan. We are currently exploring the 
efficacy and safety of Faslodex 500mg 
compared with Arimidex in the 1st line 
advanced breast cancer setting (hormone-
naïve patients) in the Phase III FALCON  
trial. We are engaged in patent litigation, 
including in the US and Europe, in relation  
to generic challenges to Faslodex. Details  
of litigation relating to Faslodex are included 
in Note 27 to the Financial Statements  
from page 186. 
Zoladex continues to be a significant asset 
to our in line portfolio and a driver of our 
prostate cancer and breast cancer portfolios.
Lynparza is an oral PARP inhibitor approved 
in 36 countries for the treatment of adult 
patients with platinum-sensitive relapsed 
BRCA-mutated (germline and/or somatic) 
high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, 
fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer.
Tagrisso is the first approved EGFR-TKI 
indicated for patients with metastatic EGFR 
T790M mutation-positive NSCLC. This 
indication was approved in November 2015 
under the FDA’s Accelerated Approval 
Programme based on tumour response rate 
and duration of response. Conversion to full 
approval for this indication is contingent 
upon verification and description of clinical 
benefit in confirmatory trials.
In December 2015, Tagrisso received a 
Positive Opinion by CHMP for the treatment 
of adult patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic EGFR T790M mutation-positive 
NSCLC. In Japan, Tagrisso was granted 
Priority Review by the PMDA. Interactions 
with regulatory authorities in the rest of the  
world are ongoing.
Values in action: We follow the science
The DNA inside our cells, our genetic 
blueprint, is continually being damaged by 
environmental factors, ultraviolet light and 
even natural growth and division. Cells 
contain multiple repair mechanisms to fix 
damage to DNA strands because, if this 
isn’t repaired, the cells die. Cancer cells 
very commonly have one repair mechanism 
missing or not functioning, which creates 
an ‘Achilles Heel’ – making them sensitive 
to being killed if another repair mechanism 
is targeted by a medicine. Our scientists 
are exploiting this ‘Achilles Heel’ of 
sensitivity to develop new medicines which 
specifically block DNA repair and cause 
cancer cells to die, while sparing the 
normal cells which have multiple repair 
mechanisms intact. One such treatment is 
Lynparza which blocks PARP – a protein 
involved in DNA repair in cancer cells that 
already have loss of the BRCA protein 
which is a critical part of the ‘homologous 
repair’ pathway. 
Our marketed products
 > Arimidex (anastrozole)
 > Casodex/Cosudex (bicalutamide)
 > Faslodex (fulvestrant)
 > Iressa (gefitinib)
 > Lynparza (olaparib)
 > Nolvadex (tamoxifen citrate)
 > Tagrisso (osimertinib)
 > Zoladex (goserelin acetate implant)
 Full product information on page 204
36 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Therapy Area Review  > Other immuno-oncology agents in early 
development include: MEDI6383, a 
human tumour necrosis factor receptor 
superfamily, member 4 (OX40) agonist; 
MEDI9447 targeting ecto-5’-nucleotidase 
(CD73) and MEDI1873 targeting 
glucocorticoid-induced tumour necrosis 
factor receptor-ligand (GITRL). These 
agents are in Phase I development for  
a range of solid tumours and have the 
potential for combination with other 
molecules in the portfolio.
 > Some of our 2015 strategic collaborations 
include: 
 – A collaboration with Immunocore,  
a UK-based biotechnology company,  
to combine durvalumab (PD-L1) with 
IMCgp100, Immunocore’s lead T-cell 
receptor-based investigational 
therapeutic, for the treatment of 
patients with metastatic myeloma.
 – A collaboration between MedImmune 
and Innate Pharma, a biopharmaceutical 
company focused on cancer and 
inflammation. The aim is to accelerate 
and broaden the development of 
Innate’s proprietary anti-NKG2A 
antibody (IPH2201), including in 
combination with durvalumab (PD-L1) 
across a broad range of solid tumours.
 – A collaboration between MedImmune 
and Mirati Therapeutics, an oncology 
company focused on genetic and 
epigenetic drivers of cancer. We are 
evaluating the safety and efficacy of 
durvalumab (PD-L1) in combination  
with mocetinostat, Mirati Therapeutics’ 
investigational spectrum-selective 
histone deacetylase inhibitor.
 – An agreement with Heptares under 
which AstraZeneca will acquire 
exclusive global rights to develop, 
manufacture and commercialise the 
adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, 
HTL-1071.
Tumour drivers and resistance 
mechanisms franchise
 > Tagrisso (AZD9291) is a highly selective, 
irreversible inhibitor of the activating 
sensitising EGFR mutation and the 
resistance mutation T790M. The product 
is being investigated in Phase III studies in 
the adjuvant setting for the treatment of 
patients with EGFRm NSCLC and in the 
advanced setting as a 1st line treatment 
of EGFRm NSCLC and as a ≥2nd line 
treatment of EGFRm T790M NSCLC. 
Additionally, studies in combination with 
small molecules and immunotherapies 
are under investigation.
 > Selumetinib is a mitogen-activated protein 
kinase inhibitor in Phase III development 
for 2nd line Kirsten rat sarcoma viral 
oncogene homolog (KRAS) mutant 
NSCLC. The selumetinib programme also 
includes a Phase III study for adjuvant 
differentiated thyroid cancer and a Phase 
II study for 2nd line KRAS mutation not 
detected NSCLC.
 > AZD5363 is a protein kinase B (AKT) 
inhibitor in Phase II development for 
breast and prostate cancer.
 > Savolitinib (AZD6094) is a hepatocyte 
growth factor receptor (c-MET) inhibitor.  
It is in Phase II development for lung and 
renal cancer.
 > AZD2014 is an inhibitor of the mammalian 
target of rapamycin serine/threonine 
kinase (TORC1, TORC2) and is in Phase II 
development for the treatment of solid 
and haematological tumours.
 > AZD9496 is a selective oestrogen 
receptor down-regulator (SERD) in  
Phase I development for the treatment  
of breast cancer.
In the pipeline 
Our Oncology pipeline continued to 
progress in 2015. It now includes five NMEs 
in late-stage development and another 26 
NMEs in Phases I and II. We also expanded 
several of our projects to incorporate novel 
combinations and various types of cancer. 
Some of our projects from each of our 
platforms include:
Immuno-oncology franchise
 > Durvalumab (MEDI4736) is an anti-PD-L1 
antibody in Phase III development for 
NSCLC as a monotherapy and in 
combination with tremelimumab and 
Tagrisso. The lung cancer programme 
includes studies in the 1st line, 2nd line 
and 3rd line setting. Additional registration 
studies are progressing in squamous cell 
carcinoma of the head and neck (1st and 
2nd line), and bladder cancer (1st line). 
The development programme also 
includes additional Phase I and Phase II 
studies in a broad range of solid tumours 
and an extensive range of combination 
programmes. 
 > Tremelimumab, an anti-Cytotoxic 
T-Lymphocyte-Associated protein 4 
antibody, is being investigated as a 
monotherapy in a pivotal study for the 
treatment of malignant mesothelioma.
 > MEDI0680 is an antiprogrammed cell 
death protein 1 (PD-1) MAb that may help 
promote an effective anti-tumour immune 
response by blocking the interactions 
between PD-1 and its ligands. It could 
also improve the intrinsic functionality  
of T-cells by triggering internalisation of  
PD-1, a mechanism that may be unique  
to MEDI0680. MEDI0680 is in Phase I 
development for solid tumours as a 
monotherapy and in combination  
with durvalumab.
8.2m
Cancer is a leading cause of death 
worldwide and accounted for 8.2 million 
deaths in 2012. 
Source: WHO Factsheet February 2014 (data from 2012).
14m
Annual cancer cases are expected to rise 
from 14 million in 2012 to an estimated 
22 million within the next two decades. 
Source: WHO Factsheet February 2014 (data from 2012). 
37 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report DNA damage repair franchise
 > Lynparza (olaparib) is being evaluated in  
a broad range of Phase III trials, including 
advanced gastric cancer, BRCAm 
adjuvant and metastatic breast cancer, 
gBRCAm pancreatic cancer, and 
gBRCAm ovarian cancer. Lynparza  
is also in Phase II development for 
prostate cancer. 
 > AZD1775 is a Wee1 inhibitor in Phase II 
development for ovarian and other  
solid tumours.
 > Phase I clinical studies are progressing  
for the ATR inhibitor AZD6738 (2nd line 
gastric cancer with Lynparza and also  
in combination with ionizing radiation  
in solid tumours) and the ATM inhibitor 
AZD0156 (for the treatment of gastric  
and colorectal cancers). 
Antibody-drug conjugates franchise
 > Moxetumomab pasudotox, an anti-CD22 
recombinant immunotoxin, is being 
investigated in a Phase III study for adult 
patients with hairy cell leukaemia who 
have relapsed after, or not responded to, 
standard therapy.
 > MEDI4276 is a HER2 bispecific ADC, 
which entered clinical development for  
a range of solid tumours.
 > A strategic collaboration with Tanabe 
Research Laboratories (TRL), a subsidiary 
of Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, 
is looking at ways to combine 
MedImmune’s pyrrolobenzodiazepine 
based cytotoxic molecules and linker 
technology with TRL ’s antibodies. The aim 
is to generate monospecific and bispecific 
conjugates (ADCs) for a broad range of 
cancer types.
Our Oncology collaborations 
Collaboration is key to accessing the best 
science and technology, achieving scientific 
leadership and delivering innovative, 
life-changing medicines. In 2015, we 
continued to strengthen our portfolio and 
accelerate clinical programmes through 
acquisitions and collaborations. 
In December 2015, we announced entry 
into an agreement to invest in a majority 
equity stake in Acerta Pharma. The 
transaction provides AstraZeneca with  
a potential best-in-class irreversible oral 
Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor, 
acalabrutinib (ACP-196), currently in  
Phase III development for B-cell blood 
cancers and in Phase I/II clinical trials  
in multiple solid tumours.
 For more information please see Note 30  
to the Financial Statements on page 193 
Earlier in 2015, we established several 
collaborations that reflect the attractiveness 
of our immuno-oncology portfolio, as 
demonstrated by:
 > Our externalisation agreement with 
Celgene, a global leader in haematological 
cancers, for the development and 
commercialisation of durvalumab, 
anti-programmed death-ligand 1 antibody 
(PD-L1) across a range of blood cancers, 
including non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), 
myelodysplastic syndromes and multiple 
myeloma.
 > The expansion of our existing immuno-
oncology collaboration with Lilly to further 
explore novel combinations across the 
companies’ complementary portfolios. 
This collaboration will include evaluations 
of the safety and efficacy of durvalumab 
(PD-L1), with select Lilly agents targeting 
the immune system or tumour drivers and 
resistance mechanisms.
 > Our collaboration with Juno Therapeutics, 
a biopharmaceutical company. This 
focuses on re-engaging the body’s 
immune system to treat cancer and to 
evaluate safety, assess tolerability, and 
preliminary efficacy of durvalumab 
combinations with CD19-directed 
chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell 
candidates for patients with NHL.
In addition to the collaborations mentioned 
above, during 2015 we have also entered 
into a range of collaborations in early 
science with several scientific and research 
institutions and biotechnology and 
diagnostic companies. These additional 
collaborations include:
 > Two Co-operative Research and 
Development Agreements between 
MedImmune and the National Cancer 
Institute (NCI), a part of the National 
Institutes of Health (NIH), to advance 
early-stage research and development  
in immunotherapy and tumour-targeted 
therapies for cancer.
 > A five-year collaboration between 
MedImmune and the University of 
Cambridge’s Department of Chemical 
Engineering and Biotechnology (CEB) 
designed to generate breakthrough 
research in biopharmaceutical 
development, including activities in  
cell engineering and formulation and 
analytical science.
 > A five-year agreement with the University 
of Manchester to harness clinical 
bioinformatics to deliver personalised 
healthcare for cancer patients. The 
research will be carried out in partnership 
with the state-of-the-art clinical trials unit 
of The Christie National Health Service 
(NHS) Foundation Trust, which is at the 
forefront of experimental cancer medicine 
in the UK.
 > A licence agreement and collaboration 
between MedImmune and Inovio 
Pharmaceuticals, a biotechnology 
company developing DNA-based 
immunotherapies for cancer and 
infectious diseases, to acquire  
exclusive rights to Inovio’s INO-31 12 
immunotherapy. This agent targets 
cancers caused by the human 
papillomavirus (HPV) types 16 and 18  
and is in Phase I/II development for 
cervical, and head and neck cancers. 
MedImmune intends to study INO-31 12  
in combination with selected 
immunotherapy molecules within  
its pipeline in HPV-driven cancers.
60%
 
More than 60% of the world’s total new 
annual cancer cases occur in Africa, Asia 
and Central and South America. These 
regions account for 70% of the world’s 
cancer deaths.
Source: WHO Factsheet February 2014 (data from 2012). 
38 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Oncology continued
Strategic Report    Therapy Area Review Infection, Neuroscience  
and Gastrointestinal
Our opportunity-driven strategy seeks to maximise the 
value of our pipeline and portfolio through focused R&D, 
licensing and collaboration. In 2015, we made progress  
in developing several assets and launched Movantik/
Moventig in the US, Canada and in key markets across 
the EU. In partnership with Lilly, we also made advances 
in clinical trials for our BACE inhibitor, AZD3293, a 
potential treatment for Alzheimer’s disease. 
Infection
We have a long history in the fields of 
Infection, Neuroscience, and 
Gastrointestinal (ING) diseases, which 
represent a significant area of unmet 
medical need for patients around the world. 
We group these fields into one therapy area. 
This helps to support existing medicines, 
develop and commercialise new therapies, 
prioritise resources, enable effective and 
efficient investment and maximise value for 
patients and shareholders. In February 
2015, we created a new company, Entasis 
Therapeutics, to develop programmes in 
our small molecule early-stage anti-infective 
portfolio. In July 2015, we also announced 
the creation of a new antibiotics organisation 
in order to develop and commercialise 
effective antibiotics to combat the growth  
of resistant infections.
Our strategic priorities
Our focus in Infection is on respiratory 
viruses and serious bacterial infections.  
Our differentiated and leading on-market 
portfolio and pipeline were active in 2015. 
Influenza virus
Seasonal influenza is a serious public health 
problem that causes severe illness and 
death in high-risk populations. Clinical data 
from Fluenz Tetra/FluMist Quadrivalent has 
demonstrated superiority to traditional 
inactivated influenza vaccines in children.  
In addition to being used in the UK’s  
largest vaccination programme to date, 
Fluenz Tetra was included in Finland’s 
National Immunization Program for the 
2015/2016 influenza season. The regulatory 
filing in Australia in July 2015 followed on 
from the submission of an EU pandemic live 
attenuated influenza vaccine MAA for a 
global influenza pandemic virus in March 
2015. In September 2015, AstraZeneca 
entered into an agreement with Daiichi 
Sankyo for the development and 
commercialisation of FluMist Quadrivalent  
in Japan. We continue to engage in 
discussions with other governments to help 
protect children against influenza, the most 
common vaccine-preventable disease in the 
developed world.
Respiratory syncytial virus
Since its approval in 1998, Synagis has 
helped protect more than 2.8 million babies 
globally against respiratory syncytial virus 
(RSV). RSV affects approximately half of all 
infants in their first year of life. It is the leading 
cause of hospitalisations and admissions to 
paediatric intensive care units. Synagis is 
approved in more than 80 countries and is 
the global standard of care for RSV 
prevention. We continue to work with our 
worldwide partner, AbbVie, to protect 
vulnerable infants. In July 2014, the 
American Academy of Pediatrics Committee 
on Infectious Diseases (COID) issued 
guidance to further restrict premature infants 
from eligibility for preventive therapy with 
Synagis. A majority of the payers in the US 
implemented these guidelines this year. As a 
result, demand in the US was adversely 
impacted with the majority of the impact 
seen in the 2014 to 2015 season, when 
volume declined approximately 40% versus 
the prior season. The 2015 to 2016 season 
started in November in most parts of the US 
and season to-date volume has been in line 
with expectations. We have not seen a 
direct replication of these guidelines in other 
countries at a national level.
Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal
Phase I Phase II LCM projects Applications under 
review
Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule
ATM AVI
#
 — MEDI3902 — CXL
#
 — MEDI4893  — linaclotide
#
  F CAZ AVI
#
 F 
(serious infection)
AZD8108  — MEDI1814  — AZD3241 ➔ MEDI7510 ➔ Nexium —
(paediatrics) 
CAZ AVI
#
 F
(HAP/VAP)
AZD3293
#
  — MEDI8897 ➔ Nexium  —
(stress ulcer prophylaxis)
MEDI-550* F
MEDI8852 ➔ Diprivan — Zinforo —
39 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Key
— No change
➔ Progression
F New filing
# Partnered product
*  R e gula t or y a c c e p t a n c e  
is anticipated in H1 2016 In 2015, we strengthened our leadership 
position in RSV, securing FDA Fast Track 
designation for MEDI8897 , a MAb that may 
require dosing only once per RSV season. 
We also launched Phase IIa clinical trials. 
Additionally, we launched Phase II clinical 
trials to assess the efficacy of MEDI7510, 
MedImmune’s RSV sF antigen plus the 
synthetic molecule GLA, for the prevention 
of acute RSV-associated respiratory illness 
in older adults.
Serious bacterial infections
Governments increasingly recognise 
antibiotic or anti-microbial resistance as  
a major public health threat. We have a 
broad and innovative portfolio of medicines 
for serious Gram-positive and Gram-
negative bacterial infections. We are now 
developing additional medicines to fight 
these infections. As bacteria develop 
resistance to current antibiotics, deadly 
infections could, again, become 
uncontrollable. In May 2015, AstraZeneca 
submitted a filing to the EMA for CAZ AVI, 
an innovative combination of ceftazidime 
and avibactam. We are seeking full 
approvals for complicated intra-abdominal 
infections (cIAI), complicated urinary  
tract infections (cUTI), and nosocomial 
pneumonia (NP) (including hospital-acquired 
pneumonia and ventilator-associated 
pneumonia). In April 2015, we announced 
full Phase III results from CAZ AVI  
pivotal studies RECLAIM-1, -2, and -3  
and REPRISE, with positive Phase III  
cUTI results for RECAPTURE-1 and -2 
announced in September. During the year, 
we launched antibiotic Zinforo in Mexico;  
the product is now available in 34 markets. 
In addition to CAZ AVI in our late-stage 
pipeline, we are developing aztreonam 
avibactam (ATM AVI), a Phase I compound 
being developed jointly with Forest (now  
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan).  
It targets Gram-negative bacteria with  
a metallo-beta-lactamase resistance 
mechanism. This bacteria is endemic in 
India and spreading throughout the world.  
In September 2015, AstraZeneca entered 
into a public-private partnership agreement 
with the US Department of Health and 
Human Services’ Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Preparedness and Response 
(ASPR) to develop a portfolio of medicines, 
of which ATM AVI is the first candidate 
medicine in the portfolio, to combat 
bioterrorism threats and other life-
threatening bacterial infections. ASPR’s 
Biomedical Advanced Research and 
Development Authority (BARDA) and 
AstraZeneca will manage and fund the 
portfolio over the next five years. In the 
arrangement, BARDA initially will provide 
$50 million towards ATM AVI development 
and could provide up to a total of $170 
million for development of additional 
products in the portfolio during the  
five-year period.
Neuroscience
Our strategic priorities
We have a long history in anaesthesia  
and analgesia, and a sizeable business  
in psychiatry rooted in Seroquel IR and 
Seroquel XR. The patent protecting the 
active ingredient in Seroquel IR and 
Seroquel XR, quetiapine, expired worldwide 
in 2012. However, in most European 
countries, the formulation patent covering 
Seroquel XR does not expire until 2017 . As 
such, Seroquel XR remains a key product. 
We are vigorously defending the patent 
protecting Seroquel XR. The patent, 
however, has been subject to various 
challenges and revocations. Details of 
litigation relating to Seroquel XR are  
included in Note 27 to the Financial 
Statements from page 186. 
Our marketed products
Infection
 > Fluenz/FluMist
1
 (influenza vaccine live)
 > Fluenz Tetra/FluMist Quadrivalent
1,2
  
(influenza vaccine live)
 > Merrem/Meronem
3
 (meropenem)
 > Synagis
4 
(palivizumab)
 > Zinforo
5
 (ceftaroline fosamil)
 Full product information on page 204
1
 Intra-nasal.
2
  Daiichi Sankyo holds rights to Fluenz Tetra/FluMist 
Quadrivalent in Japan. 
3
  Licensed from Dainippon Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals 
Co., Limited.
4
  US rights only. AbbVie holds rights to Synagis outside  
the US. 
5
  Licensed from Forest (now a wholly-owned subsidiary  
of Allergan). AstraZeneca holds global rights, excluding 
the US, Canada and Japan.
Neuroscience
 > Diprivan (propofol)
 > EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine)
 > Movantik/Moventig (naloxegol)
 > Naropin (ropivacaine)
 > Seroquel IR (quetiapine fumarate)
 > Seroquel XR (quetiapine fumarate)
 > Vimovo
1 
(naproxen and esomeprazole 
magnesium)
 > Xylocaine (lidocaine)
 > Zomig (zolmitriptan)
 Full product information on page 204
1
  Licensed from Pozen. Divested US rights to Horizon 
Pharma USA, Inc. effective 22 November 2013.
Gastrointestinal
 > Losec/Prilosec (omeprazole)
 > Nexium (esomeprazole magnesium)
 Full product information on page 204
Values in action: We are entrepreneurial  
The antibiotics organisation has been 
created with a clear vision – to be a  
global leader in the development and 
commercialisation of life-saving 
antibiotics by 2020. With the formation of 
this separate and dedicated unit, we will 
focus on the fast growing global health 
threat of multidrug resistant bacterial 
infections and continue to bring scientific 
innovation from our antibiotics portfolio 
to doctors and patients around the world.
40 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Infection, Neuroscience  
and Gastrointestinal continued
Strategic Report    Therapy Area Review Neurology 
Alzheimer’s disease remains one of the 
largest areas of unmet medical need and 
continues to generate significant social and 
scientific interest. To address this, in addition 
to our BACE inhibitor, AZD3293, which is 
currently advancing in our externalisation 
collaboration with Lilly in Phase II/III clinical 
trials as a potential treatment for Alzheimer’s 
disease, we continued to develop MEDI1814 
in Phase I clinical trials. We also entered into 
multiple collaborations with academic and 
scientific institutions to advance disease 
understanding and identify potential new 
medicines. For example, we started a 
collaboration with the University of 
Cambridge (focusing on advancing research 
in neurodegenerative diseases), and 
continued to work with the Karolinska 
Institutet (Sweden), the Banner Alzheimer’s 
Institute (US), the National Institute of 
Radiological Sciences (Japan) and 
Vanderbilt University (US), focusing on 
psychosis and other neuropsychiatric 
symptoms associated with major brain 
diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease  
and schizophrenia. We also renewed or 
continued our collaborations with the  
Lieber Institute for Brain Development  
(US) and Tufts University (US), focusing  
on understanding brain diseases and 
disorders, including Alzheimer’s disease  
and autism spectrum disorders. In another 
collaboration, we joined the Medical 
Research Council Dementias Platform  
UK, a large public-private partnership, to 
accelerate and share dementia research.  
In addition, we are developing AZD3241,  
a myeloperoxidase inhibitor, to potentially 
delay progression of disability in patients 
with multiple system atrophy. The National 
Institute on Drug Abuse in the US is 
conducting and funding a Phase II trial of 
AZD8529 in smoking cessation. AZD7325  
is in a clinical trial sponsored by the National 
Institute of Mental Health in the US to be 
tested as a potential treatment for autism 
spectrum disorders.
Pain control
Our anaesthesia portfolio consists of  
various compounds, including an 
intravenous general anaesthetic/ 
sedative and local anaesthetics available  
in different formulations. The portfolio 
includes injectables, creams, gels, sprays 
and suppositories. 
Biologics are an emerging treatment for  
pain control. We are exploring treatments in 
focused pain areas, with patients selected 
on the basis of their characteristic symptoms. 
Movantik/Moventig is the first orally 
administered, once-daily, peripherally- 
acting mu-opioid receptor antagonist to  
be approved for the treatment of opioid-
induced constipation (OIC) in adult patients. 
The indication varies by jurisdiction. OIC is 
the most common side effect of chronic  
use of opioid pain medicines. These are 
taken by over 69 million people worldwide, 
and the incidence of OIC in patients with 
chronic pain varies and has been suggested 
to be as high as 81%. Of these patients,  
only about half achieve desired treatment 
outcomes with current options, such as 
OTC and prescription laxatives, which  
treat general constipation symptoms. 
Movantik/Moventig was developed using 
Nektar Therapeutics’ oral small molecule 
polymer conjugate technology as part  
of a 2009 licence agreement with  
Nektar Therapeutics. 
In March 2015, AstraZeneca announced  
a co-commercialisation agreement with 
Daiichi Sankyo, for Movantik in the US, in 
line with delivering on our externalisation 
strategy to create value from the science 
that exists in the product pipeline. The brand 
launched in the US, UK, Canada, Sweden, 
Denmark, Norway, Finland and Germany in 
2015. Additional launches will occur through 
the first half of 2016.
Gastrointestinal
Our strategic priorities
Nexium remains one of the most used 
therapies in the world. In 2015, its use 
continued to grow in markets including 
China and Japan. Demand for Nexium in 
China is expected to grow significantly and 
will complement its position in Japan as the 
top-selling medicine in its class.
Nexium is generally subject to generic 
competition in Europe. In the US, we 
expected the first generic entry in 2014 but 
that did not occur. In January 2015, Teva 
received approval from the FDA to market  
a generic version of Nexium. Since then, 
Mylan, Hetero/Camber, Dr Reddy Labs  
and Torrent received approval for generic 
versions of Nexium. Nexium is also subject 
to generic competition in Australia, where 
the first generic entry occurred in August 
2014. Patents protecting Nexium have  
been subject to a number of challenges  
in different jurisdictions. Details of these 
matters are included in Note 27 to the 
Financial Statements from page 186.
Pfizer acquired the exclusive global rights  
to market Nexium for OTC indications 
worldwide in 2012, and launched OTC 
Nexium 20mg in the US and Europe in 2014.
In July 2015, we announced the completion 
of an agreement with Tillotts Pharma,  
part of the Zeria Group. This covered the 
divestment of global rights, outside the US, 
to Entocort (budesonide), a gastroenterology 
medicine for patients with mild-to-moderate 
Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis.  
In December 2015, we entered into an 
agreement with Perrigo for the divestment  
of US rights to Entocort, granting Perrigo  
the rights to sell Entocort capsules and the 
authorised generic Entocort capsules 
marketed by Par Pharmaceuticals.
Values in action: We play to win  
In 2015, we made Movantik/Moventig, the  
first peripherally-acting mu-opioid receptor 
antagonist (PAMORA), available to patients 
suffering from opioid-induced constipation 
in the US, Canada, UK, Germany, Ireland 
and the Nordic countries.
41 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Research and Development
Achieve scientific leadership 
As outlined in Strategic priorities from page 
16, achieving scientific leadership is critical  
to our success.
During 2015, we
 > continued to redeploy R&D spend 
towards late-stage development
 > further expanded our immuno-oncology 
research and development activities
 > entered into numerous strategic 
collaborations to access novel science 
and technology.
Our biotech-style operating model enables 
us to access the best science, both internal 
and external, which is a prerequisite for 
achieving scientific leadership. Further, our 
productivity and pipeline continue to benefit 
from investments in key capabilities, such as 
payer partnering, PHC, predictive science 
and clinical trial design.
In recent years, we have created a leaner, 
simpler and smaller organisation, focused 
on driving distinctive science across our key 
therapy areas. We have also made progress 
in co-locating our teams to our strategic 
R&D centres. The move to Gaithersburg, 
Maryland US is complete and the move to 
Cambridge, UK is progressing rapidly with 
1,600 roles now located in Cambridge 
where the new R&D centre and corporate 
headquarters is under construction. 
Research and early clinical 
development
Our two biotech units conduct innovative 
discovery research and early-stage 
development from initial target selection to 
Phase II trial completion. Our IMED biotech 
unit focuses on scientific advances in small 
We are investing in key programmes and focused 
business development, as well as using our distinctive 
capabilities to push the boundaries of science to deliver 
life-changing medicines. 
Overview
 > Focused on science-led innovation across small molecules, biologics, 
immunotherapies, protein engineering and devices 
 > Strengthened our pipeline, portfolio and capabilities in 2015 through focused 
investment and business development
 > Simplified programmes, processes and systems while prioritising resources  
towards late-stage development
 > Launched seven diagnostic tests linked to our products in line with our personalised 
healthcare (PHC) strategy
 > Promoted open innovation and collaboration by co-locating to strategic R&D centres 
and collaborating with leading research organisations
 > Published 58 articles in ‘high-impact’ publications compared to seven in 2010
 > Committed to working responsibly and in accordance with our global  
bioethics standards
58
Record number of  
‘high-impact’ publications
7
Launched seven diagnostic 
tests linked to our products
42 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Business Review collaboration with Celgene to extend our 
extensive anti PD-L1 inhibitor programme, 
durvalumab, into trials for serious blood 
cancers. The recent exchange of chemical 
compounds with Sanofi is an example of 
our open innovation collaborations. 
To better understand the biology of disease, 
our biotech units announced the first wave 
of projects from our joint venture with the 
MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology and 
have agreed to support more than 80 PhD 
scholarships and eight clinical lectureships 
with the University of Cambridge. 
Additionally, and through our IMED open 
innovation portal, our teams reviewed more 
than 350 proposals for new drug projects  
in 2015.
Our personalised healthcare strategy 
2015 saw us using the science of PHC to 
match many more patients to AstraZeneca 
medicines from which they are most likely to 
benefit. We launched seven diagnostic tests 
linked to our products – a total of 1 1 in two 
years. Three of our products (Iressa, 
Lynparza and Tagrisso) are now coupled 
with companion diagnostic tests that select 
patients for therapy based on their 
molecular profiles. PHC expanded in our 
clinical pipeline to over 80% – with over 60 
planned drug launches by 2024 requiring  
a diagnostic test.
Our increasing investment in diagnostic 
partnerships achieved two world firsts:  
the EGFR mutation test for Tagrisso is the 
first diagnostic test for both circulating 
tumour DNA and tumour tissue (EU, with 
Roche Molecular Systems), while our  
PD-L1 Class I diagnostic (with Ventana)  
was the first immuno-oncology test 
launched in the US. In addition, we 
launched tests for tumour BRCA analysis  
for Lynparza (EU, with Myriad); for EGFR 
T790M for Tagrisso (US, with Roche 
Molecular Systems); for circulating tumour 
DNA EGFR for Iressa (EU, with Qiagen);  
and for PD-L1 (EU, with Ventana).
 For more information on our collaborations 
please refer to the Oncology section from pages  
34 to 38
 For an analysis of our R&D spend, please see 
Infrastructure on page 61
Scientific innovation is the life-blood of  
PHC. We are now expanding the benefits  
of PHC to patients in all core disease areas, 
such as asthma, where we are developing 
diagnostics for periostin and DPP-4 for 
potential use with tralokinumab (with Abbott) 
and lupus, where we are evaluating a 
type-I-IFN-inducible gene signature for  
use with anifrolumab (with Qiagen). 
Looking ahead, we announced a 
collaboration with the Montreal Heart 
Institute to search the genomes of up to 
80,000 patients for genes associated with 
cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. 
Finally, our membership of the GENE 
Consortium, a public-private consortium 
with Genomics England in the UK, is aimed 
at accelerating the development of new 
diagnostics and treatments arising from  
the 100,000 Genomes Project. 
Late-stage development 
GMD is our R&D function focused on  
large Phase III clinical trial programmes 
across our therapy areas that support the 
approval, launch and reimbursement  
of new medicines, as well as life-cycle 
management. GMD also delivers studies 
that demonstrate evidence of how our 
medicines work in the ‘real world’ to help 
healthcare professionals and payers 
understand the therapeutic as well as 
economic value of our medicines. During 
2015, we have continued to sharpen focus 
on our three therapy areas by identifying 
opportunities to collaborate on developing 
assets within our late-stage pipeline – for 
example, an externalisation agreement for 
the development of brodalumab for patients 
with psoriasis and the divestment of one of 
our established products Caprelsa, as a 
treatment for rare diseases.
Accelerating the pipeline and  
increasing efficiency 
GMD is pushing boundaries to help ensure 
new treatments get to patients more quickly 
and still safely. Improvements include the 
development and use of smart clinical trials, 
data-modelling techniques and proactive 
 Oncology from page 34
 Respiratory, Inflammation  
and Autoimmunity from page 26
 Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases  
from page 30
molecules, oligonucleotides and other 
emerging technologies and drug discovery 
platforms. The MedImmune biotech unit is 
responsible for global biologics research 
and early-stage development. Both units  
are responsible for delivering projects to our 
Global Medicines Development (GMD) unit 
for late-stage development. 
Working collaboratively and fostering 
open innovation
In order to enhance our innovation 
capabilities and ensure that we have  
access to the best science, we are open  
to exploring new and different kinds of 
collaborations. Current small molecule 
partnership models include in-licensing  
of new chemical modalities and platforms; 
partnerships to leverage our compound 
collection to uncover novel target 
opportunities; and strategic collaborations 
designed to build our understanding of the 
mechanisms of disease. In biologics, we  
are actively engaged in strategic university 
research collaborations, clinical partnerships 
designed to explore the full potential of our 
immuno-oncology assets, and numerous 
in-licensing and joint development 
arrangements. In both biotech units our 
scientists work side-by-side with partner 
scientists, advancing science together as  
a single team.
In 2015, our IMED biotech unit announced 
several scientific collaborations. A number  
of collaborations enhanced the use of 
clustered regularly-interspaced short 
palindromic repeats (CRISPR) technologies 
across our discovery platforms, including 
those with the Innovative Genomics 
Initiative, the Whitehead Institute at the 
Massachusetts Centre for Technology,  
The Sanger Institute and Thermo Fisher 
Scientific. We also expanded our 
collaboration with Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc.  
to discover and develop antisense therapies 
for cardiovascular, metabolic and renal 
diseases. MedImmune also forged several 
key collaborations in 2015, including a 
research collaboration with Joslin Diabetes 
Center to develop new medicines to treat 
diabetes, obesity, and related metabolic 
disorders. In addition, we launched a 
biotherapeutics research centre in 
collaboration with Cambridge Research  
UK. MedImmune was also very active in 
finalising collaborations to maximise the 
value of the immuno-oncology portfolio, 
such as through the externalisation 
43 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report regulatory approaches, as well as 
accelerating drug formulation and supply 
chain solutions. Examples in 2015 included 
presenting regulators with scientific rationale 
based on robust early clinical data in 
respect of Tagrisso, while fast delivery times 
to secure data from PEGASUS-TIMI 54, our 
21,000-patient study for Brilinta, supported 
wider approvals in the US and additional 
regulatory submissions in the EU and US. 
GMD has created dedicated oncology 
delivery teams and recruited more medical 
expertise to bring potential new cancer 
treatments to patients more quickly, where 
there is significant unmet medical need.
GMD also pursues opportunities to  
simplify processes to increase efficiency 
and productivity. A new information 
management system for all regulatory 
submissions, registrations and product 
changes provides improved access to 
documentation. We have also completed 
the outsourcing of routine regulatory 
maintenance and publishing tasks to a 
data-handling provider, so our internal 
resources can focus solely on activities to 
support our regulatory submission priorities. 
In clinical operations, we are adopting new 
technology and approaches to improve 
monitoring of clinical trials and ensure 
patients are protected.
Investment in disease area and scientific 
capabilities
With the consolidation of R&D activities to 
strategic centres, we continue to hire new 
employees to strengthen our disease area 
expertise and technical capabilities. This 
helps to meet the needs of our expanded 
late-stage portfolio and support the 
increasing number of clinical trials. 
Payer and real-world evidence capabilities 
are helping us to show how our medicines 
may improve outcomes compared to  
other treatments, and to demonstrate how 
they may reduce the need for hospital  
or specialist care, and make a difference  
to patients’ lives.
We continue to engage with medical 
experts to provide important insight into our 
drug programmes. Such engagements will 
 See Therapy Area Review from page 24 
help ensure our medicines address the 
needs of patients as well as healthcare 
professionals. In support of this as  
detailed in the Pipeline and Therapy Area 
Introduction on page 24, we have signed  
an agreement with PatientsLikeMe. 
Our scientific reputation
Demonstrating the quality of the  
research conducted in our laboratories, 
through publication in high-quality and  
‘high-impact’ journals, is an essential 
element in building our scientific reputation 
and achieving scientific leadership. It is  
also critical for recruiting and retaining  
the best scientists from around the world. 
Scientists from IMED, MedImmune  
and GMD have published a record  
number of ‘high-impact’ publications  
with 58 manuscripts in peer-reviewed 
journals with impact factor exceeding  
15 (Thomson Reuters 5yr IF score). This 
represents an eight-fold improvement  
since our drive to publish in ‘high-impact’ 
journals in 2010, and demonstrates 
recognition of the quality of our science  
by industry and academic peers.
Responsible research
†
We are committed to achieving scientific 
leadership and delivering life-changing 
medicines in a trustworthy and ethical 
manner. Our global standards of bioethics 
apply to all our research activity, whether 
conducted by us or third parties on  
our behalf. 
Patient safety 
Patient safety is very important to us and  
we strive to minimise the risks and maximise 
the benefits of our medicines. Through a 
pharmacovigilance programme, we monitor 
our medicines to learn of any side effects 
not identified during the development 
process and provide information concerning 
the safety profile of our medicines to 
regulators, healthcare professionals and, 
where appropriate, patients. We also work 
with regulatory authorities worldwide to raise 
pharmacovigilance awareness. 
Our patient safety team helps fulfil our 
commitment to patient safety. Each 
developing and marketed medicine is 
allocated a Global Safety Physician and  
a patient safety scientist. In addition, each 
market is supported by a dedicated patient 
Research and Development continued
Values in action: We put patients first 
Personalised healthcare aims to match 
medicines to patients who will benefit 
from them most. Advances in science 
mean we can now design diagnostic tests 
to tell us how individual patients are 
likely to respond to a medicine before 
prescribing it. We are also using new 
technology, such as blood-based tests in 
lung cancer, so that this science reaches 
more patients. Developing medicines in 
this way helps deliver the right medicine 
to the right patient and means better, 
more effective treatment. 
44 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Business Review safety manager. Our Chief Medical Officer 
has accountability for the benefit/risk profiles 
of our products in development and on the 
market. He provides medical oversight and 
enforces risk assessment processes to 
facilitate efficient and informed safety 
decision making.
Clinical trials and transparency
In 2015, we conducted clinical trials at 
multiple sites in various countries and 
regions as shown in the chart over.  
This broad span helps ensure that study 
participants reflect the diversity of patients 
for whom our medicines are intended  
and identifies the patients for whom the 
medicine may be most beneficial. Our  
global governance process for determining 
where we locate clinical trials provides  
the framework for ensuring a consistent, 
high-quality approach worldwide. Protecting 
participants throughout the trial process is  
a priority and we have strict procedures  
to help ensure participants are not exposed 
to unnecessary risks. 
All our clinical studies are designed and 
finally interpreted in-house but some are 
conducted by CROs on our behalf. In 2015, 
approximately 36% of patients in our small 
molecule studies and 56% of patients in our 
biologics studies were monitored by CROs. 
We require these organisations to comply 
with our global standards and we conduct 
risk-based audits to monitor compliance. 
We also engage and collaborate with 
external scientific experts to support the 
design and interpretation of these clinical 
studies. Committees oversee study 
execution and progress, and we frequently 
collaborate with academic research 
organisations, particularly for larger 
multicentre outcome trials. 
We believe that transparency enhances  
the understanding of how our medicines 
work and benefit patients. We publish 
information about our clinical research,  
as well as the registration and results of  
our clinical trials – regardless of whether 
they are favourable – for all products and  
all phases, including marketed medicines, 
drugs in development and drugs where 
development has been discontinued. 
 
 
 For more information, please see our  
website, www.astrazeneca.com, or our clinical 
trials website, www.astrazenecaclinicaltrials.com
During 2015, we implemented a number  
of changes in response to the new EU 
Clinical Trial Regulation, EMA’s Policy 70  
and the EFPIA/PhRMA Responsible Data 
Sharing principles.
Clinical trials by region
Small 
molecule Biologics
Europe 16% 14%
US/Canada 26% 34%
Asia Pacific 15% 6%
Central/Eastern Europe 27% 25%
Japan 3% 12%
Latin America 10% 7%
Middle East and Africa 3% 2%
Research use of human biological samples
The use of human biological samples,  
such as solid tissue, biofluids and their 
derivatives, plays a vital role in developing  
a deeper understanding of human diseases 
and their underlying mechanisms, thereby 
helping to develop effective, new and 
personalised medicines. 
In carrying out this important area of 
research, we maintain policies and 
processes to ensure that we both comply 
with the law and meet regulatory concerns. 
We place an emphasis on informed consent 
that protects the rights and expectations  
of donors and families throughout the 
process of acquisition, use, storage and 
disposal of the samples. Protecting the 
confidentiality of a donor’s identity is of the 
utmost importance and a key part of our 
process includes the coding of biological 
samples and associated data (including 
genetic data).
In rare circumstances, AstraZeneca  
may use human fetal tissue or embryonic 
stem cells. In these circumstances, an 
internal review of the scientific validity of  
the research proposal will be conducted 
and permission to use the tissue will be 
granted only when no other scientifically 
reasonable alternative is available. 
AstraZeneca also insists its third party 
vendors adopt the highest ethical standards 
and we rigorously assess the ability of tissue 
suppliers to meet our quality and ethical 
expectations. We are committed to 
minimising the use of fetal tissue by 
exploring technological alternatives.
Animal research
We are committed to helping the public 
understand our use of animals in research 
and our methods for reducing, refining,  
or replacing them. Our commitment is 
reflected in our Global Bioethics Policy, and 
along with other signatories, progress has 
been published in the 2015 Annual Report 
on the ‘Concordat on Openness in Animal 
Research in the UK’.
In response to a routine internal audit  
of our animal welfare assurance, we have 
improved our governance structure by 
providing a single point of accountability 
with oversight across AstraZeneca effective 
1 January 2016. Our approach will provide 
consistent implementation of policies and 
procedures, and will ensure that all new 
organisations that join AstraZeneca have 
support in fulfilling their obligations under  
the Code of Conduct. 
Animal research use varies depending on 
numerous factors, including our amount of 
pre-clinical research, the complexity of the 
diseases under investigation and regulatory 
requirements. We believe that without our 
active commitment to reducing, refining, or 
replacing animals in research, our animal 
use would be much greater. In 2015, we 
used 182,055 animals in-house (2014: 
194, 162). In addition, 33,220 animals were 
used by CROs on our behalf (2014: 15,634). 
†  For further information on AstraZeneca’s approach  
to doing business sustainably please refer to  
In the wider world from page 55 and on our website,  
www.astrazeneca.com.
 Further information on our governance 
structure can be found on our website,  
www.astrazeneca.com
45 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Manufacturing and Supply
New operations strategy
In 2015, we developed a new 
transformational strategic framework for 
Global Operations to help ensure we are fit 
for the future. Our strategy, which is focused 
around a set of strategic imperatives and 
strong foundations, will drive our thinking 
and actions in the years ahead as we strive 
to become more agile, flexible and able to 
respond to patient and market needs.
New manufacturing facilities
Following the successful introduction of our 
Taizhou facility in China at the end of 2014, 
regulatory validation work continues at our 
Vorsino facility in Russia, which opened in 
2015. This marks the largest foreign 
investment in the construction of a new 
pharmaceutical plant in Russia. First 
commercial production is scheduled to 
commence in early 2016, improving our 
ability to supply local markets. Also during 
2015, we announced major investment 
plans to develop our capability in biologics, 
including the acquisition of Amgen’s facility 
in Boulder, Colorado in the US, as well  
as a $285 million investment in a new 
manufacturing facility in Södertälje, Sweden. 
These projects, in addition to a previously 
announced expansion plan at Frederick, 
Maryland US, will increase production 
capacity to support the growing demand  
for biologics, which represents half of our 
development pipeline.
Innovation
Partnerships and innovation are playing  
an increasingly important role for Operations 
in delivering medicines to patients. New 
science, and ways of working are continually 
assessed, with pilots progressed to 
challenge established practices. During 
2015, we have seen innovative practices 
Our new strategic framework provides a focus for our 
investments to help ensure we are able to respond to 
patient and market needs for our medicines.
Overview
 > Developed a new transformational operations 2020 strategy focused on helping 
AstraZeneca to achieve its strategic purpose
 > Opened our new facility in Russia to supply local markets better
 > Announced plans to invest more than $285 million in our Sweden biologics centre, 
and acquired a facility in the US to meet growing demand for manufacturing biologics
 > Continued to combine internal capabilities with cost-efficient external resources using 
established process for third party risk management including suppliers, their 
partners and local business development partners 
$285m
Plan to invest more than  
$285 million in our  
Sweden biologics centre
11,236
Undertook 11,236  
risk assessments  
in 2015
46 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Business Review In 2015, we hosted 38 independent 
inspections from 16 regulatory authorities. 
We reviewed observations from these 
inspections, together with the outcomes  
of internal audits, and, where necessary, 
implemented improvement actions. 
Our strategy reflects our commitment to 
maintaining the highest ethical standards 
and compliance with internal policies, laws 
and regulations. We review and comment 
upon evolving national and international 
compliance regulations through our 
membership of industry associations 
including EFPIA and PhRMA. 
Working with suppliers
†
With most of our API manufacturing 
outsourced, we need an uninterrupted 
supply of high-quality raw materials. We 
therefore place great importance on our 
global procurement policies and integrated 
risk management processes. We purchase 
materials from a wide range of suppliers  
and work to mitigate supply risks, such as 
natural or man-made disasters that disrupt 
supply chains or the unavailability of raw 
materials. Contingency plans include using 
dual or multiple suppliers where appropriate, 
maintaining adequate stock levels and 
working to mitigate the effect of pricing 
fluctuations in raw materials. 
We also seek to manage reputational risk. 
Our ethical standards are integral to our 
procurement and partnering activities  
and we continuously monitor compliance 
through assessments and improvement 
programmes. We work only with those 
suppliers whose standards of ethical 
behaviour are consistent with our own.  
We will not use suppliers who are unable  
to meet our standards.
To achieve this, we have an established 
process for third party risk management. 
This process, which consists of four steps 
and applies to all our suppliers, downstream 
supply chain partners and local business 
development partners, assesses risk based 
upon defined criteria. These include risks 
related to bribery and corruption, data 
privacy, the environment and wages. Each 
step of the process provides an additional 
level of assessment, and we conduct more 
detailed assessments on those relationships 
identified as higher risk. Through this 
risk-mitigation process we seek to better 
understand the partner’s risk approach and 
ensure the partner understands and can 
meet our standards. We conducted a total 
of 1 1,236 assessments in 2015, taking our 
total number of assessments to 13,845. Of 
these 4,613 were in the Asia Pacific region, 
followed by 4, 1 15 in Europe and 3,538 in the 
Americas. The remaining 1,579 assessments 
relate to global suppliers and those based in 
the Middle East and Africa.
In addition, we conducted 49 audits on 
direct materials suppliers to ensure they 
employ appropriate quality, health and 
safety practices. 35% of suppliers met our 
expectations and 65% implemented 
improvements to address minor instances 
of non-compliance. During our due diligence 
process, we identified and rejected 326 
suppliers, including 65 for reputational 
related concerns.
†  For further information on AstraZeneca’s approach  
to doing business sustainably please refer to  
In the wider world from page 55 and on our website,  
www.astrazeneca.com.
employed around readiness for launch  
of Tagrisso, while our Healthy Heart Africa 
programme has been further developed  
as we aim to reach 10 million patients 
across Africa. Further pilots are already 
under development for 2016, as we  
look to improve the end-to-end supply  
chain performance.
Product quality and supply chain 
We are committed to high product quality, 
which underpins the safety and efficacy of 
our medicines. To help assure compliance 
and quality, we maintain a comprehensive 
quality management system.
Our continuous improvement programme 
allows us to upgrade our systems and 
minimise environmental impact. By applying 
Lean methodology to our manufacturing 
plants and supply chain, we have been 
successful in reducing waste and inventory 
costs. We have also improved efficiency, 
quality, lead times, equipment effectiveness 
and overall customer responsiveness.  
We are continuing to establish more  
efficient processes, with global supply  
chain experts providing support throughout 
the organisation.
Regulation and compliance
Manufacturing facilities and processes are 
subject to rigorous regulatory standards. 
These continuously evolve and are not 
harmonised globally. They are also subject 
to inspections by regulatory authorities, who 
are authorised to mandate improvements to 
facilities and processes, halt production and 
impose conditions for production to resume. 
Values in action: We put patients first 
We have established a secure and low-cost supply  
chain in support of our Healthy Heart Africa programme 
(see page 51). Understanding the patient’s circumstances 
was key as we worked to enable access to, and 
affordability of, high-quality anti-hypertensives to 
middle- and lower-income patients. We are working  
with our distributors and NGO partners to gather and 
share reliable data so that we can respond to changing 
patient needs.
47 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Sales and Marketing 
Organisation and approach
To improve health and bring benefits to 
patients around the world, we need to 
ensure the right medicines are available and 
that patients have access to them. To that 
end, our Sales and Marketing teams, which 
comprised around 34,800 employees at the 
end of 2015, are active in more than 100 
countries. In most countries, we sell our 
medicines through wholly-owned local 
marketing companies. We also sell through 
distributors and local representative offices. 
We market our products largely to  
primary care and specialty care physicians. 
We aim to meet their needs by having  
highly accountable local leaders who 
understand their customers and focus  
on business growth. 
We group our Sales and Marketing function 
into Japan, one of our Growth Platforms, 
and three Commercial Regions: North 
America (US and Canada); Europe; and 
International (Emerging Markets, Australia 
and New Zealand). Underpinning all our 
efforts is a commitment to operate 
responsibly and conduct sales and 
marketing activity in accordance with 
applicable laws and our Values.
US
As the sixth largest prescription-based 
pharmaceutical company in the US,  
we have a 4.5% market share of US 
pharmaceuticals by sales value. 
In 2015, sales in the US decreased by 6%  
to $9,474 million (2014: $10, 120 million). 
Declines in revenue from Nexium, Crestor 
 For more information on Product Sales in our 
markets, please see Geographical Review from 
page 227
Our return to growth strategy is built on maximising the 
potential of our strong portfolio of primary care and 
specialty care medicines by leveraging our global 
commercial presence, particularly in Emerging Markets. 
We are also investing in our Growth Platforms. 
Overview
 > Our Sales and Marketing teams operate in more than 100 countries
 > Sales increased by 15% in China, which is now our second largest market
 > In the US, declines in revenue from Nexium, Crestor and Synagis were offset by strong 
performance of our Growth Platforms 
 > Despite an austere macroeconomic climate, we continued to launch innovative 
medicines in Europe
 > Japan continues as one of our Growth Platforms with revenue growth of 4% in 2015
 > We worked closely with payers and providers to help deliver cost-effective medicines
 > We increased access to healthcare through programmes in Emerging Markets, 
serving some 3.5 million people
 > We reaffirmed our commitment to ethical sales and marketing activity through 
employee training, monitoring, corrective actions and reporting
100
Active in more than  
100 countries
3.5m
Patient access programmes in  
Emerging Markets reached  
3.5 million people by the end  
of 2015
48 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Business Review In 2015, our sales in Europe decreased by 
6% to $5,323 million (2014: $6,638 million). 
Key drivers of the decline were continued 
competition from Symbicort analogues, 
ongoing volume erosion of Atacand and 
Seroquel XR following loss of exclusivity, 
pricing and volume pressure for Crestor  
and Nexium, and lower net pricing on 
Synagis. The continued macroeconomic 
environment, increased government 
interventions (for example, on price and 
volume) and parallel trade across markets 
also affected sales. Despite these conditions, 
we continue to launch innovative medicines 
across Europe and saw significant progress 
within our Growth Platforms.
Established Rest of World (ROW)*: 
opportunities and challenges 
In 2015, sales in Japan increased by 4% to 
$2,020 million (2014: $2,227 million). Strong 
performance of Nexium and Crestor , and 
the Diabetes franchise helped to drive this, 
offsetting the headwinds from generic 
competition. In Japan, we hold ninth 
position in the ranking of pharmaceutical 
companies by sales of medicines. Despite 
biannual government price cuts and 
increased intervention from the government 
to rapidly increase the volume share of 
generic products, Japan remains an 
attractive market for innovative 
pharmaceuticals. The higher EGFR 
prevalence in Asian markets makes Japan  
a key market for the launch of Tagrisso 
expected in 2016.
Canada has a mixed public/private payer 
system for medicines that is funded by the 
provinces, insurers and individual patients.  
It has also now become common for public 
payers to negotiate lower non-transparent 
prices after they have gone through a review 
by the Canadian Agency for Drugs and 
Technology in Health (CADTH), a health 
technology assessment body. Most private 
insurers pay full price although there is 
increasing pressure to achieve lower pricing. 
Overall, the split for AstraZeneca’s portfolio 
is 66% funded by private payers and 34% 
with public plans.
Our sales in Australia and New Zealand 
declined by 19% in 2015. This was primarily 
due to the continued erosion of Crestor and 
Atacand by generic medicines. Nexium lost 
exclusivity in Australia in 2014 and generic 
medicines were launched.
*  Established ROW comprises Australia, Canada,  
New Zealand and Japan.
Emerging Markets: expansion and 
collaboration
Emerging Markets, as defined in Market 
definitions on page 247 , comprises  
various countries with dynamic, growing 
economies. As outlined in Marketplace from 
page 12, these countries represent a major 
growth opportunity for the pharmaceutical 
industry due to strong demand and sound 
economic fundamentals.
Emerging Markets are not immune, 
however, to economic downturn. Market 
volatility is higher than in Established 
Markets and various political and economic 
challenges exist. These include regulatory 
and government interventions.
With revenues of $5,822 million, 
AstraZeneca was the eighth largest, as 
measured by prescription sales, and the 
fourth fastest-growing top 10 multinational 
pharmaceutical company in Emerging 
Markets in 2015. 
In China, AstraZeneca is the second  
largest pharmaceutical company, as 
measured by sales. We are driving 
sustainable growth through strategic brands 
investment, expanded hospitals coverage 
and systematic organisational capability 
improvements. Sales in China in 2015 
increased by 15% to $2,530 million (2014: 
$2,242 million). We delivered sales growth  
at above the growth rate of the market, and 
initiated several long-term market expansion 
programmes in therapy areas. The industry 
growth rate is expected to be moderated to 
high single digits, impacted by increased 
price pressure, hospital cost containment 
and delays in new product registration. 
Nevertheless, the healthcare environment  
in China remains dynamic. Opportunities 
are arising from incremental healthcare 
investment, strong underlying demand and 
the emergence of innovative medicines.
Growth drivers for Emerging Markets 
include our new medicines, notably  
Brilinta, and our Diabetes, Respiratory, 
Oncology, CV and Gastrointestinal 
portfolios. To educate physicians about  
our broad portfolio, we are selectively 
investing in sales capabilities where 
opportunities from unmet medical need 
exist. We are also expanding our reach 
through multi-channel marketing and 
external partnerships. 
and Synagis were partially offset by strong 
performance of our Growth Platforms, 
including Farxiga, Bydureon and Brilinta, the 
launches of Lynparza and Tagrisso as well 
as the impact of completing the acquisition 
of Actavis’ rights to Tudorza and Daliresp  
in the US. 
The Affordable Care Act (ACA) has had,  
and is expected to continue to have, a 
significant impact on our US sales and the 
US healthcare industry. In 2015, the overall 
reduction in our profit before tax for the  
year, due to discounts on branded 
pharmaceutical sales to Medicare Part D 
beneficiaries and an industry-wide excise 
fee, was $786 million (2014: $714 million).
 For more information on pricing pressure and 
the ACA, please see Marketplace from page 12 
and Geographical Review from page 227
While there is no direct governmental price 
control for commercial prescription drug 
sales in the US, some publicly funded 
programmes, such as Medicaid and 
TRICARE (Department of Veterans Affairs), 
have statutorily mandated rebates and 
discounts. These effectively serve as price 
controls for such programmes. Other 
challenges include continuing pressure  
on pricing, and the availability and use of 
prescription drugs for commercial and public 
payers continues to increase. This is due to, 
among other things, an increased focus on 
generic alternatives. Increased generics use 
is also due to rising patient co-insurance or 
co-payments for branded pharmaceuticals 
and budgetary policies of healthcare 
systems and providers, including policies 
about the use of ‘generics only’ formularies. 
In 2015, 84.0% of prescriptions dispensed in 
the US were generic compared with 83.4% 
in 2014. While the adoption of a broad 
national price-control scheme in the near 
future is unlikely, increased focus on 
pharmaceutical prices and their impact  
on healthcare costs is likely to continue.
Europe 
The total European pharmaceutical  
market was worth $194 billion in 2015.  
We are the twelfth largest prescription-
based pharmaceutical company in Europe 
with a 2.5% market share of prescription 
sales by value. Europe comprises countries 
as defined in Market definitions on page 247 .
49 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report help ensure lower-priced products reach  
the patients who need them and are  
not diverted for sale and use in more  
affluent markets. 
Our medicines help treat unmet medical 
need, improve health and create economic 
and therapeutic benefits. Effective 
treatments can lower healthcare costs by 
reducing the need for more expensive care, 
preventing more serious and costly diseases 
and increasing productivity by reducing or 
preventing days lost to illness. Nevertheless, 
pricing pressure remains, as outlined in 
Marketplace on page 12. We are acutely 
aware of the economic challenges faced by 
payers and remain committed to delivering 
value to payers and patients alike. We work 
closely with payers and providers to 
understand their priorities and requirements. 
We also conduct real-world evidence 
studies to demonstrate how our products 
improve health outcomes, offer value and 
support cost-effective healthcare.
Sales and marketing ethics
†
We are committed to employing high ethical 
standards of sales and marketing practice 
worldwide. This is consistent with our Global 
Policy on Ethical Interactions. We report 
publicly on the number of
 > confirmed breaches of external sales  
and marketing codes 
 > breaches of our Code of Conduct or 
supporting policies by employees and 
contractors in our Commercial Regions, 
and associated corrective actions.
During 2015, we continued to train 
employees on the global standards that 
govern the way we operate. We have 
comprehensive processes as well as 
dedicated compliance professionals who 
monitor adherence to our Code of Conduct 
and Global Policies. These professionals 
also support our line managers locally  
in supervising their staff. A network of 
nominated signatories review our 
promotional materials against applicable 
requirements. In 2015, audit professionals 
also conducted compliance audits on 
selected marketing companies.
We identified 1 1 confirmed breaches of 
external sales and marketing regulations  
or codes in 2015 (2014: six). 
There were 1,749 instances, most of them 
minor, of non-compliance with our Code of 
Conduct, Global Policies or related control 
standards in our Commercial Regions, 
including instances by contract staff and 
other third parties (2014: 1,847). 
We removed 339 employees or contractors 
from their roles as a result of these breaches 
(a single breach may involve more than one 
person). We also formally warned 490 
others and provided further guidance or 
coaching on our policies to 1,476 more.  
The most serious breaches were raised  
with the Audit Committee.
US Corporate Integrity Agreement and 
The Physician Payments Sunshine Act 
reporting 
In April 2010, AstraZeneca signed an 
agreement with the DOJ to settle an 
investigation relating to the sales and 
marketing of Seroquel IR. The requirements 
of the associated Corporate Integrity 
Agreement (CIA) between AstraZeneca and 
the Office of the Inspector General of the US 
Department of Health and Human Services 
(OIG) included a number of monitoring and 
self-reporting obligations that differ from the 
self-reporting required by authorities in the 
rest of the world. To meet these obligations, 
AstraZeneca provided notices to the OIG 
describing the outcomes of particular 
investigations potentially relating to violations 
of certain laws. We also submitted an 
annual report to the OIG, summarising 
monitoring and investigation outcomes 
relevant to the CIA requirements. Under  
the CIA, AstraZeneca also disclosed, on a 
publicly available website, certain payments 
to US physicians and institutions. The  
CIA was for a period of five years and 
successfully concluded on 30 April 2015. 
AstraZeneca continues to maintain a  
robust compliance framework to ensure 
compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations, and that the business is 
operating with high ethical standards. 
AstraZeneca also continues to report to  
the US government, detailed information 
relating to payments to physicians and 
teaching hospitals in the US, as required  
by The Physician Payments Sunshine Act.
†  For further information on AstraZeneca’s approach  
to doing business sustainably please refer to  
In the wider world from page 55 and on our website,  
www.astrazeneca.com.
Innovative collaborations are giving us 
access to novel science, technology and 
medicines. These complement and 
strengthen our portfolio. One example is  
our collaboration with FibroGen in China to 
develop and commercialise roxadustat, a 
potential first-in-class oral compound for 
treating anaemia in patients with CKD. 
Increasing access to healthcare
†
 
We have made significant progress in 
broadening the access to our products by 
making medicines more affordable and we 
are working towards greatly increasing 
access, particularly in low income countries, 
through our patient access programmes. 
Our efforts to improve affordability are 
particularly focused on ability to pay based 
on disposable household income. We 
continue to grow our capabilities and build 
on the experience of wellbeing initiatives and 
patient access programmes which provide 
discounts on our medicines and other 
patient services, for example FazBem in 
Brazil, Disfruto Mi Salud in Central America 
and the Caribbean, MAZ Salud in Mexico 
and Karta Zdorovia in Russia. We have 
significantly expanded these initiatives 
across Latin America, the Middle East and 
Africa, and Asia Pacific, and the number of 
patient access programmes in Emerging 
Markets has more than doubled since 2013, 
reaching 3.5 million patients in total by the 
end of 2015. 
Improved access is bringing down 
healthcare barriers, particularly in developing 
countries. In 2015, we expanded our  
efforts in Africa to enable greater access to 
hypertension medication and other essential 
services for patients who are otherwise 
unable to access medication or other forms 
of treatment.
Pricing and delivering value 
Our global pricing policy helps to ensure 
appropriate patient access while optimising 
the sustained profitability of our products. 
When setting the price of a medicine, we 
consider its full value to patients, payers and 
society generally. We also pursue a flexible 
pricing approach. For example, we support 
the concept of differential pricing, provided 
that appropriate safeguards are in place to 
 For more information, please see the Healthy 
Heart Africa case study over
Sales and Marketing continued 
50 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Business Review Healthy Heart Africa
Healthy Heart Africa (HHA) is our innovative programme 
to support African governments in reducing the burden  
of heart disease and, specifically, hypertension. This 
challenge is huge. According to WHO, Africa is home to 
the highest prevalence of adults living with hypertension 
and an estimated 46% have high blood pressure.
The programme was launched in October 
2014 in collaboration with the Kenyan 
Ministry of Health and a portfolio of 
well-respected implementing partners. 
Addressing non-communicable diseases 
such as hypertension in middle- and 
low-income populations in a healthcare 
system that, historically, has prioritised 
communicable diseases and infections, 
remains a challenge. However, in a short 
space of time, the programme has achieved 
remarkable progress which will enable  
HHA to expand operations to other 
geographies in order to achieve our 
ambition of reaching 10 million hypertensive 
patients across sub-Saharan Africa by  
2025 – in line with WHO’s goal of a 25% 
reduction in the prevalence of raised blood 
pressure by that date.
By the end of 2015, we had:
 > Screened one million patients in Kenya.
 > Trained over 2,600 healthcare workers, 
including doctors, nurses, community 
health volunteers and pharmacists to 
provide education and awareness, 
screening and treatment services for 
hypertension.
 > Equipped at least 250 health facilities – 
ranging from small dispensaries staffed 
by a handful of people to large-scale 
facilities – to provide hypertension 
services, including the establishment  
of secure supply chains for low-cost, 
high-quality antihypertensive medicines.
 > Worked with the Ministry of Health and 
key scientific societies to develop a 
hypertension treatment protocol.
1m
Screened one million patients in Kenya for 
hypertension in 2015
 > Created training materials for healthcare 
providers and community health workers 
on hypertension prevention, screening, 
diagnosis and treatment. In many cases, 
these community healthcare workers  
had never received training about 
hypertension before.
To reach our objectives, HHA has adopted 
an innovative model:
 > Raising awareness by leveraging 
community health worker networks.
 > Training providers and driving care to 
lower levels in the healthcare system.
 > Ensuring access to and availability of 
treatment by ensuring that healthcare 
workers are equipped to provide 
screening and have a consistent supply 
of appropriate medicines.
 We especially 
appreciate AstraZeneca’s 
approach to partnership 
in order to design and 
implement a leading 
programme that is 
integrated into healthcare 
platforms.”
Dr Joseph Kibachio, Head of Division  
of Non-Communicable Diseases, Ministry 
of Health, Kenya
Watch the video at www.astrazeneca.com
51 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Employees
We value the talents and skills of our  
61,500 employees in more than 100 
countries. Our people strategy, which 
supports our strategic priority of being a 
great place to work, is built around four key 
pillars: Build and develop organisations and 
capabilities; Develop a strong and diverse 
pipeline of leaders; Drive a vibrant, 
high-performing culture; and Generate  
a passion for people development.
Build and develop organisations  
and capabilities 
During 2015, we hired 1 1,700 permanent 
employees. Additional employees joined  
us through acquisitions, most notably the 
transition of 560 BMS employees at our 
Mount Vernon, Indiana US manufacturing 
site. We are committed to hiring and 
promoting talent ethically and in compliance 
with applicable laws. Our policies and 
procedures are designed to help protect 
against discrimination on any grounds 
(including disability) and cover recruitment 
and selection, performance management, 
career development and promotion, 
transfer, training, retraining (including 
retraining, if needed, for people who have 
become disabled) and reward. To help 
deliver our strategic priorities, we are 
identifying and recruiting emerging talent,  
as well as investing in internships and 
recruitment opportunities globally.  
For example, we conduct a global 
programme to hire recent graduates for  
our procurement, quality, engineering,  
IT and supply chain functions. We also  
have a graduate programme for IMED, 
which complements our established  
IMED Post Doctorate Programme for 
researcher recruitment. 
To achieve our strategic priorities, we continue to acquire, 
retain and develop a talented and diverse workforce 
united in the pursuit of our Purpose and Values. 
Overview
 > Hired 11,700 permanent employees to help us achieve our strategic priorities
 > Continued to offer customised leadership programmes through MIT
 > Established a global personal development campaign and defined associated targets
 > Increased the diversity of our leadership
 > Continued the STAR programme to teach emerging talent about enterprise leadership 
 > Continued to simplify our organisational structure
Gender diversity
Board of Directors  
of the Company 12
Directors of the 
Company’s  
subsidiaries* 360 
 Male 67%
 Female 33%
 Male 72.1%
 Female 27.9%
SET* 13 AstraZeneca 
employees 61,500 
 Male 50.2%
 Female 49.8%
 Male 69%
 Female 31%
*  For the purposes of section 414C(8)(c)(ii) of the Companies Act 2006, ‘Senior Managers’ are the SET, the directors of all  
of the subsidiaries of the Company and other individuals holding named positions within those subsidiaries.
52 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Resources Review A global business
As shown in the gender diversity figure  
on the previous page, women comprise 
49.8% of our global workforce. There are 
currently four women on our Board (33%). 
Below Board level, the representation of 
women in senior roles (ie roles at Career 
Level F or above which constitute the six 
highest bands of our employee population) 
increased to 42.0% in 2015, which 
exceeded our Scorecard target of 41%  
for this measure. We continue to hire 
high-quality leaders: 13% of the 
approximately 130 leadership roles that 
report to our senior leadership team joined 
AstraZeneca in 2015. To ensure our senior 
leadership reflects our diverse geographic 
footprint, we track the country of origin of 
senior leaders and reflect this in our diversity 
targets. In 2015, 15.6% of leadership roles 
that report to our senior leadership team 
have a country of origin that is an Emerging 
Market or Japan (an increase from 5% in 
2012), which exceeded our Scorecard target 
of 13% for this measure. 
To maximise our employees’ potential, we 
use leadership programmes, both online 
and instructor-led, to help build the right 
capabilities and culture. In 2015, we 
continued our programme for emerging 
leaders with the Massachusetts Institute  
of Technology (MIT). These programmes 
aim to foster openness, inclusivity and 
innovation and are a part of a wider effort  
Hiring over recent years means that 
employees with less than two years’ service 
now represent 36% of our global workforce 
(up from 20% in 2012). This provides a 
greater balance in terms of refreshing talent 
and retaining organisational experience.  
The composition of our international 
workforce has also changed with our 
business focus. This can be seen in the 
Sales and Marketing figures below, which 
shows an increasing concentration in 
Emerging Markets.
Voluntary employee turnover increased 
marginally to 9.2% in 2015 from 8.8% in 
2014. However, the voluntary employee 
turnover rate among our high performers in 
2015 reduced to 4.0% from 6.8% in 2014. 
We seek to reduce regretted turnover 
through more effective hiring and induction, 
high-level reviews of resignations, risk 
assessments and retention plans. 
Develop a strong and diverse pipeline 
of leaders
† 
To foster innovation, we seek to harness 
different perspectives, talents and ideas as 
well as ensuring that our employees reflect 
the diversity of the communities in which  
we operate. 
During 2015, we reviewed our talent 
management and succession planning 
processes, and implemented a revised 
approach which is focused on ensuring we 
have robust succession plans in place for 
our most business critical roles. Embedded 
in this new approach is a focus on both 
external sourcing and the development of 
our people to ensure that we have the right 
capabilities and leaders in place to deliver 
our strategy.
to offer leaders at all levels of the 
organisation appropriate, globally consistent 
leadership development opportunities. 
In 2015, a further 270 people participated  
in our various talent development 
programmes. We continued to offer the 
STAR programme which teaches our 
emerging talent about enterprise leadership 
and provides an opportunity to discuss 
AstraZeneca case studies and interact with 
senior leaders. We also continued our 
Insight Exchange programme to help foster 
diversity and inclusion, and strengthen our 
pool of emerging talent.
Our efforts received external recognition  
in 2015. AstraZeneca was ranked second 
among 400 businesses in Bloomberg’s 
inaugural survey of ‘The best place to work 
in corporate Britain’, while the National 
Association for Female Executives ranked 
us as one of its 50 leading companies for 
the seventh year running. We also featured 
among Working Mother Magazine’s 100 
Best Companies. 
Drive a vibrant, high-performing 
culture 
Continuing our emphasis on high 
performance, in 2015 we implemented  
a single global performance management 
framework and approach. We require every 
employee to have been set high-quality 
objectives, aligned to our strategy, which  
we monitor closely. Managers are 
accountable for working with their 
employees to develop individual and team 
performance targets, and for ensuring 
employees understand how they contribute 
to our overall business objectives. 
Co-locating around three strategic R&D centres
 > Cambridge, UK (1,600 employees)
 > Gaithersburg, Maryland US (2,900 employees)
 > Gothenburg, Sweden (2,200 employees)
6,500 
employees in  
Asia Pacific  
(excluding China,  
Japan and Russia)  
(10%)
1,400 
employees in 
Russia  
(2%)
1,700 
employees in  
Middle East  
and Africa  
(3%)
3,400 
employees in 
Central and  
South America  
(6%)
14,400 
employees in  
North America  
(23%) 
3,000 
employees  
in Japan 
(5%)
11,000 
employees  
in China  
(18%)
61,500 
employees by geographical area
20,100
employees in Europe  
(excluding Russia)  
(33%)
Sales and Marketing 
workforce 
composition (%) 
  Emerging  
Markets 56%
  Established  
Markets 44%
53 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report We continue to track our progress with 
these initiatives through our sample 
employee survey which shows an eight 
percentage point increase in the view that 
AstraZeneca has been successful at 
eliminating obstacles to efficiency when 
compared to FOCUS 2014. 
Generate a passion for people 
development
We endeavour to ensure that all our 
employees use their talents and abilities to 
the full and are provided opportunities for 
development. In addition to simplification, 
another area of improvement highlighted by 
our FOCUS 2014 employee survey was 
career development. As a result, we are 
strengthening our efforts in this area.  
In 2015, for example, we conducted over  
70 Development Week events covering 
almost all our sites globally. 
We encourage employees to take 
ownership of their own development and 
encourage leaders to spend time discussing 
their employees’ development.
The ability of managers and leaders to 
develop their employees is critical, and is 
measured through our sample employee 
surveys. The scores for the survey questions 
pertaining to people development now 
contribute to our global Scorecard objective 
of being a great place to work.
Human rights
†
We are committed to respecting and 
promoting international human rights – not 
only in our own operations, but also in our 
wider spheres of influence (such as our third 
party providers). To that end, we integrate 
human rights considerations into our 
policies, processes and practices. 
We support the principles set out in the 
United Nations Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the International Labour 
Organization’s (ILO) standards on child 
labour and minimum wages. We are also 
members of the United Nations Global 
Compact on Human Rights. 
In 2015, we completed a human rights 
labour review in all countries where we have 
a presence. The review focused on ILO core 
themes, including freedom of association 
and collective bargaining, child labour, 
discrimination, working hours and wages.  
In this second survey we added questions 
on the living wage, data management and 
recruitment and the results have remained 
positive. Where a gap to ILO minimum 
standards was identified, we are putting  
in place local plans to close those gaps.  
As well as measuring living wage progress 
internally, we also conducted an 
independent external review so that we can 
assess developments in this area to inform 
our approach better. As a first step we are 
seeking accreditation from the Living Wage 
Foundation in the UK and will treat this as  
an experience to be evaluated alongside all 
other associated evidence in respect of 
seeking a global solution, for example, 
monitoring impact on our cost base.
Managing change
As outlined in Strategic priorities on page 16 
and 17 , in 2013, we announced plans to 
invest in three strategic R&D centres which 
are shown on the map on the previous 
page. This affected employees in the US 
and the UK. We encouraged and supported 
employees to relocate and have made good 
progress. For example, 1,600 employees 
now work in Cambridge and, of these 
employees, 500 have relocated from other 
sites in the UK. In addition to the 410 
employees hired in 2015, over the next two 
years we expect to hire approximately a 
further 600 new employees to Cambridge. 
We are using interim infrastructure in and 
around Cambridge to house these 
employees until our new site is ready. For 
employees who do not accept offers to 
relocate to Cambridge we provide career 
support, outplacement support and 
competitive severance packages.
Employee relations
We seek to follow a global approach to 
employee relations guided by global 
employment principles and standards,  
local laws and good practice. We work to 
develop and maintain good relations with 
local workforces and work closely with our 
recognised national trade unions. We  
also regularly consult with employee 
representatives or, where applicable, trade 
unions, who share our aim of retaining key 
skills and mitigating job losses. 
†  For further information on AstraZeneca’s approach to doing 
business sustainably please refer to In the wider world from 
page 55 and on our website, www.astrazeneca.com.
 For more information on our restructuring 
programme, please see Financial Review from 
page 68
Equally important are our performance-
related bonus and incentive plans. We 
encourage participation in various employee 
share plans, some of which are described  
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report from 
page 103, and also in Note 26 to the 
Financial Statements, from page 182.
We regularly conduct employee surveys  
and an area of improvement highlighted  
by our FOCUS 2014 employee survey was 
the need to further simplify our organisation, 
and we use the scores for survey questions 
relating to simplification as a measure of  
our success towards achieving our 
Scorecard objective. 
Across the Group, individuals, teams and 
departments are encouraged to identify 
opportunities for simplification by removing 
obstacles to efficiency and improving the 
way in which they work. In 2015, these 
efforts were highlighted and shared in a 
virtual ‘Simplification Week’ using our new 
global intranet, Nucleus, and our global 
social platform, Chatter.
To support our drive for simplification further, 
we continue to widen the average span of 
control (7 .2 employees reporting to each 
manager in 2015, up from 6.3 in 2012) and 
limit the number of reporting layers in the 
organisation. We believe this will increase 
the speed of decision making, drive 
accountability and improve communication. 
Employees continued
Values in action:  
We are entrepreneurial 
People development is a key global priority. 
In order to encourage a growth mindset 
and connect individual development to 
achievement of our strategic ambitions, 
we held People Development Week  
events in 2015. AstraZeneca employees 
participated in more than 70 face-to-face 
events held in more than 50 countries. 
Engagement by staff was demonstrated 
by 6,600 comments on people development 
in our sample employee surveys. 
54 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Resources Review In the wider world
Our employees are critical to achieving our strategic 
priorities. To realise our full potential, however, we also 
depend on a wider set of stakeholders and are committed 
to operating our business in a sustainable manner – that 
is, in a way that delivers real value for our company, our 
planet and society as a whole.
Our stakeholders include the patients  
and physicians for whom we provide 
medicines for some of the most serious 
diseases, and the universities and institutes 
that collaborate with our scientists. 
Governments, regulators, payers, suppliers, 
other commercial organisations and the 
communities in which we operate are 
among our other stakeholders. We outline 
our stakeholder relationships throughout  
our Business Review, including Research 
and Development from page 42 and  
Sales and Marketing from page 48. In 
Manufacturing and Supply from page  
46, we examine our relationships with 
suppliers and our commitment to working 
only with those that embrace standards of 
ethical behaviour consistent with our own. 
This commitment extends to joint venture 
and co-promotion partners, and research 
and licensing partners.
Partnering 
As outlined in Strategic priorities on  
page 16 and 17 , business development, 
specifically partnering, is an important 
element of our business. It supplements  
and strengthens our pipeline and our  
efforts to achieve scientific leadership.  
As noted in Research and Development 
from page 42, we strive to access  
leading science from within and outside  
our laboratories. Our partners include 
academia, governments, industry, scientific 
organisations and patient groups. 
We pursue strategically aligned value-
enhancing business development 
opportunities and focus on
 > increasing early-stage research 
transactions and academic alliances 
 > exploring value-creating peer 
collaborations 
Overview
 > Over 240 major or strategically important business development transactions over  
the past three years
 > Created external Sustainability Advisory Board to help confirm our sustainability 
priorities and shape our strategy
 > Undertaking a materiality assessment to identify the most significant sustainability 
issues for AstraZeneca
 > Met our aggressive 2010 to 2015 carbon footprint reduction target
 > Surpassed our 2015 reduction targets for lost time injury and illness rate and vehicle 
collision rate
 > Finalised, with SET and Board approval, a new 2016 to 2025 Safety, Health and 
Environment Strategy
 > Community investment strategy focuses on healthcare in the community and  
science education
 > Young Health Programme has reached over 1.4 million young people
240
More than 240 major or strategically 
important business development 
transactions over the past three years
1.4m
Young Health Programme  
has reached over 1.4 million  
young people
55 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  > pursuing partnering, in-licensing and 
acquisitions to strengthen our therapy 
area portfolios.
Our business model also encompasses 
externalisation as a component of our 
portfolio management strategy. This 
includes strategic collaborations to broaden 
and accelerate the development of key 
pipeline assets in our three therapy areas. 
We also leverage opportunities in other 
areas where we retain an interest in the 
future development of projects. Our 
collaborations with Lilly and Celgene are 
examples of this approach. For more 
information on these externalisation 
partnerships, see Business model on  
pages 8 and 9, and Financial Review from 
page 62. We also divest medicines that  
can be deployed better by a partner with  
a primary focus in the relevant area. 
Over the past three years we have 
completed more than 240 major or 
strategically important business 
development transactions, including  
some 122 in 2015. Of these transactions,  
24 were related to clinical stage assets  
or programmes, 48 to pre-clinical assets  
or programmes and 1 1 to PHC and 
biomarkers. Thirty-nine transactions  
helped expand our biologics capabilities. 
Approximately 30 agreements related to  
our expanding commitment to Open 
Innovation. Acquisitions completed in the 
year included the acquisition of Actavis’ 
respiratory franchise in the US and the 
acquisition of ZS Pharma. Agreements 
regarding the acquisition of Takeda’s 
respiratory portfolio and the acquisition  
of a controlling equity position in Acerta 
Pharma were signed in 2015. These were 
not, however, included in the 2015 data as 
the Takeda transaction is due to complete  
In the wider world continued
Sustainability framework 
A sustainability framework is embedded in the way we operate: 
Sustainability 
Advisory Board
Established in 2015 and 
will meet twice annually 
to provide external 
insight, feedback, and 
advice to help sharpen 
our understanding of, 
and responses to, 
established and 
emerging sustainability 
issues. The Advisory 
Board will also help 
identify opportunities  
for further innovation 
and collaboration.
Stakeholders
Regular engagement 
with stakeholders, which 
takes place with a range 
of socially responsible 
investors and other 
interest groups, provides 
the opportunity for 
sustainable issues or 
concerns to be raised 
and discussed.
Board
Non-Executive Director, Geneviève Berger, oversees implementation  
of the sustainability framework and reporting to the Board
SET
SET is responsible for the framework.
 > Senior managers throughout the Group are accountable for operating in 
line with the sustainability commitments within their areas, taking into 
account national, functional, and site issues and priorities. 
 > Line managers are accountable for ensuring that their teams understand 
the requirements and that people are clear about what is expected of  
them as they work to achieve our business goals.
Sustainability Council
The Council is chaired by a SET member, currently Katarina Ageborg. 
Members comprise senior leaders from each relevant SET function. Its 
agenda will focus on driving long-term value creation by, among other things
 > agreeing sustainability priorities for the Group in line with strategic 
business objectives
 > managing and monitoring the annual process of setting sustainability 
objectives and targets, as well as reviewing performance against KPIs 
 > agreeing appropriate policy positions to support our objectives and 
reputation management.
Sustainability Working Group
The Working Group of SET function representatives supports the Council. 
The Working Group reviews issues with the potential to impact 
AstraZeneca’s sustainability agenda. As appropriate, it prepares proposals 
for the Council’s consideration.
Vehicle collisions 
Year
Collisions
per million km Target
2015 4.15 5.60
2014 4.66 6.10
Lost time injury/illness
Year
Lost time injury/illness rate
per million hours worked Target
2015 1.37 1.91
2014 1.59 2.10
56 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Resources Review Safety, health and wellbeing 
We work to promote a safe, healthy and 
energising work environment in which our 
employees and partners are able to express 
their talents, drive innovation and improve 
business performance. Our five-year target 
period ended in 2015. The targets for 2015 
included
 > no fatalities
 > lost time injury/illness rate per million 
hours worked of no more than 1.91  
(a 25% reduction from the 2010 baseline) 
 > no more than 5.6 collisions per million 
kilometres driven (40% reduction from 
2008 baseline)
 > at least 80% of sites and marketing 
companies to offer six essential health 
activities.
Our highest priority remains driver safety, 
particularly among our sales force who form 
the largest group of employees driving on 
AstraZeneca business. We monitor 
performance centrally to assess progress 
and identify areas for improvement. In 2015, 
we delivered our five-year target for reducing 
collisions per million kilometres driven, 
achieving a 55% reduction from baseline. 
We regret, however, that one employee was 
killed in a traffic accident while driving on 
AstraZeneca business. We carried out a 
detailed investigation into this accident and 
developed an action plan to address the 
findings. Actions were monitored and what 
was learnt from the incident was shared 
widely across the business. Having already 
achieved our 2015 lost time injury/illness rate 
target two years early, we achieved a further 
reduction in 2015. This equates to a 46% 
overall reduction from the 2010 baseline.
The 2015 health and wellbeing target was 
missed, with 60% of sites offering six 
essential health activities, compared to the 
80% target. Although this is disappointing, 
84% of sites now offer at least five activities, 
compared to only 28% in 201 1.
Natural resource efficiency 
Our 2015 targets
1
 included reducing
 > operational greenhouse gas footprint  
to 714,375 tonnes CO 2
 For more information on our approach to 
sustainability, benchmarking and assurance, see 
Sustainability: supplementary information from 
page 234 and the Sustainability pages on our 
website, www.astrazeneca.com
 > hazardous waste to 0.633 tonnes/$m 
sales and non-hazardous waste to  
0.473 tonnes per employee
 > water use to 3.4 million m
3
.
We are working to reduce our greenhouse 
gas emissions by, among other things, 
improving energy and fuel efficiency and 
pursuing lower-carbon alternatives to fossil 
fuels. During 2015, our air and road travel 
and freight transport emissions decreased 
due to greater achievement in switching 
freighting of goods from air to sea and 
reducing business air travel significantly. 
Procurement of energy from certified 
renewable sources increased to represent 
6. 1% of total consumption.
Our pMDI inhaler therapy relies on 
hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellants which 
affects our carbon footprint. While HFAs 
have no ozone depletion potential and a 
third or less of the global warming potential 
than the chlorofluorocarbons they replace, 
they are still greenhouse gases. Excluding 
emissions from patient use of our inhaler 
therapy, our aim by 2015 was to reduce our 
operational greenhouse gas footprint by 
20% from our 2010 level. We achieved this, 
with our operational greenhouse gas footprint 
totalling 704,073 metric tonnes in 2015, a 
reduction of 21.2% from our 2010 baseline. 
 For more information on carbon reporting, 
please see Sustainability: supplementary 
information from page 234
in the first half of 2016 and the transaction 
with Acerta Pharma completed in February 
2016. In addition, four transactions that 
contribute to Externalisation Revenue  
were completed in 2015 with a further 10 
divestments or out-licences also completed.
Sustainability
We want to be valued and trusted by our 
stakeholders as a source of great medicines 
over the long term. That means operating  
in a way that recognises the interconnection 
between business growth, the needs of 
society, and the limitations of our planet.  
Our sustainability efforts are aligned to,  
and support the delivery of, our business 
strategy in five core areas that are most 
relevant to our business
 > Increasing access to healthcare (see page 
50 and Healthy Heart Africa on page 51)
 > Natural resource efficiency (below)
 > Responsible research (from page 44)
 > Ethical business practices (see Working 
with suppliers, Sales and marketing ethics 
and Community investment on pages 47 , 
50 and 58 respectively)
 > Being a great place to work (see Develop 
a strong and diverse pipeline of leaders, 
Human rights and Safety, health and 
wellbeing on pages 53, 54 and 57 
respectively).
 Further information about our sustainability 
agenda is available on the Sustainability pages 
on our website, www.astrazeneca.com
During 2015, we commissioned an 
independent think-tank to review our current 
focus areas, examine our areas of strength 
and weakness, and help identify our 
priorities going forward. An internal focus 
group meeting took place to refine and 
calibrate the high-level findings. This 
involved assessing risks and opportunities, 
as well as the current level of integration,  
for each issue. This assessment is 
continuing and, will become the foundation 
for the priorities and improvement targets 
that define the next stage of our journey.  
Our goal is to ensure that sustainability is 
effectively aligned to our business strategy 
and truly embedded into the way in which 
we operate and define success. 
 For more information on our partnering activity 
in 2015, please see Therapy Area Review from 
page 24, Research and Development from page 42, 
Financial Review from page 62 and Note 24 to the 
Financial Statements from page 173
Operational greenhouse gas footprint 
emissions (tonnes CO 2)
2013
2014
2015 704,073
735,218
704,273
Waste production (tonnes)
2013
2014
2015 38,452
35,797
32,750
Water use (m
3
)
2013
2014
2015 3,932,598
3,786,963
3,714,674
Note: Significant site purchases in 2014 and 2015 have  
been absorbed into the annual data without historical 
rebasing of data.
57 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Waste management is another key  
aspect of our commitment to minimise 
environmental impact. We aimed to reduce 
our hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
by 15% from our 2010 levels, indexed 
appropriately. While waste prevention is  
an essential goal, we seek to maximise 
treatment by material recycling and avoiding 
landfill disposal when prevention is 
impractical. In 2015, our total waste was 
38,452 metric tonnes with a tonnes/$m 
index of 1.56. We have reduced hazardous 
waste by 22% since 2010, due principally  
to changing production patterns and major 
investment at a UK manufacturing site in 
2012 to enable recycling and reuse of 
solvent wastes. Hazardous waste generation 
indexed to $m revenues increased 5%, 
missing our 2015 target. We reduced 
non-hazardous waste by 14% since 2010, 
but when indexed against staff numbers  
the metric has not improved due to staff 
reductions since the baseline was set.
We recognise the need to use water 
responsibly and, where possible, to 
minimise water use in our facilities. To  
reach our 2015 water use reduction target  
of 25% from 2010 levels, we initiated water 
conservation plans at our largest sites.  
In 2015, our water use was 3.9 million m
3
,  
a reduction of 14% from our 2010 baseline. 
This fell some distance short of achieving 
our very ambitious five-year target. Water 
use indexed to revenues was 159 m
3
/$m 
(+ 16% from 2010 baseline).
We are also working on measuring and 
reporting the environmental impact of  
our external manufacturing activity and 
encourage setting of appropriate 
environmental targets with our suppliers.  
We believe we have captured data for  
more than 90% (based on spend) of the 
globally managed outsourced manufacture 
of key intermediates and APIs, formulation 
and packaging for our established brands. 
Understanding and management of  
our external supplier footprint will be a 
continued focus of our Safety, Health and 
Environment (SHE) improvement efforts 
going forward.
We continue to integrate environmental 
considerations across a medicine’s entire 
life-cycle, from discovery, research  
and development to manufacturing, 
commercialisation and disposal. We follow  
a progressive compliance programme to 
ensure that our manufacturing emissions  
of APIs do not exceed our internal standards 
for safe discharges at our manufacturing 
sites and we periodically conduct 
compliance assessments. We also follow  
a progressive approach to ensure 
ecopharmacovigilance. This involves 
regularly reviewing emerging science and 
literature for new information that might 
impact the environmental risk management 
plans for our products. 
New Safety, Health and Environment 
Strategy
In 2015, we finalised a new 2016 to 2025 
SHE Strategy to build on our 2010 to 2015 
performance and ensure that we are 
protecting the health and safety of our 
people and doing our ‘fair share’ to protect 
the planet. As an output of this strategic 
initiative, we have established a set of 
targets aimed at keeping AstraZeneca 
among the sector leaders in SHE 
performance. Our targets for 2025  
are shown over.
Achieving these targets during a period  
of expected strong business growth will 
require significant business engagement 
and investment in resource efficiency.  
In light of this challenge, and in recognition 
that we narrowly missed our 2010 to  
2015 water and waste efficiency targets,  
we have established a dedicated fund for 
capital projects that can drive substantial 
improvement in natural resource efficiency. 
We disclose our carbon and water 
performance and targets to external  
indices including the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP). In the build up to COP 21,  
the 2015 Paris Climate Conference, we 
signed up to the CDP commitments for 
science-based targets and public disclosure 
of information associated with climate 
change performance.
Community investment 
Our global community investment strategy 
focuses on healthcare in the community 
and science education. We are committed 
to operating responsibly, which means 
supporting our community and maximising 
the benefit of our investment for all 
stakeholders. For example, 2015 was the 
fifth year of our partnership with the UK 
educational charity Career Ready to support 
 Further information, including environmental 
risk assessment data for our medicines, is 
available on our website, www.astrazeneca.com
In the wider world continued
Values in action: Do the right thing
Michael Baldinger, CEO of RobecoSAM, 
said: “As one of the top-scoring companies 
in the pharmaceutical industry, AstraZeneca 
PLC has qualified for inclusion in the 2016 
Sustainability Yearbook and has received 
the Silver Class distinction for its excellent 
sustainability performance.” 
58 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Resources Review Young Health Programme
We continued to develop the three strands 
of our Young Health Programme (YHP): 
advocacy; research; and evidence 
generation. These on-the-ground 
programmes focus on the primary 
prevention of non-communicable diseases 
(NCDs) and associated adolescent risk 
behaviours. With over 1.4 million young 
people in communities across five 
continents directly provided with the skills 
and information they need to improve their 
health, we have well exceeded our Clinton 
Global Initiative Commitment to Action of 
reaching 250,000 young people directly  
by the end of 2015. Over 14,600 of these 
young people have been trained to share 
this health information with their peers and 
the community. The programmes have also 
trained more than 12,000 frontline health 
workers in adolescent health.
We continue to support research evidencing 
the importance of adolescence in future 
health, and undertake advocacy activities to 
ensure adolescent health and the prevention 
of NCDs are global and local priorities. The 
engagement and involvement of youth is  
at the core of the YHP . Activities in 2015 
included commissioning research on NCD 
risk behaviours and participation in the 
development of an NCD prevention chapter 
for UNICEF Facts for Life book. We also 
funded YHP side meetings at WHO Geneva 
(May 2015) and United Nations General 
Assembly in September 2015. 
Disaster relief
The British Red Cross continues to act  
as our global disaster relief partner, 
channelling the bulk of our disaster relief 
donations. In addition to the charitable 
donations referenced in Community 
investment above, in April 2015 we donated 
£50,000 via British Red Cross to the Nepal 
Earthquake Appeal, $200,000 in July to 
fund the replenishment of the Kuala Lumpur 
Emergency Response Unit and £50,000 in 
September to Europe Refugee Crisis 
Appeal. In December, and as part of wider 
AstraZeneca support for those affected by 
the floods in Chennai, where over 1,000 
AstraZeneca employees are based, we 
donated $30,000 to SEWA International.
1
  Figures have been revised from those previously published 
to incorporate our biologics capabilities into our targets.  
Our targets for 2011 to 2015 were set in 2010.
2
  Healthy Eating & Drinking, Tobacco Cessation, Physical 
Activity, Workplace Pressure Management.
3
  Carbon target follows the science and uses the Science-
Based Target Setting tool developed by the World Resources 
Institute. Operational footprint = energy and process 
emissions, business travel, waste incineration, freight/
logistics, 1st tier supply chain energy and patient use of 
inhalers. Carbon intensity = CO 2 tonnes/$m sales. 
4
  For 2015 we have revised our reporting to reflect what was 
shipped from AstraZeneca for use in our Patient Assistance 
Programs as opposed to what was actually dispensed to 
patients, and have also moved to reporting the wholesale 
acquisition cost as opposed to average wholesale price.  
As a result, the 2015 numbers reported are lower than 
reported in 2014.
 Further information on YHP can be found on its 
website, www.younghealthprogrammeyhp.com
increased participation by 16 to 19 year-olds 
in science, technology, engineering and 
maths subjects.
In 2015, we spent a total of approximately 
$680 million (2014: approximately  
$880 million) on community investment 
sponsorships, partnerships and charitable 
donations worldwide, including our  
product donation and patient assistance 
programmes which make our medicines 
available free of charge or at reduced  
prices. Through our three patient assistance 
programmes
4
 in the US we donated 
products valued at an average wholesale 
price of over $617 million (2014: over  
$800 million). We also donated products 
worth over $17 million, valued at  
average wholesale price, to charitable 
organisation AmeriCares.
New Safety, Health and Environment Strategy targets,  
2016 to 2025 
Eliminate workplace accidents  
and illnesses
Accidents: 
 
75%
75% reduction in total injury rate  
from 2015 baseline
Health and wellbeing: 
 
80%
80% of sites/marketing companies have  
all four ‘Essential Health Activities’
2
 
Driver safety: 
 
55%
55% reduction in collisions per million 
kilometres driven
Protect natural resources 
Carbon:  
30%
Compared to a 2015 baseline, 
operational carbon at the same level and 
reduce overall carbon intensity by 30%
3
Waste:  
 
10% 
10% absolute reduction from 2015 
baseline
Water:  
Cap usage from 2015 baseline 
90% 
90% of API syntheses meet resource 
efficiency targets at launch and establish 
equivalent targets for biologics
Ensure the environmental safety of our products 
Ensure effective environmental management of our products from pre-launch  
through to product end-of-life
59 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Intellectual Property
Discovering and developing medicines requires a significant investment of resources  
by research-based pharmaceutical companies. The process can take a decade or more. 
For this to be a viable investment, new medicines must be safeguarded from being 
copied with a reasonable amount of certainty for a reasonable period of time.
clinical trials and regulatory approval 
processes. Patent Term Extensions (PTE) 
are available in certain major markets, 
including the EU and the US, to compensate 
for these delays. The term of the PTE  
can vary from zero to five years, depending 
on the time taken to obtain any marketing 
approval. The maximum patent term,  
when including PTE, cannot exceed 15 
years (EU) or 14 years (US) from the first 
marketing authorisation.
Patent expiries
The tables on pages 210 and 21 1 set out 
certain patent expiry dates and sales for  
our key marketed products. 
Other exclusivities
In addition to patent protection, regulatory 
data protection (RDP or ‘data exclusivity’)  
is an important IP right, which arises in 
respect of data which is required to be 
submitted to regulatory authorities to obtain 
marketing approvals for our medicines. 
Significant investment is required to generate 
such data (for example, through conducting 
global clinical trials) and this proprietary data 
is protected from use by third parties (such 
as generic manufacturers) for a number of 
years in a limited number of countries. The 
period of such protection, and the extent  
to which it is respected, differs significantly 
among countries. RDP is an important 
protection for our products, and we strive to 
enforce our rights to it, particularly as patent 
rights are increasingly being challenged.
The RDP period starts from the date of the 
first marketing approval from the relevant 
regulatory authority and runs parallel to any 
pending patent protection. RDP generally 
expires prior to patent expiry in all major 
markets. If a product takes an unusually 
long time to secure marketing approval, or if 
patent protection has not been secured, has 
expired or has been lost, then RDP may be 
the sole IP right protecting a product from 
copying. Generic manufacturers should not 
be allowed to rely on AstraZeneca’s data to 
support the generic product’s approval or 
marketing until the RDP right has expired.  
In the EU, the RDP period is eight years 
followed by two years’ marketing exclusivity. 
In the US, new chemical entities (NCEs) are 
entitled to a period of five years’ exclusivity 
under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic 
Act. This period of exclusivity runs parallel to 
any pending or granted patent protection 
and starts at the approval of the new 
application. As with RDP , there are 
circumstances where this protection could 
be the sole IP right protecting a product 
from being copied. Further, under the 
Biologics License Application process, the 
FDA will grant 12 years’ data exclusivity for  
a new biologic to an innovator manufacturer.
Under Orphan Drug laws in the EU and US, 
exclusivity is granted to an innovator who 
gains approval for a pharmaceutical product 
developed to treat a rare disease. What 
qualifies as a rare condition differs between 
the EU and US. Qualifying Orphan Drugs are 
granted 10 years’ market exclusivity in the EU 
and seven years’ market exclusivity in the US.
Under the Generating Antibiotics Incentives 
Now Act, the FDA may grant Qualified 
Infectious Disease Product (QIDP) status.  
An antibiotic achieving QIDP status is 
granted five years’ exclusivity while QIDPs 
that are also NCEs are entitled to 10 years’ 
exclusivity, extending to 12 years’ if the 
disease state is an orphan. The period of 
exclusivity granted to a product with QIDP 
status runs concurrently with any pending  
or granted patent protection.
Compulsory licensing
Compulsory licensing (where a Patent 
Authority imposes a licence on the  
Patentee) is on the increase in certain 
markets in which we operate. We recognise 
the right of developing countries to use the 
flexibilities in the World Trade Organization’s 
Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of 
Intellectual Property Rights (including the 
Doha amendment) in certain circumstances, 
such as a public health emergency. We 
believe this should apply only when all other 
ways of meeting the emergency needs have 
been considered and where healthcare 
frameworks and safeguards exist to ensure 
the medicines reach those who need them.
Our industry’s principal economic safeguard 
is a well-functioning patent system that 
recognises our efforts and rewards 
innovation with appropriate protection – and 
allows time to generate the revenue we 
need to reinvest in pharmaceutical 
innovation. Patent rights are limited by 
territory and duration. A significant portion  
of a patent’s duration can be spent during 
R&D, before it is possible to launch the 
protected product. Therefore, we commit 
significant resources to establishing and 
defending our patent and related IP 
protections for inventions.
Patent process
We file patent protection applications for our 
inventions to safeguard the large investment 
required to obtain marketing approvals for 
potential new drugs. As we further develop 
a product and its uses, these new 
developments may necessitate new patent 
filings. We apply for patents through 
government patent offices around the world. 
These assess whether our inventions meet 
the strict legal requirements for a patent to 
be granted. Our competitors can challenge 
our patents in patent offices and/or courts. 
We may face challenges early in the patent 
application process and throughout a 
patent’s life. The grounds for these 
challenges could be the validity of a patent 
and/or its effective scope and are based  
on ever-evolving legal precedents. We are 
experiencing increased challenges in the  
US and elsewhere in the world (such as  
in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe 
and Japan) and there can be no guarantee 
of success for either party in patent 
proceedings. For information about third 
party challenges to patents protecting our 
products, see Note 27 to the Financial 
Statements from page 186. For more 
information on the risks relating to patent 
litigation and early loss and expiry of 
patents, please see Risk from page 212.
The basic term of a patent is typically 20 
years from the filing of the patent application 
with the relevant patent office. However,  
a product protected by a pharmaceutical 
patent may not be marketed for several 
years after filing, due to the duration of 
60 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report    Resources Review Infrastructure
The Group owns and operates R&D and production facilities and conducts sales 
and marketing activities around the world. Significant information technology and 
information services resources support these activities.
Westborough, Massachusetts; West 
Chester, Ohio; Mount Vernon, Indiana  
and Coppell, Texas), China (Wuxi and 
Taizhou), Russia (Vorsino), France (Reims 
and Dunkerque), Japan (Maihara),  
Australia (North Ryde), Indonesia (Jakarta), 
Egypt (Cairo), India (Bangalore), Puerto  
Rico (Canóvanas), Germany (Wedel),  
Mexico (Lomas Verdes), Brazil (Cotia) and 
Argentina (Buenos Aires). Our Taizhou 
supply site won the 2015 Facility of the  
Year award in the category of Project 
Execution by the International Society  
for Pharmaceutical Engineering.
We operate sites for the manufacture of 
APIs in the UK and Sweden, complemented 
by the efficient use of external sourcing. Our 
principal tablet and capsule formulation sites 
are in the UK, Sweden, Puerto Rico and the 
US. We also have major formulation sites  
for the global supply of parenteral and/or 
inhalation products in Sweden, France, 
Australia and the UK. 
For biologics, our principal commercial 
manufacturing facilities are in the US 
(Frederick, Maryland, Greater Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania and Boulder, Colorado), the 
UK (Speke), and the Netherlands (Nijmegen) 
with capabilities in process development, 
manufacturing and distribution of biologics, 
including global supply of MAbs and 
influenza vaccines. 
At the end of 2015, approximately 12,500 
people at 29 sites in 17 countries were 
working on the manufacture and supply  
of our products. 
Information technology and 
information services resources
At the end of 2015, our IT organisation 
comprised approximately 2,800 people 
across our sites in the UK (Alderley Park  
and Macclesfield), Sweden (Södertälje and 
Gothenburg), the US (Wilmington, Delaware 
and Gaithersburg, Maryland), and our  
new technology centre in India (Chennai). 
A further 250 IT people worked in our  
R&D and operations sites and key  
marketing companies. 
In the beginning of 2014, we launched a 
wide-ranging IT Transformation Programme 
to better support our business priorities. 
Since then, we have made various  
changes to our operating model and 
organisational structure to improve 
efficiency, responsiveness and innovation.
Our IT vision is to deliver world-class 
performance in terms of speed, quality,  
cost and innovation. At the same time, we 
are relying on IT to enable simplification of 
our business processes. To achieve this we 
need to improve our current performance 
significantly while reducing our overall 
spend. We will measure our success by 
tracking customer satisfaction and recording 
the number and severity of incidents with 
business impacts as well as the speed with 
which we respond to and mitigate such 
incidents. We will also take into account 
project delivery and cost (absolute and  
as a percentage of revenue) as compared  
to industry benchmarks. 
Protecting our IT systems, IP and 
confidential information against cyberattacks 
is a key concern. Our IT organisation is 
constantly developing and implementing 
robust, effective and agile risk-based 
approaches to protect our resources  
and keep pace with the rapidly evolving 
cybersecurity risk landscape. To help  
guard against cybercrime, we have adopted 
a comprehensive cybersecurity process 
and policy, which we regularly review  
and update. We are equally vigilant in 
monitoring our systems and data with 
sophisticated technology. This includes 
educating our employees about cybercrime, 
internet use and best practices to mitigate 
the risk of attack. 
R&D resources 
We have approximately 8,900 employees  
in our R&D organisation, working in various 
sites around the world. Our small molecule 
sites are located in the UK (Alderley Park, 
Cambridge and Macclesfield), Sweden 
(Gothenburg), the US (Gaithersburg, 
Maryland and Waltham, Massachusetts), 
Japan (Osaka) and China (Shanghai).  
Our biologics sites are located in the UK 
(Cambridge) and in the US (Gaithersburg, 
Maryland and Mountain View, California). 
Our Gaithersburg, Maryland, US; Cambridge, 
UK; and Warsaw, Poland sites focus on  
late-stage development for small molecules 
and biologics across our entire portfolio.  
Our strategic expansion in Emerging 
Markets continues and includes the  
ongoing growth of our R&D facility  
in China (Shanghai).
R&D spend analysis 
2015 2014 2013
Discovery  
and early-stage 
development 39% 47% 55%
Late-stage 
development 61% 53% 45% 
Core R&D  
expenditure
1
$5,603m $4,941m $4,269m
1
  Reported R&D expenditure was $6.0 billion  
(2014: $5.6 billion; 2013: $4.8 billion).
In 2015, Core R&D expenditure was  
$5.6 billion in our R&D organisation (2014: 
$4.9 billion; 2013: $4.3 billion). In addition, 
we spent $1,341 million on acquiring 
product rights (such as in-licensing) (2014: 
$907 million; 2013: $635 million). We also 
invested $258 million on the implementation 
of our R&D restructuring strategy (2014: 
$497 million; 2013: $490 million). The 
allocations of spend by early-stage and 
late-stage development are presented in  
the R&D spend analysis table above. 
Manufacturing and supply resources 
Our principal small molecule manufacturing 
facilities are in the UK (Avlon and 
Macclesfield), Sweden (Gärtuna and 
Södertälje), the US (Newark, Delaware; 
61 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Financial Review
strategic collaboration in haematology  
with Celgene Corporation and the 
co-development and co-commercialisation 
arrangement with Daiichi Sankyo for 
Movantik in the US. These offset the 
headwinds from ongoing patent expiries, 
including that of Nexium in the US in 
February 2015, as well as the adverse 
impacts from Synagis guideline changes  
in the second half of 2014.
Excluding the impact of Externalisation 
Revenue, the Core Gross Profit margin 
increased by one percentage point,  
helped by the mix of Product Sales and 
manufacturing efficiencies, and Core SG&A 
costs declined by 2% to $9.3 billion. We 
have progressed a number of ongoing 
programmes designed to address Core 
SG&A costs including targeting sales, 
marketing and medical cost effectiveness, 
improving efficiencies across support 
functions and IT, and optimising the  
global footprint. 
This allowed us to continue to focus on our 
pipeline and Core R&D costs were up 21% 
in the year to $5.6 billion as Oncology 
attracted over 40% of total Core R&D 
expenditure in the year, reflecting a number 
of active trials. 
In 2015, our financial performance reflected 
continued progress from our Growth 
Platforms, which grew by 1 1% in the year 
and now contribute 57% of Total Revenue, 
which increased by 1% to $24.7 billion in the 
year. Our Respiratory franchise grew by 7% 
during 2015, driven by a strengthening 
portfolio, our Emerging Markets business 
and the availability of new products in the 
US and EU. Brilinta/Brilique grew by 44%  
in the year, with particular strength in the  
US and Emerging Markets, led by China, 
and Diabetes delivered an impressive 
performance, with encouraging growth 
driven by Farxiga/Forxiga and the Bydureon 
Pen. Strong growth in Emerging Markets 
continued throughout the year with China, 
Brazil and Russia all delivering double-digit 
increases and our Japan business 
maintained solid growth, with Symbicort, 
Crestor and Nexium all maintaining leading 
market share positions in a competitive 
market environment. For the first time, New 
Oncology, which includes the launches of 
Lynparza, Iressa (US) and Tagrisso, was 
included as a Growth Platform, given our 
belief in its long-term importance for our 
future growth.
The performance of the Growth Platforms 
was supplemented by over $1 billion of 
Externalisation Revenue arising from 
entering into collaborations including the 
Core Other Operating Income was $1.5 
billion in the year and included $380 million 
to divest US and $215 million for Rest of 
World rights to Entocort. Core Operating 
Profit increased by 6% to $6.9 billion and 
Core Earnings per Share increased by 7% 
to $4.26. Reported Operating Profit, at  
$4. 1 billion, included fair value adjustments 
to contingent consideration, which reduced 
SG&A costs by $432 million, primarily in 
relation to the acquisition of BMS’s share  
of the Global Diabetes Alliance.
We generated a cash inflow from operating 
activities of $3.3 billion in the year with a 
continued improvement in working capital 
investment. We maintained a strong, 
investment-grade credit rating and, in 
November, issued a total of $6 billion of 
bonds to fund corporate and business 
development activity, repay certain 
outstanding commercial paper obligations 
and for general corporate purposes. We 
ended the year with net debt of $7 .8 billion.
As we look to the future, we expect a low to 
mid single-digit percentage decline in Total 
Revenue at CER in 2016. A low to mid 
single-digit percentage decline in Core EPS  
at CER is also expected. This guidance 
incorporates the dilutive effects arising from 
the Acerta Pharma and ZS Pharma 
transactions announced in 2015. The 
guidance also assumes the loss of exclusivity 
for Crestor in the US from May 2016. 
Externalisation Revenue is expected to be 
ahead of that in 2015, including an increasing 
element of recurring income arising from prior 
agreements. This is in line with our long-term 
business model. Core R&D costs are 
expected to be at a similar level to 2015 while 
we are committed to materially reducing Core 
SG&A costs in 2016. The weakness of key 
trading currencies against the US dollar has 
continued. Based on average exchange rates 
in January 2016 and our published currency 
sensitivities, an adverse impact of around 3% 
from currency movements on Total Revenue 
and Core EPS in 2016 would be anticipated.
 
 
 
 
Marc Dunoyer 
Chief Financial Officer
In 2015, a double-digit increase in our Growth Platforms 
helped our top-line to remain resilient, despite headwinds 
that included the loss of exclusivity of Nexium in the US.
This, combined with a strong gross margin and disciplined cost management, allowed  
us to continue to make important long-term investment in our three main therapy areas, 
while delivering a 7% growth in Core earnings.
62 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report and regulatory environment. For instance, 
although there is no direct governmental 
control on prices in the US, action from 
federal and individual state programmes 
and health insurance bodies is leading to 
downward pressures on realised prices. 
In other parts of the world, there are  
a variety of price and volume control 
mechanisms and retrospective rebates 
based on sales levels that are imposed  
by governments. 
 > The timings of new product launches, 
which can be influenced by national 
regulators, and the risk that such new 
products do not succeed as anticipated, 
together with the rate of sales growth and 
costs following new product launches. 
 > Currency fluctuations. Our functional and 
reporting currency is the US dollar, but  
we have substantial exposures to other 
currencies, in particular the euro, 
Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Chinese 
renminbi and Swedish krona. 
 > Macro factors such as greater demand 
from an ageing population and increasing 
requirements of Emerging Markets. 
Over the longer term, the success of our 
R&D is crucial and we devote substantial 
resources to this area. The benefits of this 
investment are expected to emerge over the 
long term and there is considerable inherent 
uncertainty as to whether and when it will 
generate future products.
The most significant features of our financial 
results in 2015 are
 > Total Revenue up 1% at CER to $24,708 
million (Actual: down 7%). 
 > Revenues of our Growth Platforms 
increased 1 1% at CER and constituted 
57% of our Total Revenue, with
 – Respiratory up 7% at CER ahead of  
the proposed acquisition of Takeda’s 
respiratory business
 – Brilinta/Brilique up 44% at CER, 
underpinned by a recently-extended 
US label and positive CHMP opinion
 – Diabetes up 26% at CER, including 
76% in Emerging Markets and global 
Farxiga/Forxiga growth of 137%
 – Emerging Markets up 12% at CER, 
including China and Latin America 
 – each growing by 15% at CER
 – Japan up 4% at CER, including 8%  
in the fourth quarter
 – New Oncology $1 19 million, comprising 
Lynparza, Iressa (US) and Tagrisso.
 > Core operating profit was up 6% at  
CER (Actual: down 1%) to $6,902 million. 
The increase reflected a reduction in our 
Core SG&A costs and an increase in 
Externalisation Revenue and Core other 
operating income. We are continuing to 
invest in our pipeline and Growth 
Platforms.
 > Reported operating profit was up 100% 
at CER (Actual: 93%) to $4, 1 14 million. 
Total restructuring costs associated with 
the global programme to reshape the 
cost base of our business were $1,034 
million in 2015.
 > Our Core operating margin of 27 .9% of 
Total Revenue was up 1.3 percentage 
points (Actual: 1.8 percentage points). 
Reported operating margin was 16.7%  
of Total Revenue.
 > Core EPS for the full year was $4.26, up 
7% at CER (Actual: flat). Reported EPS 
was up 137% at CER (Actual: 128%)  
to $2.23.
 > Dividends paid amounted to $3,486 
million (2014: $3,521 million). 
The purpose of this Financial Review is to 
provide a balanced and comprehensive 
analysis of the financial performance of the 
business during 2015, the financial position 
as at the end of the year, and the main 
business factors and trends which could 
affect the future financial performance of  
the business.
All growth rates in this Financial Review are 
expressed at CER unless noted otherwise.
Business background and results 
overview 
The business background is covered in  
the Marketplace section from page 12, the 
Therapy Area Review from page 24 and  
the Geographical Review from page 227 , 
and describes in detail the developments  
in both our products and the geographical 
regions in which we operate. 
As described earlier in this Annual Report, 
sales of our products are directly influenced 
by medical need and are generally paid for 
by health insurance schemes or national 
healthcare budgets. Our operating results 
can be affected by a number of factors 
other than the delivery of operating plans 
and normal competition, such as:
 > The risk of competition from generics 
following loss of patent protection or 
patent expiry of one of our products or  
an ‘at risk’ launch by a competitor or the 
launch of a generic competitor in the 
same class as one of our products, with 
the potential adverse effects on sales 
volumes and prices. Details of patent 
expiries for our key marketed products 
are included in the Patent expiries section 
on page 60.
 > The adverse impact on pharmaceutical 
prices as a result of the macroeconomic 
 Our financial 
performance in 2015 
reflected continued 
progress from our Growth 
Platforms, which grew  
11% in the year and  
now contribute 57%  
of Total Revenue.”
Contents
Introduction 62
Business background and results overview 63
Measuring performance 64
Results of operations – summary analysis of year to 31 December 2015 65
Cash flow and liquidity 69
Financial position 71
Capitalisation and shareholder return 75
Future prospects 76
Financial risk management 76
Critical accounting policies and estimates 77
Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 81
63 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Financial Review continued
(by retranslating the current year’s 
performance at previous year’s exchange 
rates and adjusting for other exchange 
effects, including hedging). A 
reconciliation of the Reported results 
adjusted for the impact of currency 
movements is provided in the 2015 
Reported operating profit table on the 
page opposite. 
 > Gross and operating margin percentages. 
These measures set out the progression 
of key performance margins and illustrate 
the overall quality of the business. 
 > Prescription volumes and trends for key 
products. These measures can represent 
the real business growth and the 
progress of individual products better and 
more immediately than invoiced sales. 
 > Net funds/debt. This represents our cash 
and cash equivalents, current investments 
and derivative financial instruments less 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings. 
We strongly encourage readers of the 
Annual Report not to rely on any single 
financial measure but to review our financial 
statements, including the notes thereto,  
and our other publicly filed reports, carefully 
and in their entirety.
CER measures allow us to focus on the 
changes in revenues and expenses driven  
by volume, prices and cost levels relative  
to the prior period. Revenues and cost growth 
expressed in CER allows management to 
understand the true local movement in 
revenues and costs, in order to compare 
recent trends and relative return on 
investment. CER growth rates can be used  
to analyse revenues in a number of ways  
but, most often, we consider CER growth  
by products and groups of products, and by 
countries and regions. CER revenues growth 
can be further analysed into the impact of 
revenues volumes and selling price. Similarly, 
CER cost growth helps us to focus on the real 
local change in costs so that we can manage 
the cost base effectively.
We believe that disclosing Core financial  
and growth measures, in addition to our 
Reported financial information, enhances 
investors’ ability to evaluate and analyse  
the underlying financial performance of  
our ongoing business and the related key 
business drivers. The adjustments made to 
our Reported financial information in order 
to show Core financial measures illustrate 
clearly, on a year-on-year or period-by-
period basis, the impact on our 
performance caused by factors such as 
changes in revenues and expenses driven 
by volume, prices and cost levels relative to 
such prior years or periods.
Readers of the Annual Report should note 
that Core results cannot be achieved 
without incurring the following costs that  
the Core measures exclude: 
 – Amortisation of intangible assets  
which generally arise from business 
combinations and individual licence 
acquisitions. A significant part of our 
revenues could not be generated 
without owning the associated acquired 
intangible assets.
 – Charges and provisions related to  
our global restructuring programmes. 
Our Core financial measures do not 
include such costs but our Core  
results do reflect the benefits of such 
restructuring initiatives.
It should also be noted that other costs 
excluded from our Core results, such  
as finance charges related to contingent 
consideration will recur in future years and 
other excluded items such as impairments 
and legal settlement costs, along with  
other acquisition-related costs may recur  
in the future.
As shown in the 2015 Reconciliation of 
Reported results to Core results table  
on the page opposite, our reconciliation  
of Reported financial information to Core 
financial measures includes a breakdown  
of the items for which our Reported  
financial information is adjusted and a 
further breakdown by specific line item as 
such items are reflected in our Reported 
income statement. This illustrates the 
significant items that are excluded from 
Core financial measures and their impact  
on our Reported financial information,  
both as a whole and in respect of specific 
line items.
Management presents these results 
externally to meet investors’ requirements 
for transparency and clarity. Core financial 
measures are also used internally in the 
management of our business performance, 
in our budgeting process and when 
determining compensation.
Core financial measures are non-GAAP 
measures. All items for which Core financial 
measures are adjusted are included in our 
Measuring performance
The following measures are referred to in 
this Financial Review when reporting on our 
performance both in absolute terms, but 
more often in comparison to earlier years:
 > Reported performance. Reported 
performance takes into account all the 
factors (including those which we cannot 
influence, principally currency exchange 
rates) that have affected the results of  
our business, as reflected in our Group 
Financial Statements prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by  
the EU and as issued by the IASB (‘IFRS’). 
 > Core financial measures. These are 
non-GAAP measures because, unlike 
Reported performance, they cannot be 
derived directly from the information in  
the Group Financial Statements. These 
measures are adjusted to exclude certain 
significant items, such as
 – amortisation and impairment of 
intangibles, including impairment 
reversals but excluding any charges 
relating to IT assets
 – charges and provisions related to our 
global restructuring programmes (this 
will include such charges that relate to 
the impact of our global restructuring 
programmes on our capitalised IT 
assets) 
 – other specified items, principally 
comprising legal settlements and 
acquisition-related costs which include 
fair value adjustments and the imputed 
finance charge relating to contingent 
consideration. 
  In determining the adjustments to arrive at 
the Core result, we use a set of established 
principles relating to the nature and 
materiality of individual items or groups  
of items, excluding, for example, events 
which (i) are outside the normal course of 
business, (ii) are incurred in a pattern that 
is unrelated to the trends in the underlying 
financial performance of our ongoing 
business, or (iii) are related to major 
acquisitions, to ensure that investors’ 
ability to evaluate and analyse the 
underlying financial performance of our 
ongoing business is enhanced. See the 
2015 Reconciliation of Reported results  
to Core results table on the opposite page 
for a reconciliation of Reported to Core 
performance. 
 > Constant exchange rate (CER) growth 
rates. These are also non-GAAP 
measures. These measures remove  
the effects of currency movements  
64 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  Results of operations – summary analysis of year ended 31 December 2015 
2015 Reported operating profit
2015 2014 Percentage of Total Revenue 2015 compared with 2014
Reported
$m
CER
growth
$m
Growth
due to
exchange
effects
$m
Reported
Restated
1
$m
Reported
2015
%
Reported
2014
Restated
1
%
CER
growth
2
%
Actual
growth
%
Product Sales 23,641 (387) (2,067) 26,095 (1) (9)
Externalisation Revenue 1,067 631 (16) 452 140 136
Total Revenue 24,708 244 (2,083) 26,547 1 (7)
Cost of sales (4,646) 700 496 (5,842) (18.8) (22.0) (12) (20)
Gross profit 20,062 944 (1,587) 20,705 81.2 78.0 5 (3)
Distribution costs (339) (56) 41 (324) (1.4) (1.2) 17 5
Research and development expense (5,997) (850) 432 (5,579) (24.3) (21.0) 15 7
Selling, general and administrative costs (11,112) 1,008 880 (13,000) (44.9) (49.0) (8) (15)
Other operating income and expense 1,500 1,189 (24) 335 6.1 1.2 355 348
Operating profit 4,114 2,235 (258) 2,137 16.7 8.0 100 93
Net finance expense (1,029) (885)
Share of after tax losses of joint ventures (16) (6)
Profit before tax 3,069 1,246
Taxation (243) (11)
Profit for the period 2,826 1,235
Basic earnings per share ($) 2.23 0.98
1
 2014 comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Externalisation Revenue from other operating income and expense as detailed in Group Accounting Policies from page 144.
2
 As detailed on page 64, CER growth is calculated using prior year actual results adjusted for certain exchange effects including hedging.
2015 Reconciliation of Reported results to Core results
2015
Reported
$m
Restructuring
costs
$m
Intangible 
amortisation
and
impairments
$m
BMS’s share 
of diabetes 
alliance 
$m 
Legal 
provisions 
and other
$m
2015 
Core
1
$m
Core
1
 2015 
CER 
growth 
%
Actual
growth
%
Gross profit 20,062 158 369 – – 20,589 2 (5)
Product Sales gross margin %
2
80.3% 82.6%
Total Revenue gross margin % 81.2% 83.3%
Distribution costs (339) – – – – (339) 17 5
Research and development expense (5,997) 258 136 – – (5,603) 21 13
Selling, general and administrative costs (11,112) 618 921 54 254 (9,265) (2) (9)
Other operating income and expense 1,500 – 178 – (158) 1,520 104 100
Operating profit 4,114 1,034 1,604 54 96 6,902 6 (1)
Operating margin as a % of Total Revenue 16.7% 27.9%
Net finance expense (1,029) – – 409 115 (505)
Taxation (243) (217) (344) (152) (34) (990)
Basic earnings per share ($) 2.23 0.65 1.00 0.24 0.14 4.26
1
 Each of the measures in the Core column in the above table are non-GAAP measures.
2
 Gross margin as a % of Product Sales reflects gross profit derived from Product Sales, divided by Product Sales.
results table below, and to the Results of 
operations – summary analysis of year  
ended 31 December 2014 section from 
page 236 for our discussion of comparative 
Actual growth measures that reflect all 
factors that affect our business. 
Our determination of non-GAAP  
measures, and our presentation of them 
within this financial information, may differ 
from similarly titled non-GAAP measures  
of other companies.
Reported financial information as they 
represent actual costs of our business  
in the periods presented. As a result, Core 
financial measures merely allow investors to 
differentiate between different kinds of costs 
and they should not be used in isolation. 
You should also refer to our Reported 
financial information in the 2015 Reported 
operating profit table below, our 
reconciliation of Core financial measures  
to Reported financial information in the 
Reconciliation of Reported results to Core 
The SET retains strategic management of 
the costs excluded from Reported financial 
information in arriving at Core financial 
measures, tracking their impact on 
Reported operating profit and EPS, with 
operational management being delegated 
on a case-by-case basis to ensure clear 
accountability and consistency for each 
cost category.
65 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report growth in China of 15% to $2,530 million. 
Further details of our product performance 
are contained in the Geographical Review 
from page 227 .
Our Growth Platforms, which include New 
Oncology, grew by 1 1%, representing 59% 
of total Product Sales.
Product Sales of Respiratory medicines 
were up 7% ahead of the proposed 
acquisition of Takeda’s respiratory business 
(as detailed on page 28). Sales of Brilinta/
Brilique in the year were $619 million, an 
increase of 44%. The FDA approved Brilinta 
tablets at a new 60mg dose to be used by 
patients with a history of heart attack 
beyond the first year of treatment in 2015. 
Our Diabetes Product Sales were 26% 
higher than in 2014, which included growth 
of 137% on Farxiga/Forxiga with global  
sales of $492 million and several successful 
launches in the year in a number of 
international markets. Product Sales in 
Emerging Markets increased by 12% to 
$5,822 million in 2015 as we continued to 
focus on delivering innovative medicines to 
these markets in the year, with a particular 
focus on China and other leading markets 
such as Russia and Brazil. Product Sales  
in Japan increased by 4% to $2,020 million, 
with Crestor continuing to grow strongly  
in the year, up 8% to $468 million. Global 
Product Sales of Crestor declined in the 
year by 3% to $5,017 million, which primarily 
reflected ongoing competition from generic 
statins. Symbicort global Product Sales 
declined by 3% to $3,394 million, with sales 
in Europe down 14% to $1,076 million, with 
a modest volume decline and a significant 
price decline reflecting increased competition 
from recently-launched analogue medicines. 
Global Product Sales of Seroquel XR 
declined by 12% to $1,025 million, as a 
result of generic product competition.
Externalisation Revenue
The Group updated its revenue accounting 
policy with effect from 1 January 2015. As 
detailed earlier in the Annual Report, the 
Group’s business model now includes an 
increasing level of externalisation activity to 
broaden and accelerate the development 
and commercialisation of, as well as 
maximising patient access to, key pipeline 
assets in our three main therapy areas. 
Historically, our Reported revenue reflected 
only Product Sales, with Externalisation 
Revenue forming part of other operating 
income presented below gross profit. 
Reflecting the increased level of 
externalisation activity, Externalisation 
Revenue, alongside Product Sales, is now 
included in Total Revenue. Externalisation 
Revenue includes development, 
commercialisation and collaboration 
As detailed above, all growth rates in  
this section are expressed at CER unless 
noted otherwise.
Total Revenue
Total Revenue for the year was up 1% at 
CER to $24,708 million, comprising Product 
Sales of $23,641 million (down 1%) and 
Externalisation Revenue of $1,067 million  
(up 140%). Based on actual exchange rates, 
Total Revenue declined by 7% in the year 
reflecting the particular weakness of key 
trading currencies against the US dollar.
Product Sales
The decline in Product Sales was driven  
by the US market entry of Nexium generic 
products from February 2015 as well as  
an adverse impact from Synagis guideline 
changes in 2014 and the change in 
accounting for the US Branded 
Pharmaceutical Fee, following issuance  
of final regulations in 2014. Further details  
of the effect of these regulations are 
contained in the Financials (Prior year) 
section of the Annual Report from  
page 236.
US Product Sales were down 6% to $9,474 
million, with Europe down 6% at $5,323 
million. Established Markets were flat at 
$3,022 million and Emerging Markets were 
up 12% to $5,822 million, mainly driven by 
Financial Review continued
Growth Platforms
2015
Product Sales
$m
2014
Product Sales
$m
CER growth 
%
Respiratory 4,987 5,063 7
Brilinta/Brilique 619 476 44
Diabetes 2,224 1,870 26
Emerging Markets 5,822 5,827 12
Japan 2,020 2,227 4
New Oncology 119 – n/m
Total Growth Platform Product Sales
1
14,003 13,928 11
1
 Certain Product Sales are included in more than one Growth Platform. Total Growth Platform sales represents the net total sales for all Growth Platforms.
Externalisation Revenue
Milestones
2015
$m
2014
$m
Durvalumab (Celgene) 450 –
Movantik (Daiichi Sankyo) 200 –
Brodalumab (Valeant Pharmaceuticals) 100 –
Nexium (Daiichi Sankyo) 123 –
Nexium OTC (Pfizer) – 250
Forxiga (Ono Pharmaceuticals) – 80
Others 107 69
Total milestones 980 399
Royalties 87 53
Total Externalisation Revenue 1,067 452
66 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  customer needs and the evolving portfolio, 
while driving top-line growth more efficiently.
Core other operating income in the year was 
up 104% at $1,520 million which, in addition 
to royalty income of $322 million, includes 
$380 million of income on the disposal of 
the US rights to Entocort, $215 million on the 
disposal of Rest of World rights to Entocort, 
$193 million on the disposal of Myalept and 
$165 million on the disposal of Caprelsa. As 
these elements of our income arose from 
product divestments, where AstraZeneca 
no longer retains a significant element of 
continued interest, in accordance with our 
Externalisation Revenue definition and the 
requirements of IFRS, proceeds from these 
divestments continue to be recorded as 
other operating income.
Core operating profit increased by 6%  
to $6,902 million in the year. The Core 
operating margin increased by 1.3 
percentage points to 27 .9% of Total Revenue. 
The increase reflected the reduction in  
Core SG&A costs and the increase in 
Externalisation Revenue and Core other 
operating income, while we continued to 
invest in our pipeline and Growth Platforms.
Core EPS was $4.26, up 7% compared  
with last year (Actual: flat). 
Pre-tax adjustments to arrive at Core profit 
before tax amounted to $3,312 million in 
2015 (2014: $5, 192 million), comprising 
$2,788 million adjustments to operating 
profits (2014: $4,800 million) and $524 
million to net finance expenses (2014: $392 
million). Excluded from Core results were: 
 > Restructuring costs totalling $1,034 million 
(2014: $1,558 million), incurred as the 
Group continued the fourth phase of 
restructuring announced in March 2013 
and subsequently expanded. 
 > Amortisation totalling $1,460 million (2014: 
$1,784 million) relating to intangible assets, 
except those related to IT and to our 
acquisition of BMS’s share of our Global 
Diabetes Alliance (which are separately 
detailed below). The decrease was driven 
by reduced amortisation charges arising 
from our Merck exit arrangements (which 
commenced in 1998) as certain 
associated intangible assets became fully 
amortised. Further information on our 
intangible assets is contained in Note 9 to 
the Financial Statements from page 158.
 > Intangible impairment charges of $143 
million (2014: $99 million) excluding those 
related to IT. Further details relating to 
intangible asset impairments are included 
in Note 9 to the Financial Statements from 
page 158.
 > Net cost associated with our acquisition 
of BMS’s share of our Global Diabetes 
Alliance in February 2014 amounting to 
$463 million (2014: $1,423 million). 
Included within this are $432 million of 
amortisation charges and $409 million  
of interest charges relating to a discount 
unwind on contingent consideration 
arising on the acquisition in 2014, offset 
by a contingent consideration fair value 
decrease of $378 million reflecting lower 
expected Diabetes portfolio revenues in 
line with latest forecasts.
 > Net legal provisions and other charges of 
$21 1 million (2014: $328 million), including 
$1 15 million discount unwind charges, 
offset by $54 million of net fair value 
adjustments relating to contingent 
consideration arising on our other 
business combinations as detailed in 
Note 18 to the Financial Statements from 
page 164. The net charge of $21 1 million 
also included legal charges relating to 
patent proceedings in the US for 
Pulmicort Respules, charges relating to 
the unsuccessful defence of the validity of 
Crestor-related patents in Australia, and 
damages paid to AbbVie following a 
contract dispute over Synagis. Further 
details of legal proceedings the Group is 
currently involved in are contained within 
Note 27 to the Financial Statements from 
page 186.
Reported operating profit of $4, 1 14 million 
was $1,977 million higher than in 2014.  
Fair value adjustments to contingent 
consideration reduced SG&A costs and 
increased Reported operating profit by 
$432 million in the current year (2014:  
fair value adjustments to contingent 
consideration reduced Reported operating 
profit by $512 million). These fair value 
movements reflected estimates for future 
liabilities that can change materially over 
time. In addition, restructuring costs of 
$1,034 million in 2015 were significantly 
lower than restructuring costs of $1,558 
million in 2014.
Reported net finance expense was $1,029 
million (2014: $885 million). The increase  
of $144 million was driven by increased 
charges related to the discount unwind  
revenue, such as royalties and milestone 
receipts. Income is recorded as 
Externalisation Revenue when the Group 
has a significant ongoing interest in the 
product and/or it is repeatable business and 
there is no derecognition of an intangible 
asset. Disposals of assets and businesses, 
where the Group does not retain an interest, 
continue to be recorded in other operating 
income. The updated financial presentation 
was adopted to reflect the Group’s 
expanded entrepreneurial approach and is 
considered to provide a clearer picture of 
this important additional revenue stream. 
The updated revenue accounting policy 
results in a presentational change to the 
results of operations only, and has no 
impact on the Group’s net results or net 
assets. Prior year comparatives have been 
restated to reflect this change, resulting in 
$452 million of income being reclassified 
from other operating income to 
Externalisation Revenue for 2014.
Further details of the arrangements giving 
rise to the above revenues are included in 
the Investments, divestments and capital 
expenditure section of this Financial Review 
from page 72.
Gross margin, operating margin and 
earnings per share
Core gross margin as a percentage of 
Product Sales was 82.6% in the year, 0.8 
percentage points higher than last year at 
CER due to the mix of Product Sales and 
manufacturing efficiencies. 
Core R&D expense in the year was up 21% 
to $5,603 million, as the Group continued  
its focused investment in the pipeline. 
Oncology attracted over 40% of total Core 
R&D expenditure in the year, reflecting a 
number of active trials. 
Core SG&A costs declined by 2% to  
$9,265 million. Core SG&A costs declined  
in the year by 1. 1 percentage points as a 
proportion of Total Revenue. A number of 
ongoing programmes to reduce SG&A 
costs are progressing. These initiatives are 
centred on: sales, marketing and medical 
cost effectiveness; centralisation  
of selected functions and process 
improvements; reduced third party spend; 
additional efficiencies gained across 
support functions; and IT and continued 
footprint optimisation, including presence  
in the UK and US. Resources are being 
deployed more selectively to meet changing 
67 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Financial Review continued
Total comprehensive income increased by 
$2,759 million from the prior year, resulting in 
a net income of $2,488 million for 2015. This 
was driven by the increase in profit for the 
year of $1,591 million and an increase of 
$1, 168 million in other comprehensive 
income. The increase in other comprehensive 
income arose principally from gains recorded 
on the remeasurement of our defined 
benefit pension liability of $652 million  
(2014: losses of $766 million) due to an 
increase in the discount rate applied to our 
pension liabilities reflecting an increase in 
corporate bond yields and other reference 
interest rate instruments.
Restructuring 
Since 2007 , we have undertaken significant 
efforts to restructure and reshape our 
business to improve long-term 
competitiveness, the first two phases  
of which were completed in 201 1. 
Further to the announcement in 2012  
of a third phase of the programme, we 
announced another restructuring 
programme in 2013, which was combined 
with the third phase to create a combined 
Phase 4 programme. This combined 
programme initially entailed an estimated 
global headcount reduction of about 5,050 
over the 2013 to 2016 period. The combined 
programme of changes is estimated to  
incur $2.5 billion in one-time restructuring 
charges, of which $1.7 billion were expected 
to be cash costs, and deliver $800 million of 
annualised benefits by the end of 2016.
The Phase 4 programme was expanded in 
2013 to include additional activities such as 
a transformation of our IT organisation and 
infrastructure, the exit of R&D activities in 
Bangalore, India, and the exit from branded 
generics in certain Emerging Markets to 
further reduce costs and increase flexibility. 
When completed, the expanded restructuring 
programme is expected to deliver a further 
$300 million in annual benefits by the end of 
2016, bringing total anticipated annualised 
benefits of the Phase 4 programme to $1. 1 
billion, and to affect a further approximately 
550 positions, bringing the total global 
headcount reduction under the Phase 4 
programme to around 5,600 over the  
2013 to 2016 period. Total incremental 
programme costs from these new initiatives, 
together with revisions to cost estimates for 
the original programme, are estimated to be 
$700 million, of which $600 million is cash, 
bringing the total anticipated cost of our 
Phase 4 programme to $3.2 billion by the 
end of 2016. 
In addition to this programme, we 
announced an additional $600 million of 
restructuring costs which are estimated to 
be incurred by the end of 2016 (of which 
$494 million were incurred by the end of 
2015), associated with previously-announced 
site exits (including Avlon in the UK) and the 
integration of the Diabetes and Respiratory 
businesses acquired from BMS and Almirall, 
respectively. We anticipate that, once 
completed, the total annualised benefits of 
these additional actions will be $200 million. 
During the latter part of 2015, the Company 
implemented further targeted restructuring 
of our commercial business, principally in 
Venezuela (in response to challenging 
economic conditions) and Europe. This 
resulted in $102 million of restructuring costs 
and is expected to deliver $30 million of 
annualised benefit in 2016. Furthermore, as 
part of the Company’s ongoing commitment 
to improve productivity, we are initiating 
multi-year transformation programmes 
within our G&A functions (principally Finance 
and HR) with anticipated costs by the end of 
2018 of $270 million. Once complete, we 
expect these transformation programmes to 
deliver annualised benefits of $100 million by 
the end of 2018. 
The aggregate restructuring charges 
incurred in 2015 across all our restructuring 
programmes was $1,034 million, as we 
continued to make progress in 
implementing our restructuring plans. 
Final estimates for programme costs, 
benefits and headcount impact in all 
functions are subject to completion of  
the requisite consultation in the various 
areas. Our priority as we undertake these 
restructuring initiatives is to work with our 
affected employees on the proposed 
changes, acting in accordance with relevant 
local consultation requirements and 
employment law.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and impairments includes 
adjustments for amortisation and 
depreciation charges of $2,676 million (2014: 
$3, 160 million) and interest of $1,029 million 
(2014: $885 million) including $570 million 
(2014: $453 million) for discount unwinds. 
on contingent consideration arising on 
business combinations driven by underlying 
increases in the contingent consideration 
value held on the balance sheet in 2014 
(including a full year’s discount unwind on 
the contingent consideration arising from 
our acquisition of BMS’s share of our Global 
Diabetes Alliance).
The Reported taxation charge for the year of 
$243 million (2014: $1 1 million) consisted of 
a current tax charge of $633 million (2014: 
$872 million) and a credit arising from 
movements on deferred tax of $390 million 
(2014: $861 million). The current tax charge 
included a prior period current tax credit of 
$404 million (2014: $109 million). 
The Reported tax rate for the year was 8%. 
This Reported tax rate was impacted by  
a one-off benefit of $186 million following 
agreement of US federal tax liabilities of 
open years up to 2008, other net reductions 
in provisions for tax contingencies partially 
offset by the impact of internal transfers of 
intellectual property resulting in a net credit 
of $181 million and non-Core revaluations of 
contingent consideration arising on business 
combinations (credit of $432 million with 
related tax charge of $39 million). Excluding 
these effects, the Reported tax rate for the 
year would have been 22%. The Core tax 
rate for the year was 16%. Excluding the 
benefit following agreement of US federal  
tax liabilities of open years up to 2008 and 
other net reductions in provisions for tax 
contingencies partially offset by the impact 
of internal transfers of intellectual property, 
the Core tax rate would have been 21%. 
The tax paid for the year was $1,354 million 
(44% of Reported profit and 21% of Core 
profit). The cash tax paid for the year was 
$1, 1 1 1 million higher than the tax charge for 
the year as a result of certain items with no 
cash impact including the benefit of $186 
million following agreement of US federal tax 
liabilities of open years up to 2008, other net 
reductions in provisions for tax contingencies 
of $259 million, $390 million of deferred tax 
credits, cash payments made in respect of 
audit settlements of $240 million and other 
cash tax timing differences.
Reported post-tax profit for the year was 
$2,826 million, an increase of 137%. 
Reported earnings per share was up 137% 
to $2.23.
68 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Cash flow and liquidity – 2015
All data in this section is on a Reported basis. 
Summary cash flows
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Net (debt)/funds brought forward at 1 January (3,223) 39 (1,369)
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment (EBITDA) 6,966 5,419 8,295
Movement in working capital and short-term provisions (49) 2,508 166
Tax paid (1,354) (1,201) (844)
Interest paid (496) (533) (475)
Gains on disposal of intangible assets (961) – –
Non-cash and other movements (782) 865 258
Net cash available from operating activities 3,324 7,058 7,400
Purchase of intangibles (net) (330) (1,740) (1,281)
Upfront payments on business acquisition (2,446) (3,804) (1,158)
Payment of contingent consideration on business acquisitions (579) (657) –
Other capital expenditure (net) (1,326) (924) (673)
Investments (4,681) (7,125) (3,112)
Dividends (3,486) (3,521) (3,461)
Share proceeds 43 279 482
Distributions (3,443) (3,242) (2,979)
Other movements 261 47 99
Net (debt)/funds carried forward at 31 December (7,762) (3,223) 39
Net debt/funds reconciliation
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Cash and cash equivalents 6,240 6,360 9,217
Short-term investments 613 795 796
Net derivative financial instruments 438 465 402
Cash, short-term investments and derivatives 7,291 7,620 10,415
Overdraft and short-term borrowings (849) (1,486) (992)
Finance leases (95) (108) (102)
Current instalments of loans – (912) (766)
Loans due after one year (14,109) (8,337) (8,516)
Loans and borrowings (15,053) (10,843) (10,376)
Net (debt)/funds (7,762) (3,223) 39
Gains on disposal of intangible assets  
of $961 million includes $380 million  
on the disposal of US rights to Entocort, 
$215 million on the disposal of Rest of  
World rights to Entocort, $193 million  
on the disposal of global rights to Myalept 
and $165 million on the disposal of global 
rights to Caprelsa. Non-cash and other 
movements decreased operating  
cash by $782 million and included  
$432 million relating to fair value 
adjustments on contingent consideration 
arising on business combinations  
(2014: increased operating cash by  
$865 million including $512 million  
increase on contingent consideration  
arising on business combinations).
Investment cash outflows of $4,681 million 
(2014: $7 , 125 million) included $2,446 million 
relating to the acquisition of ZS Pharma. 
This compared to cash payments relating  
to business acquisitions in 2014 of $4,461 
million, primarily related to the BMS diabetes 
alliance and Almirall acquisitions. Further 
details of business combination acquisitions 
and their impact on our cash flows and 
balance sheet are given in the table on page 
72. Investment cash outflows also include 
$579 million (2014: $657 million) of payments 
against contingent consideration arising on 
business combinations and $1,460 million 
(2014: $1,740 million) for the purchase of 
other intangible assets, which included 
$684 million on the acquisition of the rights 
to Actavis’ branded respiratory portfolio  
in the US and Canada. The comparative 
Net cash generated from operating activities 
was $3,324 million in the year ended 31 
December 2015, compared with $7 ,058 
million in 2014. Working capital increased by 
$49 million in the year. This compared to a 
decline of $2,508 million in 2014 which was 
driven by a significantly higher level of rebate 
accruals in the US, the phasing of costs 
increasing accruals in the fourth quarter of 
2014 and the accrual of an additional year’s 
US Branded Pharmaceutical Drug Fee 
following the change of regulations in 2014. 
In the current year, the liabilities in relation  
to these items normalised and, in addition, 
rebate accruals were further reduced 
following the loss of exclusivity for Nexium.
69 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report In November 2015, the Group issued  
bonds worth $6 billion to fund the 
acquisition of ZS Pharma, to repay certain  
of our outstanding commercial paper 
obligations and for general corporate 
purposes. The bonds are listed in the  
table above.
In 2015, the Group repaid a 5. 125% 
non-callable euro bond which had a  
31 December 2014 carrying value of  
$912 million.
At 31 December 2015, outstanding gross 
debt (interest-bearing loans and borrowings) 
was $15,053 million (2014: $10,843 million). 
Of the gross debt outstanding at 31 
December 2015, $916 million is due within 
one year (2014: $2,446 million). Net debt at 
31 December 2015 was $7 ,762 million, 
compared to $3,223 million at the beginning 
of the year, as a result of the net cash 
outflow as described above.
Off-balance sheet transactions and 
commitments 
We have no off-balance sheet arrangements 
and our derivative activities are non-
speculative. The table below sets out our 
minimum contractual obligations at the  
year end.
In 2015, net assets decreased by $1, 137 
million to $18,509 million. The decrease in 
net assets is broadly as a result of dividends 
of $3,537 million and adverse movements 
on exchange taken to reserves of $861 
million, partially offset by the Group profit  
of $2,826 million.
Business combinations 
In 2015, we completed the acquisition of  
ZS Pharma. In 2014, we completed the 
acquisition of BMS’s share of our Global 
Diabetes Alliance, the acquisition of the 
rights to Almirall’s respiratory franchise and 
the acquisition of the Definiens Group. 
period of 2014 included a $409 million 
payment to Merck on the consummation  
of our Second Option and $310 million on 
the settlement of pre-existing launch and 
sales-related milestones with BMS. 
Investment cash inflows include $1, 130 
million (2014: $nil) from the sale of intangible 
assets, including the divestments of 
Entocort in the US for $380 million, and in 
the Rest of World for $215 million and of 
Myalept for $325 million. Further details of 
the divestments giving rise to our investment 
cash inflows are included in the Investments, 
divestments and capital expenditure section 
of this Financial Review from page 72.
Net cash distributions to shareholders  
were $3,443 million (2014: $3,242 million) 
including dividends of $3,486 million (2014: 
$3,521 million). Proceeds from the issue  
of shares on the exercise of share options 
amounted to $43 million (2014: $279 million). 
Financial Review continued
Bonds issued in 2015
Repayment 
dates
Face value
of bond 
$m 
Net book value 
of bond at 
31 December 
2015 
 $m 
Floating rate notes 2018 400 399
1.750% Callable bond 2018 1,000 997
2.375% Callable bond 2020 1,600 1,586
3.375% Callable bond 2025 2,000 1,971
4.375% Callable bond 2045 1,000 976
Total 6,000 5,929
Payments due by period
Less than 
1 year 
$m 
1-3 years 
$m 
3-5 years 
$m
Over
5 years 
$m
2015
Total
$m
2014
Total 
$m 
Bank loans and other borrowings
1
1,419 4,183 3,469 14,192 23,263 17,261
Finance leases 66 63 12 – 141 130
Operating leases 95 148 97 69 409 438
Contracted capital expenditure 518 – – – 518 438
Total 2,098 4,394 3,578 14,261 24,331 18,267
1
 Bank loans and other borrowings include interest charges payable in the period, as detailed in Note 25 to the Financial Statements on page 177.
70 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report (2014: $7 ,501 million on 2014 business 
combinations). Amortisation in the year  
was $1,999 million (2014: $2,384 million). 
Impairment charges in the year amounted  
to $148 million (2014: $122 million), including 
$64 million for AMP-1 10 and $35 million  
for Ardelyx. Disposals of intangible assets 
totalled $169 million in the year (2014: $nil) 
including $123 million on the sale of global 
rights to Myalept.
Further details of our additions to intangible 
assets, and impairments recorded, are 
included in Note 9 to the Financial 
Statements from page 158. 
Receivables, payables and provisions
Trade and other receivables decreased  
by $815 million with trade receivables 
reduced by $129 million to $4,633 million 
and prepayments and accrued income 
increasing by $20 million. Non-current other 
receivables decreased by $205 million to 
$907 million driven by a reduction in the 
Shionogi Crestor royalty prepayment as 
detailed in Note 13 to the Financial 
Statements on page 162.
Trade and other payables decreased by 
$757 million in 2015 to $19, 120 million, 
including $223 million lower rebates and 
chargebacks, and $571 million in other 
non-current payables. Non-current payables 
includes the long-term element of 
contingent consideration, which as 
indicated above, included an adjustment  
of $432 million to the total fair value in 2015, 
and the accrual for our minimum committed 
Shionogi Crestor royalty payments.
The increase in provisions of $135 million  
in 2015 included $706 million of additional 
charges recorded in the year, partially offset 
by $557 million of cash payments. Included 
within the $706 million of charges for the 
year were $338 million for our global 
restructuring initiatives and $313 million in 
respect of legal charges. Cash payments 
included $408 million for our global 
restructuring programmes. Further details  
of the charges made against provisions  
are contained in Notes 19 and 27 to the 
Financial Statements on page 165, and 186  
to 192, respectively.
Tax payable and receivable
Net income tax payable has decreased by 
$929 million to $1,096 million, principally  
due to a $186 million adjustment following 
agreement of US federal tax liabilities of 
open years up to 2008, other net reductions 
in provisions for tax contingencies ($259 
million), cash payments made in respect of 
audit settlements ($240 million) and foreign 
exchange ($194 million). The tax receivable 
balance of $387 million (2014: $329 million) 
Further information on our business 
combinations can be found in the 
Investments, divestments and capital 
expenditure section of the Financial Review 
from page 72.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment increased  
by $403 million to $6,413 million. Additions 
of $1,422 million (2014: $1,607 million), 
including $21 million (2014: $515 million) 
arising from business combinations, were 
offset by depreciation of $677 million (2014: 
$776 million), impairments of $28 million 
(2014: $nil) and disposals of $70 million 
(2014: $582 million). 
Goodwill and intangible assets
The Group’s goodwill of $1 1,868 million 
(2014: $1 1,550 million) principally arose  
on the acquisition of MedImmune in 2007 ,  
the restructuring of our US joint venture  
with Merck in 1998 and the acquisition of 
BMS’s share of the Global Diabetes Alliance. 
Goodwill of $456 million arising on the 
acquisition of ZS Pharma was capitalised  
in 2015.
Intangible assets amounted to $22,646 
million at 31 December 2015 (2014: $20,981 
million). Intangible asset additions were 
$4,640 million in 2015 (2014: $8,548 million), 
including product rights acquired in the 
acquisition of ZS Pharma of $3, 162 million 
Financial position – 31 December 2015 
All data in this section is on a Reported basis.
Summary statement of financial position
2015
$m
Movement
$m
2014
$m
Movement
$m
2013
$m
Property, plant and equipment 6,413 403 6,010 192 5,818
Goodwill and intangible assets 34,514 1,983 32,531 6,503 26,028
Inventories 2,143 183 1,960 51 1,909
Trade and other receivables 7,529 (815) 8,344 (1,402) 9,746
Trade and other payables (19,120) 757 (19,877) (7,163) (12,714)
Provisions (1,242) (135) (1,107) 282 (1,389)
Net income tax payable (1,096) 929 (2,025) 557 (2,582)
Net deferred tax liabilities (1,439) (862) (577) 1,045 (1,622)
Retirement benefit obligations (1,974) 977 (2,951) (690) (2,261)
Non-current other investments 458 (44) 502 221 281
Investment in joint ventures 85 26 59 59 –
Net (debt)/funds (7,762) (4,539) (3,223) (3,262) 39
Net assets 18,509 (1,137) 19,646 (3,607) 23,253
71 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Business combinations 
2015 2014
ZS Pharma
$m
 BMS’s share of 
diabetes 
alliance 
$m
Rights to 
Almirall’s 
respiratory 
franchise
$m
Definiens
 Group
$m
2014
total
$m
Assets acquired:
Non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment 21 478 37 – 515
Goodwill 456 1,530 311 – 1,841
Intangible assets 3,162 5,746 1,400 355 7,501
Current assets 169 480 24 – 504
Current liabilities (50) (278) (2) – (280)
Non-current liabilities (1,058) (84) (11) (117) (212)
Total assets 2,700 7,872 1,759 238 9,869
Consideration: 
Upfront consideration 2,700 2,703 878 150 3,731
Contingent consideration – 5,169 881 88 6,138
Total consideration 2,700 7,872 1,759 238 9,869
principles for cash contributions to be paid 
into the UK pension scheme to target a level 
of assets in excess of the current expected 
cost of providing benefits, and, in 2010, 
amendments to the scheme to freeze 
pensionable pay at 30 June 2010 levels. In 
addition to the cash contributions to be paid 
into the UK pension scheme, AstraZeneca 
makes contributions to an escrow account 
which is held outside the pension scheme. 
The escrow account assets are payable  
to the fund in agreed circumstances, for 
example, in the event of AstraZeneca and 
the pension fund trustee agreeing a change 
to the current long-term investment strategy. 
Further details of the Group’s pension 
schemes are included in Note 20 to the 
Financial Statements from page 166.
Commitments and contingencies
The Group has commitments and 
contingencies which are accounted for in 
accordance with the accounting policies 
described in the Financial Statements in  
the Group Accounting Policies section  
from page 144. The Group also has taxation 
contingencies. These are described in the 
Taxation section in the Critical accounting 
policies and estimates section on page 81 
and in Note 27 to the Financial Statements 
from page 186.
Research and development collaboration 
payments
Details of future potential R&D collaboration 
payments are also included in Note 27 to 
the Financial Statements from page 186.  
As detailed in Note 27 to the Financial 
Statements, payments to our collaboration 
partners may not become payable due to 
the inherent uncertainty in achieving the 
development and revenue milestones linked 
to the future payments. As part of our overall 
externalisation strategy, we may enter into 
further collaboration projects in the future 
that may include milestone payments and, 
therefore, as certain milestone payments  
fail to crystallise due to, for example, 
development not proceeding, they may be 
replaced by potential payments under new 
collaborations.
Investments, divestments and capital 
expenditure 
The Group has completed over 240 major 
or strategically important business 
development transactions over the past 
three years, eight of which were accounted 
for as business acquisitions under IFRS 3 
‘Business Combinations’, being the 
acquisition of ZS Pharma in 2015, the 
acquisition of BMS’s share of our Global 
Diabetes Alliance, the rights to Almirall’s 
respiratory franchise and the acquisition of 
Definiens in 2014; and Pearl Therapeutics, 
Omthera, Amplimmune and Spirogen in 
2013, and all others being in-licences, 
strategic alliances and collaborations. 
Fair values of assets and liabilities acquired, 
and consideration for the acquisitions in 
2015 and 2014, as at the acquisition date, 
are summarised below.
comprises tax owing to AstraZeneca from 
certain governments expected to be 
received on settlements of transfer pricing 
audits and disputes ($192 million) (see Note 
27 to the Financial Statements from page 
186) and cash tax timing differences ($195 
million). Net deferred tax liabilities increased 
by $862 million in the year mainly due to 
deferred tax liabilities arising from the 
acquisition of ZS Pharma. Additional 
information on the movement in deferred tax 
balances is contained in Note 4 to the 
Financial Statements from page 151.
Retirement benefit obligations
Net retirement benefit obligations decreased 
by $977 million in 2015 (2014: increase of 
$690 million). Employer contributions to  
the pension scheme of $402 million, net 
remeasurement adjustments of $652 million 
driven by an increase in the discount rate 
applied to our pension liabilities under IAS 
19 and beneficial exchange movements of 
$182 million were offset by service cost 
charges of $167 million and net financing 
costs of $77 million. Benefits paid amounted 
to $580 million (2014: $571 million).
Approximately 97% of the Group’s 
obligations are concentrated in the UK, the 
US, Sweden and Germany. In recent years, 
the Group has undertaken several initiatives 
to reduce its net pension obligation 
exposure. For the UK defined benefit 
pension scheme, which is AstraZeneca’s 
largest defined benefit scheme, these 
initiatives have included agreeing funding 
Financial Review continued
72 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  Both the discount unwind and any 
movements of the fair value of the 
underlying future payments can result in 
significant income statement movements. 
As detailed in the Results of operations 
section above, these movements are 
treated as non-Core items in our income 
statement analysis. In 2015, we recorded  
an interest charge of $524 million on  
the discount unwind on contingent 
consideration arising on our business 
combinations, and a net fair value decrease 
on contingent consideration of $432 million 
(which resulted in a credit to our income 
statement for the same amount) driven, 
principally, by revised forecasts for revenues 
for our Diabetes franchise. At 31 December 
2015, our contingent consideration balance 
held on the balance sheet amounted to 
$6,41 1 million (2014: $6,899 million) with  
the movements of the balance detailed  
in the table above. 
Further details of our business acquisitions 
in the past three years are contained in  
Note 24 to the Financial Statements from 
page 173. Details of our significant business 
development transactions are given below:
 > In September 2015, AstraZeneca 
announced that it had entered into a 
collaboration agreement with Valeant 
under which it will grant an exclusive 
licence for Valeant to develop and 
commercialise brodalumab. Under the 
agreement, Valeant will hold the exclusive 
rights to develop and commercialise 
brodalumab globally, except in Japan and 
certain other Asian countries where rights 
are held by Kyowa Hakko Kirin under a 
prior arrangement with Amgen Inc. 
Valeant will assume all development costs 
associated with the regulatory approval 
for brodalumab. Under the terms of the 
agreement, Valeant made an upfront 
payment to AstraZeneca of $100 million 
and may also pay pre-launch milestones 
of up to $170 million and further sales 
related milestone payments of up to  
$175 million. If approved, AstraZeneca 
and Valeant will share profits.
 > In April 2015, AstraZeneca entered into 
two oncology agreements with Innate 
Pharma S.A (Innate), firstly, a licence 
which provides AstraZeneca with 
exclusive global rights to co-develop and 
commercialise IPH2201 in combination 
with durvalumab, and secondly, an option 
to license exclusive global rights to 
co-develop and commercialise IPH2201 
in monotherapy and other combinations 
in certain treatment areas. Currently in 
Phase II development, IPH2201 is a 
potential first-in-class humanised IgG4 
antibody. Under the terms of the 
combination licence, AstraZeneca 
assumed exclusive Global rights to 
research, develop, and commercialise 
IPH2201 in combination with durvalumab. 
AstraZeneca and Innate jointly fund  
Phase II studies and AstraZeneca leads 
the execution of these studies. Under the 
terms of the agreements, AstraZeneca 
made an initial payment to Innate of $250 
million, which included the consideration 
for exclusive global rights to co-develop 
and commercialise IPH2201 in combination 
with durvalumab, as well as access to 
IPH2201 in monotherapy and other 
combinations in certain treatment areas. 
The agreement includes a Phase III 
initiation milestone of $100 million, as  
well as additional regulatory and 
sales-related milestones. AstraZeneca 
records all sales and will pay Innate 
double-digit royalties on net sales. The 
arrangement includes the right for Innate 
to co-promote in Europe for a 50% profit 
share in the territory.
 > In April 2015, AstraZeneca signed a 
Collaboration and License Agreement 
with Celgene Corporation, a global leader 
Contingent consideration
The majority of our acquisitions in  
recent years have included elements of 
consideration that are contingent on future 
development and/or sales milestones,  
with both the diabetes and respiratory 
acquisitions in 2014 also including royalty 
payments linked to future revenues. The 
acquisition of ZS Pharma in the year had  
no contingent consideration element.
Our agreement with BMS provides for 
potential further payments of up to  
$0.7 billion for future regulatory, launch  
and sales-related milestones, and various 
sales-related royalty payments up until 2025. 
Our transaction with Almirall includes further 
payments of up to $1.2 billion for future 
development, launch, and sales-related 
milestones and various other sales-related 
payments. All these future payments are 
treated as contingent consideration on  
our balance sheet, and are fair-valued  
using decision-tree analyses, with key 
assumptions including the probability of 
success, the potential for delays and the 
expected levels of future revenues. The fair 
value is updated at each balance sheet 
reporting date to reflect our latest estimate 
of the probabilities of these key assumptions. 
Given the long-term nature of our contingent 
consideration payments, the fair value 
calculation includes the discounting of future 
potential payments to their present value 
using discount rates appropriate to the 
period over which payments are likely to  
be made. Over time, as the target date of  
a consideration payment approaches, the 
discount in absolute terms of such future 
potential payment to its present value 
decreases. Therefore, in each period we 
take a corresponding charge reflecting the 
passage of time. We refer to this charge as 
‘discount unwind’.
Contingent consideration arising on business combinations 
2015 2014
Acquisition of 
BMS’s share 
of diabetes 
alliance
$m
Other
 business 
combinations
$m
Total
2015
$m
Acquisition of 
BMS’s share of 
diabetes 
alliance
$m
Other
 business 
combinations
$m
Total
2014
$m
At 1 January 5,386 1,513 6,899 – 514 514
Acquisitions – – – 5,169 969 6,138
Settlements (325) (254) (579) (657) – (657)
Fair value adjustments (378) (54) (432) 529 (17) 512
Discount unwind 409 115 524 345 46 391
Foreign exchange – (1) (1) – 1 1
At 31 December 5,092 1,319 6,411 5,386 1,513 6,899
73 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report and Canada. The deal gave AstraZeneca 
the ownership of the development  
and commercial rights in the US and 
Canada to Tudorza Pressair (aclidinium 
bromide inhalation powder), a twice-daily 
long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) 
for COPD, and to Daliresp (roflumilast),  
the only once-daily oral PDE4 inhibitor 
currently on the market for COPD,  
in the US. AstraZeneca also owns the 
development rights in the US and Canada 
for LAS40464, a combination of a fixed 
dose of aclidinium with formoterol 
long-acting beta-agonist (LAMA/LABA)  
in a dry powder inhaler, which is approved  
in the EU under the brand name Duaklir 
Genuair . On completion of the acquisition, 
AstraZeneca paid Actavis $600 million 
and agreed to pay low single-digit 
royalties above a certain revenue threshold. 
 > In September 2014, AstraZeneca and  
Lilly entered into an agreement to jointly 
develop and commercialise AZD3293,  
an oral beta secretase cleaving enzyme 
(BACE) inhibitor currently in development 
as a potential treatment for Alzheimer’s 
disease. AZD3293 is an oral, potent and 
selective small molecule inhibitor of  
BACE that has been shown in Phase I 
studies to significantly and dose-
dependently reduce levels of amyloid  
beta in the cerebro-spinal fluid of 
Alzheimer’s patients and healthy 
volunteers. Under the terms of the 
agreement, Lilly will pay AstraZeneca  
up to $500 million in development  
and regulatory milestone payments. 
AstraZeneca received the first milestone 
payment of $50 million in 2015.  
The companies will equally share  
all future costs for the development  
and commercialisation of AZD3293,  
as well as net global revenues  
post-launch. Lilly will lead clinical 
development, working with researchers 
from AstraZeneca’s Innovative Medicines  
Unit for neuroscience, while AstraZeneca 
will be responsible for manufacturing.  
The companies will take joint responsibility 
for commercialisation of AZD3293.
 > In July 2013, AstraZeneca entered  
into a strategic collaboration with 
FibroGen to develop and commercialise 
roxadustat (FG-4592), a first-in-class  
oral compound in late-stage development 
for the treatment of anaemia associated 
with CKD and ESRD. This broad 
collaboration focuses on the US, China 
and all major markets excluding Japan, 
Europe, the CIS, the Middle East and 
South Africa, which are covered by an 
existing agreement between FibroGen 
and Astellas. The AstraZeneca-FibroGen 
joint effort will be focused on the 
development of roxadustat to treat 
anaemia in CKD and ESRD, and may be 
extended to other anaemia indications. 
AstraZeneca and FibroGen plan to 
undertake an extensive roxadustat Phase 
III development programme for the US, 
and to initiate Phase III trials in China, with 
anticipated regulatory filings in China in 
2016 and in the US in 2018. Under the 
arrangement, AstraZeneca agreed to pay 
FibroGen upfront and subsequent 
non-contingent payments totalling $350 
million, as well as potential development-
related milestone payments of up to $465 
million, and potential future sales-related 
milestone payments, in addition to tiered 
royalty payments on future sales of 
roxadustat in the low 20% range. 
Additional development milestones will be 
payable for any subsequent indications 
which the companies choose to pursue. 
AstraZeneca will be responsible for the 
US commercialisation of roxadustat,  
with FibroGen undertaking specified 
promotional activities in the ESRD 
segment in this market. The companies 
will also co-commercialise roxadustat in 
China where FibroGen will be responsible 
for clinical trials, regulatory matters, 
manufacturing and medical affairs, and 
AstraZeneca will oversee promotional 
activities and commercial distribution. 
 > In March 2013, AstraZeneca signed an 
exclusive agreement with Moderna 
Therapeutics to discover, develop and 
commercialise pioneering medicines 
based on messenger RNA Therapeutics 
for the treatment of serious 
cardiovascular, metabolic and renal 
diseases as well as cancer. Under the 
terms of the agreement, AstraZeneca 
made an upfront payment of $240 million. 
AstraZeneca will have exclusive access  
to select any target of its choice in 
cardiometabolic and renal diseases, as 
well as selected targets in oncology, over 
a period of up to five years for subsequent 
development of messenger RNA 
Therapeutics. In addition, Moderna 
Therapeutics is entitled to an additional 
$180 million for the achievement of  
three technical milestones. Through this 
agreement, AstraZeneca has the option 
to select up to 40 drug products for 
clinical development and Moderna 
in haematological cancers, to develop 
and commercialise durvalumab across  
a range of blood cancers including 
non-Hodgkin lymphoma, myelodysplastic 
syndromes and multiple myeloma. 
Durvalumab is an investigational immune 
checkpoint inhibitor, directed against 
programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1). 
Signals from PD-L1 help tumours avoid 
detection by the immune system. 
Durvalumab blocks these signals, 
countering the tumour’s immune-evading 
tactics. Under the terms of the 
agreement, Celgene made an upfront 
payment of $450 million to AstraZeneca in 
relation to durvalumab, which is recorded 
within Externalisation Revenue. Celgene 
will lead on development across all clinical 
trials within the collaboration and have 
taken on all research and development 
costs until the end of 2016, after which 
they will take on 75% of these costs. 
Celgene will also be responsible for  
global commercialisation of approved 
treatments. AstraZeneca will manufacture 
and record all sales of durvalumab and 
will pay a royalty to Celgene on worldwide 
sales in haematological indications. The 
royalty rate will start at 70% and will 
decrease to approximately half of the 
sales of durvalumab in haematological 
indications over a period of four years.
 > In March 2015, AstraZeneca announced 
a co-commercialisation agreement with 
Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. for Movantik in the 
US. Movantik is a first-in-class once-daily 
oral peripherally-acting mu-opioid 
receptor antagonist (PAMORA) for 
opioid-induced constipation (OIC). Opioids 
play an important role in chronic pain relief 
and work by binding to mu-receptors in 
the central nervous system, but they also 
bind to mu-receptors in the gastrointestinal 
tract, which can result in patients suffering 
from OIC. The drug was launched on  
31 March 2015. Under the terms of the 
agreement, Daiichi Sankyo Inc. paid a 
$200 million upfront fee and will pay 
subsequent sales-related payments of  
up to $625 million. $200 million was 
recorded in Externalisation Revenue in 
2015. AstraZeneca will be responsible for 
manufacturing, will record all sales and 
will make sales-related commission 
payments to Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. Both 
companies will be jointly responsible  
for commercial activities.
 > In March 2015, AstraZeneca completed 
the acquisition of the rights to Actavis Plc’s 
branded respiratory business in the US 
Financial Review continued
74 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report a branded product marketed by 
AstraZeneca (Entocort EC) and an 
authorised generic marketed by PAR 
Pharmaceuticals under an exclusive 
distribution agreement. Under the terms 
of the agreement, Perrigo paid 
AstraZeneca $380 million upon 
completion of the transaction to acquire 
the rights to sell Entocort capsules and 
the authorised generic Entocort capsules 
marketed by Par Pharmaceuticals. The 
transaction involved the full divestment of 
US rights in Entocort, including relevant 
clinical data, regulatory documentation 
and contracts, and inventory of finished 
pack Entocort EC and authorised generic 
capsules. The transaction did not include 
the transfer of any AstraZeneca 
employees or facilities.
 > In September 2015, AstraZeneca 
completed an agreement with Genzyme 
Corporation (Genzyme), part of Sanofi 
S.A., for the divestment of Caprelsa,  
a rare-disease medicine. Caprelsa was 
granted Orphan Drug Designation by  
the US FDA in 2005 and is currently 
available in 28 countries for the treatment 
of aggressive and symptomatic medullary 
thyroid carcinoma. Under the terms of the 
agreement, Genzyme paid an upfront 
payment of $165 million to acquire the 
global rights to sell and develop Caprelsa, 
and further development and sales 
milestone payments of up to $135 million. 
The transaction did not include the 
transfer of any AstraZeneca employees  
or facilities.
 > In July 2015, AstraZeneca signed an 
agreement with Tillotts Pharma AG for the 
divestment of global rights, outside the 
US, to Entocort (budesonide). Entocort is 
a gastroenterology medicine for patients 
with mild to moderate Crohn’s disease 
and ulcerative colitis. Entocort is currently 
available in over 40 countries, with total 
Product Sales of $53 million outside the 
US in 2014. Under the terms of the 
agreement, Tillotts paid AstraZeneca 
$215 million upon completion of the 
transaction to acquire the rights to sell 
and develop Entocort capsules and 
enema formulations outside the US. The 
transaction did not include the transfer of 
any AstraZeneca employees or facilities.
 > In January 2015, AstraZeneca completed 
an agreement with Aegerion 
Pharmaceuticals, to divest Myalept 
(metreleptin for injection). Myalept was 
originally developed by Amylin and 
acquired by BMS in collaboration  
with AstraZeneca in July 2012 and 
subsequently acquired in whole by 
AstraZeneca in February 2014. Aegerion 
paid AstraZeneca $325 million, in a single 
upfront payment, to acquire the global 
rights to develop, manufacture and 
commercialise Myalept, subject to an 
existing distributor licence with Shionogi 
covering Japan, South Korea, and 
Taiwan. On completion, the Myalept 
intangible was $123 million, which was 
derecognised along with inventory of  
$9 million, resulting in a gain on disposal 
of $193 million being recognised as  
other operating income. 
Capitalisation
The total number of shares in issue at  
31 December 2015 was 1,264 million (2014: 
1,263 million). One million Ordinary Shares 
were issued in consideration of share  
option exercises for a total of $43 million. 
Shareholders’ equity decreased by $1, 137 
million to $18,490 million at the year end. 
Non-controlling interests were $19 million 
(2014: $19 million).
Dividend and share repurchases
The Board has recommended a second 
interim dividend of $1.90 (131.0 pence, 
16.26 SEK) to be paid on 21 March 2016. 
This brings the full year dividend to $2.80 
(188.5 pence, 23.97 SEK). Based on a 
measure of Core earnings per share against 
Core operating profit, the Group has a 
dividend cover ratio of 1.5 with respect to 
2015 (2014: 1.5).
This dividend is consistent with the 
progressive dividend policy, by which the 
Board intends to maintain or grow the 
dividend each year.
The Board regularly reviews its distribution 
policy and its overall financial strategy to 
continue to strike a balance between the 
interests of the business, our financial 
creditors and our shareholders. Having 
regard for business investment, funding the 
progressive dividend policy and meeting our 
debt service obligations, the Board currently 
believes it is appropriate to continue the 
suspension of the share repurchase 
programme which was announced in 
October 2012.
Therapeutics will be entitled to 
development and commercial milestone 
payments as well as royalties on drug 
sales. AstraZeneca will lead the 
pre-clinical, clinical development and 
commercialisation of therapeutics 
resulting from the agreement and 
Moderna Therapeutics will be responsible 
for designing and manufacturing the 
messenger RNA Therapeutics against 
selected targets. AstraZeneca is currently 
progressing 19 projects across CVMD 
and Oncology. Utilising both companies 
expertise, significant progress has also 
been made to the technology platform, 
with the focus on formulation, safety, and 
drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics.
The Group determines the above business 
development transactions to be significant 
using a range of factors. We look at the 
specific circumstances of the individual 
externalisation arrangement and apply 
several quantitative and qualitative criteria. 
Because we consider business development 
transactions to be an extension of our  
R&D strategy, the expected total value  
of development payments under the 
transaction and its proportion of our annual 
R&D spend, both of which are proxies for 
overall R&D effort and cost, are important 
elements of the significance determination. 
Other quantitative criteria we apply include, 
without limitation, expected levels of future 
sales, the possible value of milestone 
payments and the resources used for 
commercialisation activities (for example,  
the number of staff). Qualitative factors we 
consider include, without limitation, new 
market developments, new territories, new 
areas of research and strategic implications.
In aggregate, payments capitalised under 
the Group’s externalisation arrangements, 
other than those detailed above, amounted 
to $1,401 million in 2015 (2014: $201 million), 
including $684 million on the acquisition of 
the Actavis branded respiratory portfolio in 
the US and Canada. 
Details of our significant divestments are 
given below:
 > In November 2015, AstraZeneca signed 
an agreement with Elan Pharma 
International Limited, part of the Perrigo 
Group (Perrigo), for the divestment of 
rights to the Entocort business in US. The 
Entocort business in the US consisted of 
75 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  > Our long-term aspiration, in line with our 
strategic ambition, is to achieve scientific 
leadership and sustainable growth, and to 
achieve $45 billion Total Revenue by 2023 
(based on constant exchange rates). 
We expect 2016 Total Revenue to decline by 
low to mid single-digit percent at CER 
compared to 2015. Core R&D costs as a 
percentage of Total Revenue are expected 
to be broadly in line with 2015. We are also 
committed to reducing Core SG&A costs in 
2016 versus 2015. Core earnings per share 
is expected to decrease in 2016 by low to 
mid single-digit percent at CER. This 
guidance incorporates the dilutive effects 
arising from recent transactions. 
Financial risk management
Financial risk management policies
Insurance
Our risk management processes are 
described in Risk overview from page 21. 
These processes enable us to identify risks 
that can be partly or entirely mitigated 
through the use of insurance. We negotiate 
the best available premium rates with 
insurance providers on the basis of our 
extensive risk management procedures.  
We focus our insurance resources on the 
most critical areas, or where there is a legal 
requirement, and where we can get best 
value for money. Risks to which we pay 
particular attention include business 
interruption, Directors’ and Officers’ liability, 
and property damage. Insurance for 
product liability has not been available on 
commercially acceptable terms for several 
years and the Group has not purchased in 
the market product liability insurance since 
February 2006.
Taxation
Tax risk management forms an integrated 
part of the Group’s risk management 
processes. Our tax strategy is to manage 
tax risks and tax costs in a manner 
consistent with shareholders’ best long-term 
interests, taking into account both economic 
and reputational factors. We draw a 
distinction between tax planning using 
artificial structures and optimising tax 
treatment of business transactions, and we 
engage only in the latter. 
Future prospects 
As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, our 
strategy is focused on innovation, returning 
to growth and building a sustainable, 
durable and more profitable business. In 
support of this, we made certain choices 
around our three strategic priorities. 
As we experience a period of patent 
expiries: 
 > Our immediate priorities are to continue to 
drive Product Sales of our on-market 
medicines through investment in our 
Growth Platforms and our portfolio of 
legacy medicines outside of the Growth 
Platforms. The Growth Platforms include 
products in our three main therapy areas, 
and a focus on the Emerging Markets and 
Japan. We are also pursuing business 
development and investment in R&D.  
We have already accelerated a number  
of projects and progressed them into 
Phase III development.
 > Our late-stage pipeline is progressing 
ahead of plans. Our science-driven, 
collaborative culture is driving increased 
R&D productivity.
Capitalisation and shareholder return 
Dividends for 2015
$ Pence SEK Payment date
First interim dividend 0.90 57.5 7.71 14 September 2015
Second interim dividend 1.90 131.0 16.26 21 March 2016
Total 2.80 188.5 23.97
Summary of shareholder distributions 
Shares 
repurchased 
(million)
Cost 
$m
Dividend per
share
$
Dividend 
cost 
$m
Shareholder
distributions
$m
2000 9.4 352 0.70 1,236 1,588
2001 23.5 1,080 0.70 1,225 2,305 
2002 28.3 1,190 0.70 1,206 2,396 
2003 27.2 1,154 0.795 1,350 2,504 
2004 50.1 2,212 0.94 1,555 3,767 
2005 67.7 3,001 1.30 2,068 5,069 
2006 72.2 4,147 1.72 2,649 6,796 
2007 79.9 4,170 1.87 2,740 6,910 
2008 13.6 610 2.05 2,971 3,581 
2009 – – 2.30 3,339 3,339 
2010 53.7 2,604 2.55 3,604 6,208
2011 127.4 6,015 2.80 3,653 9,668
2012 57.8 2,635 2.80 3,496 6,131
2013 – – 2.80 3,522 3,522
2014 – – 2.80 3,537 3,537
2015 – – 2.80 3,539
1
3,539
Total 610.8 29,170 29.625 41,690 70,860
1
 Total dividend cost estimated based upon number of shares in issue at 31 December 2015.
Financial Review continued
76 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report accounting policies and significant areas of 
judgement and estimation are in
 > revenue recognition 
 > research and development 
 > impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets 
 > litigation 
 > post-retirement benefits 
 > taxation.
Revenue recognition
Product Sales are recorded at the invoiced 
amount (excluding inter-company sales  
and value-added taxes) less movements  
in estimated accruals for rebates and 
chargebacks given to managed-care and 
other customers and product returns – a 
particular feature in the US. It is the Group’s 
policy to offer a credit note for all returns and 
to destroy all returned stock in all markets. 
Cash discounts for prompt payment are 
also deducted from sales. Revenue is 
recognised at the point of delivery, which is 
usually when title passes to the customer, 
either on shipment or on receipt of goods  
by the customer depending on local trading 
terms. Income from royalties and from 
disposals of IP , brands and product lines  
is included in other operating income.
Rebates, chargebacks and returns  
in the US
When invoicing Product Sales in the US, we 
estimate the rebates and chargebacks that 
we expect to pay. These rebates typically 
arise from sales contracts with third party 
managed-care organisations, hospitals, 
long-term care facilities, group purchasing 
organisations and various federal or state 
programmes (Medicaid contracts, 
supplemental rebates etc). They can be 
classified as follows:
 > Chargebacks, where we enter into 
arrangements under which certain 
parties, typically hospitals, long-term care 
facilities, group purchasing organisations, 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, Public 
Health Service Covered Entities and the 
Department of Defense, are able to buy 
products from wholesalers at the lower 
prices we have contracted with them. The 
chargeback is the difference between the 
price we invoice to the wholesaler and the 
contracted price charged by the 
wholesaler. Chargebacks are paid directly 
to the wholesalers.
 > Regulatory, including Medicaid and other 
federal and state programmes, where we 
pay rebates based on the specific terms 
of agreements with the US Department  
of Health and Human Services and with 
individual states, which include product 
usage and information on best prices  
and average market prices benchmarks.
 > Contractual, under which entities such as 
third party managed-care organisations 
are entitled to rebates depending on 
specified performance provisions, which 
vary from contract to contract.
The effects of these deductions on our  
US pharmaceuticals revenue and the 
movements on US pharmaceuticals revenue 
provisions are set out overleaf.
Accrual assumptions are built up on a 
product-by-product and customer-by-
customer basis, taking into account specific 
contract provisions coupled with expected 
performance, and are then aggregated into 
a weighted average rebate accrual rate for 
each of our products. Accrual rates are 
reviewed and adjusted on a monthly basis. 
There may be further adjustments when 
actual rebates are invoiced based on 
utilisation information submitted to us  
(in the case of contractual rebates) and 
claims/invoices are received (in the case  
of regulatory rebates and chargebacks).  
We believe that we have made reasonable 
estimates for future rebates using a similar 
methodology to that of previous years. 
Inevitably, however, such estimates involve 
judgements on aggregate future sales 
levels, segment mix and the customers’ 
contractual performance.
Overall adjustments between gross and net 
US Product Sales amounted to $13,993 
million in 2015 (2014: $13, 181 million) with 
increases in adjustments for regulatory and 
chargebacks, and sales initiatives recorded 
within other, driving the movement.
Cash discounts are offered to customers  
to encourage prompt payment. Accruals  
are calculated based on historical 
experience and are adjusted to reflect  
actual experience.
Treasury
The principal financial risks to which the 
Group is exposed are those arising from 
liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and 
credit. The Group has a centralised treasury 
function to manage these risks in 
accordance with Board-approved policies. 
Specifically, liquidity risk is managed through 
maintaining access to a number of sources 
of funding to meet anticipated funding 
requirements, including committed bank 
facilities and cash resources. Interest rate 
risk is managed through maintaining a debt 
portfolio that is weighted towards fixed rates 
of interest. Accordingly, the Group’s net 
interest charge is not significantly affected 
by movements in floating rates of interest. 
We monitor the impact of currency on a 
portfolio basis (to recognise correlation 
effect), and may hedge to protect against 
significant adverse impacts on cash flow 
over the short- to medium-term. We also 
hedge the currency exposure that arises 
between the booking and settlement dates 
on non-local currency purchases and sales 
by subsidiaries and the external dividend. 
Credit risk is managed through setting and 
monitoring credit limits appropriate for the 
assessed risk of the counterparty.
Our capital and risk management objectives 
and policies are described in further detail  
in Note 25 to the Financial Statements  
from page 177 and in Risk overview from 
page 21.
Sensitivity analysis of the Group’s exposure 
to exchange rate and interest rate 
movements is also detailed in Note 25 to  
the Financial Statements from page 177 .
Critical accounting policies and 
estimates
Our Financial Statements are prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU (adopted IFRS) and as issued by the 
IASB, and the accounting policies employed 
are set out in the Group Accounting Policies 
section in the Financial Statements from 
page 144. In applying these policies, we 
make estimates and assumptions that  
affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets 
and liabilities. The actual outcome could 
differ from those estimates. Some of these 
policies require a high level of judgement 
because the areas are especially subjective 
or complex. We believe that the most critical 
77 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Financial Review continued
Gross to net Product Sales – US pharmaceuticals
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Gross Product Sales 23,467 23,301 21,345
Chargebacks (2,985) (2,794) (2,449)
Regulatory – US government and state programmes (1,714) (1,389) (1,435)
Contractual – Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates (7,543) (7,730) (6,918)
Cash and other discounts (472) (436) (399)
Customer returns (333) (295) (112)
Other (946) (537) (341)
Net Product Sales 9,474 10,120 9,691
Movement in provisions – US pharmaceuticals
Brought 
forward at 
1 January 
2015 
$m
Provision for
current year 
$m
Adjustment in 
respect of 
prior years 
$m
Returns and
payments 
$m
Carried 
forward at 
31 December
2015
$m
Chargebacks 457 3,019 (34) (3,118) 324
Regulatory – US government and state programmes 707 1,809 (95) (1,644) 777
Contractual – Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 2,366 7,666 (123) (7,703) 2,206
Cash and other discounts 33 464 8 (461) 44
Customer returns 318 349 (16) (184) 467
Other 163 947 (1) (923) 186
Total 4,044 14,254 (261) (14,033) 4,004
Brought 
forward at 
1 January 
2014 
$m
Provision for
current year 
$m
Adjustment in 
respect of 
prior years 
$m
Returns and
payments 
$m
Carried 
forward at 
31 December
2014
$m
Chargebacks 355 2,838 (44) (2,692) 457
Regulatory – US government and state programmes 784 1,544 (155) (1,466) 707
Contractual – Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 1,714 7,703 27 (7,078) 2,366
Cash and other discounts 32 436 – (435) 33
Customer returns 222 295 – (199) 318
Other 74 537 – (448) 163
Total 3,181 13,353 (172) (12,318) 4,044
Brought 
forward at 
1 January 
2013 
$m
Provision for
current year 
$m
Adjustment in 
respect of 
prior years 
$m
Returns and
payments 
$m
Carried 
forward at 
31 December
2013
$m
Chargebacks 313 2,439 10 (2,407) 355
Regulatory – US government and state programmes 825 1,447 (12) (1,476) 784
Contractual – Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 1,348 6,951 (33) (6,552) 1,714
Cash and other discounts 33 399 – (400) 32
Customer returns 211 99 13 (101) 222
Other 45 341 – (312) 74
Total 2,775 11,676 (22) (11,248) 3,181
78 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report We have distribution service agreements 
with major wholesaler buyers which serve  
to reduce the speculative purchasing 
behaviour of the wholesalers and reduce 
short-term fluctuations in the level of 
inventory they hold. We do not offer any 
incentives to encourage wholesaler 
speculative buying and attempt, where 
possible, to restrict shipments to underlying 
demand when such speculation occurs.
Component revenue accounting
A consequence of charging all internal R&D 
expenditure to the income statement in the 
year in which it is incurred (which is normal 
practice in the pharmaceutical industry) is 
that we own valuable intangible assets 
which are not recorded on the balance 
sheet. We also own acquired intangible 
assets which are included on the balance 
sheet. As detailed on page 66, the Group’s 
externalisation business model means that, 
from time to time, we sell such assets and 
generate income. Sales of product lines are 
often accompanied by an agreement on our 
part to continue manufacturing the relevant 
product for a reasonable period (often about 
two years) while the purchaser constructs its 
own manufacturing facilities. The contracts 
typically involve the receipt of an upfront 
payment, which the contract attributes to 
the sale of the intangible assets, and 
ongoing receipts, which the contract 
attributes to the sale of the product we 
manufacture. In cases where the transaction 
has two or more components, we account 
for the delivered item (for example, the 
transfer of title to the intangible asset) as  
a separate unit of accounting and record 
revenue on delivery of that component, 
provided that we can make a reasonable 
estimate of the fair value of the undelivered 
component. Where the fair market value of 
the undelivered component (for example,  
a manufacturing agreement) exceeds the 
contracted price for that component, we 
defer an appropriate element of the upfront 
consideration and amortise this over the 
performance period. However, where  
the fair market value of the undelivered 
component is equal to or lower than the 
contracted price for that component, we 
treat the whole of the upfront amount as 
being attributable to the delivered intangible 
assets and recognise that part of the 
revenue upon delivery. No element of  
the contracted revenue related to the 
undelivered component is allocated to  
the sale of the intangible asset. This is 
because the contracted revenue relating to 
the undelivered component is contingent on 
future events (such as sales) and so cannot 
be anticipated.
Research and development
Our business is underpinned by our 
marketed products and development 
portfolio. The R&D expenditure on internal 
activities to generate these products is 
generally charged to profit in the year  
that it is incurred. Purchases of IP and 
product rights to supplement our R&D 
portfolio are capitalised as intangible  
assets. Further details of this policy are 
included in the Group Accounting Policies 
section of our Financial Statements from 
page 144. Such intangible assets are 
amortised from the launch of the underlying 
products and are tested for impairment  
both before and after launch. This policy  
is in line with practice adopted by major 
pharmaceutical companies.
Impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets
We have significant investments in  
goodwill and intangible assets as a result  
of acquisitions of businesses and purchases 
of assets, such as product development 
and marketing rights.
Details of the estimates and assumptions 
we make in our annual impairment testing  
of goodwill are included in Note 8 to the 
Financial Statements on page 157 . The 
Group, including acquisitions, is considered 
a single cash-generating unit for impairment 
purposes. No impairment of goodwill  
was identified.
Impairment reviews have been carried  
out on all intangible assets that are in 
development (and not being amortised), all 
major intangible assets acquired during the 
year and all intangible assets that have had 
indications of impairment during the year. 
Sales forecasts and specific allocated  
costs (which have both been subject to 
appropriate senior management sign-off) 
are discounted using appropriate rates 
based on AstraZeneca’s risk-adjusted, 
pre-tax weighted average cost of capital. 
Our weighted average cost of capital reflects 
factors such as our capital structure and  
our costs of debt and equity. In building  
to the range of rates used in our internal 
investment appraisal of future projects and 
Industry practice in the US allows 
wholesalers and pharmacies to return 
unused stocks within six months of, and up 
to 12 months after, shelf-life expiry. The 
customer is credited for the returned 
product by the issuance of a credit note. 
Returned products are not exchanged for 
products from inventory and once a return 
claim has been determined to be valid and a 
credit note has been issued to the customer, 
the returned products are destroyed. At the 
point of sale in the US, we estimate the 
quantity and value of products which may 
ultimately be returned. Our returns accruals 
in the US are based on actual experience. 
Our estimate is based on the preceding  
12 months for established products together 
with market-related information, such as 
estimated stock levels at wholesalers and 
competitor activity, which we receive via 
third party information services. For newly 
launched products, we use rates based on 
our experience with similar products or a 
pre-determined percentage.
For products facing generic competition,  
we may lose the ability to estimate the levels 
of returns from wholesalers with the same 
degree of precision that we can for products 
still subject to patent protection. This is 
because we may have limited or no insight 
into a number of areas: the actual timing of 
the generic launch (for example, a generic 
manufacturer may or may not have 
produced adequate pre-launch inventory); 
the pricing and marketing strategy of the 
competitor; the take-up of the generic; and 
(in cases where a generic manufacturer has 
approval to launch only one dose size in a 
market of several dose sizes) the likely level 
of switching from one dose to another. 
Under our accounting policy, revenue is 
recognised only when the amount of the 
revenue can be measured reliably. Our 
approach in meeting this condition for 
products facing generic competition will vary 
from product to product depending on the 
specific circumstances.
The adjustment in respect of prior years 
increased 2015 net US pharmaceuticals 
revenue by 2.8% (2014: 1.7%; 2013: 0.2%). 
However, taking into account the 
adjustments affecting both the current and 
the prior year, 2014 revenue would have 
been increased by 0.9% and 2013 revenue 
would have been increased by 1.5%, by 
adjustments between years.
79 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report Where it is considered that the Group is 
more likely than not to prevail, or in the rare 
circumstances where the amount of the 
legal liability cannot be estimated reliably, 
legal costs involved in defending the claim 
are charged to profit as they are incurred. 
Where it is considered that the Group has  
a valid contract which provides the right  
to reimbursement (from insurance or 
otherwise) of legal costs and/or all or part  
of any loss incurred or for which a provision 
has been established and we consider 
recovery to be virtually certain, then the best 
estimate of the amount expected to be 
received is recognised as an asset.
Assessments as to whether or not to 
recognise provisions or assets and of the 
amounts concerned usually involve a series 
of complex judgements about future events 
and can rely heavily on estimates and 
assumptions. AstraZeneca believes that the 
provisions recorded are adequate based on 
currently available information and that the 
insurance recoveries recorded will be 
received. However, given the inherent 
uncertainties involved in assessing the 
outcomes of these cases and in estimating 
the amount of the potential losses and the 
associated insurance recoveries, we could 
in future periods incur judgments or 
insurance settlements that could have a 
material adverse effect on our results in  
any particular period.
The position could change over time, and 
there can, therefore, be no assurance that 
any losses that result from the outcome of 
any legal proceedings will not exceed the 
amount of the provisions that have been 
booked in the accounts.
Although there can be no assurance 
regarding the outcome of legal proceedings, 
we do not currently expect them to have a 
material adverse effect on our financial 
position, but they could significantly affect 
our financial results in any particular period.
Post-retirement benefits
We offer post-retirement benefit plans which 
cover many of our employees around the 
world. In keeping with local terms and 
conditions, most of these plans are defined 
contribution in nature, where the resulting 
income statement charge is fixed at a set 
level or is a set percentage of employees’ 
pay. However, several plans, mainly in the 
UK (which has by far the largest single 
scheme), the US, Sweden and Germany  
are defined benefit plans where benefits  
are based on employees’ length of service 
and final salary (typically averaged over one, 
three or five years). The UK and US defined 
benefit schemes were closed to new 
entrants in 2000. All new employees in 
these countries are offered defined 
contribution schemes. 
In applying IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’,  
we recognise all actuarial gains and losses 
immediately through Other Comprehensive 
Income. Investment decisions in respect  
of defined benefit schemes are based  
on underlying actuarial and economic 
circumstances with the intention of ensuring 
that the schemes have sufficient assets to 
meet liabilities as they fall due, rather than 
meeting accounting requirements. The 
trustees follow a strategy of awarding 
mandates to specialist, active investment 
managers, which results in a broad 
diversification of investment styles and asset 
classes. The investment approach is 
intended to produce less volatility in the  
plan asset returns.
In assessing the discount rate applied to  
the obligations, we have used rates on  
AA corporate bonds with durations 
corresponding to the maturities of those 
obligations, except in Sweden where we 
have used rates on mortgage bonds as the 
market in high quality corporate bonds is 
insufficiently deep.
In all cases, the pension costs recorded in 
the Financial Statements are assessed in 
accordance with the advice of independent 
qualified actuaries, but require the exercise 
of significant judgement in relation to 
assumptions for long-term price inflation 
and, future salary and pension increases.
Further details of our accounting for 
post-retirement benefit plans are included  
in Note 20 to the Financial Statements from 
page 166.
capital investment decisions, we adjust  
our weighted average cost of capital for 
other factors which reflect, without limitation, 
local matters such as risk on a case-by-
case basis.
A significant portion of our investments  
in intangible assets and goodwill arose  
from the restructuring of the joint venture 
with Merck in 1998, the acquisition of 
MedImmune in 2007 , and the payments 
arising from the restructuring of the joint 
venture with Merck in the US. In addition, 
our recent business combinations, as 
detailed in Note 24 to the Financial 
Statements from page 173, have added 
significant product, marketing and 
distribution intangible rights to our intangible 
asset portfolio. We are satisfied that the 
carrying values of our intangible assets as  
at 31 December 2015 are fully justified by 
estimated future cash flows. The accounting 
for our intangible assets is fully explained  
in Note 9 to the Financial Statements  
from page 158. 
Further details of the estimates and 
assumptions we make in impairment testing 
of intangible assets are included in Note 9 to 
the Financial Statements. 
Litigation
In the normal course of business, contingent 
liabilities may arise from product-specific 
and general legal proceedings, from 
guarantees or from environmental liabilities 
connected with our current or former sites. 
Where we believe that potential liabilities 
have a less than 50% probability of 
crystallising, or where we are unable to 
make a reasonable estimate of the liability, 
we treat them as contingent liabilities. These 
are not provided for but are disclosed in 
Note 27 to the Financial Statements from 
page 186.
In cases that have been settled or 
adjudicated, or where quantifiable fines and 
penalties have been assessed and which 
are not subject to appeal (or other similar 
forms of relief), or where a loss is probable 
(more than 50% assessed probability) and 
we are able to make a reasonable estimate 
of the loss, we indicate the loss absorbed or 
the amount of the provision accrued.
Financial Review continued
80 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report  Strategic Report
The Strategic Report, which has been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 
2006, comprises the following sections
 > AstraZeneca at a glance
 > Chief Executive Officer’s Review
 > Strategy
 > Therapy Area Review
 > Business Review
 > Resources Review
 > Financial Review
and has been approved and signed on 
behalf of the Board. 
A C N Kemp 
Company Secretary  
4 February 2016
treasury operations and taxation, so  
that, in aggregate, we have covered a 
significant proportion of the key lines  
in our Financial Statements. Each of  
these operating units and specialist areas 
has ensured that its relevant processes  
and controls are documented to appropriate 
standards, taking into account, in particular, 
the guidance provided by the SEC. We  
have also reviewed the structure and 
operation of our ‘entity level’ control 
environment. This refers to the overarching 
control environment, including structure of 
reviews, checks and balances that are 
essential to the management of a 
well-controlled business.
The Directors have concluded that  
our internal control over financial reporting  
is effective at 31 December 2015 and  
the assessment is set out in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal 
Control over Financial Reporting on  
page 135. KPMG LLP has audited the 
effectiveness of our internal control over 
financial reporting at 31 December 2015 
and, as noted in the Auditor’s Reports on 
the Financial Statements and on Internal  
Control over Financial Reporting  
(Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404)  
on page 136, their report is unqualified. 
Taxation
Accruals for tax contingencies require 
management to make judgements and 
estimates in relation to tax audit issues and 
exposures. Amounts accrued are based on 
management’s interpretation of country-
specific tax law and the likelihood of 
settlement. Tax benefits are not recognised 
unless the tax positions are probable of 
being sustained. Once considered to be 
probable, management reviews each 
material tax benefit to assess whether  
a provision should be taken against full 
recognition of the benefit on the basis of 
potential settlement through negotiation 
and/or litigation. Any recorded exposure  
to interest on tax liabilities is provided for  
in the tax charge.
AstraZeneca faces a number of transfer 
pricing audits in jurisdictions around the 
world and, in some cases, is in dispute  
with the tax authorities. These disputes 
usually result in taxable profits being 
increased in one territory and 
correspondingly decreased in another.  
Our balance sheet positions for these 
matters reflect appropriate corresponding 
relief in the territories affected.
Further details of the estimates and 
assumptions we make in determining our 
recorded liability for transfer pricing audits 
and other tax contingencies are included in 
the Tax section of Note 27 to the Financial 
Statements on page 192.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404
As a consequence of our NYSE listing, 
AstraZeneca is required to comply with 
those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
applicable to foreign issuers. Section 404  
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires 
companies annually to assess and make 
public statements about the quality and 
effectiveness of their internal control over 
financial reporting. As regards Sarbanes-
Oxley Act Section 404, our approach is 
based on the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations (COSO) 2013 framework. 
Our approach to the assessment has been 
to select key transaction and financial 
reporting processes in our largest operating 
units and a number of specialist areas, such 
as financial consolidation and reporting, 
81 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Strategic Report The Board of Directors has sought to ensure that 
AstraZeneca’s achievements in 2015 were underpinned 
by strong corporate governance. Our efforts were also 
focused on ensuring that the Group’s future success  
is supported by corporate governance best practice.
I would like to thank Graham Chipchase  
for assuming the role of Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee after John Varley 
stood down at last year’s AGM, having 
spent nine years as a Non-Executive 
Director. The Directors’ Remuneration 
Report can be found from page 103 and 
Graham’s Committee plays an essential role 
in ensuring that the interests of the Executive 
Directors and other senior leaders are 
aligned with the interests of shareholders 
over the short, medium and longer term.
Thanks are also due to Bruce Burlington 
who became Chairman of the Science 
Committee during the year, in succession  
to Nancy Rothwell, who also stood down at 
last year’s AGM, having spent nine years as 
a Board member. This Committee provides 
assurance to the Board on the quality, 
competitiveness and integrity of our science.
Both of these Committees were 
strengthened further during the year when 
Shriti Vadera and Cori Bargmann (who was 
elected for the first time as a Non-Executive 
Director at our AGM in 2015) became 
members respectively of the Remuneration 
Committee and the Science Committee.
Governance in support of our strategy
In his introduction to the Strategic Report, 
our Chief Executive Officer, Pascal Soriot, 
outlined a successful year for AstraZeneca 
in implementing our strategy. The chart 
overleaf summarises the governance 
structure we have in place to ensure that  
the Board is able properly to discharge  
its responsibilities in setting that strategy,  
as well as monitoring and reviewing its 
progress, and ensuring that we manage our 
risks and carry out business responsibly. 
Another important part of our work  
is listening to the views of external 
stakeholders, whether they are medical 
practitioners and clinical researchers, or 
representatives of investors and financial 
institutions. We also maintain an active 
dialogue with shareholders about executive 
remuneration. Looking ahead, we will be 
spending more time considering succession 
planning to ensure we have the leaders  
we need to deliver our goal of sustainable 
growth over the longer term.
Committees of the Board
The Board’s work is supported by four 
principal Committees and I am grateful  
to their members, and especially their 
Chairmen, for the role they play in the  
robust governance of AstraZeneca.
John Varley had also undertaken the 
important role of Senior independent 
Non-Executive Director. I am grateful to 
Rudy Markham for taking on this role.
Transparent reporting
Rudy also chairs the Audit Committee which 
has a crucial role in reviewing our financial 
reporting, risk management and financial 
controls. We aim to be as transparent as we 
can in our reporting and, with that in mind, 
in preparing our viability statement which is 
on page 21 of this Annual Report, we also 
reviewed our principal risks, how we 
describe them and the information we 
provide about them. I am grateful to the 
members of the Audit Committee for  
their thorough work in undertaking a 
competitive tender process for our external 
audit services in line with best practice.  
As a result of this, the Board will be 
recommending the appointment of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP at our  
AGM in 2017 .
A sustainable business
Geneviève Berger is another valued 
member of the Board and the Science 
Committee. She also performs a vital role  
in overseeing AstraZeneca’s sustainability 
framework and reporting to the Board.
For AstraZeneca, sustainability means 
implementing our strategy and delivering  
the targets we have set ourselves in a way 
that promotes the long-term health of 
AstraZeneca, the societies in which we 
work, and the planet. Employees and 
external stakeholders expect it and 
AstraZeneca’s future ability to get new 
medicines to patients in the most efficient 
Chairman’s Statement  
 …we are integrating 
sustainability into how we 
measure the success with 
which we are delivering our 
strategic priorities.”
Corporate Governance
82 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 how we measure the success with which 
we are delivering our strategic priorities.  
We need to build on that by focusing  
our work and ensuring that sustainability 
thinking is part of our culture and embedded 
into the way we do business.
A challenging business environment
In his Financial Review on page 62, our 
Chief Financial Officer, Marc Dunoyer, 
reported on the accelerating performance  
of our Growth Platforms. He also reported 
on the continued impact of the loss of 
exclusivity as medicines such as Nexium 
and Crestor continue to lose exclusivity in 
key markets, including the US and Europe. 
Such a loss of exclusivity is a normal part of 
an innovative medicine’s life-cycle. It is 
expected and we plan for it.
Even as we plan for loss of exclusivity,  
we continue to face challenging market 
conditions. The world pharmaceutical market 
is growing and underlying demographic 
trends remain favourable. Nonetheless, many 
of the drivers of demand and supply in the 
sector are under pressure. On the demand 
side, we face increased competition from 
generic drugs. In addition, securing an 
appropriate level of reward for our medicines 
is becoming more difficult in the face of 
pricing pressures. On the supply side, the 
industry faces an ongoing R&D productivity 
challenge. Costs have risen and, although  
in 2015 the FDA approved the highest 
number of new medicines since 1996,  
we still need to improve the probability  
of success of our projects.
way depends on it. Moreover, it helps  
attract and retain talented employees and 
enhances trust in our business and our 
reputation. In acting in this way, we not  
only protect our licence to operate but also 
deliver value to those who benefit from our 
medicines, our shareholders, society and 
the environment.
Achievements recognised
AstraZeneca has been working for over  
a decade to achieve business success  
in a responsible manner. For example,  
we have delivered safety, health and 
environment improvements and created a 
diverse workforce; we have promoted the 
development of our products in an ethical 
way; and taken steps to broaden access  
to our medicines. I am also pleased to 
report that, in 2015, we met all our 
obligations under our five-year Corporate 
Integrity Agreement in the US, which has 
now come to an end. Maintaining high 
ethical standards in the way we conduct  
our business remains a priority.
Our achievements were once again 
recognised in 2015 with an improved score 
of 84% (79% in 2014) in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index. Our score contributed 
to the ‘Silver Class’ rating awarded to us  
for our sustainability performance by 
RobecoSAM, the respected sustainability 
investment specialist.
Looking ahead, if we are to be among the 
best performers, there is more we need to 
do. We have refreshed and strengthened 
our governance arrangements, as outlined 
in the section, In the wider world from page 
55, and we are integrating sustainability into 
Return to shareholders
Consistent with our progressive dividend 
policy, the Board has recommended a 
second interim dividend of $1.90 per 
Ordinary Share. This brings the dividend  
for the full year to $2.80 per Ordinary Share. 
The Board’s aim is to continue to strike  
a balance between the interests of the 
business, financial creditors and our 
shareholders. After providing for investment 
in the business, supporting the progressive 
dividend policy and maintaining a strong 
investment-grade credit rating, the Board 
will keep under review investment in 
earnings-accretive opportunities.
Appreciation
Before closing, and on behalf of the Board, I 
want to thank the employees of AstraZeneca. 
Their outstanding efforts helped make 2015  
a great year for science and patients. In 
particular, I want to express my appreciation 
to Pascal and all the members of the Senior 
Executive Team for their leadership in 
delivering a successful year.
Leif Johansson 
Chairman
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
We have prepared this Annual Report  
with reference to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code published by the UK 
Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in 
September 2014.
This Corporate Governance Report 
(together with other sections of this  
Annual Report) describes how we apply  
the main principles of good governance  
in the UK Corporate Governance Code.  
We have complied throughout the 
accounting period with the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, which 
is available on the FRC’s website. 
 www.frc.co.uk
83 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Overview
How our governance supports the delivery of our strategy.
Board
Chairman: Leif Johansson  
Senior independent Non-Executive Director: Rudy Markham
All Directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Group.  
The Non-Executive Directors exercise independent, objective judgement  
in respect of Board decisions, and scrutinise and challenge management. 
They also have various responsibilities concerning the integrity of 
financial information, internal controls and risk management.
The Board is responsible for setting our strategy and policies, overseeing 
risk and corporate governance, and monitoring progress towards meeting 
our objectives and annual plans. It is accountable to our shareholders for 
the proper conduct of the business and our long-term success, and 
represents the interests of all stakeholders.
The Board conducts an annual review of the Group’s overall strategy.  
The CEO, CFO and SET take the lead in developing our strategy, which  
is then reviewed, constructively challenged and approved by the Board.
The Board has delegated some of its powers to the CEO and operates  
with the assistance of four Committees.
Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on pages 86 and 87.
Audit Committee
Chairman: Rudy Markham
The Audit Committee provides 
assurance to the Board in the 
following areas: the integrity  
of our financial reporting and 
internal controls over financial 
matters; our internal controls over 
non-financial matters; compliance 
with laws and our Code of 
Conduct; the quality of the 
Company’s relationship with  
its external auditor; the role, 
resources and effectiveness of  
the Company’s internal audit 
function; and the effectiveness of 
the Company’s risk management 
framework, in each case with the 
ultimate aim of protecting our 
shareholders’ interests.
Remuneration Committee
Chairman: Graham Chipchase
The Remuneration Committee 
considers and sets, on behalf  
of the Board, the remuneration 
(including pension rights and 
compensation payments) of 
Executive Directors and other 
senior executives. No Director  
is involved in deciding his or  
her own remuneration. 
 Corporate Governance Report from page 90 Audit Committee Report from 
page 98
 Directors’ Remuneration  
Report from page 103 
Board Committee membership
Name Audit Remuneration
Nomination 
and
Governance Science Independent
1
Cori Bargmann
2
✓ 
2
✓
Geneviève Berger ✓ ✓
Bruce Burlington ✓ ✓ 
3
Chairman
4
✓
Ann Cairns ✓ ✓
Graham Chipchase
Chairman
5
✓ 
3
✓
Jean-Philippe Courtois ✓ ✓
Marc Dunoyer
n/a
Leif Johansson ✓ Chairman n/a
6
Rudy Markham
Chairman ✓ ✓ ✓
Nancy Rothwell
7
✓ 
7
✓ 
7
Chairman
4
✓
Pascal Soriot
n/a
Shriti Vadera ✓ ✓ 
8
✓
John Varley
9
Chairman
5
✓ 
9
✓
Marcus Wallenberg ✓
1
 As determined by the Board for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
2
 Cori Bargmann was elected as a Non-Executive Director and became a member of the Science Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
3
 Bruce Burlington and Graham Chipchase became members of the Nomination and Governance Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
4
 Bruce Burlington succeeded Nancy Rothwell as Chairman of the Science Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
5
 Graham Chipchase succeeded John Varley as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
6
  Leif Johansson was considered by the Board to be independent upon his appointment as Chairman. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the test of independence is not 
appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
7
 Nancy Rothwell retired from the Board with effect from 24 April 2015.
8
 Shriti Vadera became a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 17 February 2015.
9
 John Varley retired from the Board with effect from 24 April 2015.
Corporate Governance
84 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Nomination and 
Governance Committee
Chairman: Leif Johansson
The Nomination and Governance 
Committee recommends new 
Board appointments for decision 
by the Board and, more broadly, 
considers succession planning  
for senior executive management 
and Board positions. The 
Nomination and Governance 
Committee also advises the Board 
on significant developments in 
corporate governance.
Science Committee
Chairman: Bruce Burlington
The Science Committee  
provides assurance to the  
Board regarding the Group’s  
R&D activities by reviewing  
and assessing our approaches  
in our chosen therapy areas; the 
scientific technology and R&D 
capabilities we deploy; the quality 
and development of our scientists; 
and our decision making.
Senior Executive Team
The members of the SET are  
> CEO
> CFO
>  Nine Executive Vice-
Presidents (EVPs) from across 
the organisation, representing 
the three science units, the 
four commercial units 
(including GPPS), Operations 
& IT and HR
> General Counsel
> Chief Compliance Officer
The Senior Executive Team (SET) 
is the body through which the CEO 
exercises the authority delegated 
to him by the Board. It usually 
meets monthly and considers 
major business issues and makes 
recommendations to the CEO, and 
typically reviews matters that  
are to be submitted to the Board  
for its consideration. The CEO is 
responsible for establishing and 
chairing the SET.
Key governance roles 
Chairman 
Leadership, operation and 
governance of the Board, ensuring 
Board effectiveness
CEO 
Responsible to the Board for the 
management, development and 
performance of the business
Senior independent  
Non-Executive Director  
Acts as a sounding board for the 
Chairman and an intermediary for 
other Directors and shareholders 
when necessary
 Nomination and Governance 
Committee from page 93
 Science Committee on 
page 94
 The biographies of SET 
members are shown on pages  
88 and 89
  Under 3 years 2 
Cori Bargmann  
Ann Cairns 
  3 – 6 y e a r s 5 
Leif Johansson 
Geneviève Berger  
Bruce Burlington 
Graham Chipchase  
Shriti Vadera 
  6 – 9 y e a r s 2 
Jean-Philippe Courtois 
Rudy Markham 
  9 + y e a r s 1 
Marcus Wallenberg
Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors Gender split of Directors
 Male 8
 Female 4
Directors’ nationalities
 American 2
 British 4
 French 4
 Swedish 2
85 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Board of Directors
as at 31 December 2015
1 Leif Johansson (64) 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Board  
(April 2012*)
Committee membership Chairman of the 
Nomination and Governance Committee and 
member of the Remuneration Committee
Skills and experience From 1997 to 2011, Leif was 
Chief Executive Officer of AB Volvo. Prior to that, he 
served at AB Electrolux, latterly as Chief Executive 
Officer from 1994 to 1997 . He was a Non-Executive 
Director of BMS from 1998 to September 2011, 
serving on the Board’s Audit Committee, and 
Compensation and Management Development 
Committee. He holds an MSc in engineering from 
Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg.
Other appointments Leif is Chairman of global 
telecommunications company, LM Ericsson.  
He holds board positions at Svenska Cellulosa 
Aktiebolaget SCA and Ecolean AB. He has  
been a member of the Royal Swedish Academy  
of Engineering Sciences since 1994, serving as 
Chairman since 2012. Leif is also a member of  
the European Round Table of Industrialists and 
Chairman of the International Advisory Board  
of the Nobel Foundation.
2 Pascal Soriot (56) 
Executive Director and CEO (October 2012)
Skills and experience Pascal brings significant 
experience in established and emerging markets, 
strength of strategic thinking, a successful track 
record of managing change and executing strategy, 
and the ability to lead a diverse organisation.  
He served as Chief Operating Officer of Roche’s 
pharmaceuticals division from 2010 to September 
2012 and, prior to that, Chief Executive Officer of 
Genentech, a biologics business, where he led its 
successful merger with Roche. Pascal joined the 
pharmaceutical industry in 1986 and has worked  
in senior management roles in numerous major 
companies around the world. He is a doctor of 
veterinary medicine (École Nationale Vétérinaire 
d’Alfort, Maisons-Alfort) and holds an MBA from 
HEC, Paris.
3 Marc Dunoyer (63)  
Executive Director and CFO (November 2013)
Skills and experience Marc’s career in 
pharmaceuticals, which has included periods  
with Roussel Uclaf, Hoechst Marion Roussel  
and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), has given him  
extensive industry experience, including finance  
and accounting; corporate strategy and planning; 
research and development; sales and marketing; 
business reorganisation; and business development. 
Marc is a qualified accountant and joined AstraZeneca 
in 2013, serving as Executive Vice-President, GPPS 
from June to October 2013. Prior to that, he served 
as Global Head of Rare Diseases at GSK and 
(concurrently) Chairman, GSK Japan. He holds  
an MBA from HEC, Paris and a Bachelor of Law 
degree from Paris University.
1
5 4
2
6
9
12
8
11
3
7
10
Corporate Governance
86 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 4 Rudy Markham (69) 
Senior independent Non-Executive Director 
(April 2015. Member of the Board since  
September 2008) 
Committee membership Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and member of the Remuneration 
Committee and Nomination and Governance 
Committee 
Skills and experience Rudy has significant 
international business and financial experience, 
having formerly held various senior commercial  
and financial positions with Unilever, culminating  
in his appointment as its Chief Financial Officer.
Other appointments Rudy is Chairman and a 
Non-Executive Director of Moorfields Eye Hospital 
NHS Foundation Trust and a non-executive member 
of the Boards of United Parcel Services Inc. and 
Legal & General plc. He is also Vice Chairman of  
the Supervisory Board of Corbion NV (formerly  
CSM NV), a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants and a Fellow of the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers. He served  
as a Non-Executive Director of the UK Financial 
Reporting Council from 2007 to 2012.
5 Dr Cornelia Bargmann (54) 
Non-Executive Director (April 2015)
Committee membership Member of the Science 
Committee
Skills and experience Cornelia (Cori) is the Torsten 
N. Wiesel Professor and head of the Lulu and 
Anthony Wang Laboratory of Neural Circuits and 
Behavior at The Rockefeller University, New York. 
She has held this position since 2004. Cori holds  
a degree in biochemistry from the University of 
Georgia and a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology (MIT). She pursued a postdoctoral 
fellowship with H. Robert Horvitz at MIT until 1991, 
when she accepted a faculty position in the 
Department of Anatomy at the University of 
California, San Francisco, spending 13 years there, 
before moving to Rockefeller. She has been a 
Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator since 
1995. Cori was awarded the Benjamin Franklin 
Medal in Life Science in 2015.
6 Geneviève Berger (60) 
Non-Executive Director (April 2012)
Committee membership Member of the Science 
Committee and oversees sustainability matters on 
behalf of the Board
Skills and experience Geneviève was Chief 
Science Officer at Unilever PLC and a member  
of the Unilever Leadership Executive from 2008 to 
April 2014. She holds three doctorates – in physics, 
human biology and medicine – and was appointed 
Professor of Medicine at l’Université Pierre et Marie 
Curie, Paris in 2006. Her previous positions include 
Professor and Hospital Practitioner at l’Hôpital de la 
Pitié-Salpêtrière in Paris; Director of the Biotech and 
Agri-Food Department; Head of the Technology 
Directorate at the French Ministry of Research and 
Technology; Director General, at the Centre National 
de la Recherche Scientifique; and Chairman of the 
Health Advisory Board of the EU Commission.
Other appointments In May 2015, Geneviève was 
appointed as a Director of Air Liquide S.A. for a term 
of four years. She is currently Chief Research Officer 
at Firmenich SA, Geneva, Switzerland.
7 Bruce Burlington (67) 
Non-Executive Director (August 2010)
Committee membership Chairman of the Science 
Committee and member of the Audit Committee 
and the Nomination and Governance Committee
Skills and experience Bruce is a pharmaceutical 
product development and regulatory affairs 
consultant and brings extensive experience in these 
areas. He spent 17 years with the FDA, serving as 
Director of its Center for Devices and Radiological 
Health, as well as holding various senior roles  
in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. 
After leaving the FDA, he held various senior 
executive positions at Wyeth (now part of Pfizer).
Other appointments Bruce is a Non-Executive 
Director of the International Partnership  
for Microbicides.
8 Ann Cairns (58) 
Non-Executive Director (April 2014)
Committee membership Member of the Audit 
Committee
Skills and experience Ann has more than  
20 years’ in-depth financial and international 
business experience and currently serves as 
President, International Markets, for MasterCard. 
Before joining MasterCard in 201 1, Ann oversaw the 
European liquidation of Lehman Brothers Holdings 
International and was the Chief Executive, 
Transaction Banking at ABN AMRO. At the start  
of her career, Ann was an award-winning research 
engineer, culminating as the head of Offshore 
Engineer-Planning for British Gas. She holds a BSc 
in pure mathematics from Sheffield University and  
an MSc with research into medical statistics from 
Newcastle University in the UK.
9 Graham Chipchase (52) 
Non-Executive Director (April 2012)
Committee membership Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and member of the 
Nomination and Governance Committee
Skills and experience Graham has served as  
Chief Executive Officer of global consumer 
packaging company, Rexam PLC since 2010  
after serving at Rexam as Group Director, Plastic 
Packaging and Group Finance Director. Previously, 
he was Finance Director of Aerospace Services at 
the global engineering group GKN PLC from 2001  
to 2003. After starting his career with Coopers & 
Lybrand Deloitte, he held various finance roles in the 
industrial gases company The BOC Group PLC 
(now part of The Linde Group). He is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 
Wales and holds an MA (Hons) in chemistry from 
Oriel College, Oxford.
10 Jean-Philippe Courtois (55) 
Non-Executive Director (February 2008)
Committee membership Member of the Audit 
Committee 
Skills and experience Jean-Philippe has more  
than 30 years’ experience in the global technology 
industry. He is President of Microsoft International 
and previously served as Chief Executive Officer  
and President of Microsoft EMEA. Jean-Philippe  
has also served as Co-Chairman of the World 
Economic Forum’s Global Digital Divide Initiative 
Task Force and on the European Commission 
Information and Communication Technology Task 
Force. In 2009, he served as an EU Ambassador  
for the Year of Creativity and Innovation and, in 2011, 
was named one of ‘Tech’s Top 25’ by The Wall 
Street Journal Europe.
Other appointments Jean-Philippe is a board 
member of PlaNet Finance, a leading international 
microfinance organisation.
11 Shriti Vadera (53) 
Non-Executive Director (January 2011)
Committee membership Member of the Audit 
Committee and the Remuneration Committee
Skills and experience Shriti has significant 
knowledge of global finance, emerging markets and 
public policy. She has advised governments, banks 
and investors on the eurozone crisis, the banking 
sector, debt restructuring and markets. She has 
served as a G20 Adviser and a Minister in the UK 
Cabinet Office and Business Department and 
International Development Department. She has 
also served on the Council of Economic Advisers, 
HM Treasury, where she focused on business and 
international economic issues. Prior to that, Shriti 
spent 14 years in investment banking with SG 
Warburg/UBS. 
Other appointments Shriti is Chairman of 
Santander UK plc and Senior Independent Director 
of BHP Billiton.
12 Marcus Wallenberg (59)  
Non-Executive Director (April 1999)
Committee membership Member of the Science 
Committee 
Skills and experience Marcus has international 
business experience across various industry 
sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry  
from his directorship with Astra prior to 1999.
Other appointments Marcus is Chairman of 
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Saab AB and 
FAM AB. He is a member of the boards of Investor 
AB, Temasek Holdings Limited, and the Knut and 
Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
* Date of appointment.
87 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Senior Executive Team
as at 31 December 2015
1 Pascal Soriot
CEO 
See page 86.
3 Katarina Ageborg
Chief Compliance Officer 
Katarina was appointed Chief Compliance Officer 
and a member of the SET on 1 July 2011. She has 
overall responsibility for the delivery, design and 
implementation of the Company’s compliance 
programme and since her appointment has  
driven increased efficiency and effectiveness in 
compliance. She has also assumed responsibility  
for Safety, Health & Environment, and most recently 
in 2015 for the Company’s sustainability programme. 
Katarina led the Global IP function from 2008 to 
2011, during which time she streamlined the 
organisation and launched a new patent filing 
strategy. After joining AstraZeneca in 1998, she held 
a series of senior legal roles supporting Commercial, 
Regulatory and IP . Prior to AstraZeneca, Katarina 
established her own law firm and worked as a 
lawyer on both civil and criminal cases. Katarina 
holds a Master of Law Degree from Uppsala 
University School of Law in Sweden. 
2 Marc Dunoyer 
CFO
See page 86. 
4 Dr Sean Bohen 
Executive Vice-President,  
Global Medicines Development and  
Chief Medical Officer
Sean was appointed Executive Vice-President,  
GMD in September 2015 and leads our global 
late-stage development organisation for both small 
molecules and biologics. He is also the Company’s 
Chief Medical Officer. He joined AstraZeneca from 
Genentech, where he was most recently Senior  
Vice President of Early Development. Before joining 
Genentech, Sean was a Clinical Instructor in 
Oncology at Stanford University School of Medicine, 
a research associate at the Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute and a postdoctoral fellow at the National 
Cancer Institute. He is a graduate of the University  
of Wisconsin and later earned his doctorate in 
biochemistry and his medical degree at the 
University of California, San Francisco. 
 
13
1
5 4
2
6
9
12
8
11
3
7
10
Corporate Governance
88 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 5 Pam Cheng 
Executive Vice-President, Operations  
and Information Technology 
Pam joined AstraZeneca in June 2015 after having 
spent 14 years in Global Manufacturing and Supply 
Chain roles at Merck/MSD. Pam was the Head of 
Global Supply Chain Management & Logistics for 
Merck from 2006 to 2011 and led the transformation 
of Merck supply chains across the global supply 
network. More recently, Pam was President of MSD 
China, responsible for MSD’s entire business in 
China. Prior to joining Merck, Pam held various 
engineering and project management positions at 
Universal Oil Products, Union Carbide Corporation 
and GAF Chemicals. Pam holds Bachelor’s and 
Master’s degrees in chemical engineering from 
Stevens Institute of Technology in New Jersey  
and an MBA in marketing from Pace University  
in New York.
6 Fiona Cicconi 
Executive Vice-President, Human Resources 
Fiona joined AstraZeneca in September 2014 as 
Executive Vice-President, Human Resources. She 
started her career at General Electric, where she 
held various human resources roles within the oil 
and gas business, which included experience in 
major global acquisitions and driving change. 
Subsequently, Fiona spent a number of years at 
Cisco, before joining Roche in 2006. There, she  
was most recently responsible for global human 
resources for Pharma Technical Operations, where 
her primary focus was to build one culture between 
Roche and Genentech and identify and develop a 
sustainable supply of leadership and talent from 
within the organisation.
7 Dr Ruud Dobber 
Executive Vice-President, Europe
Ruud was appointed Executive Vice-President, 
Europe in January 2013 and is responsible for sales, 
marketing and commercial operations across 
AstraZeneca’s businesses in the 28 EU member 
states. In addition to his European accountabilities, 
Ruud is responsible for the development of our 
late-stage, small molecule antibiotic pipeline as  
well as its global commercialisation. Ruud joined 
AstraZeneca in 1997 and has held various senior 
commercial and leadership roles, including Regional 
Vice-President of AstraZeneca’s European, Middle 
East and African division, Regional Vice-President 
for the Asia Pacific region and Interim Executive 
Vice-President, GPPS. Since 2012, Ruud has been 
an Executive Committee Member of the European 
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and 
Associations (EFPIA) and was earlier Chairman of 
the Asia division of Pharmaceutical Research and 
Manufacturers of America. Holding a doctorate in 
immunology from the University of Leiden in the 
Netherlands, Ruud began his career as a scientist, 
researching in the field of immunology and ageing. 
8 Paul Hudson 
President, AstraZeneca, US and Executive 
Vice-President, North America
Paul was appointed Executive Vice-President,  
North America in January 2013 and is accountable 
for driving growth and maximising the contribution  
of the commercial operations in North America  
to AstraZeneca’s global business. Paul joined 
AstraZeneca in 2006 as Vice-President and Primary 
Care Director, UK and was later appointed President 
of AstraZeneca’s subsidiary companies in Japan 
and Spain. He has served as a Standing Board 
Member of the Japan Pharmaceuticals 
Manufacturers Association and EFPIA in Japan. 
Before joining AstraZeneca, Paul worked for 
Schering-Plough, where he held senior global 
marketing roles. He received a degree in economics 
from Manchester Metropolitan University and a 
DipM from the UK’s Chartered Institute of Marketing.
9 Dr Bahija Jallal 
Executive Vice-President, MedImmune 
Bahija was appointed Executive Vice-President, 
MedImmune in January 2013 and is responsible  
for biologics research activities. Bahija is tasked  
with advancing the biologic pipeline of drugs. She 
joined MedImmune in 2006 as Vice-President, 
Translational Sciences and has held roles of 
increasing responsibility at AstraZeneca. Prior to 
joining AstraZeneca, Bahija worked with Chiron 
Corporation, where she served as Vice-President, 
Drug Assessment and Development. Bahija 
received a Master’s degree in biology from 
l’Université de Paris VII and her doctorate in 
physiology from l’Université Pierre et Marie Curie, 
Paris VI. She conducted her post-doctoral research 
at the Max-Planck Institute of Biochemistry in 
Martinsried, Germany. She is a member of the 
American Association of Science and the 
Pharmacogenomics Working Group and is on the 
Board of Directors of the Association of Women  
in Science. She is also on the Board of Trustees  
of the Johns Hopkins University. 
10 Mark Mallon 
Executive Vice-President, International 
Mark was appointed Executive Vice-President, 
International in January 2013 and is responsible  
for the growth and performance of AstraZeneca’s 
commercial businesses in various regions, including 
Asia Pacific, Russia, Latin America, the Middle East 
and Africa. Since joining AstraZeneca in 1994,  
Mark has held multiple senior sales and marketing 
roles, including Regional Vice-President for Asia 
Pacific, President of AstraZeneca’s Chinese and 
Italian subsidiaries, Chief Operating Officer of 
AstraZeneca’s Japanese subsidiary and Vice-
President of AstraZeneca’s US gastrointestinal  
and respiratory businesses. He has served as a 
member of the Board of Directors for Christiana 
Care, the largest hospital system in Delaware. He 
has also been an Executive Committee Member for 
R&D-based Pharmaceutical Association Committee, 
the China industry association for innovative 
pharmaceutical companies. Mark began his career 
in the pharmaceutical industry in management 
consulting. He holds a degree in chemical 
engineering from the University of Pennsylvania  
and an MBA in marketing and finance from the 
Wharton School of Business. 
11 Luke Miels 
Executive Vice-President, Global Product and 
Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical Affairs and 
Corporate Affairs
Luke was appointed Executive Vice-President, 
Global Product and Portfolio Strategy (GPPS) in  
May 2014, leading AstraZeneca’s global marketing, 
business development and commercial portfolio 
strategy operations. AstraZeneca’s Global Medical 
Affairs and Global Corporate Affairs functions also 
report to him. Luke joined AstraZeneca from Roche, 
where he was Regional Vice-President Asia Pacific 
for the Pharmaceuticals Division, and before that 
Head of Metabolism for Global Marketing. Before 
then, he was at Aventis where he held roles of 
increasing seniority, including Country Manager 
positions in Asia Pacific, Head of US Analytics and 
Commercial Effectiveness, and US Vice-President  
of Sales for Metabolism. He also led the US 
integration of Sanofi and Aventis while he was there. 
Luke began his career in 1995 with AstraZeneca in 
Australia as a Sales Representative and Product 
Manager. Luke holds a BSc in biology from Flinders 
University in Adelaide and an MBA from the 
Macquarie University, Sydney.
12 Dr Menelas Pangalos 
Executive Vice-President, Innovative Medicines  
and Early Development
Menelas (Mene) was appointed Executive 
Vice-President, IMED Biotech Unit in January 2013 
and leads AstraZeneca’s small molecule research 
and early development activities. Mene joined 
AstraZeneca from Pfizer, where he was Senior 
Vice-President and Chief Scientific Officer of 
Neuroscience Research. Previously, he held senior 
discovery and neuroscience roles at Wyeth and 
GSK. He completed his undergraduate degree  
in biochemistry at the Imperial College of Science 
and Technology, London and earned a doctorate  
in neurochemistry from the University of London.  
He is a Visiting Professor of Neuroscience at King’s 
College London and is a Fellow of Clare Hall at the 
University of Cambridge. Mene is a Fellow of the 
Academy of Medical Sciences and of the Royal 
Society of Biology. In the UK, Mene serves on the 
Medical Research Council, is on the Board of the 
National Centre for Universities and Business 
(NCUB), and a Non-Executive Director of the  
UK Precision Medicine Catapult.
13 Jeff Pott 
General Counsel
Jeff was appointed General Counsel in January 
2009 and has overall responsibility for all aspects  
of AstraZeneca’s Legal and IP function. He joined 
AstraZeneca in 1995 and has worked in various 
litigation roles, where he has had responsibility for IP , 
anti-trust and product liability litigation. Before joining 
AstraZeneca, he spent five years at the US legal firm 
Drinker Biddle and Reath LLP , where he specialised 
in pharmaceutical product liability litigation and 
anti-trust advice and litigation. He received his 
bachelor’s degree in political science from Wheaton 
College and his Juris Doctor Degree from Villanova 
University School of Law.
89 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance documented. The Board provides adequate 
resources to enable each Committee to 
undertake its duties.
Reserved matters and delegation  
of authority
The Board maintains and periodically 
reviews a list of matters that are reserved to, 
and can only be approved by, the Board. 
These include: the appointment, termination 
and remuneration of any Director; approval 
of the annual budget; approval of any item of 
fixed capital expenditure or any proposal for 
the acquisition or disposal of an investment 
or business which exceeds $150 million; the 
raising of capital or loans by the Company 
(subject to certain exceptions); the giving of 
any guarantee in respect of any borrowing 
of the Company; and allotting shares of the 
Company. The matters that have not been 
expressly reserved to the Board are 
delegated by the Board to its Committees  
or the CEO.
The CEO is responsible to the Board  
for the management, development and 
performance of our business for those 
matters for which he has been delegated 
authority from the Board. Although the CEO 
retains full responsibility for the authority 
delegated to him by the Board, he has 
established, and chairs, the SET, which is 
the vehicle through which he exercises that 
authority in respect of our business.
The roles of the Board, Board Committees, 
Chairman and CEO are documented, as  
are the Board’s reserved powers and 
delegated authorities.
Operation of the Board 
The Board discharges its responsibilities  
as set out in the Corporate Governance 
overview on pages 84 and 85 through  
a programme of meetings that includes 
regular reviews of financial performance  
and critical business issues, and the formal 
annual strategy review day. The Board also 
aims to ensure that a good dialogue with 
our shareholders is maintained and that 
their issues and concerns are understood 
and considered.
The Board held six meetings in 2015, 
including its usual annual strategy review. 
Five took place in London, UK and one was 
held at the offices of AstraZeneca’s French 
marketing company in Rueil-Malmaison, 
near Paris. The Board is currently scheduled 
to meet six times in 2016, and will meet at 
such other times as may be required to 
conduct business. 
Board composition
The membership of the Board at  
31 December 2015 and information about 
individual Directors is contained in the Board 
of Directors section on pages 86 and 87 .
Corporate governance
We have prepared this Annual Report with 
reference to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code published by the UK Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC) in September 2014.
This Corporate Governance Report 
(together with other sections of this Annual 
Report) describes how we apply the main 
principles of good governance in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. We have 
complied throughout the accounting period 
with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, which is available on  
the FRC’s website, www.frc.co.uk. 
Leadership and responsibilities
The roles of Chairman and CEO are  
split. Leif Johansson, our Non-Executive 
Chairman, is responsible for leadership of 
the Board. Our CEO, Pascal Soriot, leads 
the SET and has executive responsibility for 
running our business. The Board comprises 
10 Non-Executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, and two Executive Directors – 
the CEO, Pascal Soriot, and the CFO, Marc 
Dunoyer. Its responsibilities are set out in the 
Corporate Governance overview on pages 
84 and 85.
Rudy Markham, who joined the Board  
as a Non-Executive Director in 2008,  
was appointed as our Senior independent 
Non-Executive Director in April 2015.  
The role of the Senior independent 
Non-Executive Director is to serve as a 
sounding board for the Chairman and as  
an intermediary for the other Directors  
when necessary. The Senior independent 
Non-Executive Director is also available  
to shareholders if they have concerns  
that contact through the normal channels  
of Chairman or Executive Directors has 
failed to resolve, or for which such contact  
is inappropriate.
As shown in the Corporate Governance 
overview, there are four principal Board 
Committees. The membership and work  
of these Committees is described on the 
following pages. In addition, there may from 
time to time be constituted ad hoc Board 
Committees for specific projects or tasks. 
In these cases, the scope and 
responsibilities of the Committee are 
As part of the business of each Board 
meeting, the CEO typically submits a 
progress report, giving details of business 
performance and progress against the goals 
the Board has approved. To ensure that the 
Board has good visibility of the key operating 
decisions of the business, members of  
the SET attend Board meetings regularly  
and Board members meet other senior 
executives throughout the year. The Board 
also receives accounting and other 
management information about our 
resources, and presentations from internal 
and external speakers on legal, governance 
and regulatory developments. At the end of 
Board meetings, the Non-Executive Directors 
meet without the Executive Directors present 
to review and discuss any matters that have 
arisen during the meeting and/or such other 
matters as may appear to the Non-Executive 
Directors to be relevant in properly 
discharging their duty to act independently.
Board effectiveness
Composition of the Board, succession 
planning and diversity
The Nomination and Governance 
Committee and, where appropriate, the  
full Board, regularly review the composition 
of the Board and the status of succession  
to both senior executive management  
and Board level positions. Directors have 
regular contact with, and access to, 
succession candidates for senior executive 
management positions.
The Board aims to maintain a balance  
in terms of the range of experience and  
skills of individual Board members, which 
includes relevant international business, 
pharmaceutical industry and financial 
experience, as well as appropriate scientific 
and regulatory knowledge. The biographies 
of Board members set out on pages 86  
and 87 give more information about current 
Directors in this respect. The Board views 
gender, nationality and cultural diversity 
among Board members as important 
considerations when reviewing the 
composition of the Board. The Board 
recognises, in particular, the importance  
of gender diversity. Currently, 40% of the 
Company’s Non-Executive Directors are 
women and women make up 33% of the full 
Board. Although it has not set any specific 
measurable objectives, the Board intends  
to continue with its current approach to 
diversity in all its aspects, while at the same 
time seeking Board members of the highest 
calibre, and with the necessary experience 
and skills to meet the needs of the 
Corporate Governance Report 
Corporate Governance
90 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 of Wallenberg charitable foundations are 
connected. For these reasons, the Board 
does not believe that he can be determined 
independent under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. However, the Board 
believes that he has brought, and continues 
to bring, considerable business experience 
and makes a valuable contribution to the 
work of the Board. In April 2010, he was 
appointed as a member of the Science 
Committee, reflecting his interest in 
innovation and R&D, knowledge of the 
history of the Company and its scientific 
heritage and culture, and his broad 
experience of other industries and 
businesses in which innovation and R&D  
are important determinants of success.
Conflicts of interest
The Articles enable the Directors to 
authorise any situation in which a Director 
has an interest that conflicts or has the 
potential to conflict with the Company’s 
interests and which would otherwise be a 
breach of the Director’s duty, under Section 
175 of the Companies Act 2006. The Board 
has a formal system in place for Directors to 
declare such situations to be considered for 
authorisation by those Directors who have 
no interest in the matter being considered. 
In deciding whether to authorise a situation, 
the non-conflicted Directors must act in the 
way they consider, in good faith, would be 
most likely to promote the success of the 
Company, and they may impose limits or 
conditions when giving the authorisation,  
or subsequently, if they think this is 
appropriate. Situations considered by  
the Board and authorisations given are 
recorded in the Board minutes and in a 
register of conflicts maintained by the 
Company Secretary, and are reviewed 
annually by the Board. The Board believes 
that this system operates effectively.
Appointments to the Board
The Nomination and Governance 
Committee section from page 93 provides 
information about the appointment process 
for new Directors.
Newly appointed Directors are provided 
comprehensive information about the Group 
and their role as Non-Executive Directors. 
They also typically attend tailored induction 
programmes that take account of their 
individual skills and experience.
Time commitment
Our expectation is that Non-Executive 
Directors should be prepared to commit 15 
days a year, as an absolute minimum, to the 
Company and its shareholders. Information 
about our approach to diversity in the 
organisation below Board level can be found 
in Employees from page 52. 
The following changes to the composition  
of the Board and its Committees have 
occurred during the period covered by  
this Annual Report:
 > Shriti Vadera became a member of the 
Remuneration Committee with effect from 
17 February 2015.
 > John Varley and Nancy Rothwell, both 
Non-Executive Directors, retired from the 
Board on 24 April 2015, each having 
served as a Board member for nine years.
 > With effect from 24 April 2015:
 – Cori Bargmann was elected for the first 
time as a Non-Executive Director and 
became a member of the Science 
Committee.
 – Rudy Markham became Senior 
independent Non-Executive Director.
 – Graham Chipchase became Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and  
a member of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee.
 – Bruce Burlington became Chairman of 
the Science Committee and a member 
of the Nomination and Governance 
Committee.
 – Geneviève Berger was nominated to 
oversee sustainability matters on behalf 
of the Board.
Independence of the Non-Executive 
Directors
During 2015, the Board considered the 
independence of each Non-Executive 
Director for the purposes of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and the 
corporate governance listing standards  
of the NYSE (Listing Standards). With the 
exception of Marcus Wallenberg, the Board 
considers that all of the Non-Executive 
Directors are independent. Leif Johansson 
was considered by the Board to be 
independent upon his appointment as 
Chairman. In accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the test of 
independence is not appropriate in relation 
to the Chairman after his appointment.
Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as  
a Director of Astra in May 1989 and 
subsequently became a Director of the 
Company in 1999. He is a Non-Executive 
Director of Investor AB, which has a 4. 1% 
interest in the issued share capital of  
the Company as at 4 February 2016.  
Mr Wallenberg, Investor AB and a number 
Group’s business. In practice, Board 
members’ time commitment exceeds this 
minimum expectation when all the work that 
they undertake for the Group is considered, 
particularly in the case of the Chairman of 
the Board and the Chairmen of the Board 
Committees. As well as their work in relation 
to formal Board and Board Committee 
meetings, the Non-Executive Directors  
also commit time throughout the year to 
meetings and telephone calls with various 
levels of executive management, visits to 
AstraZeneca’s sites throughout the world 
and, for new Non-Executive Directors, 
induction sessions and site visits.
On occasions when a Director is 
unavoidably absent from a Board or Board 
Committee meeting, for example where  
a meeting clashes with their existing 
commitments, they still receive and review 
the papers for the meeting and typically 
provide verbal or written input ahead of the 
meeting, usually through the Chairman of 
the Board or the Chairman of the relevant 
Board Committee, so that their views are 
made known and considered at the 
meeting. Given the nature of the business  
to be conducted, some Board meetings are 
convened at short notice, which can make it 
difficult for some Directors to attend due to 
prior commitments.
Information and support
The Company Secretary is responsible  
to the Chairman for ensuring that all  
Board and Board Committee meetings  
are properly conducted, that the Directors 
receive appropriate information prior  
to meetings to enable them to make  
an effective contribution, and that 
governance requirements are considered 
and implemented.
The Company maintained Directors’ and 
Officers’ Liability Insurance cover throughout 
2015. The Directors are also able to obtain 
independent legal advice at the expense  
of the Company, as necessary, in their 
capacity as Directors.
The Company has entered into a deed of 
indemnity in favour of each Board member 
since 2006. These deeds of indemnity are 
still in force and provide that the Company 
shall indemnify the Directors to the fullest 
extent permitted by law and the Articles,  
in respect of all losses arising out of, or  
in connection with, the execution of their 
powers, duties and responsibilities as 
Directors of the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries. This is in line with current 
91 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance – in addition to the work done on CEO 
and CFO succession planning during 
2014 and 2015 by the Nomination and 
Governance Committee.
 > Increasing the opportunities for Board 
members to meet executives immediately 
below SET-level, primarily to facilitate the 
Board’s assessment of high-potential 
people and their capabilities, and for 
succession planning purposes.
 > The importance of the continuing 
dialogue with shareholders about 
executive remuneration, particularly that 
of the Executive Directors and SET 
members, its link to individual and 
Company performance and the scope  
for simplification.
 > Board members’ wish to continue to hear 
from external stakeholders (during 2015, 
the Board met and received presentations 
from, for example, medical practitioners 
and clinical researchers in the oncology 
field, representatives of major institutional 
shareholders and financial analysts 
covering the Company and the 
pharmaceutical sector).
 > Board members’ suggestions for areas 
for further review by the Board during 
2016, such as the supply chain for 
biologics and the Company’s productivity 
and efficiency programmes.
 > Various practical matters, such as the 
format and content of Board papers and 
whether more than one Board meeting 
each year should be held outside the UK. 
As part of each Director’s individual 
discussion with the Chairman, his or her 
contribution to the work of the Board  
and personal development needs were 
considered. Each Director continues to 
perform effectively and to demonstrate 
commitment to his or her role. In addition, 
led by the Senior independent Non-
Executive Director, the other Directors 
(absent the Chairman) evaluated the 
performance of the Chairman. The reviews 
of the Board’s Committees did not raise any 
significant problems and concluded that  
the Committees are operating effectively.
The Board intends to continue to comply 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
guidance that the evaluation should be 
externally facilitated at least every three 
years and expects to commission the  
next externally facilitated review in 2017 .
Re-election of Directors
In accordance with Article 66 of the  
Articles, all Directors retire at each AGM  
and may offer themselves for re-election  
by shareholders. Accordingly, all of the 
Directors will retire at the AGM in April 2016. 
The Notice of AGM will give details of those 
Directors seeking re-election.
Accountability
Risk management and internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for  
our system of internal controls and risk 
management policies and has an ongoing 
responsibility for reviewing their 
market practice and helps us attract and 
retain high-quality, skilled Directors.
Performance evaluation
During the year, the Board conducted the 
annual evaluation of its own performance  
and that of its Committees and individual 
Directors. The 2015 evaluation involved each 
Board member responding to a web-based 
questionnaire prepared by Lintstock Ltd 
(Lintstock), a London-based corporate 
advisory firm that provides objective and 
independent counsel to leading European 
companies. Lintstock supplies software  
and services to the Company Secretary’s 
team for Board evaluation questionnaires  
and for the management of insider lists but 
has no other commercial relationship with  
the Company. 
In respect of the 2015 evaluation, overall  
it was concluded that the Board continues 
to operate effectively and in an open 
manner and no significant problems  
were raised. The main themes arising  
from the responses to the questionnaire 
were discussed between the Chairman  
and individual Directors, and collectively  
at the Board meeting in December 2015. 
These included:
 > Board members’ wish to spend more 
time as a full Board considering 
succession planning for the key senior 
Board and executive roles in the 
Company – Chairman, CEO and CFO  
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2015 
Board meetings Board Committee meetings
Name Audit Remuneration
Nomination 
and 
Governance Science
Cori Bargmann
1
4(4) – – – 4(4)
Geneviève Berger 5(6) – – – 3(6)
Bruce Burlington
2
6(6) 5(5) – 1(1) 6(6)
Ann Cairns 5(6) 5(5) – – –
Graham Chipchase
3
6(6) – 7(7) 1(1) –
Jean-Philippe Courtois 6(6) 5(5) – – –
Marc Dunoyer 6(6) – – – –
Leif Johansson 6(6) – 6(7) 2(2) –
Rudy Markham 6(6) 5(5) 7(7) 2(2) –
Nancy Rothwell
4
2(2) – 3(3) 1(1) 2(2)
Pascal Soriot 6(6) – – – –
Shriti Vadera
5
6(6) 5(5) 6(6) – –
John Varley
6
2(2) – 3(3) 1(1) –
Marcus Wallenberg 6(6) – – – 5(6)
Note: number in brackets denotes number of meetings during the year that Board members were entitled to attend. 
1
  Cori Bargmann was elected as a Non-Executive Director 
and became a member of the Science Committee with effect 
from 24 April 2015.
2
  Bruce Burlington became a member of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
3
  Graham Chipchase became a member of the Nomination 
and Governance Committee with effect from 24 April 2015.
4
  Nancy Rothwell retired from the Board with effect from  
24 April 2015.
5
  Shriti Vadera became a member of the Remuneration 
Committee with effect from 17 February 2015.
6
  John Varley retired from the Board with effect from  
24 April 2015.
Corporate Governance
92 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 we aim to present a balanced and 
understandable assessment of our strategy, 
financial position and prospects.
We make information about the Group 
available to shareholders through a range  
of media, including our corporate website, 
www.astrazeneca.com, which contains a 
wide range of data of interest to institutional 
and private investors. We consider our 
website to be an important means of 
communication with our shareholders. 
The Company has been authorised  
by shareholders to place shareholder 
communications (such as the Notice  
of AGM and this Annual Report) on the 
corporate website in lieu of sending paper 
copies to shareholders (unless specifically 
requested). While recognising and 
respecting that some shareholders may 
have different preferences about how  
they receive information from us, we will 
continue to promote the benefits of 
electronic communication given the 
advantages that this has over traditional 
paper-based communications, both in  
terms of the configurability and accessibility 
of the information provided and the 
consequent cost savings and reduction  
in environmental impact. 
We have frequent discussions with 
institutional shareholders on a range of 
issues. In addition to holding discussions 
with groups of shareholders, we also hold 
individual meetings with some of our largest 
institutional shareholders to seek their views. 
Board members are kept informed of any 
issues, and receive regular reports and 
presentations from executive management 
and our brokers to assist them to develop 
an understanding of major shareholders’ 
views about the Group. From time to time, 
including in 2015, we conduct an audit of 
institutional shareholders to ensure that we 
are communicating clearly with them and 
that a high-quality dialogue is being 
maintained. The results of this audit are 
reported to, and discussed by, the full 
Board. We also respond to individual ad hoc 
requests for discussions from institutional 
shareholders and analysts. Our Investor 
Relations team acts as the main point of 
contact for investors throughout the year.  
As discussed above, the Senior independent 
Non-Executive Director, Rudy Markham, is 
also available to shareholders if they have 
concerns that contact through the normal 
channels of Chairman, CEO and/or  
CFO has failed to resolve, or in relation  
effectiveness. During 2015, the Directors 
continued to review the effectiveness of our 
system of controls, risk management and 
high level internal control processes. These 
reviews included an assessment of internal 
controls and, in particular, financial, 
operational and compliance controls, and 
risk management and their effectiveness, 
supported by management assurance of 
the maintenance of controls reports from IA, 
as well as the external auditor on matters 
identified in the course of its statutory audit 
work. The system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable (not necessarily 
absolute) assurance of effective operation 
and compliance with laws and regulations.
The internal control framework was in 
operation throughout 2015 and continues  
to operate up to the date of the approval of 
this Annual Report. The Directors believe 
that the Group maintains an effective, 
embedded system of internal controls and 
complies with the FRC’s guidance entitled 
‘Guidance on Risk Management, Internal 
Control and Related Financial and Business 
Reporting’ and, in the view of the Directors, 
no significant deficiencies have been 
identified in the system.
More information about the ways in  
which we manage our business risks  
and describe our principal risks and 
uncertainties is set out in the Risk overview 
from page 21 and Risk from page 212.
Remuneration
Information about our approach to 
remuneration and the role and work of the 
Remuneration Committee, including our 
policy on executive remuneration, is set out 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Policy on external appointments and 
retention of fees
Subject to specific Board approval in  
each case, Executive Directors and other 
SET members may accept external 
appointments as non-executive directors  
of other companies, and retain any related 
fees paid to them, provided that such 
appointments are not considered by the 
Board to prevent or reduce the ability of the 
executive to perform his or her role within 
the Group to the required standard.
Relations with shareholders
In our quarterly, half yearly and annual 
financial and business reporting to 
shareholders and other interested parties, 
to which such contact is inappropriate.  
All shareholders, including private investors, 
have an opportunity at the AGM to put 
questions to members of the Board  
about our operation and performance. 
Formal notification of the AGM is sent to 
shareholders at least one month in advance. 
All Board members ordinarily attend the 
AGM to answer questions raised by 
shareholders. In line with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, details of proxy voting  
by shareholders, including votes withheld, 
are given at the AGM and are posted on  
our website following the AGM.
Nomination and Governance 
Committee
The Nomination and Governance 
Committee’s role is to recommend to the 
Board any new Board appointments and  
to consider, more broadly, succession plans  
at Board level. It reviews the composition  
of the Board using a matrix that records  
the skills and experience of current Board 
members, comparing this with the skills and 
experience it believes are appropriate to the 
Company’s overall business and strategic 
needs, both now and in the future. Any 
decisions relating to the appointment of 
Directors are made by the entire Board 
based on the merits of the candidates and 
the relevance of their background and 
experience, measured against objective 
criteria, with care taken to ensure that 
appointees have enough time to devote  
to our business. 
The Nomination and Governance 
Committee also advises the Board 
periodically on significant developments  
in corporate governance and the 
Company’s compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
During 2015, the Chairman of the 
Nomination and Governance Committee 
was Leif Johansson. The members of the 
Nomination and Governance Committee 
were Rudy Markham; Nancy Rothwell  
and John Varley until their retirement from 
the Board on 24 April 2015; and Bruce 
Burlington and Graham Chipchase with 
effect from the same date. Each member  
is a Non-Executive Director and considered 
independent by the Board. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the 
Nomination and Governance Committee.
The Nomination and Governance 
Committee considers both planned and 
unplanned (unanticipated) succession 
93 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance individual R&D projects but does review,  
on behalf of the Board, the R&D aspects  
of specific business development or 
acquisition proposals and advises the  
Board on its conclusions.
During 2015, the members of the Science 
Committee, all of whom have a knowledge 
of, or an interest in, life sciences, were 
Nancy Rothwell (Chairman of the Science 
Committee) until her retirement from the 
Board on 24 April 2015, Bruce Burlington 
(Chairman of the Science Committee with 
effect from 24 April 2015), Cori Bargmann 
with effect from 24 April 2015, Geneviève 
Berger and Marcus Wallenberg. As usual,  
the EVP , GMD; the EVP , IMED; and the EVP , 
MedImmune, participated in meetings of the 
Science Committee as co-opted members in 
2015. The Vice-President, IMED Operations 
acts as secretary to the Science Committee.
The Science Committee met twice in 
person in 2015, in London, UK and 
Cambridge, UK and held four other 
meetings, all of which were by telephone,  
to review specific business development  
or acquisition proposals. 
The Science Committee’s terms of 
reference are available on our website, 
www.astrazeneca.com.
US corporate governance requirements
Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, 
accordingly, we are subject to the reporting 
and other requirements of the SEC 
applicable to foreign private issuers. Section 
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires 
companies to include in their annual report 
on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, a report  
by management stating its responsibility for 
establishing internal control over financial 
reporting and to assess annually the 
effectiveness of such internal control. We 
have complied with those provisions of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign 
private issuers. The Board continues to 
believe that the Group has a sound 
corporate governance framework, good 
processes for the accurate and timely 
reporting of its financial position and results 
of operations, and an effective and robust 
system of internal controls. We have 
established a Disclosure Committee, further 
details of which can be found in the 
Disclosure Committee section opposite.
The Directors’ assessment of the 
effectiveness of internal control over  
financial reporting is set out in Directors’ 
Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal 
scenarios and met twice in 2015, spending 
the majority of its time on routine succession 
planning (internal and external) for the roles 
of CEO and CFO, with the assistance 
respectively of the search firms, Spencer 
Stuart and Hoggett Bowers, both of whom 
periodically undertake executive search 
assignments for the Company. In addition, 
the Committee concluded the search that 
commenced in 2014 by recommending to 
the Board that Cori Bargmann be proposed 
for election by shareholders as a new 
Non-Executive Director at the AGM in 2015. 
The Zygos Partnership, a search firm that 
has no other connection to the Company, 
assisted the Committee with this work. The 
Committee also considered and made a 
number of recommendations to the Board 
concerning the membership of Board 
Committees to reflect the changes in Board 
membership that occurred during the year.
The attendance record of the Nomination 
and Governance Committee’s members is 
set out on page 92.
The Nomination and Governance 
Committee’s terms of reference are available 
on our website, www.astrazeneca.com.
Science Committee
The Science Committee’s core role is to 
provide assurance to the Board regarding 
the quality, competitiveness and integrity  
of the Group’s R&D activities by way of 
meetings and dialogue with our R&D 
leaders and other scientist employees;  
visits to our R&D sites throughout the  
world; and review and assessment of
 > the approaches we adopt in respect  
of our chosen therapy areas 
 > the scientific technology and R&D 
capabilities we deploy 
 > the decision-making processes for R&D 
projects and programmes
 > the quality of our scientists and their 
career opportunities and talent 
development
 > benchmarking against industry and 
scientific best practice, where 
appropriate.
The Science Committee periodically reviews 
important bioethical issues that we face, 
and assists in the formulation of, and agrees 
on behalf of the Board, appropriate policies 
in relation to such issues. It may also 
consider, from time to time, future trends  
in medical science and technology. The 
Science Committee does not review 
Control over Financial Reporting in the 
Financial Statements on page 135.
We are required to disclose any significant 
ways in which our corporate governance 
practices differ from those followed by US 
companies under the Listing Standards.  
In addition, we must comply fully with the 
provisions of the Listing Standards relating 
to the composition, responsibilities and 
operation of audit committees, applicable  
to foreign private issuers. These provisions 
incorporate the rules concerning audit 
committees implemented by the SEC under 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have reviewed 
the corporate governance practices 
required to be followed by US companies 
under the Listing Standards and our 
corporate governance practices are 
generally consistent with those standards.
Business organisation
Early Stage Product Committees (ESPCs) 
and Late Stage Product Committee 
(LSPC) 
The ESPCs and the LSPC were established 
in 2013.
Early Stage Product Committees 
The ESPCs are senior level, cross-functional 
governance bodies with accountability for 
oversight of our early-stage small molecule 
and biologics portfolio to Proof of Concept 
stage. The EVPs of our two science units, 
IMED and MedImmune, chair our ESPCs. 
The ESPCs seek to deliver a flow of 
products to GMD for Phase III development 
through to launch. The ESPCs also seek  
to maximise the value of our internal and 
external R&D investments through robust, 
transparent and well-informed decision 
making that drives business performance 
and accountability. 
Specifically, the ESPCs have responsibility 
for the following 
 > approving early-stage investment 
decisions 
 > prioritising the respective portfolios
 > licensing activity for products in Phase I 
and earlier
 > delivering internal and external 
opportunities
 > reviewing allocation of R&D resources.
Late Stage Product Committee 
The LSPC is also a senior level governance 
body, accountable for the quality of the 
portfolio post-Phase III investment decision. 
It was formed in early 2013, replacing three 
committees, in a move to streamline 
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Corporate Governance
94 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 so far as they are each aware, there is  
no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and each 
Director has taken all the steps that he or 
she ought to have taken as a Director to 
make himself or herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
Global Compliance and Internal Audit 
Services (IA) 
The role of the Global Compliance function 
is to help the Group achieve its strategic 
priorities by doing business the right way, 
with integrity and high ethical standards. 
During 2016, Global Compliance will 
continue to focus on ensuring the delivery  
of an aligned approach to compliance  
that addresses key risk areas across the 
business, including risks relating to external 
parties and anti-bribery/anti-corruption.  
Our priorities include improving compliance 
behaviours through effective training; 
monitoring compliance with our policies; 
and ensuring that employees can raise any 
concerns. Through the Group Compliance 
Council, Global Compliance and IA work 
with various specialist compliance functions 
throughout our organisation to co-ordinate 
compliance activities.
When a potential compliance breach is 
identified, an internal investigation is 
undertaken by staff from our Global 
Compliance, HR and/or Legal teams. When 
appropriate, external advisers are engaged 
to conduct and/or advise on investigations. 
Should an investigation conclude that a 
significant breach has occurred, 
management, in consultation with our Legal 
function, will consider whether the Group 
needs to disclose and/or report the findings 
to a regulatory or governmental authority. 
 Risk from page 212
Global Compliance provides direct 
assurance to the Audit Committee on 
matters concerning compliance issues, 
including an analysis of compliance 
breaches. Complementing this, IA  
carries out a range of audits that include 
compliance-related audits and reviews  
of the assurance activities of other Group 
assurance functions. The results from  
these activities are reported to the  
Audit Committee.
IA is established by the Audit Committee  
on behalf of the Board and acts as an 
development project governance. Jointly 
chaired by the EVPs of GMD and GPPS, 
members include, as appropriate, members 
of the SET, including the CEO and CFO,  
and members of the GMD and GPPS 
leadership teams.
The LSPC seeks to maximise the value  
of our investments in the late-stage  
portfolio, also ensuring well-informed  
and robust decision making. Specific 
accountabilities include
 > approval of the criteria supporting Proof  
of Concept
 > decision to invest in Phase III development 
based on agreement of commercial 
opportunity and our plans to develop  
the medicine
 > evaluation of the outcome of the 
development programme and decision  
to proceed to regulatory filing
 > decision to invest in life-cycle 
management activities for the late-stage 
assets
 > decision to invest in late-stage business 
development opportunities.
Disclosure Committee
Our disclosure policy provides a framework 
for the handling and disclosure of inside 
information and other information of interest 
to shareholders and the investment 
community. It also defines the role of the 
Disclosure Committee. The members of  
the Disclosure Committee in 2015 were:  
the CFO, who chaired the Disclosure 
Committee; the EVP , GMD (who is also  
the Company’s Chief Medical Officer); the 
EVP , GPPS; the General Counsel; the 
Vice-President, Corporate Affairs; the 
Vice-President, Investor Relations; and the 
Vice-President Finance, Group Controller. 
The Deputy Company Secretary acted as 
secretary to the Disclosure Committee.  
The Disclosure Committee meets regularly 
to assist and inform the decisions of the 
CEO concerning inside information and  
its disclosure. Periodically, it reviews our 
disclosure controls and procedures and its 
own operation as part of work carried out  
to enable management and the Board  
to assure themselves that appropriate 
processes are operating for our planned 
disclosures, such as our quarterly results 
announcements and scheduled investor 
relations events.
Disclosure of information to auditors 
The Directors who held office at the date of 
approval of this Annual Report confirm that, 
independent and objective assurance 
function guided by a philosophy of adding 
value to improve the operations of the 
Group. The scope of IA’s responsibilities 
encompasses, but is not limited to, the 
examination and evaluation of the  
adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s 
governance, risk management, and internal 
control processes in relation to the Group’s 
defined goals and objectives.
Internal control objectives considered by  
IA include 
 > consistency of operations or programmes 
with established objectives and goals and 
effective performance 
 > effectiveness and efficiency of operations 
and employment of resources 
 > compliance with significant policies, 
plans, procedures, laws, and regulations 
 > reliability and integrity of management 
and financial information processes, 
including the means to identify, measure, 
classify, and report such information
 > safeguarding of assets. 
Based on its activity, IA is responsible for 
reporting significant risk exposures and 
control issues identified to the Board and  
to senior management, including fraud  
risks, governance issues, and other  
matters needed or requested by the Audit 
Committee. It may also evaluate specific 
operations at the request of the Audit 
Committee or management, as appropriate. 
Code of Conduct
Our Code of Conduct (the Code),  
which is available on our website,  
www.astrazeneca.com, applies worldwide 
to all full-time and part-time Directors, 
officers, employees and temporary staff, in 
all companies within our Group. A Finance 
Code complements the Code and applies 
to the CEO, the CFO, the Group’s principal 
accounting officers (including key Finance 
staff in major overseas subsidiaries) and all 
Finance function employees. This reinforces 
the importance of the integrity of the 
Group’s Financial Statements, the reliability 
of the accounting records on which they are 
based and the robustness of the relevant 
controls and processes. 
The Code is at the core of our compliance 
programme. It has been translated into over 
40 languages and provides clear direction 
as to how our commitment to honesty  
and integrity is to be realised in consistent 
actions across all areas of the business. 
95 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Branches and countries in which the 
Group conducts business 
In accordance with the Companies Act 
2006, we disclose below our subsidiary 
companies that have representative or 
scientific branches/offices outside the UK
 > AstraZeneca UK Limited: Algeria (scientific 
office), Angola, Belarus, Bulgaria, Chile, 
Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Dubai (branch 
office), Georgia, Ghana (scientific office), 
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Romania, 
Russia, Saudi Arabia (scientific office), 
Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia (branch 
office), Syria and Ukraine
 > AstraZeneca AB: Egypt (scientific office) 
and Slovakia (branch office)
 > AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: 
Vietnam. 
Distributions to shareholders – dividends 
for 2015
Details of our distribution policy are set out 
in the Financial Review on page 178 and 
Notes 22 and 23 to the Financial Statements 
on page 172. 
The Company’s dividend for 2015 of $2.80 
(188.5 pence, SEK 23.97) per Ordinary 
Share amount to, in aggregate, a total 
dividend payment to shareholders of  
$3,539 million. An employee share trust, 
AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited, waived  
its right to a dividend on the Ordinary  
Shares that it holds and instead received  
a nominal dividend. 
A shareholders’ resolution was passed at 
the 2015 AGM authorising the Company to 
purchase its own shares. The Company  
did not repurchase any of its own shares in 
2015. On 31 December 2015, the Company 
did not hold any shares in treasury.
Going concern accounting basis 
Information on the business environment in 
which AstraZeneca operates, including the 
factors underpinning the industry’s future 
growth prospects, is included in the 
Strategic Report. Details of the product 
portfolio of the Group are contained in both 
the Strategic Report (in the Therapy Area 
Review from page 24) and the Directors’ 
Report. Information on patent expiry dates 
for key marketed products is included  
in Patent Expiries from page 210. Our 
approach to product development and  
our development pipeline are also covered 
in detail with additional information by 
therapy area in the Strategic Report.
Compliance with the Code is mandatory 
and every employee receives annual training 
on it. The Code is reviewed periodically and 
updated to take account of changing legal 
and regulatory obligations. Our Global 
Policies supplement the Code and provide 
clear guidance in key risk areas.
The Code contains information on how  
to report possible violations through our 
Helpline, which includes the AZethics 
telephone lines, the AZethics website, and 
the Global Compliance e-mail and postal 
addresses described in the Code. Anyone 
who raises a potential breach in good faith is 
fully supported by management. We take all 
alleged compliance breaches and concerns 
extremely seriously, and investigate them and 
report the outcome of such investigations to 
the Audit Committee, as appropriate. 
In 2015, 326 reports of alleged compliance 
breaches or other ethical concerns were 
made through the Helpline, including reports 
made by any anonymous route that could 
be considered whistleblowing; in 2014 there 
were 247 reports. The majority of cases 
come to our attention through management 
and self-reporting, which can be seen as  
an indication that employees are more 
comfortable in raising their concerns  
with line managers, local HR, Legal or 
Compliance, as recommended in the Code 
and reinforced in the 2015 Code training.
Other matters
Corporate governance statement under 
the UK Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (DTR)
The disclosures that fulfil the requirements 
of a corporate governance statement under 
the DTR can be found in this section and in 
other parts of this Annual Report as listed 
below, each of which is incorporated into 
this section by reference
 > major shareholdings 
 > Articles.
 Shareholder Information from page 240 and 
Corporate Information on page 245
Subsidiaries and principal activities
The Company is the holding company for  
a group of subsidiaries whose principal 
activities are described in this Annual 
Report. The Group’s principal subsidiaries 
and their locations are given in Group 
Subsidiaries and Holdings in the Financial 
Statements on page 194.
The financial position of the Group, its  
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Financial  
Review from page 62. In addition, Note 25  
to the Financial Statements from page 177 
includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing capital; financial  
risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; 
and its exposures to credit, market and 
liquidity risk. Further details of the Group’s 
cash balances and borrowings are included 
in Notes 16 and 17 to the Financial 
Statements from page 163.
The Group has considerable financial 
resources available. As at 31 December  
2015 the Group has $8.3 billion in financial 
resources (cash balances of $6.2 billion and 
undrawn committed bank facilities of $3.0 
billion which are available until April 2020,  
with only $0.9 billion of debt due within one 
year). Although no liability was recognised  
at 31 December 2015, the Group has entered 
into an agreement to invest in a majority  
equity stake in Acerta Pharma for an upfront 
payment of $2.5 billion that was paid on  
2 February 2016 and a further unconditional 
payment of $1.5 billion to be paid either on 
receipt of the first regulatory approval for 
acalabrutinib for any indication in the US, or 
the end of 2018, depending on which is first. 
The Group’s revenues are largely derived  
from sales of products which are covered by 
patents which provide a relatively high level of 
resilience and predictability to cash inflows, 
although our revenue is expected to continue 
to be significantly impacted by the expiry of 
patents over the medium term. In addition, 
government price interventions in response  
to budgetary constraints are expected to 
continue to adversely affect revenues in  
many of our mature markets. However, we 
anticipate new revenue streams from both 
recently launched medicines and products  
in development, and the Group has a wide 
diversity of customers and suppliers across 
different geographic areas. Consequently,  
the Directors believe that, overall, the Group  
is well placed to manage its business  
risks successfully. 
After making enquiries, the Directors have  
a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources  
to continue in operational existence for  
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis  
in preparing the Annual Report and  
Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance Report continued 
Corporate Governance
96 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Group’s US legal entities made contributions 
amounting in aggregate to $1,224,550 
(2014: $1,650,200) to national political 
organisations, state-level political party 
committees and to campaign committees 
of various state candidates. No corporate 
donations were made at the federal level 
and all contributions were made only where 
allowed by US federal and state law. We 
publicly disclose details of our corporate US 
political contributions, which can be found 
on our website, www.astrazeneca-us.com/
responsibility/transparency. The annual 
corporate contributions budget is reviewed 
and approved by the Deputy General 
Counsel, North America, the US Vice-
President, Corporate Affairs and the 
President of our US business to ensure 
robust governance and oversight. US 
citizens or individuals holding valid green 
cards exercised decision making over the 
contributions and the funds were not 
provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal 
entity. Such contributions do not constitute 
political donations or political expenditure for 
the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 
and were made without any involvement of 
persons or entities outside the US. 
Significant agreements
There are no significant agreements to 
which the Company is a party that take 
effect, alter or terminate on a change of 
control of the Company following a takeover 
bid. There are no persons with whom we 
have contractual or other arrangements, 
who are deemed by the Directors to be 
essential to our business. 
Use of financial instruments 
The Notes to the Financial Statements, 
including Note 25 from page 177 ,  
include further information on our use  
of financial instruments.
Annual General Meeting 
The Company’s AGM will be held on  
29 April 2016. The meeting place will be in 
London, UK. A Notice of AGM will be sent  
to all registered holders of Ordinary Shares 
and, where requested, to the beneficial 
holders of shares.
External auditor 
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM  
on 29 April 2016 for the reappointment of 
KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company.  
The external auditor has undertaken various 
non-audit work for us during 2015. More 
information about this work and the audit 
and non-audit fees that we have paid are set 
Changes in share capital 
Changes in the Company’s Ordinary  
Share capital during 2015, including details 
of the allotment of new shares under the 
Company’s share plans, are given in Note 
22 to the Financial Statements on page 172.
Directors’ shareholdings 
The Articles require each Director to be the 
beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares in the 
Company with an aggregate nominal value 
of $125 (which currently represents at least 
500 shares because each Ordinary Share 
has a nominal value of $0.25). Such holding 
must be obtained within two months of  
the date of the Director’s appointment.  
At 31 December 2015, all of the Directors 
complied with this requirement and full 
details of each Director’s interests in shares 
of the Company are set out in Directors’ 
interests in shares on page 1 14 and 1 15. 
Information about the shareholding 
expectations of the Remuneration 
Committee (in respect of Executive 
Directors and SET members) and the  
Board (in respect of Non-Executive 
Directors) is also set out in Directors’ 
interests in shares on pages 1 14 and 1 15.
Political donations 
Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries 
made any EU political donations or incurred 
any EU political expenditure in 2015 and they 
do not intend to do so in the future in respect 
of which shareholder authority is required, or 
for which disclosure in this Annual Report is 
required, under the Companies Act 2006. 
However, to enable the Company and its 
subsidiaries to continue to support interest 
groups or lobbying organisations concerned 
with the review of government policy or law 
reform without inadvertently breaching the 
Companies Act 2006, which defines political 
donations and other political expenditure in 
broad terms, a resolution will be put to 
shareholders at the 2016 AGM, similar to 
that passed at the 2015 AGM, to authorise 
the Company and its subsidiaries to 
 > make donations to political parties or 
independent election candidates
 > make donations to political organisations 
other than political parties
 > incur political expenditure, up to an 
aggregate limit of $250,000.
Corporate political contributions in the US 
are permitted in defined circumstances 
under the First Amendment of the US 
Constitution and are subject to both federal 
and state laws and regulations. In 2015, the 
out in Note 29 to the Financial Statements 
on page 192. The external auditor is not 
engaged by us to carry out any non-audit 
work in respect of which it might, in the 
future, be required to express an audit 
opinion. As explained more fully in the Audit 
Committee Report from page 98, the Audit 
Committee has established pre-approval 
policies and procedures for audit and 
non-audit work permitted to be carried out 
by the external auditor and has carefully 
monitored the objectivity and independence 
of the external auditor throughout 2015.
On 23 December 2015, we  
announced a proposal to appoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC)  
as our external auditor for the financial  
year ending 31 December 2017 . The 
proposed change of auditor follows a 
recommendation by the Audit Committee  
to the Board based on a formal tender in  
line with best practice. More information 
about the tender process is set out in the 
Audit Committee Report from page 98.  
A resolution to approve the appointment  
of PwC will be put to shareholders at the 
Company’s AGM in 2017 .
Directors’ Report 
The Directors’ Report, which has been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, 
comprises the following sections
 > Business Review: Research and 
Development
 > Resources Review: Employees
 > Corporate Governance: Including the 
Audit Committee Report and Corporate 
Governance Report
 > Directors Responsibility Statement
 > Development Pipeline
 > Sustainability: supplementary information
 > Shareholder Information 
 > Corporate Information
and has been signed on behalf of the Board.
The Board considers this Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced  
and understandable, and provides the 
necessary information for shareholders  
to assess AstraZeneca’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy.
A C N Kemp 
Company Secretary 
4 February 2016
97 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report
approving the accounting policies applied. 
During 2015, the Committee has looked  
at the changes to AstraZeneca’s  
revenue accounting policy to include 
Externalisation Revenue in its Statement  
of Comprehensive Income. For more 
information on Externalisation Revenue, 
please refer to the Financial Review from 
page 62. This change in accounting policy 
increases the transparency of the income 
generated by the Company’s externalisation 
activities and reflects changes over the past 
two years to the Company’s strategy and 
business model to realise the full value of 
assets and technology and provide for 
optimal investment in R&D. 
We also looked closely at intangible asset 
impairment reviews; restructuring, legal 
provisions and other related charges,  
to ensure that items are appropriately 
accounted for in ‘Reported’ and ‘Core’ 
results. We also scrutinised revenue 
recognition together with the associated 
selling and marketing investments. 
During 2015 the Committee oversaw  
a competitive tender of the Company’s 
external audit services. A thorough selection 
process in line with best practice was 
The principal duties of the Audit Committee 
(the Committee) are to provide assurance  
to the Board, as part of the Board’s 
stewardship and protection of our 
shareholders’ interests, ensuring
 > the integrity of our financial reporting, 
internal controls of financial matters and 
financial disclosures
 > the effectiveness of our internal controls 
over non-financial matters, and 
compliance with laws and the 
AstraZeneca Code of Conduct 
 > the quality of the Company’s relationship 
with its external auditor and the 
effectiveness of the external audit
 > the role, resources and effectiveness of 
the Company’s internal audit function
 > the effectiveness of the Company’s risk 
management framework. 
Financial reporting
The quality of AstraZeneca’s financial 
reporting is underpinned by well-designed 
internal controls, appropriate accounting 
practices and policies, and good 
judgement. The Committee reviews, at  
least quarterly, the Company’s significant 
accounting matters and, where appropriate, 
challenges management’s decisions before 
completed, and in December, on the 
recommendation of the Committee,  
the Board announced its decision to 
recommend the appointment of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to 
shareholders at the Company’s 2017 AGM. 
The Committee were advised that the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(PCAOB) and the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC) had both undertaken a review 
of certain aspects of KPMG LLP’s audit of 
AstraZeneca PLC’s financial statements for 
the year ended 31 December 2014. We 
have discussed the review and its findings 
with KPMG and are satisfied with the 
responses to be implemented by KPMG.
The PCAOB Report is not yet available.
Risk management
During the year the Committee reviewed  
the Company’s approach to risk 
management, its risk reporting framework, 
and the focus of the Group Risk Team. 
These discussions also provided the context 
for the Committee’s consideration of the 
development of the form and content of  
the Directors’ viability statement and the 
analysis that underpins the assurance 
provided by that statement. Further 
information on the Company’s Principal 
Risks and the Directors’ viability statement 
are on pages 21 to 23.
Compliance with the Code of Conduct
Compliance with our Code of Conduct  
in Emerging Markets continued to be an 
area of focus for the Committee, which 
considered reports on matters in China, 
Russia, the Middle East and Africa, and 
India for example. In October, members  
of the Committee visited the Company’s 
commercial and IT operations in Bangalore 
and Chennai respectively. We talked to 
Dear shareholder
In this Report, we describe the work of the Audit 
Committee during the year and the significant issues 
considered. In 2015, our priorities were to receive 
assurance on sound financial reporting, effective risk 
management and compliance with the AstraZeneca  
Code of Conduct.
 The quality of 
AstraZeneca’s financial 
reporting is underpinned 
by well-designed internal 
controls, appropriate 
accounting practices  
and policies, and good 
judgement.”
Corporate Governance
98 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Audit Committee membership  
and attendance
The Audit Committee members are Rudy 
Markham (Committee Chairman), Bruce 
Burlington, Ann Cairns, Jean-Philippe 
Courtois and Shriti Vadera – all Non-
Executive Directors. The Board considers 
each member to be independent under the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and under 
the general guidance and specific criteria  
of the Listing Standards concerning the 
composition of audit committees applicable 
to non-US companies listed on the NYSE.  
In April 2015, we submitted the required 
annual written affirmation to the NYSE 
confirming our full compliance with those 
standards. For the purposes of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Board 
remains satisfied that at least one member 
of the Audit Committee has recent and 
relevant financial experience. At its meeting 
in December 2015, the Board determined 
that Rudy Markham and Ann Cairns are 
Audit Committee financial experts for the 
purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For 
more information regarding the experience 
of the Audit Committee members, see the 
Board of Directors’ biographies on pages 
86 and 87 . The Deputy Company Secretary 
acts as secretary to the Audit Committee. 
Meetings of the Audit Committee are 
routinely attended by the CFO; the General 
Counsel; the Chief Compliance Officer;  
the Vice-President, IA; the Vice-President 
Finance, Group Controller; and our external 
auditor. The CEO attends on an agenda-
driven basis. In line with its normal practice, 
the Audit Committee also held a number  
of private meetings, without management 
present, with the Chief Compliance Officer; 
the General Counsel; the Vice-President,  
IA; and the Company’s external auditor. 
These meetings were held between Audit 
Committee members and those individuals, 
separately from the main sessions of the 
Audit Committee.
Number of meetings and attendance 
The Audit Committee held five scheduled 
meetings in 2015. The attendance record  
of the Audit Committee members is set out 
in the Board and Board Committee meeting 
attendance in 2015 table on page 92. 
Following each Audit Committee meeting, 
the Committee Chairman reported to the 
Board on the principal matters covered at 
the meeting and minutes of the meetings 
were circulated to all Board members.  
members of local and regional management 
including our compliance officers about 
AstraZeneca’s performance and its 
approach to diversity, risk management, 
business resilience and operating ethically, 
within the law and in accordance with our 
Code of Conduct.
I am pleased to report that in 2015, the 
Company had met all of its obligations 
under its five-year Corporate Integrity 
Agreement in the US, which terminated  
in April 2015. Naturally, maintaining 
compliance with the Company’s Code of 
Conduct and high ethical standards in all 
countries where we conduct business or 
have interactions will continue to be a 
priority for the Committee.
Engagement with senior leaders
The Committee considers it important to 
extend its interactions with members of 
management below the SET. In addition  
to the meetings with local and regional 
management in India, the Committee met 
informally with members of Internal Audit 
Services (IA), Compliance, IS/IT and Finance 
teams. In July 2015, the Chairman of the 
Committee participated in a conference  
with the Finance team on the subject of 
‘Finance as Leaders’. We take a special 
interest in the strength and depth of the 
finance organisation and talent development 
within that function.
We value dialogue with our shareholders 
and welcome your feedback on this report.
Yours sincerely
Rudy Markham 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
In addition, the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee held regular scheduled calls 
between Audit Committee meetings with 
each of the CFO; the Chief Compliance 
Officer; the Vice-President, IA; and the lead 
partner of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee is currently scheduled 
to meet five times in 2016 and will meet at 
such other times as may be required.
Terms of reference
The terms of reference of the Audit 
Committee, which are available on our 
website, www.astrazeneca.com, include 
reviewing and reporting to the Board on:
 > Matters relating to the audit plans of the 
external auditor and IA as well as 
oversight of the work of the Global 
Compliance function.
 > The effectiveness of our overall framework 
for internal control over financial reporting 
and for other internal controls and 
processes.
 > Our overall framework for risk 
management.
 > The appropriateness of our accounting 
policies and practices.
 > Our annual and quarterly financial 
reporting, including the critical estimates 
and judgements contained in our 
reporting.
 > Our internal control over financial 
reporting.
 > Our Code of Conduct and whistleblower 
procedures.
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
notifying the Board of any significant 
concerns of the external auditor or the 
Vice-President, IA arising from their audit 
work; any matters that may materially  
affect or impair the independence of the 
external auditor; any significant deficiencies 
or material weaknesses in the design  
or operation of our internal control over 
financial reporting or other internal controls; 
any serious issues of non-compliance; and 
how the Audit Committee has discharged 
its responsibilities. It oversees the 
establishment, implementation and 
maintenance of our Code of Conduct and 
other related policies. It monitors the 
Company’s response to letters requesting 
information and investigations initiated by 
regulatory and governmental authorities 
such as the SEC, the DOJ and the FRC 
pertaining to matters within the remit of the 
99 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued
 > Risk management review and update  
of the Company’s risk management 
approach, its risk reporting framework 
and the focus of the Group Risk Team. 
 > Compliance with the applicable provisions 
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In particular, 
the status of compliance with the 
programme of internal controls over 
financial reporting implemented pursuant 
to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act. The Audit Committee remained 
focused on IT controls in the context  
of the changes to the Group’s IT 
environment, described below. More 
information about this is set out in the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 section 
of the Financial Review on page 81. 
 > Data about reports made by employees 
via the AZethics helpline, online facilities 
and other routes regarding potential 
breaches of the Code of Conduct, 
together with the results of inquiries into 
those matters.
 > Reports from Global Compliance 
confirming compliance with and the 
successful completion of the Company’s 
obligations under the Corporate Integrity 
Agreement that had been in place for five 
years in the US. 
 > Reports from the Group Treasury 
function, in particular, concerning the 
Company’s liquidity and cash position 
and the appropriateness of its investment 
management policy in the context of the 
current economic situation.
 > Going concern assessment and adoption 
of the going concern basis in preparing 
this Annual Report and the Financial 
Statements.
 > Other reports, on a quarterly basis, 
concerning IA, Global Compliance and 
Finance, including the internal audit plan 
and progress and plans of Global 
Compliance.
 > Quarterly reports from the General 
Counsel on the status of certain litigation 
matters and governmental investigations.
 > The amount of audit and non-audit fees of 
the external auditor throughout 2015. The 
Audit Committee was satisfied throughout 
the year that the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor 
were not in any way impaired by the 
nature of the non-audit work undertaken 
by the external auditor during the year, the 
level of non-audit fees charged for such 
Audit Committee’s work. It has established 
procedures for the receipt and handling  
of complaints concerning accounting or 
audit matters. It recommends to the Board 
the appointment of the external auditor, 
subject to the approval of the Company’s 
shareholders at a general meeting. 
Shareholders authorise the Directors to fix 
the remuneration of the external auditor  
at a general meeting. The Audit Committee 
reviews and approves the appointment and 
dismissal of the Vice-President, IA. 
Activities of the Audit Committee  
in 2015
The Audit Committee has an annual 
calendar of topics, developed from its terms 
of reference, with standing items which it 
considers in accordance with its schedule  
at each quarterly meeting or, in some  
cases, annually.
During 2015 and in February 2016, the Audit 
Committee considered and discussed the 
following standing items: 
 > The key elements of the Financial 
Statements, and the estimates and 
judgements contained in our financial 
disclosures. Various accounting matters 
were considered. These included the 
areas described in the Financial Review 
under ‘Critical accounting policies and 
estimates’ (with a focus on accounting 
issues relevant to revenue recognition, 
litigation and taxation matters and; 
goodwill and intangible asset impairment) 
from page 77 and other important 
matters such as considering and 
approving a change to revenue 
accounting to include Externalisation 
Revenue in the Company’s Statement of 
Consolidated Income, and subsequently 
monitoring the application of the same. 
Discussion of these matters was 
supported by papers prepared by 
management and the external auditor. 
 > The reports received from the external 
auditor concerning its audit of the 
Financial Statements of the Group  
and from management, IA, Global 
Compliance and the external auditor on 
the effectiveness of our system of internal 
controls and, in particular, our internal 
control over financial reporting. The Audit 
Committee also reviewed quarterly 
activity reports of audit work carried out 
by IA and the status of follow-up actions 
with management, as well as reports from 
Global Compliance.
work or any other facts or circumstances. 
Further information about the audit and 
non-audit fees for 2015 is disclosed in 
Note 29 to the Financial Statements on 
page 192.
 > A review and assessment of the Audit 
Committee’s performance.
Matters considered by the Audit Committee 
in addition to its usual business as 
described above included: 
 > Receiving regular updates from the  
IT team in connection with the 
transformation of AstraZeneca’s IT 
infrastructure, with particular attention  
to cybersecurity, business continuity  
and transitioning into new payroll 
software. The Audit Committee also 
reviewed the performance of the Chennai 
IT Centre which included a site visit in 
October 2015. 
 > Considering the opportunity for 
AstraZeneca in the Indian pharmaceutical 
market which included a site visit to 
Bangalore in October 2015, noting in 
particular local management’s focus on 
driving a strong compliance culture.
 > Considering and reviewing compliance in 
China, noting in particular improvements 
in policy and controls and the importance 
of training for new employees.
 > Considering the execution and outcomes 
of significant capital expenditure on the 
construction of a plant in Russia. 
 > Post-investment reviews of a recent major 
business development transaction,  
a capital expenditure project, and the 
integration of the BMS diabetes business 
acquired at the start of 2014.
 > Reviewing the preparation of the 
Directors’ proposed viability statement 
and the adequacy of the analysis 
supporting the assurance provided by 
that statement.
 > Reviewing the operation and effectiveness 
of the Company’s third party risk 
management framework which supports 
the management of key risks important  
to AstraZeneca’s integrity and reputation 
such as bribery and corruption, data 
privacy, employment principles and 
product security. 
Corporate Governance
100 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 assets and, in respect of those intangible 
assets that are identified as at risk of 
impairment, the difference between the 
carrying value and management’s current 
estimate of discounted future cash flows for 
‘at risk’ products (the headroom). Products 
will be identified as ‘at risk’ because the 
headroom is small or, for example, in the 
case of a medicine in development, a 
significant development milestone such as 
the publication of clinical trial results which 
could significantly alter management’s 
forecasts for the product. 
In 2015, there were no significant 
impairments of intangible assets. 
Litigation and contingent liabilities
Litigation, particularly that relating to the 
enforcement and defence of IP rights 
protecting medicines, is a significant feature 
of the pharmaceutical industry. In addition  
to IP litigation, the Group is involved in a 
number of government investigations and  
is a defendant in certain product liability 
actions. The Audit Committee receives 
regular updates from the General Counsel, 
and is informed by commentary from the 
external auditor, on the status of those 
litigation matters that might result in fines or 
damages against the Company, to assess 
whether provisions should be taken and,  
if so, when and in what amounts. Of the 
matters the Audit Committee considered in 
2015 the Pulmicort Respules patent litigation 
and Nexium anti-trust litigation, both in the 
US, were among the most significant. The 
Company took a reserve in the Pulmicort 
Respules case after the US Court of 
Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed 
certain claims in the Pulmicort Respules 
sterility patent were invalid and lifted the 
preliminary injunction. Notwithstanding the 
Company’s success defending the claims  
in the Nexium anti-trust case, the plaintiffs 
continue to seek opportunities to assert 
their claims. Further information about the 
Company’s litigation and contingent liabilities 
is set out in Note 27 to the Financial 
Statements from page 186.
Tax accounting
The Audit Committee considered the overall 
tax affairs of the Group in 2015, noting that 
the exposure associated with significant tax 
contingencies has continued to reduce but 
remains significant. The Audit Committee 
 > The FRC’s review of certain aspects of 
KPMG LLP’s audit of AstraZeneca PLC’s 
financial statements for the year ended  
31 December 2014. The Audit Committee 
discussed the review and its findings  
with KPMG. The Audit Committee was 
satisfied with the responses to be 
implemented by KPMG.
 > Considering the external quality 
assessment review of IA conducted by 
Ernst & Young LLP during 2015.
In the course of carrying out its work, the 
Audit Committee has taken the opportunity 
to meet individual or groups of managers  
to discuss and gain a deeper insight into 
relevant areas of interest.
Significant financial reporting issues 
considered by the Audit Committee  
in 2015
The Audit Committee determined that the 
significant matters considered during the 
year were
 > revenue recognition
 > impairment of intangible assets
 > litigation and contingent liabilities
 > tax accounting
 > post-retirement benefits
 > allocation of Core and non-Core revenues
 > Externalisation Revenue accounting.
Revenue recognition
The US is our largest single market and 
sales accounted for 40. 1% of our Product 
Sales in 2015. Revenue recognition, 
particularly in the US, is impacted by 
rebates, chargebacks, cash discounts and 
returns (for more information, please see  
the Financial Review from page 62). The 
Audit Committee pays particular attention  
to management’s estimates of these items, 
its analysis of any unusual movements  
and their impact on revenue recognition 
informed by commentary from the  
external auditor. 
Impairment of intangible assets
The Group carries significant intangible 
assets on its Balance Sheet arising from  
the acquisition of businesses and IP rights 
to medicines in development and on the 
market. Each quarter the CFO outlines the 
carrying value of the Group’s intangible 
considered the key tax developments at 
OECD and in key jurisdictions, including 
proposed requirements for country-by-
country reporting. The Audit Committee 
was informed that the Company was on 
track to meet such additional requirements.
Post-retirement benefits
Pension accounting continues to be  
a significant area of focus. The Audit 
Committee considered the investment 
performance and financing of significant 
pension plans.
Internal controls
At each quarterly meeting, the Audit 
Committee receives a report of the matters 
considered by the Disclosure Committee 
during the quarter. At the February 2016 
meeting, the CFO presented to the Audit 
Committee the conclusions of the CEO  
and the CFO following the evaluation of the 
effectiveness of our disclosure controls  
and procedures required by Item 15(a) of 
Form 20-F at 31 December 2015. Based  
on their evaluation, the CEO and the CFO 
concluded that, as at that date, we maintain 
an effective system of disclosure controls 
and procedures.
There was no change in our internal control 
over financial reporting that occurred during 
the period covered by this Annual Report 
that has materially affected, or is reasonably 
likely to materially affect, our internal control 
over financial reporting.
Appointing the auditor and safeguards 
on non-audit services
We noted in our 2012 Annual Report that, 
having reviewed the changes to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code with regard  
to putting the external audit contract out  
to tender at least every 10 years, and 
cognisant of the fact that the lead audit 
partner at KPMG rotated in 2013, the Audit 
Committee determined that the audit would 
be put out to tender by 2018 in accordance 
with the transitional guidance issued by the 
FRC. KPMG was first appointed as sole 
external auditor to Zeneca Group PLC in 
1993 and to AstraZeneca PLC in 2001 
following a competitive tender. 
The six largest audit firms were invited to 
participate in the process, three of which 
101 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Chairman of the Audit Committee together 
with one other Audit Committee member in 
the first instance. A standing agenda item  
at Audit Committee meetings covers the 
operation of the pre-approval procedures 
and regular reports are provided to the full 
Audit Committee. 
In 2015, non-audit services provided to  
the Company by KPMG included tax 
compliance services and audit services in 
relation to employee benefit funds, within 
the scope of the pre-approved services  
set out in the Non-Audit Services Policy.  
All such services were presented to the 
Audit Committee for pre-approval. 
Fees paid to the auditor for audit, 
audit-related and other services are 
analysed in Note 29 to the Financial 
Statements on page 192. Fees for non-audit 
services amounted to 30% of the fees paid 
to KPMG for audit, audit-related and other 
services in 2015. 
Assessing external audit effectiveness
In accordance with its normal practice,  
the Audit Committee considered the 
performance of KPMG and its compliance 
with the independence criteria under the 
relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical 
standards applicable to auditors. Having 
considered all these factors, the Audit 
Committee recommended to the Board that 
a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG 
as the Company’s external auditor for the 
year ending 31 December 2016 be 
proposed to shareholders at the AGM in 
April 2016. 
Consistent with current market practice, 
KPMG’s services to the Company are 
provided pursuant to terms of engagement, 
which are reviewed by the Audit Committee. 
Neither these terms of engagement nor any 
other agreement include any contractual 
obligations under which the Board would be 
prevented from appointing a different audit 
firm were they to consider this to be in the 
best interests of the Group. 
declined. We agreed with KPMG that  
given they would be prohibited from  
being our auditor post 2020 they would  
not participate. No contractual obligations 
restricted the Audit Committee’s choice  
of external auditor.
Having concluded a competitive tender 
process in December the Audit Committee 
recommended to the Board that PwC be 
appointed as the Group’s statutory auditor 
for the 2017 financial year. A resolution  
to approve the appointment of PwC will  
be put to shareholders at the Company’s 
AGM in 2017 .
The Audit Committee considers that  
the Company has complied with the 
Competition and Markets Authority’s 
Statutory Audit Services for Large 
Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory 
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and 
Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 
2014 in respect of its financial year 
commencing 1 January 2015.
Non-audit services
The Audit Committee maintains a policy (the 
Non-Audit Services Policy) and procedures 
for the pre-approval of all audit services and 
permitted non-audit services undertaken by 
the external auditor, the principal purpose  
of which is to ensure that the independence 
of the external auditor is not impaired.  
The policies and procedures cover three 
categories of work: audit services; 
audit-related services; and tax services.  
The policies define the type of work that  
falls within each of these categories and the 
non-audit services that the external auditor 
is prohibited from performing under the 
rules of the SEC and other relevant UK  
and US professional and regulatory 
requirements. The pre-approval procedures 
permit certain audit, audit-related and tax 
services to be performed by the external 
auditor during the year, subject to fee limits 
agreed with the Audit Committee in 
advance. The CFO (supported by the 
Vice-President Finance, Group Controller), 
monitors the status of all services being 
provided by the external auditor. The 
procedures also deal with placing non-audit 
work out for tender, where appropriate. 
Authority to approve work in excess of the 
pre-agreed fee limits is delegated to the 
Audit Committee Report continued
Corporate Governance
102 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 In 2015, I succeeded John Varley as 
Chairman of the Committee. I would like  
to offer thanks from the Committee to  
John Varley and Nancy Rothwell, both of 
whom retired following the 2015 AGM, for 
their leadership and valued contribution to 
the Committee. 
Although the Committee is not proposing 
material changes to remuneration within 
policy this year, we have evolved the format 
of this report by including an At a glance 
section on page 106, as well as a brief table 
of contents below. We hope shareholders 
will find these improvements helpful.
2015 performance
The Company delivered a strong pipeline 
and financial performance in 2015 as we 
continued to implement our strategy to 
achieve scientific leadership, return to 
growth, and achieve Group financial  
targets. The majority of the elements of our 
performance-related pay are directly aligned 
to the business plan based on these three 
strategic pillars with the intention of driving 
performance that promotes the long-term 
success of the Company.
This year our continued focus on our three 
main therapy areas delivered further R&D 
progress, supported by key agreements 
with Acerta Pharma and Celgene in 
Oncology, and ZS Pharma in CVMD.
We continued to make strong progress 
towards achieving scientific leadership and 
our ability to deliver innovation to the market 
with a number of opportunities accelerated 
and our pipeline progressed significantly 
above expectations. To highlight two 
achievements, the FDA’s accelerated 
approval of Tagrisso provided an important 
Dear shareholder
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
(the Committee), I am pleased to present AstraZeneca’s  
2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report incorporating  
our Annual Report on Remuneration for 2015  
(the Implementation Report). Our Remuneration  
Policy, approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM,  
is reproduced from page 122. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Contents
Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 103
At a glance summary 106
Annual Report on Remuneration 107
 > What did we pay our Directors? 107
 > Share interests awarded in 2015 110
 > Payments to former Directors 112
 > Payments for loss of office 112
 > Remuneration context and our past performance 112
 > Directors’ interests in shares 114
 >Governance 115
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016 117
Additional information: Executive Directors’ share plans 119
Remuneration Policy Report (reproduced) 122
 > Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors 123
 > Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors 129
 > Approach to recruitment remuneration for Executive Directors 129
 > Service contracts for Executive Directors 131
 > Principles of payment for loss of office for Executive Directors 132
 > Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors 134
103 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Overall, our financial performance during 
2015 continues to reflect the life-cycle 
challenges which we have faced and the 
substantial investment and progress which 
we have made in developing our pipeline 
over recent years. As a result of the actions 
taken by our leadership team during this 
phase in our strategy, our Core EPS has 
risen by 7% during 2015 to $4.26 at actual 
rate of exchange. In addition, Total Revenue 
increased by 1% during the year to $24.7 
billion. At actual exchange rates, Total 
Revenue declined by 7% in the year 
reflecting the particular weakness of key 
trading currencies against the US dollar.
2015 remuneration outcomes
Performance measures are closely  
aligned with Company strategy, ensuring the 
Executive Directors only receive significant 
reward for delivery of appropriately balanced 
financial, non-financial and individual 
performance. In evaluating reward the 
Committee has ensured that the outcomes 
reflect the actual performance of the 
business and shareholder experience. 
Valuable additional insight is provided by  
the two members of the Committee who 
are also members of the Audit Committee.
As I have outlined above, the Company 
performed well against the components  
of the global Scorecard (see page 107  
for further information). When assessing 
business performance the Committee noted 
that some achievements were enabled by 
additional investment which was not 
originally budgeted when the Scorecard 
targets were set. As a consequence, the 
Committee has taken care to ensure  
that Scorecard performance has been 
appropriately evaluated by reference  
to the original budgeted investment.
When considering business performance 
together with the Executive Directors’ 
performance against their individual 
objectives, annual bonus awards of 175% 
and 149.3% of base salary were awarded  
to Mr Soriot and Mr Dunoyer respectively.
In line with commitments made last year,  
we have provided the targets and outcomes 
under the achieve Group financial targets 
new treatment option for lung cancer 
patients, as did the FDA’s approval of  
the expanded indication for Brilinta for 
patients with a history of heart attack 
beyond the first year. 
In addition, we completed a number  
of strategic business development 
transactions this year, such as the 
agreement with Takeda in Respiratory,  
the Movantik collaboration and the Entocort 
and Caprelsa divestments, which have 
enabled the business to realise the full value 
of assets and technology to reinvest in 
support of our accelerated pipeline and 
Growth Platforms.
The Committee noted that two acquisitions 
were made close to the year end and the 
Committee will take into account any dilutive 
effect attributable to the transactions on the 
Company’s LTIs in due course.
In terms of financial performance, our six 
Growth Platforms delivered an 1 1% rise  
in sales representing 57% of our Total 
Revenue demonstrating continued delivery 
of our return to growth strategy. Overall, the 
performance of our Growth Platforms was 
strong, particularly Brilinta/Brilique; Farxiga/
Forxiga in Diabetes; and Emerging Markets. 
Despite the market slowdown in China, 
sales growth was 15%, with Oncology and 
Respiratory performing particularly well. 
Although our Product Sales declined by  
1% in 2015, reflecting the impact of the entry  
of Nexium generic products in the US, the 
performance of our Growth Platforms 
demonstrates the impact that our return to 
growth strategy is having on the business, 
complementing our established products. 
performance measure. We continue to 
provide appropriate disclosure of the other 
measures, return to growth and achieve 
scientific leadership, while being mindful  
that the target ranges themselves remain 
commercially sensitive at this time. As 
highlighted last year, we will disclose the 
targets when they are deemed no longer to 
be sensitive, which we currently envisage 
being in two years’ time. Consistent with  
this approach, this year’s report includes 
disclosure of the targets that were used for 
the 2013 annual bonus. 
The 2013 PSP award was tested for 
performance following the end of 2015.  
In the return to growth measure, the 
Diabetes performance targets were set prior 
to the acquisition of the remaining 50% 
interest in the Global Diabetes Alliance 
Assets and therefore the Committee  
has evaluated performance consistently 
against the original targets. As a result of  
our performance over the last three years, 
the timeframe of which coincides with 
implementation of the new strategy which 
Mr Soriot set out for AstraZeneca, the 2013 
PSP award vested at 78% of maximum. 
Disclosure of the 2013 PSP targets and 
outcome can be found on page 109.
Remuneration in 2016
As set out in more detail on page 1 17 ,  
we are not proposing to make material 
changes to our remuneration arrangements 
for 2016. Executive Directors will receive 
salary increases of 2%, effective from  
1 January 2016, in line with those for the 
wider employee population. There are no 
changes proposed to their benefit or 
pension provision.
Target incentive opportunity levels attached 
to the 2016 annual bonus and 2016 PSP 
and AZIP awards will also remain 
unchanged. The performance measures 
under these plans will also remain 
unchanged, albeit with the introduction of  
a simplified approach to how we measure 
performance under the return to growth 
measure in our PSP , further details of which 
are provided opposite.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
 AstraZeneca 
remains focused on  
the delivery of our 
strategy and aligns 
reward to the creation  
of sustained value  
for our shareholders.”
Corporate Governance
104 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
expected values internally to allow us to 
allocate awards between the PSP and AZIP , 
from 2016 onwards we will disclose the 
value of LTI awards in terms of their face 
value only.
More transparent link between the 
financial targets communicated in May 
2014 and executive pay
Some shareholders questioned whether 
there could be a more transparent link 
between the financial targets which we 
communicated in May 2014 and executive 
pay, and in particular whether a target 
based on the 2023 revenue figure  
($45 billion at 2013 exchange rates) could  
be incorporated within our incentive plans.
This has some attraction, although there  
is a clear balance to be struck given the 
need to ensure that our arrangements are 
simple, practicable and aligned to our 
business. Ultimately, following discussions, 
the Committee’s view is that the best way 
to achieve line of sight to the 2023 revenue 
target is by ensuring that the financial and 
operational measures under the PSP are 
directly linked to the long-term business 
plan. However, the Committee will continue 
to consider ways in which a more 
transparent link between the 2023 revenue 
target and executive pay may be achieved. 
Above-target LTI awards
The use of ‘above-target’ awards at 
AstraZeneca has been noted by some 
shareholders. While we are aware that  
the use of ‘target’ awards may be less 
common in the wider market, at 
AstraZeneca we find that operating a 
‘target’ award level, with the flexibility to go 
above or below this level, can be helpful in 
setting and communicating award levels 
internally, allowing the Committee to 
differentiate performance appropriately.
Shareholder engagement
The Committee was pleased to note  
that shareholders’ approval of our 2014 
Implementation Report increased 
significantly from 2013. Nevertheless,  
the outcome was still lower than we would 
like it to be. As such, over the course of 
2015, on behalf of the Committee, I have 
spoken with a number of our major 
shareholders and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank them for the input  
and feedback they provided.
I would like to address three key areas 
raised by shareholders.
Simplifying our LTI arrangements
While it was recognised that our 
arrangements are wholly aligned with  
our strategy, some shareholders felt that 
there may be an opportunity to simplify  
the framework. During 2016, we intend  
to continue discussions with our major 
shareholders on this area, with a view  
to ensuring that Executive Director reward  
at AstraZeneca remains focused on the 
delivery of our strategy and aligns reward  
to the creation of sustained value for  
our shareholders.
In addition, for 2016, we have decided to 
simplify one of the elements of our PSP  
by changing the return to growth measures 
to one single measure consolidating the 
existing six Growth Platforms in aggregate. 
This change allows us to disclose the 
aggregate target for this measure at the 
start of the performance period, in contrast 
to the individual targets for each Growth 
Platform which remain commercially 
sensitive, and assists in striking the right 
balance between transparency in our 
reporting on executive pay and protecting 
our commercially sensitive information.
In addition, in relation to our LTIs, we are 
aware that at times some shareholders  
may have found our use of expected values 
unclear. As such, while we continue to use 
Mr Soriot has received ‘above-target’ 
awards in recent years due to the 
outstanding contribution he has made  
to the business since his appointment.  
The Committee values the ability to 
recognise this progress.
In considering Mr Soriot’s remuneration,  
we reference practice within UK quoted 
companies, but we also remain mindful  
of the fact that our peers are mainly US or 
Swiss-based companies. Individuals with 
the capability which Mr Soriot brings to the 
CEO role are extremely valuable and he is 
undoubtedly a sought-after individual  
within our sector, particularly given the 
re-invigoration of the Company which he 
has led over the last three years.
In this context, the Committee aims to 
ensure that Mr Soriot is appropriately 
rewarded within our Remuneration Policy.
Next steps
We remain committed to ensuring that  
our remuneration arrangements support  
our strategy and the delivery of value to our 
shareholders. As such, I hope that you find 
this report clear, helpful and informative.  
Our ongoing dialogue with shareholders is 
valued greatly and, as always, we welcome 
your feedback on this Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
Yours sincerely
Graham Chipchase 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
4 February 2016
105 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance At a glance summary
Looking ahead to 2016 – our remuneration framework
Element Structure Opportunity Change from 2015
Salary Base salary, paid monthly CEO – £1,190,000
CFO – £707,000
2% increase
2% increase
Pension Salary supplement in lieu of pension 
participation
CEO – 30% of salary
CFO – 24% of salary
No change
No change
Annual bonus Assessed by performance against one-year 
financial, non-financial and individual 
performance targets, with one-third of any 
award deferred into Ordinary Shares or 
ADSs, which will vest after three years
CEO – maximum 180% of salary
CFO – maximum 150% of salary
No change
No change
Performance Share Plan 
(PSP)
Assessed on three-year performance 
against four equally-weighted measures:
 > Relative TSR
 > Cash flow
 > Return to growth 
 > Achieve scientific leadership (5 
individual measures)
Additional two-year holding period
CEO – 427.7% of salary
CFO – 300% of salary
No change
4.76% decrease
AstraZeneca Investment 
Plan (AZIP)
Assessed on four-year performance 
against two measures:
 > Dividend level
 > Dividend cover
Additional four-year holding period
CEO – 71.3% of salary
CFO – 50% of salary
No change
4.76% decrease
Our variable remuneration – 2015
2015 Annual bonus (see page 107 for further details)
Measure Target (one-year) Weighting Performance Level of award
Achieve Group financial targets Cash flow
Core EPS
Revenue
10%
20%
10%
Met target
Exceeded target
Exceeded target
CEO – 97.2% of maximum (175% of 
salary)
CFO – 99.5% of maximum (149.3% 
of salary)
Achieve scientific leadership 5 measures 6% each Exceeded target
Return to growth 6 measures 5% each Exceeded target
2013-2015 PSP (see page 109 for further details)
Measure Target (three-year) Weighting Performance Level of award
Relative TSR TSR performance relative to peer group
25% each
58% of maximum
78% of maximum
Cash flow Cumulative free cash flow 100% of maximum
Achieve scientific leadership 5 key measures 100% of maximum
Return to growth 5 measures 55% of maximum
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Corporate Governance
106 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration 
(the Implementation Report) 
What did we pay our Directors?
Executive Directors’ single total figure remuneration (Audited) 
2015 
Base 
salary 
£’000
2014 
Base 
salary 
£’000
2015 
Taxable 
benefits
£’000
2014
Taxable
benefits
£’000
2015 
Annual 
bonus
£’000
2014 
Annual 
bonus
£’000
2015 
Long-term 
incentives 
vesting
£’000
2014 
Long-term 
incentives 
vesting
£’000
2015 
Pension 
allowance
£’000
2014 
Pension 
allowance
£’000
2015 
Total
£’000
2014 
Total
£’000
Pascal Soriot 1,167 1,133 115 108 2,042 1,926 4,723 – 350 340 8,397 3,507
Marc Dunoyer 694 680 65 62 1,036 1,016 3,993 – 167 163 5,955 1,921
Total 1,861 1,813 180 170 3,078 2,942 8,716 – 517 503 14,352 5,428
Notes to the Executive Directors’ single total figure remuneration table
Taxable benefits
Executive Directors may select benefits within the Company’s UK Flexible Benefits Programme or can select to take all, or any remaining 
allowance after the selection of benefits, in cash. In 2015, the Executive Directors principally took the allowance in cash (£96,000 in respect 
of Mr Soriot, and £49,000 in respect of Mr Dunoyer) and selected other benefits including healthcare insurance, death-in-service provision 
and advice in relation to tax.
Annual bonus – 2015
The CEO had a target annual bonus of 100% of base salary (range 0-180%) and the CFO had a target annual bonus of 90% of base salary 
(range 0-150%).
One-third of the pre-tax bonuses shown will be deferred into Ordinary Shares which will vest three years from the date of deferral, subject  
to continued employment. The bonus is not pensionable.
The precise targets or target ranges set at the beginning of the performance period are closely aligned to the Company’s strategic priorities, 
set out in the global Scorecard. As with 2014, we have set out below the targets for 2015 in respect of the achieve Group financial targets 
element of the annual bonus and Company performance against those targets. In addition, we have provided the outcomes under each of 
the achieve scientific leadership and return to growth measures. While, in the judgement of the Board, the targets themselves under these 
areas remain commercially sensitive, we remain committed to making retrospective disclosure of these when we no longer consider the 
targets to be commercially sensitive, which we currently anticipate to be two years after the end of the performance period (as we have 
done for the 2013 annual bonus targets which are set out on page 1 14).
When assessing business performance the Remuneration Committee noted that some achievements were enabled by additional 
investment which was not originally budgeted when the Scorecard targets were set. As a consequence, the Remuneration Committee  
has taken care to ensure that Scorecard performance has been appropriately evaluated by reference to the original budgeted investment. 
The global Scorecard outcome was 160% and the Remuneration Committee determined that Mr Soriot’s annual bonus should amount to 
175% of base salary, representing 97 .2% of his potential maximum, and that Mr Dunoyer’s bonus should amount to 149.3% of base salary, 
representing 99.5% of his potential maximum. This includes the application of the Scorecard outcome and a further performance uplift to 
reflect the Remuneration Committee’s view of Mr Soriot’s and Mr Dunoyer’s individual contributions beyond the achievements underpinning 
the Scorecard outcome.
1. Achieve Group financial targets
These targets are based on the Company’s key financial measures. The annual bonus outcomes reflect the strong revenue and Core EPS 
performance delivered in 2015, exceeding the targets set at the beginning of the year. Cash flow performance was also on target.
Performance measures for 2015 Weighting Target Outcome Performance
Pascal 
Soriot 
level of 
award
Marc 
Dunoyer 
level of 
award
Achieve cash flow from operating activities target 10% 
$3.4bn
1
$3.6bn
1
 Met target 13% 11.7%
Achieve Core EPS target 20% 
$4.41
2
$4.67
2
 Exceeded target 40% 36%
Achieve overall revenue target 10% 
$24.8bn
2
$26.2bn
2
Exceeded target 20% 18%
Pascal Soriot level of award £852,000 (representing 41.7% of total annual bonus outcome)
Marc Dunoyer level of award £456,000 (representing 44% of total annual bonus outcome)
1
  The cash flow target, and the performance against that target, is evaluated by reference to net cash flow before distributions and other adjustments required by the performance conditions.
2
  The Core EPS and revenue targets, and the performance against those targets, are evaluated by reference to budget exchange rates such that beneficial or adverse movements in currency, which 
are outside the Company’s control, do not impact reward outcomes.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
107 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance 2. Achieve scientific leadership
These measures reflect the Company’s ability to deliver innovation to the market. In 2015, we continued to make significant progress 
towards achieving scientific leadership and exceeded two out of five of our pipeline targets. 
The AstraZeneca pipeline now includes 146 projects, of which 125 are in the clinical phase of development. There are 15 NME projects 
currently in late-stage development, either in Phase III/pivotal Phase II studies or under regulatory review. During 2015, across the portfolio, 
56 projects successfully progressed to their next phase. This includes three first launches and three first approvals in a major market, and 
18 NME progressions. In addition, 18 projects have entered Phase I and 20 projects have been discontinued.
Performance measures for 2015 Weighting Target Outcome Performance
Pascal 
Soriot
aggregate
level of
award
Marc
Dunoyer
aggregate
level of
award
Phase II starts/progressions
6% per
measure 
Commercially 
sensitive 
until March 
2018
11 Met target
42% 37.8%
Positive Phase III investment decisions 6 Met target
NME and major life-cycle management submissions 12 Met target
NME and major life-cycle management approvals 5 Exceeded target
Clinical-stage external licensing and partnering opportunities 10 Exceeded target
Pascal Soriot level of award £490,000 (representing 24% of total annual bonus outcome)
Marc Dunoyer level of award £262,000 (representing 25.3% of total annual bonus outcome)
3. Return to growth
1
These measures are based on quantitative sales targets for 2015 relating to the Company’s Growth Platforms: Brilinta/Brilique, Diabetes, 
Respiratory, New Oncology, Emerging Markets, and Japan. In 2015, we met or exceeded all of our return to growth targets. Our Growth 
Platforms contributed 57% of Total Revenue, an increase of 1 1% from 2014. 
Performance measures for 2015 Weighting Target Outcome Performance
Pascal
Soriot
aggregate
level of
award
Marc
Dunoyer
aggregate
level of
award
Deliver Brilinta/Brilique target
5% per 
measure 
 
Commercially 
sensitive
until March 
2018
$668m Met target
45% 40.5%
Build Diabetes franchise $2,323m Met target
Deliver Respiratory goals $5,014m Exceeded target
Deliver New Oncology growth target $123m Exceeded target
Deliver sales growth in Emerging Markets $6,314m Met target
Deliver Japan target $2,191m Met target
Pascal Soriot level of award £525,000 (representing 25.7% of total annual bonus outcome)
Marc Dunoyer level of award £281,000 (representing 27.1% of total annual bonus outcome)
1
  In respect of the return to growth measures only, the targets are set at budget exchange rates at the beginning of the performance period and evaluated at those rates at the end of the  
performance period.
4. Individual performance
Although the performance targets in the global Scorecard drive prima facie bonus outcomes, the Remuneration Committee also applies 
judgement to assess the Executive Director’s individual performance. 
For 2015, the Remuneration Committee has determined that following the application of the Scorecard outcome, Mr Soriot’s bonus will be 
increased by £175,000 from 160% of base salary to 175% and, in respect of Mr Dunoyer, by £37 ,000 from 144% of base salary to 149.3%.
The Remuneration Committee awarded an individual performance uplift of 15% to Mr Soriot’s award, which recognises his leadership 
qualities in driving the Company through a period of transitional change as we continue to return the Company to growth. The 
Remuneration Committee in particular wished to recognise his continued focus on the Company’s longer-term strategy by unlocking the 
value of non-core assets and technology to support our accelerated pipeline and Growth Platforms in the near term, and the acquisitions  
of ZS Pharma and Acerta Pharma and business development deals which have the potential to generate sustainable returns for our 
shareholders. In addition, under Mr Soriot’s leadership we have achieved excellent three-year TSR performance against our peers and  
the Company was ranked as second best employer in the UK in an independent survey commissioned by Bloomberg.
The Remuneration Committee awarded an individual performance uplift of 5.3% to Mr Dunoyer’s award, which recognises in particular his 
role in delivering financial performance in line with guidance despite significant foreign currency headwinds, the successful $6 billion bond 
issue and the execution of the Company’s business development activities.
Annual Report on Remuneration 
(the Implementation Report) continued
Corporate Governance
108 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Long-term incentives: 2013 Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The vesting of the PSP awards is contingent on continued employment and performance against four equally-weighted performance 
measures over the three-year performance period. 78% of the PSP awards granted to Mr Soriot and Mr Dunoyer in 2013 in respect of the 
2013-2015 performance period will vest in 2016. This is the first vesting of LTIs for Mr Soriot and Mr Dunoyer since joining the Company.
Number of shares awarded Number of shares vesting
Value of shares vesting
1
£’000
Pascal Soriot 125,113 97,588 4,723
Marc Dunoyer 90,853 70,865 3,993
1
 Based on average closing share price over the three-month period to 31 December 2015 plus accrued dividends over the vesting period.
The TSR and cash flow targets were disclosed at the time of the award. The Remuneration Committee has determined that the 2013 
targets relating to the achieve scientific leadership and return to growth elements of the PSP are no longer commercially sensitive.  
The targets, outcomes and relative weighting of each of the PSP’s performance measures are set out in the tables below.
More information about the PSP is set out in the Share interests awarded in 2015 section from page 1 10.
1. Relative TSR
Performance measure for 2013–2015 Weighting 
Threshold target: 
25% vesting
Maximum target: 
100% vesting Outcome
Vesting (% of 
maximum)
AstraZeneca’s rank against peer group 25% Median (6th) Above upper quartile 
(2nd or above, at the
 discretion of the
Remuneration 
Committee)
4th 58%
More information about the TSR performance of the Company, including the Company’s peer group, is set out in the Total shareholder 
return section on page 1 13.
2. Cumulative cash flow
Performance measure for 2013–2015 Weighting 
Threshold target: 
25% vesting
Maximum target: 
100% vesting Outcome
Vesting (% of 
maximum)
Adjusted cumulative cash flow
1
25% $9bn $13bn $14.1bn 100%
1
 The cash flow target, and the performance against that target, is evaluated by reference to net cash flow before distributions and other adjustments required by the performance conditions.
3. Achieve scientific leadership
Performance measures for 2013–2015 Weighting
Threshold target: 
25% vesting
Maximum target: 
100% vesting Outcome
Vesting (% of 
maximum)
NME approvals
5% per 
measure
2 4 6 100%
Major life-cycle management approvals 3 5 5 100%
Phase III registration/NME volume 7 10 14 100%
Prospective peak-year sales from NME and 
major life-cycle management approvals
$1bn $3bn $5.6bn 100%
Phase II starts 9 12 34 100%
4. Return to growth
1
Performance measures for 2013–2015 Weighting 
Threshold target: 
25% vesting
Maximum target: 
100% vesting Outcome
Vesting (% of 
maximum)
Deliver Brilinta/Brilique target
5% per 
measure
$1bn $1.4bn $0.7bn 0%
Build Diabetes franchise
2
$1.3bn $1.9bn $1.1bn 0%
Deliver Respiratory goals $3.2bn $4.6bn $5.6bn 100%
Deliver sales growth in Emerging Markets $5bn $7.1bn $6.6bn 88%
Deliver Japan target $2.4bn $3.4bn $3.2bn 88%
1
  In respect of the return to growth measures only, the targets are set at budget exchange rates at the beginning of the performance period and evaluated at those rates at the end of the 
performance period.
2
  The Diabetes performance targets were set prior to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the Global Diabetes Alliance Assets and therefore the Remuneration Committee has evaluated 
performance consistently against the original targets.
109 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Pension allowance
Mr Soriot’s annual pension allowance is 30% of base salary and Mr Dunoyer’s is 24% of base salary. Both Executive Directors took their 
pension allowance as a cash alternative to participation in a defined contribution pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors’ single total figure remuneration (Audited)
2015 
Fees
£’000
2014 
Fees
£’000
2015 
Taxable 
benefits
£’000
2014
Taxable
benefits
£’000
2015 
Annual 
bonus
£’000
2014 
Annual 
bonus
£’000
2015 
Long-term 
incentives 
vesting
£’000
2014 
Long-term 
incentives 
vesting
£’000
2015 
Pension 
allowance
£’000
2014 
Pension 
allowance
£’000
2015 
Total
£’000
2014 
Total
£’000
Leif Johansson 609 572 – – – – – – – – 609 572
Cori Bargmann 59 – – – – – – – – – 59 –
Geneviève Berger 87 85 – – – – – – – – 87 85
Bruce Burlington 114 105 – – – – – – – – 114 105
Ann Cairns 95 65 – – – – – – – – 95 65
Graham Chipchase 107 92 – – – – – – – – 107 92
Jean-Philippe Courtois 95 95 – – – – – – – – 95 95
Rudy Markham 156 130 – – – – – – – – 156 130
Shriti Vadera 108 95 – – – – – – – – 108 95
Marcus Wallenberg 87 85 – – – – – – – – 87 85
Former Non-Executive Directors
Nancy Rothwell 35 107 – – – – – – – – 35 107
John Varley 46 140 – – – – – – – – 46 140
Total 1,598 1,571 – – – – – – – – 1,598 1,571
Notes to the Non-Executive Directors’ single total figure remuneration table
Board fees and office costs
The Chairman’s fee includes office costs (invoiced in Swedish krona) of £34,000 for 2015, and £34,500 for 2014. Further information on the 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees can be found in the Summary of Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2016 section on page 1 19. 
Board changes
Cori Bargmann was elected as a Director, and Nancy Rothwell and John Varley retired as Directors, at the Company’s AGM on 24 April 2015.
Share interests awarded in 2015 (Audited)
Deferred Bonus Plan
Pascal Soriot Marc Dunoyer
Interest awarded 13,482 Ordinary Shares awarded on 27 March 2015 at a 
grant price of 4762 pence per share.
7,111 Ordinary Shares awarded on 27 March 2015 at a 
grant price of 4762 pence per share.
Description of interest Award over shares equal to one-third of the pre-tax annual bonus based on the prevailing market share price on the 
award date.
Basis of award Automatic deferral of one-third of annual bonus into Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
Face value of award £642,000 £339,000
Vesting level at threshold performance
1
100%
End of performance period
2
27 March 2018
Summary of performance measures and targets No performance conditions apply, but vesting is ordinarily subject to continued employment.
1
 No performance conditions apply under the Deferred Bonus Plan, other than continued employment.
2
 As no performance conditions apply, this date represents the end of the holding period.
Annual Report on Remuneration 
(the Implementation Report) continued
Corporate Governance
110 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Pascal Soriot Marc Dunoyer
Interest awarded 104,764 Ordinary Shares awarded on 27 March 2015  
at a grant price of 4762 pence per share.
45,880 Ordinary Shares awarded on 27 March 2015  
at a grant price of 4762 pence per share.
Description of interest An award over shares. The vesting date is the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, subject to performance over  
a three-year period commencing on 1 January in the year of the award and a two-year holding period commencing 
three years from the date of grant, and continued employment.
The award is expressed as a percentage of base salary. Awards are weighted 75% in favour of the PSP and 25%  
in favour of the AZIP.
Basis of award 427.5% of base salary. 315% of base salary.
Face value of award £4,989,000 £2,185,000
Vesting level at threshold performance 25%
End of performance period 31 December 2017
End of holding period 27 March 2020
Summary of performance measures and targets A combination of measures focused on our scientific, commercial and financial performance assessed over the 
relevant three-year performance period:
Twenty-five percent of the award is based on the relative TSR performance of the Company against a predetermined 
peer group of global pharmaceutical companies. The rank which the Company’s TSR achieves over the performance 
period will determine how many shares will vest under the part of the award subject to the TSR performance 
measure. Payouts against performance in relation to TSR for PSP awards are expressed as a percentage of the 
maximum award currently payable, shown within a range of 0% to 100%, as shown in the table below.
TSR ranking of the Company – PSP awards made in 2015 % of award under TSR performance measure that vests
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata
Upper quartile 75%
Above upper quartile 75% to 100% at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion
More information about the TSR performance of the Company, including the Company’s peer group, is set out in the 
Total shareholder return section on page 113.
Twenty-five percent of the award is based on the achievement of a cumulative free cash flow target. The measure  
for the cash flow target for the PSP awards made in 2015 is net cash flow before distributions and other adjustments 
required by the performance conditions (subject to any further adjustments the Remuneration Committee chooses  
to make using its judgement) and thus referred to as ‘adjusted cumulative cash flow’, over the same three-year 
performance period as the TSR performance measure, and the level of vesting for the part of the award subject to  
the cash flow performance measure is based on a sliding scale between a threshold cash flow target and an upper 
target. Vesting levels in relation to the threshold target and the upper target are shown in the table below.
Adjusted cumulative cash flow – PSP awards made in 2015 % of award under cash flow performance measure that vests
Less than $9 billion 0%
$9 billion 25%
Between $9 billion and $11 billion Pro rata
$11 billion 75%
Between $11 billion and $13 billion Pro rata
$13 billion and above 100%
Twenty-five percent of the award is based on achieve scientific leadership measures covering five areas: an NME 
target, which reflects the Company’s ability to deliver innovation to the market; major life-cycle management 
approvals, which represent a good proxy for near-to-mid term growth; the volume of NMEs in Phase III and their 
registration; a target for peak-year sales, to track the value of pipeline output; and delivery from our research and early 
development organisation, assessed by Phase II starts.
Twenty-five percent of the award is based on return to growth measures based on quantitative sales targets  
relating to the Company’s six Growth Platforms: Brilinta/Brilique, Diabetes, Respiratory, New Oncology, Emerging 
Markets, and Japan. 
As the PSP performance measures related to achieve scientific leadership and return to growth are an indicator  
of the Company’s longer-term strategic priorities, we believe that the targets/target ranges associated with them  
are commercially sensitive. We will make retrospective disclosure when the targets are deemed to be no longer 
commercially sensitive, which we currently anticipate to be immediately following the end of the performance period.
More information about the PSP’s performance measures is set out on page 126 of the Remuneration Policy Report.
111 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance AstraZeneca Investment Plan (AZIP)
Pascal Soriot Marc Dunoyer
Interest awarded 17,460 Ordinary Shares awarded on 27 March 2015 
at a grant price of 4762 pence per share.
7,646 Ordinary Shares awarded on 27 March 2015 
at a grant price of 4762 pence per share.
Description of interest An award over shares. The vesting date is the eighth anniversary of the start of the performance period (being  
1 January in any given year), subject to performance and continued employment.
The award is expressed as a percentage of base salary. Awards are weighted 75% in favour of the PSP and 25%  
in favour of the AZIP.
Basis of award 71.25% of base salary. 52.5% of base salary.
Face value of award £831,000 £364,000
Vesting level at threshold performance 100%
End of performance period 31 December 2018
End of holding period 31 December 2022
Summary of performance measures and targets Dividend and dividend cover hurdles, assessed over the relevant four-year performance period
 > dividend per share of $2.80 maintained, or increased, over the performance period
 > dividend cover of 1.5 maintained over the performance period, calculated on the basis of Core EPS.
Both performance hurdles must be achieved in each year of the performance period for the award to vest.
More information about the AZIP’s performance hurdles is set out on page 127 of the Remuneration Policy Report.
AstraZeneca 2012 Savings Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE) 
Marc Dunoyer
Interest An option granted over 544 Ordinary Shares on 28 September 2015 at a grant price of 3307 pence per share. The grant price  
is set at 80% of the average market value of an Ordinary Share over the three consecutive trading days immediately preceding 
the offer date.
Description of interest The SAYE provides for the grant of options over Ordinary Shares.
Basis of award £500 monthly payroll deductions over three years.
Face value of award £18,000
Vesting level at threshold performance
1
100%
End of performance period
2
1 December 2018
Summary of performance measures and 
targets
No performance conditions apply, but vesting is ordinarily subject to continued employment.
More information about the SAYE is set out on page 128 of the Remuneration Policy Report.
1
 No performance conditions apply under the SAYE, other than continued employment.
2
 As no performance conditions apply, this date represents the first date on which the option may normally be exercised.
Payments to former Directors (Audited)
No payments were made during 2015 to former Directors.
Payments for loss of office (Audited)
No payments were made for loss of office during 2015. 
Remuneration context and our past performance
Statement of change in remuneration of CEO compared to other employees
Percentage change of CEO against 2014 Average percentage change for employees against 2014
Salary 3% 3.6%
Taxable benefits 6.5% 3.6%
Annual bonus 6% 9.4%
The employee comparator group comprises employees in the UK, US and Sweden. We consider this to be an appropriate comparator 
group because it is representative of the Group’s major science, business and enabling units, and the employee populations are well 
balanced in terms of seniority and demographics. To provide a meaningful comparison of salary increases, a consistent employee 
comparator group is used by which the same individuals appear in the 2014 and 2015 group. 
Annual Report on Remuneration 
(the Implementation Report) continued
Corporate Governance
112 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 CEO total remuneration table 
Year CEO
CEO single total figure 
remuneration 
£’000
Annual bonus
£’000
Annual bonus payout
against maximum
opportunity 
%
Value of LTIs 
at vest
£’000
LTI vesting rates 
against maximum
opportunity 
%
2015 Pascal Soriot 8,397 2,042 97 4,723
1
78
2014 Pascal Soriot 3,507 1,926 94 – –
2013 Pascal Soriot 3,344 1,870 94 – –
2012 Pascal Soriot
2
3,693
3
335 68 – –
2012 Simon Lowth
4
3,289 1,034 86 1,301
5
38
5
2012 David Brennan
6
4,147
7
– –
8
2,538 38
2011 David Brennan 7,863 1,326 74 5,386 62
2010 David Brennan 9,690 1,583 90 6,937 100
2009 David Brennan 5,767 1,751 100 2,795 62
1
 Based on average closing share price over the three-month period to 31 December 2015 plus accrued dividends over the vesting period.
2
 Mr Soriot was appointed CEO with effect from 1 October 2012.
3
  This figure includes £991,000 paid to compensate Mr Soriot in respect of his forfeited bonus opportunity for 2012 and an award of £2,000,000 to compensate him for his loss of LTI awards,  
both in respect of his previous employment.
4
 Mr Lowth acted as Interim CEO from June to September 2012 inclusive.
5
 Mr Lowth’s LTI awards which vested during 2012 were not awarded or received in respect of his performance as Interim CEO.
6
 Mr Brennan ceased to be a Director on 1 June 2012.
7
 This figure includes Mr Brennan’s pay in lieu of notice of £914,000.
8
  Mr Brennan informed the Remuneration Committee that he did not wish to be considered for a bonus in respect of that part of 2012 in which he was CEO. The Remuneration Committee 
determined that no such bonus would be awarded and also that there should be no bonus award relating to his contractual notice period.
Total shareholder return (TSR)
The graph below compares the TSR performance of the Company over the past seven years with the TSR of the FTSE100 Index.  
This graph is re-based to 100 at the start of the relevant period. As a constituent of the FTSE100, this index represents an appropriate 
reference point for the Company. We have also included a ‘Pharmaceutical peers average’, which reflects the TSR of the current 
comparator group and provides shareholders with additional context.
The charts below show how the Company’s TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the relevant companies in the comparator 
group from the first day in the three-year performance period in respect of the PSP awards made in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and how the 
Company ranks against those other companies on this basis.
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return index is averaged in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior  
to the start of the relevant performance period (as stipulated in the PSP rules) and, for the purposes of the charts below, over the last three 
months of 2015.
Key:  
AZ AstraZeneca, AV AbbVie, BMS Bristol-Myers Squibb, GSK GlaxoSmithKline, J&J Johnson & Johnson, LLY Eli Lilly, MRK Merck, NOV Novartis, PFI Pfizer, RH Roche Holding, 
SA Sanofi-Aventis
100
125
150
175
200
225
250
Jan
16
Jan
15
Jan
14
Jan
13
Jan
12
Jan
11
Jan
10
Jan
09 -10
0
10
20
30
MRK AV RH J&J AZ GSK NOV SA PFI BMS LLY
TSR over a seven-year period AstraZeneca TSR vs comparator group
1 January 2015 – 31 December 2015 (%)
 
AstraZeneca  
 
Pharmaceutical peers average 
 
FTSE100
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
GSK RH J&J PFI MRK SA AV NOV BMS AZ LLY
AstraZeneca TSR vs comparator group
1 January 2014 – 31 December 2015 (%)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
GSK MRK SA J&J PFI RH NOV AZ AV LLY BMS
AstraZeneca TSR vs comparator group
1 January 2013 – 31 December 2015 (%)
113 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Relative importance of spend on remuneration
The table below shows the overall spend on employee remuneration and expenditure on shareholder distributions through dividends.
The figures below have been calculated in accordance with the Group Accounting Policies and drawn from either the Company’s 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 140, or its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 143. Further 
information on the Group’s Accounting Policies can be found from page 144.
2015
$m
2014
$m
Difference in spend
between years
$m
Difference in spend
between years
%
Total employee remuneration
1
6,128 6,279 (151) (2.4)
Distributions to shareholders: 
– Dividends paid 3,486 3,521 (35) (0.99)
1
 This figure includes the remuneration paid to all employees in the Group, including the Executive Directors but excluding the Non-Executive Directors, who are not employees.
Disclosure of historic performance targets
2013 Annual bonus
In accordance with the Remuneration Committee’s commitment to disclosure as set out in the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report,  
the Remuneration Committee has determined that the 2013 targets relating to the achieve scientific leadership and return to growth 
elements of the annual bonus are no longer commercially sensitive and can therefore be disclosed. The achieve Group financial targets 
were disclosed in last year’s report. Mr Soriot’s 2013 annual bonus award was 170% of base salary, and Mr Dunoyer’s award was 129%. 
The level of award for the Executive Directors in respect of the achieve scientific leadership performance measures was 44% of the total 
bonus outcome, with the return to growth measures contributing 12%. These figures reflect the outcome of the global Scorecard and the 
Executive Directors’ individual performance against it.
1. Achieve scientific leadership
Performance measures for 2013 Target Outcome Performance
Positive Phase III investment decisions 2 3 Exceeded target
NME major submissions 2 3 Exceeded target
External licensing opportunities in Phase I/II 2 4 Exceeded target
Late-stage external opportunities 1 3 Exceeded target
Phase II starts 8 11 Exceeded target
2. Return to growth
1
Performance measures for 2013 Target Outcome Performance
Deliver Brilinta/Brilique target $380m $280m Below target
Build Diabetes franchise
2
$979m $788m Below target
Deliver sales growth in Emerging Markets $5,624m $5,396m Below target
Deliver Respiratory goals $4,597m $4,716m Exceeded target
Deliver Japan growth target $3,221m $3,158m Below target
1
  In respect of the return to growth measures only, the targets are set at budget exchange rates at the beginning of the performance period and evaluated at those rates at the end of the performance 
period.
2
  The Diabetes performance targets were set prior to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the Global Diabetes Alliance Assets and therefore the Remuneration Committee has evaluated 
performance consistently against the original targets.
Directors’ interests in shares (Audited)
Under the Company’s Articles all Directors must, within two months of their appointment, acquire a beneficial interest in at least 500 shares 
in the Company. All of the Directors fulfil this requirement at the date of this Directors’ Remuneration Report.
In addition to this mandatory requirement, the Board imposes minimum shareholding requirements on the Executive Directors and SET 
members. The CEO is required to build a shareholding and hold shares amounting to 300% of base salary, and the CFO is required to  
hold shares amounting to 200% of base salary, each within five years of their dates of appointment. In the period since his appointment  
on 1 October 2012, Mr Soriot has acquired 250, 100 Ordinary Shares using his own resources which he gifted to family members for nil 
consideration on 31 December 2015. As at 31 December 2015, Mr Soriot beneficially held Ordinary Shares amounting to 237% of his 2015 
base salary, and it is anticipated that Mr Soriot will reach or exceed the minimum shareholding requirement within the time limit imposed by 
the Board. Mr Dunoyer has fulfilled his requirement. All other SET members are required to build a shareholding over time and hold 125% of 
base salary as shares while in office.
Annual Report on Remuneration 
(the Implementation Report) continued
Corporate Governance
114 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 The Board also encourages each Non-Executive Director to build up, over a period of three years, a shareholding in the Company with a 
value approximately equivalent to the basic annual fee for a Non-Executive Director (£75,000) or, in the case of the Chairman, approximately 
equivalent to his basic annual fee (£575,000). All of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, had fulfilled this expectation as at 
31 December 2015.
The tables below show the interests of the Directors (including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is defined in the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) in Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2015, as well as details of any Director’s interests in 
options over the Company’s shares. All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated. No Director or senior executive 
beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, nor do they have different voting rights  
from other shareholders. None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Company’s subsidiaries. Between  
31 December 2015 and 4 February 2016, there was no change in the interests in Ordinary Shares shown in the tables below.
Executive Directors
Shares held Options held
Executive Director
Beneficially 
held
Value of shares 
held beneficially 
as percentage 
of base salary
Shareholding 
requirement
(to be built up within
5 years of date of
appointment)
Subject to 
performance 
conditions
Subject to 
deferral Unvested
Vested but 
unexercised
Exercised 
during the year Total
Pascal Soriot 59,951 237% 300% 482,040 33,247 – – – 575,238
Marc Dunoyer 57,304 381% 200% 228,448 9,790 544 – – 296,086
The value of shares is based on the London Stock Exchange closing price of 4616.5 pence per Ordinary Share on 31 December 2015.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive shares in the Company that are the subject of performance conditions, and have 
acquired their beneficial interests in the Company’s shares using their own resources.
Non-Executive Directors
Beneficial interest in 
Ordinary Shares at 
31 December 2014 or
(if later) appointment date Change to beneficial interest
Beneficial interest in 
Ordinary Shares at 
31 December 2015 or 
(if earlier) date of retirement 
Leif Johansson 39,009 – 39,009
Cori Bargmann – 1,959 1,959
Geneviève Berger 2,090 – 2,090
Bruce Burlington 2,749 600 3,349
Ann Cairns 1,225 1,100 2,325
Graham Chipchase 1,900 1,100 3,000
Jean-Philippe Courtois 2,635 3,400 6,035
Rudy Markham 2,452 – 2,452
Shriti Vadera 6,500 3,500 10,000
Marcus Wallenberg 63,646 – 63,646
Former Directors
Nancy Rothwell 2,643 – 2,643
John Varley 13,000 – 13,000
Governance
Remuneration Committee membership
The Remuneration Committee members are Graham Chipchase (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee), Leif Johansson, Rudy 
Markham and Shriti Vadera. Nancy Rothwell and John Varley were members of the Remuneration Committee until their retirement at the 
Company’s AGM held on 24 April 2015. Shriti Vadera became a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 17 February 
2015. The Deputy Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
How did the Remuneration Committee spend its time during 2015?
The Remuneration Committee met seven times in 2015. The individual attendance record of Remuneration Committee members is set  
out on page 92. At the invitation of the Remuneration Committee, except where their own remuneration was being discussed, the CEO; the 
EVP , Human Resources; the Vice-President, People Practices and Services; the Human Resources Vice-President, Centre of Excellence; 
the Executive Compensation Director; and the Company Secretary attended one or more Remuneration Committee meetings in 2015 and 
provided services that materially assisted the Remuneration Committee. In addition, all meetings of the Remuneration Committee were 
attended by Nicki Demby, representing Deloitte LLP (Deloitte), the Remuneration Committee’s independent adviser.
115 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance The Remuneration Committee focused on the following principal matters at its meetings held in 2015 and in February 2016:
 > The terms of senior executives’ remuneration packages on appointment, promotion or termination.
 > The assessment of Group and individual performance against targets to determine the level of annual bonuses for performance during 
2014 and to set executive bonus targets during 2015 and LTI awards to be granted during 2015.
 > The assessment of performance against targets to determine the level of vesting in 2015 under the PSP and AZIP , and the setting of PSP 
and AZIP performance thresholds for awards made in 2015.
 > The determination of individual awards made to SET members and other participants under the Group’s main LTI plans: the PSP; the 
AZIP; and the AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan.
 > The determination of restricted share awards to a number of senior executives under the AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan.
 > A review of shareholder voting in respect of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 2013 and 2014 (including dialogue with major shareholders). 
 > Consultation with major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies regarding proposals to adjust CEO remuneration during 
2015 and the potential simplification of future LTI plans.
 > A review of a report providing an analysis of key aspects of reward across the wider Group.
 > The determination of the Executive Directors’ and other SET members’ remuneration for 2015 and for 2016.
 > The assessment and setting of executive bonus targets during 2016 and LTI awards to be granted in 2016.
 > The annual review of the performance of the Remuneration Committee.
 > The review of the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee.
 > The preparation, review and approval of this Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Independent Adviser to the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee reappointed Deloitte as its independent adviser following a tender process undertaken in 2013, which 
involved interviews with both the Company’s management and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Deloitte’s service to the 
Remuneration Committee was provided on a time-spent basis at a cost to the Company of £176,000 (excluding VAT). During the year, 
Deloitte also provided taxation advice and other specific non-audit advisory services to the Group. The Remuneration Committee reviewed 
the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were no conflicts. Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group, 
which is responsible for the stewardship and development of the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting 
in the UK. The principles on which the code is based are transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care and confidentiality. 
Deloitte adheres to the code.
Shareholder context
At the Company’s AGM held in April 2015, the resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 
2014 (the 2014 Implementation Report) was passed.
Resolution text Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast
% of Issued Share
Capital voted Votes withheld
Ordinary Resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
739,049,685 84.11 139,601,566 15.89 878,651,251 69.54 12,522,725 
The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered shareholders’ comments about the 2013 and 2014 Directors’ Remuneration 
Reports. Before and after the 2015 AGM, John Varley and Graham Chipchase, each of whom has been the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman during 2015, met and/or spoke with the Company’s major shareholders, the Investment Association and Institutional Shareholder 
Services to clearly understand their views. Key areas arising from these discussions were the desire to see a clearer link between executive 
pay and the achievement of the Company’s 2023 $45 billion revenue target (based on 2013 exchange rates), and the desire for greater 
simplicity and transparency in the design of executive remuneration, particularly with respect to the Company’s LTI plans.
This year we have simplified the PSP for awards made in 2016 by replacing the six return to growth performance targets with one aggregate 
sales target for our Growth Platforms. This will reflect performance across our Growth Platforms as a whole. Further we have disclosed the 
target for this measure now, at the start of the performance period. This is in line with our aim to strike the right balance between 
transparency in our reporting on executive pay and protecting our commercially sensitive information.
We gave careful consideration to whether there could be a more transparent link between the financial targets which we communicated  
in May 2014 and executive pay. This has some attraction, although there is a clear balance to be struck given the need to ensure that our 
arrangements are simple, practicable and aligned to our business. Ultimately, following discussions, the Remuneration Committee’s view is that 
the best way to achieve line of sight to the 2023 revenue target is by ensuring that the financial and operational measures under the PSP are 
directly linked to the long-term business plan (including the 2023 $45 billion revenue target, which we announced in May 2014). However, the 
Remuneration Committee will continue to consider ways in which a more transparent link between the 2023 revenue target and executive pay 
may be achieved.
We intend to continue to consult with our major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies during the course of 2016 on 
proposals to further simplify our LTI plans for the future.
Annual Report on Remuneration 
(the Implementation Report) continued
Corporate Governance
116 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Service contracts
The notice periods and unexpired terms of Executive Directors’ service contracts at 31 December 2015 are shown in the table below. 
AstraZeneca or the Executive Director may terminate the service contract on 12 months’ notice. 
Executive Director Date of service contract Unexpired term at 31 December 2015 Notice period
Pascal Soriot 27 August 2012 12 months 12 months
Marc Dunoyer 15 March 2013 12 months 12 months
Terms of reference
A copy of the Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference is available on our website, www.astrazeneca.com. The Remuneration 
Committee conducted a review of its terms of reference during 2015 but no changes were recommended to the Board as the terms  
of reference were considered to remain appropriate.
Basis of preparation of this Directors’ Remuneration Report
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations) and meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s Listing Rules. As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the Implementation Report of this Directors’ Remuneration 
Report will be proposed at the AGM on 29 April 2016.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016
This section sets out how the Remuneration Committee intends to implement our Remuneration Policy during 2016. 
Effective from 1 January 2016, Mr Soriot’s base salary was increased, in line with increases in the UK employee population, by 2% to 
£1, 190,000. Mr Soriot’s target annual bonus opportunity will remain unchanged at 100% of salary and his LTI plan target will remain 
unchanged at 437 .5% of base salary. However, the Remuneration Committee has granted an above-target LTI award for 2016 of 499%  
of base salary.
Effective from 1 January 2016, Mr Dunoyer’s base salary was increased, in line with increases in the UK employee population, by 2% to 
£707 ,000. Mr Dunoyer’s target annual bonus opportunity will remain unchanged at 90% of base salary and his LTI plan target award will 
remain unchanged at 350% of base salary.
The annual bonus measures and weightings for 2016 are set out in the table overleaf and are consistent with those applicable in 2015. 
Individual performance for each of the Executive Directors will be assessed by reference to individual objectives in line with the Company’s 
objectives for the year.
The performance measures and weightings for 2016 in respect of the LTI plans (AZIP and PSP) are set out in the tables overleaf and  
are broadly consistent with those applicable in 2015. However, for 2016 we have decided to simplify one of the elements of the PSP  
by changing the return to growth measure from six key individual measures to one aggregate measure. This will reflect performance  
across our Growth Platforms as a whole. Furthermore, this change allows us to disclose the aggregate target for this measure at the  
start of the performance period, in contrast to the individual targets for each Growth Platform which remain commercially sensitive.  
This is in line with our aim to strike the right balance between transparency in our reporting on executive pay and protecting our 
commercially sensitive information.
Summary of Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2016
Executive Directors’ remuneration opportunity
Pascal Soriot Marc Dunoyer
Base salary £1,190,000 £707,000
Pension provision 30% of base salary 24% of base salary
Annual bonus target 100% of base salary (normal range 0%-180%) 90% of base salary (normal range 0%-150%)
LTI plan award 499% of base salary
1
350% of base salary
1
 LTI plan target remains at 437.5% of base salary.
117 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Annual bonus
Return to growth 
performance measures Weighting
Achieve scientific leadership 
performance measures Weighting
Achieve Group financial targets
performance measures Weighting
Deliver Brilinta/Brilique target
5% per 
measure
NME Phase II starts
6% per 
measure
Achieve cash flow from
operating activities target
10% 
Deliver CVMD target NME and major life-cycle management  
Phase III investment decisions
Achieve Core EPS target 20% 
Deliver sales growth in  
Emerging Markets
NME and major life-cycle management 
regional submissions
Achieve overall revenue target 10%
Deliver Respiratory goals NME and major life-cycle management 
regional approvals
Deliver Japan growth target Acquisition, licensing and divestment 
opportunities
Deliver New Oncology growth target
LTI plans
PSP
TSR ranking of the Company – 25% weighting % of award under TSR performance measure that vests
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata
Upper quartile 75%
Above upper quartile 75% to 100% at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion
Adjusted cumulative cash flow – 25% weighting % of award under cash flow performance measure that vests
Less than $9 billion 0%
$9 billion 25%
Between $9 billion and $11 billion Pro rata
$11 billion 75%
Between $11 billion and $13.5 billion Pro rata
$13.5 billion and above 100%
Achieve scientific leadership – 25% weighting Weighting
NME approvals
5% per 
measure
Major life-cycle management approvals
Phase III registration/NME volume
Prospective peak-year sales from NME and major life-cycle management approvals
Phase II starts
Return to growth
1
 – 25% weighting Threshold target 25% vesting Maximum target 100% vesting
Growth Platform revenue $17bn $20bn
1
  In respect of the return to growth measure only, the targets are set at budget exchange rates at the beginning of the performance period and evaluated at those rates at the end of the  
performance period.
AZIP
Dividend and dividend cover hurdles, assessed over the relevant four-year performance period
 > dividend per share of $2.80 maintained, or increased, over the performance period
 > dividend cover of 1.5 maintained over the performance period, calculated on the basis of Core EPS.
Both performance hurdles must be achieved, in each year of the performance period, for the award to vest. 
Annual Report on Remuneration 
(the Implementation Report) continued
Corporate Governance
118 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Summary of Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2016
Board and Committee fees for the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, were not reviewed in 2015 and, accordingly, there are 
no changes to the level of fees proposed for 2016 at the date of this report. The fees will be reviewed during 2016 and, should any changes 
be considered appropriate, changes may become effective during the 2016 financial year. The Non-Executive Director fees as at 4 February 
2016 (together with those for 2015) are set out below. Further information on the Non-Executive Directors’ Board and Committee fees can 
be found on page 134 of the Remuneration Policy Report.
Non-Executive Director fees in 2015 and as at 4 February 2016 
2015 
£
At 4 February 
2016 
£
Chairman’s fee
1
575,000 575,000
Basic Non-Executive Director’s fee 75,000 75,000
Senior independent Non-Executive Director 30,000 30,000
Membership of the Audit Committee 20,000 20,000
Membership of the Remuneration Committee 15,000 15,000
Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee
2
25,000 25,000
Membership of the Science Committee 12,000 12,000
Chairman of the Science Committee
2
10,000 10,000
1
 The Chairman does not receive any additional fees for chairing, or being a member of, a Committee.
2
 This fee is in addition to the fee for membership of the relevant Committee.
Additional information: Executive Directors’ share plans
Deferred Bonus Plan
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2015 in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of awards under the deferred bonus plan are  
shown below.
Number of 
shares
Award price
(pence) Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
Pascal Soriot
Award in respect of 2012 performance period 3,799 2939 25.02.13 25.02.16
Award in respect of 2013 performance period 15,966 3904 28.03.14 28.03.17
Total at 1 January 2015 19,765
Award in respect of 2014 performance period 13,482 4762 27.03.15 27.03.18
Total at 31 December 2015 33,247
Marc Dunoyer
Award in respect of 2013 performance period 2,679 3904 28.03.14 28.03.17
Total at 1 January 2015 2,679
Award in respect of 2014 performance period 7,111 4762 27.03.15 27.03.18
Total at 31 December 2015 9,790
1
 UK date convention applies.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2015 in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of awards under the PSP are shown below.
Number of 
shares
Award price
(pence) Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
Performance period
1
Pascal Soriot
2013 award 125,113 3297 11.06.13 11.06.16 01.01.13 – 31.12.15
2014 award 124,066 3904 28.03.14 28.03.17 01.01.14 – 31.12.16
Total at 1 January 2015 249,179
2015 award 104,764 4762 27.03.15 27.03.20 01.01.15 – 31.12.17
Total at 31 December 2015 353,943
Marc Dunoyer
2013 award 90,853 3302 01.08.13 01.08.16 01.01.13 – 31.12.15
2014 award 52,254 3904 28.03.14 28.03.17 01.01.14 – 31.12.16
Total at 1 January 2015 143,107
2015 award 45,880 4762 27.03.15 27.03.20 01.01.15 – 31.12.17
Total at 31 December 2015 188,987
1
 UK date convention applies.
119 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance AstraZeneca Investment Plan (AZIP)
The interests of Directors at 31 December 2015 in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of awards under the AZIP are shown below.
Number of 
shares
Award price
(pence) Grant date
1
Vesting date
1
Performance period
1
Pascal Soriot
2013 award
2
89,960 3297 11.06.13 01.01.21 01.01.13 – 31.12.16
2014 award 20,677 3904 28.03.14 01.01.22 01.01.14 – 31.12.17
Total at 1 January 2015 110,637
2015 award 17,460 4762 27.03.15 01.01.23 01.01.15 – 31.12.18
Total at 31 December 2015 128,097
Marc Dunoyer
2013 award 8,176 3302 01.08.13 01.01.21 01.01.13 – 31.12.16
2014 award 8,709 3904 28.03.14 01.01.22 01.01.14 – 31.12.17
Total at 1 January 2015 16,885
2015 award 7,646 4762 27.03.15 01.01.23 01.01.15 – 31.12.18
Total at 31 December 2015 24,531
1
 UK date convention applies.
2
  The AZIP award of 89,960 shares comprises a regular 2013 award of 20,852 shares and a previously announced award which replaces that originally made when Mr Soriot joined the Company  
in October 2012. 
Restricted share award
On 26 October 2012, Mr Soriot was granted an award of 69, 108 restricted shares at an award price of 2894 pence per share. When  
Mr Soriot joined AstraZeneca, he forfeited awards made to him by his previous employer. The Remuneration Committee determined that  
it was appropriate to compensate him for the value of those forfeited awards. AstraZeneca received an independent assessment of their 
value. The restricted shares vested as follows
 > 27 ,644 vested on 31 October 2013
 > 20,732 vested on 1 October 2014
 > 20,732 vested on 1 October 2015.
The interests of Mr Soriot at 31 December 2015 in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of awards under this arrangement are shown below.
Number of 
shares
Price on 
vesting 
date
(pence)
Pascal Soriot
Total at 1 January 2015 20,732
Final vesting of 2012 award (20,732)
1
4181.5
Total at 31 December 2015 –
1
 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, Mr Soriot became beneficially interested in a net number of 17,985 Ordinary Shares.
Restricted Share Plan
On 1 August 2013, Mr Dunoyer was granted an award of 65,505 restricted shares at an award price of 3302 pence per share. When  
Mr Dunoyer joined AstraZeneca as EVP , GPPS, he forfeited awards made to him by his previous employer. The Remuneration Committee 
determined that it was appropriate to compensate him for the value of those forfeited awards. AstraZeneca received an independent 
assessment of their value. The restricted shares vested, or will vest, as follows
 > 9, 103 shares vested on 15 June 2014
 > 41,472 shares vested on 15 June 2015
 > 14,930 shares will vest on 1 August 2016.
Annual Report on Remuneration 
(the Implementation Report) continued
Corporate Governance
120 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 The interests of Mr Dunoyer at 31 December 2015 in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of awards under this arrangement are shown below.
Number of 
shares
Price on 
vesting 
date
(pence)
Marc Dunoyer
Total at 1 January 2015 56,402
Partial vesting of 2013 award (41,472)
1
4211
Total at 31 December 2015 14,930
1
 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, Mr Dunoyer became beneficially interested in a net number of 21,980 Ordinary Shares.
AstraZeneca 2012 Savings Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE)
The interests of Mr Dunoyer at 31 December 2015 in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares that are the subject of awards under the 
SAYE are shown below.
Number of 
shares under 
option
Exercise price
(pence) Grant date
1
First date 
exercisable
1
Last date 
exercisable
1
Marc Dunoyer
Total at 1 January 2015 –
2015 award 544 3307 28.09.15 01.12.18 31.05.19
Total at 31 December 2015 544
1
 UK date convention applies.
121 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Remuneration Policy Report
This section sets out the Remuneration Policy (the Policy) that was approved by shareholders at the Company’s AGM in April 2014. It is 
intended that the Policy shall remain in effect for a period of three years from 1 January 2015.
The Policy set out below has not been amended since its approval by shareholders in April 2014, other than to show changes to individual 
remuneration in 2016 in the Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors section on page 129 and the notes to those scenarios, which 
remain within Policy. However, mindful of shareholder commentary on the Policy since its approval, the Remuneration Committee sought to 
clarify certain aspects of the Policy in relation to its approach to recruitment remuneration for Executive Directors and, in 2014, it adopted 
‘Operating guidelines’ with effect from 1 January 2015 identified on page 130, which do not form part of the Company’s Policy as approved 
by shareholders. These clarifications are marked in bold in this Policy Report.
Setting the Company’s Policy
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting overall remuneration policy and makes decisions about specific remuneration 
arrangements in the broader context of employee remuneration throughout the Group. All roles within the organisation are benchmarked 
against comparable roles in similar organisations and in the employee’s local market to ensure the Company is paying fairly at all levels. 
Executive Directors’ remuneration arrangements are benchmarked against a global pharmaceutical peer group and the FTSE30. Each year 
the Company actively engages with its employees, either on a Group-wide basis or in the context of smaller focus groups, in order to solicit 
feedback generally and on a wide range of specified issues, including pay. 
While the Remuneration Committee did not consult with employees when determining the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy, it does 
annually review Group remuneration data including ratios of average pay to senior executive pay; bonus data; gender and geographical 
data in relation to base salaries and variable compensation; and aggregate data about the shareholding levels of senior managers. Many 
employees are also shareholders in the Company and therefore had the opportunity to vote at the 2014 AGM on this Remuneration Policy 
Report. In reviewing the base salaries of Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee considers the overall level of any salary 
increases being awarded to employees in the Executive Director’s local market in the relevant year. 
In all aspects of its work, the Remuneration Committee considers both the external environment in which the Company operates and  
the guidance issued by organisations representing institutional shareholders. It consults the Company’s largest investors on general and 
specific remuneration matters and provides an annual opportunity for representatives of those investors to meet the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and other Remuneration Committee and Board members. It is the Company’s policy to seek input from major 
shareholders on an ad hoc basis where significant changes to remuneration arrangements are proposed. The Company’s shareholders  
are encouraged to attend the Company’s AGM and any views expressed will be considered by the Remuneration Committee’s members. 
The Remuneration Committee works with the Audit Committee to ensure that the Group’s remuneration policies and practices achieve  
the right balance between appropriate incentives to reward good performance, managing risk, and the pursuit of the Company’s  
business objectives. 
Legacy arrangements
The Remuneration Committee may approve remuneration payments and payments for loss of office where the terms of the payment were 
agreed before the Policy came into effect, or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company (provided that, in the 
opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the agreement was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company). 
This includes the exercise of any discretion available to the Remuneration Committee in connection with such payments.
For these purposes, payments include the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration including awards over 
shares, on the basis of the terms agreed at the time the award is granted.
Minor amendments
The Remuneration Committee may make minor amendments to the arrangements for the Directors as described in this Remuneration 
Policy Report (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in legislation).
Corporate Governance
122 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors
Fixed elements of remuneration: base salary, benefits and pension
The Company’s approach to determining and reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors and the employee population as a whole is the same. On an annual 
basis, the salaries for individual roles are reviewed in the context of individual sustained performance and the external market. AstraZeneca participates in annual 
global compensation surveys, which provide benchmarking data for all roles within the organisation, ensuring a robust salary review process for all employees.
The Company seeks to provide an appropriate range of competitive benefits, including pension, to all employees (including Directors) in the context of their  
local market.
Base salary
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Base salary is intended to 
be sufficient (but no more 
than necessary) to attract, 
retain and develop 
high-calibre individuals  
in order to deliver the 
Company’s strategy.
The Remuneration Committee determines base salary based on a number 
of factors, including (but not limited to):
 > Recognition of the value of an individual’s sustained personal 
performance and contribution to the business
 > The individual’s skills and experience 
 > Internal relativities
 > Conditions in the relevant external market.
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually to ensure they remain 
competitive, with any change usually taking effect from 1 January. 
There are no contractual provisions for clawback or malus of base salary.
The current base salaries can be found on page 107 of the 
Implementation Report. 
While there is no formal maximum, annual base salary increases, 
if any, for the Executive Directors will normally be in line with the 
percentage increases awarded to the employee population within 
the individual’s country location. 
Higher increases may be made if the Remuneration Committee  
in its discretion considers it appropriate. For example, this may 
include:
 > Increase in the scope and/or responsibility of the individual’s role
 > Development of the individual within the role.
Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
To provide market 
competitive benefits.
Non-cash benefits are 
designed to be sufficient 
(but no more generous 
than necessary) to attract, 
retain and develop 
high-calibre individuals  
in order to deliver the 
Company’s strategy.
.
UK-based Executive Directors are provided with a fund under the UK 
Flexible Benefits Programme. The fund value is based on a range of 
benefits including:
 > Private Medical Insurance for partner and children
 > Life assurance
 > Permanent health insurance
 > Company car
 > Additional holidays
 > Other additional benefits made available by the Company from time to 
time that the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate based on 
the Executive Director’s circumstances.
A Director may choose to take a proportion of, or the entire fund, as cash.
Non-UK-based Executive Directors will receive a range of benefits (or a 
fund of equivalent value) comparable to those typically offered in their local 
market. They can elect to take the fund as cash or elect one or more of 
these benefits and take the balance as cash.
At its discretion, for Executive Directors on an international assignment or 
relocating to take up other Company duties, the Remuneration Committee 
may consider support towards the reasonable costs of relocation. 
At its discretion, the Remuneration Committee may provide an allowance 
towards the reasonable fees for professional services such as legal, tax, 
property and financial advice. The Company may also fund the cost of a 
driver and car for Executive Directors.
The Company also provides Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and 
an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the law and the Company’s 
Articles. 
There are no contractual provisions for clawback or malus of benefits.
The current value of benefits available can be found on page 107 
of the Implementation Report. 
The maximum value of the fund available under the UK Flexible 
Benefits Programme will be equivalent to the cost to the Company 
of the suite of benefits at the time. 
The maximum value of the suite of benefits for non-UK-based 
Executive Directors will be equivalent to the cost of the suite of 
benefits at the time. 
The value of the support towards the costs of relocation will be  
the reasonable costs associated with the Executive Director’s 
particular circumstances.
The value of the support towards the costs of professional fees 
and other costs will be the reasonable costs associated with the 
Executive Director’s particular circumstances.
The maximum value of the Directors’ and Officers’ Liability 
Insurance and third party indemnity insurance is the cost at the 
relevant time. 
While the Remuneration Committee has not set an overall level of 
benefit provision, the Remuneration Committee keeps the benefit 
policy and benefit levels under review. 
Pension
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Provision of retirement 
benefits to attract, retain 
and develop high-calibre 
individuals in order to 
deliver the Company’s 
strategy.
Company allocations for Executive Directors’ pensions will be a proportion 
of the individual’s base salary and is in line with local market practice.
As part of the UK Flexible Benefits Programme, the Company provides an 
allocation consisting of a percentage of the UK-based Executive Director’s 
base salary, which the Executive Director can elect to pay into a pension 
scheme or take as cash. The Company will allocate an amount 
benchmarked to the local market. 
There are no contractual provisions for clawback or malus of pension.
Currently the CEO and CFO receive an allocation equivalent to 
30% and 24% of their base salaries respectively as a contribution 
towards the cost of their pension provisions. 
The maximum annual allocation that may be provided to 
UK-based Executive Directors is 35% of base salary.
Non-UK-based Executive Directors will receive a fund for the 
purpose of providing retirement benefits in line with the local 
market practice. The maximum value of that fund will be a sum 
equivalent to local market practice. The Executive Director may 
elect to take some or all of the fund as cash.
123 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Variable elements of remuneration 
Annual bonus
All employee bonuses are determined by reference to the Group scorecard and an assessment of individual performance. The Group scorecard is designed to reflect 
the Company’s strategy and the focus of its business activity and priorities in the performance year. The performance measures are recommended by the CEO and 
determined by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year. They are designed to ensure that all eligible employees receive an element of reward based 
on the Group’s overall financial and non-financial performance. A scorecard approach ensures that all employees across functions and geographies are focused on 
the activities critical to delivering the business strategy. The performance measures and weightings underlying the annual bonus plan will be disclosed in advance. 
The outcomes against targets, for reasons of commercial sensitivity, will be disclosed in arrears. The Implementation Report will identify, in arrears, the performance 
versus the objectives and the consequent levels of remuneration deemed appropriate by the Remuneration Committee. 
For Executive Directors, one-third of their pre-tax annual bonus is delivered in shares, which are deferred for three years, under the Deferred Bonus Plan. Employees 
below SET level receive a bonus in cash and are not required to defer a proportion in shares.
Annual bonus: cash
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and framework used to assess performance Maximum opportunity
The annual cash bonus 
rewards short-term 
performance against 
specific annual Group  
and individual objectives.
These objectives are 
designed to facilitate the 
delivery of the Company’s 
short-term strategy and 
thereby create value  
for our shareholders  
over time.
The annual cash bonus is based on Group and individual performance in the relevant 
performance year.
Scorecard measures and targets are set annually by the Remuneration Committee 
based on the key strategic objectives for the year. Payout levels are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee after the year end, based on performance against targets. 
The performance period is one year.
The performance measures form a Group scorecard which is closely aligned to 
business strategy, and rewards scientific, commercial and financial success.  
While we expect the performance measures to be largely unchanged each year,  
the Remuneration Committee believes it is inadvisable to commit to a fixed set of 
measures in advance in order to retain flexibility to align incentives with the focus  
of corporate strategy in the relevant year. 
The greatest weighting is typically placed on the achievement of financial targets, with 
an equal weighting between the scientific and commercial growth metrics reflecting  
the importance of both sales and R&D success. The actual annual weighting will 
depend on the strategic priorities for the performance year. 
The Group scorecard is made up of a number of separate metrics within each 
performance measure. Each metric has a payout range associated with it (including  
a target which is intended to be stretching). In relation to each metric, a threshold level 
of performance is specified. If performance falls below this level there will be no payout 
for that proportion of the award. Each metric has a different weighting. If none of the 
metrics attributable to a performance measure is met then a bonus payout will not be 
made in respect of that performance measure. If none of the metrics is met in any of the 
performance measures, then no bonus payout will be made.
The Board will consider Company performance against the Group scorecard objectives 
as well as the Executive Director’s individual performance in order to determine the 
value of the bonus award. Individual performance will be assessed by the Remuneration 
Committee on the basis of objective criteria established by the Chairman in the case of 
the CEO, and by the CEO in the case of the CFO. The Remuneration Committee has the 
discretion to move the theoretical award up or down subject to the annual bonus award 
being no greater than the maximum percentage of base salary applicable to that award 
in the year in question.
The Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to ensure that a fair and balanced 
outcome is achieved, taking into account the overall performance of the Company and 
the experience of its shareholders.
Two-thirds of the annual bonus is delivered in cash and one-third is delivered in shares, 
which are deferred for three years as explained opposite. 
The annual bonus, including the deferred share element, payable for target 
performance for the CEO is currently 100% of base salary and for the CFO is currently 
90% of base salary. 
For bonuses awarded in respect of 2015 and subsequent years, the Remuneration 
Committee will have discretion, for up to six years from the payment date, to claw back 
from individuals some or all of the cash bonus award in certain circumstances including 
(i) material restatement of the results of the Group, (ii) significant reputational damage to 
the Group, or (iii) serious misconduct by the individual. However, in the case of (i) and (ii) 
the Remuneration Committee may only exercise its discretion for up to two years from 
the payment date.
The maximum annual amount payable to an Executive 
Director is 250% of base salary. 
If the Remuneration Committee ever felt that it  
would be in the interests of shareholders to grant an 
annual bonus of an amount exceeding the historical 
maximum opportunity of 180% of base salary in  
the case of the CEO and 150% of base salary in the 
case of the CFO, it would consult major shareholders 
in advance.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors continued
Corporate Governance
124 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Annual bonus: Deferred Bonus Plan
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and framework used to assess performance Maximum opportunity
The deferred share 
element of the annual 
cash bonus under the 
Deferred Bonus Plan  
is designed to align 
Executive Directors’ 
interests with those  
of shareholders. 
Executive Directors are required to defer one-third of their pre-tax annual 
cash bonus into shares. 
On vesting, the cash value equivalent to dividends that would have been 
paid during the three-year holding period will be paid subject to continued 
employment.
Directors must normally remain in employment for three years from grant 
for deferred shares to vest.
Once performance measures have been applied to determine the value  
of the total bonus, no further performance measures apply to the deferred 
share element.
For deferred share elements relating to bonuses awarded in respect of 
2015 and subsequent years, the Remuneration Committee has discretion: 
 > to reduce or cancel any portion of an unvested deferred bonus award in 
certain circumstances (malus), including (i) material restatement of the 
results of the Group, (ii) significant reputational damage to the Group,  
or (iii) serious misconduct by the individual 
 > for up to six years from the vesting date, to claw back from individuals 
some or all of the deferred bonus award in certain circumstances, 
including (i) material restatement of the results of the Group, (ii) significant 
reputational damage to the Group, or (iii) serious misconduct by the 
individual. However, in the case of (i) and (ii) the Remuneration Committee 
may only exercise its discretion for up to two years from the vesting date. 
The maximum deferred bonus for Executive Directors is one-third 
of the maximum pre-tax bonus as detailed in the Annual bonus: 
cash section on page 124.
Long Term Incentives (LTIs)
Overview: An Executive Director’s target LTI award is considered annually and set at a level which takes account of market analysis. The Remuneration Committee 
has discretion to grant awards above or below target based on individual performance and potential. The CEO’s current LTI target is 250% of base salary on an 
expected value basis, and the CFO’s current LTI target is 200% of base salary on an expected value basis. An illustration of the expected value basis can be found  
in the Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors section on page 129.
The Company’s variable long-term arrangements for Executive Directors currently comprise two LTI plans: the PSP and the AZIP. Under each of these plans the 
maximum market value of shares that may be awarded is 500% of a participant’s base salary. If the Remuneration Committee ever felt that it would be in the interests 
of shareholders to grant annual variable awards to an Executive Director with values exceeding the historical range of up to 500% in aggregate under the LTI plans,  
it would consult major shareholders in advance. Currently when LTI awards are granted to Executive Directors, the split between the two plans is weighted in the 
proportion: 75% PSP and 25% AZIP.
When granting LTI awards the Remuneration Committee applies a target as a percentage of base salary on an expected value basis. For the AZIP, the expected value 
on vesting is 100% of the value of the award at grant. For the PSP, the expected value on vesting is 50% of the value of the award at grant. 
The table overleaf explains the operation, minimums and maximums payable under each of these LTI plans.
Performance measures: Performance measures are recommended by the CEO and determined by the Remuneration Committee. The performance measures in 
respect of the PSP are designed to drive long-term performance against the Company’s strategic objectives, in terms of commercial, scientific and financial success. 
In respect of the AZIP, dividend-based performance hurdles motivate the generation of returns for shareholders on a sustainable basis over an extended period of 
time, and will be set by the Remuneration Committee at a level it considers appropriate at the start of the performance period. The combined eight-year performance 
and holding period is designed to reflect the development cycle of a medicine and therefore to align executive reward with successful product development.
When setting the performance measures at the start of the performance period, the Remuneration Committee will also determine an appropriate payout curve (if any), 
for each measure. The Remuneration Committee will assess performance against the performance measures to determine the level of payout. The Remuneration 
Committee may exercise its discretion to increase or decrease the payout should it consider it appropriate, subject to the maximum percentage of base salary 
applicable in the year in question. The intention of the Remuneration Committee is to exercise judgement appropriately, in particular so that the experience of 
shareholders over time is taken into account. As a matter of good practice, certain major shareholders would be consulted before any material change to the 
performance measures for the PSP or AZIP are implemented.
The Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that, on the one hand, reward outcomes are not purely mechanistic; but on the other, that in exercising its discretion, 
that exercise is not seen by employees to be arbitrary or unfair. The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to use reward arrangements to drive performance by 
employees which supports the creation of value for shareholders.
Cessation of employment and other circumstances: The LTI plans are governed by plan rules, which define how individual awards should be treated upon 
termination of an Executive Director’s employment (see Principles of payment for loss of office for Executive Directors section on page 132). Provision is also made  
for the treatment of awards in respect of corporate activity including rights issues, sale of a business outside the Group and a change of control. The treatment of 
awards in these circumstances is also subject to Remuneration Committee discretion. In the event of a change of control an award will vest pro rata to the time elapsed 
between the date of grant of the award and the date of the event to the extent that the performance measures have been met up to the date of the event, subject to the 
Remuneration Committee’s discretion to make an alternative determination.
Other employees: Other employees at mid to senior levels globally are eligible for LTI awards in the form of PSP and/or Restricted Stock Units. The occupants of 
approximately 700 senior roles in the Company are currently eligible for PSP awards – these are the leaders who have the ability directly to influence the delivery  
of the Company’s strategic goals. Awards under the AZIP are currently granted to SET members only (including the Executive Directors).
125 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and framework used to assess performance Maximum opportunity
The PSP is an LTI plan 
designed to align the 
variable pay of our 
Executive Directors 
directly to the delivery  
of our medium-term 
business strategy. 
The PSP provides for the grant of awards over Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
Vesting is dependent on the achievement of stretching three-year performance targets 
and continued employment. 
Performance measures and targets under the PSP are determined by the Remuneration 
Committee at the start of the relevant three-year performance period and consist of a 
range of measures designed to incentivise performance in furtherance of the Company’s 
business strategy. The performance measures (currently a combination of four 
measures: TSR; cumulative cash flow; sales of medicines in key therapy areas and 
territories; and innovation metrics) are closely aligned to business strategy, and reward 
commercial, scientific and financial success.
Currently each of the four measures has an equal weighting. When setting the 
performance measures at the start of the performance period, the Remuneration 
Committee will allocate weightings to those measures as it considers appropriate, 
taking into account strategic and business priorities.
The three-year performance period commences on 1 January in the year of the  
award. The vesting date is the third anniversary of the date on which the award is 
granted. A two-year holding period commencing three years from the date of grant  
for Executive Directors will be included in the new PSP rules which are being put to 
shareholders for approval at the AGM in 2014 and, if approved, will be effective for 
awards made after the AGM. These awards will vest at the end of the holding period. 
During the holding period, no further performance measures will apply as performance 
has already been assessed.
All the performance measures have a payout curve. The payout curves are structured  
in different ways depending on the overall objective they are intended to measure. 
Typically, performance measures are structured such that 25% of the award will vest  
for threshold level of performance. The relationship between threshold, target and 
out-performance will be determined by the Remuneration Committee at each grant of 
the PSP and is dependent on whether the performance measure is science, commercial 
or finance based. An award will typically vest at 100% if the target (usually set at upper 
quartile performance) is achieved and threshold level of performance associated with 
any metric will be at or above a median level. There will be other vesting points between 
the threshold and maximum of 100% vesting, typically on a straight-line basis where the 
performance measures permit. 
The Remuneration Committee may (acting fairly and reasonably) adjust or waive a 
performance target if an event occurs that causes it to believe that the performance 
target is no longer appropriate.
Payouts can range from 0% to 100% of the original award.
On vesting, the cash value equivalent to dividends accrued during the vesting period  
will be paid.
Subject to shareholder approval of the renewal of the PSP at the 2014 AGM, for awards 
granted under the PSP after the AGM and in subsequent years, the Remuneration 
Committee will have discretion: 
 > to reduce or cancel any portion of an unvested award in certain circumstances 
(malus), including (i) material restatement of the results of the Group, (ii) significant 
reputational damage to the Group, or (iii) serious misconduct by the individual 
 > for up to six years from the third anniversary of the date of grant, to claw back from 
individuals some or all of the award in certain circumstances, including (i) material 
restatement of the results of the Group, (ii) significant reputational damage to the 
Group, or (iii) serious misconduct by the individual. However, in the case of (i) and (ii) 
the Remuneration Committee may only exercise its discretion for up to two years from 
the third anniversary of the date of grant. 
Under the PSP plan rules, the maximum market value 
of shares that may be awarded at the date of grant in 
respect of any year is 500% of a participant’s annual 
base salary. 
If each aspect of all of the performance measures is 
met and exceeded, the Remuneration Committee 
currently has the discretion to pay out a maximum of 
125% of the value of the original award. However, the 
Remuneration Committee has determined that it will 
not exercise this discretion in relation to outstanding 
or future awards. 
This feature has therefore been removed from the  
new PSP rules which are being put to shareholders 
for approval at the AGM in 2014.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors continued
Corporate Governance
126 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 AstraZeneca Investment Plan (AZIP)
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and framework used to assess performance Maximum opportunity
The combined eight-year 
performance and holding 
periods of the AZIP are 
influenced by the Group’s 
medicine development 
cycle, reflecting the long- 
term investment horizons 
that are a feature of the 
pharmaceutical industry. 
The AZIP provides for the grant of awards over Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
Vesting is dependent on achievement of two performance measures  
over a four-year performance period. The award is then subject to a  
further four-year holding period. Payout of the award is subject to 
continued employment. 
Performance measures and targets under the AZIP are determined by  
the Remuneration Committee at the start of the relevant four-year 
performance period.
Currently, two performance measures apply: dividend level and dividend 
cover. Both measures must be achieved for the award to vest. 
If an event occurs which causes the Remuneration Committee (acting fairly 
and reasonably) to consider that a performance measure is no longer 
appropriate it may adjust that measure.
The AZIP is operated over a four-year performance period, with a 
subsequent four-year holding period. Performance periods commence on 
1 January in the year of the award. Holding periods run for a period of four 
years starting from the end of the performance period, and end on the 
eighth anniversary of the start of the performance period. During the 
holding period, no further performance measures apply as performance 
has already been assessed. 
If both measures are achieved in each year of the performance period, the 
award will vest in full at the end of the holding period. If either or both of the 
measures are not achieved, the award will lapse.
On vesting, the cash value equivalent to dividends paid during the 
performance and holding periods will be paid.
For awards granted under the AZIP prior to the AGM in 2014, the  
Company may reduce or cancel some or all of the shares that are the 
subject of a participant’s award at any time during the performance or  
the holding period if, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee  
(acting fairly and reasonably), this is warranted by the underlying 
performance of the Company, the occurrence of an event that causes,  
or is very likely to cause, reputational damage to the Company, or serious 
misconduct by the participant.
In order to ensure consistency between our LTI plans, for awards granted 
under the AZIP on or after the AGM and in subsequent years, the 
Remuneration Committee will have discretion: 
 > to reduce or cancel any portion of an unvested award in certain 
circumstances (malus), including (i) material restatement of the results of 
the Group, (ii) significant reputational damage to the Group, or (iii) serious 
misconduct by the individual
 > for up to six years from the end of the performance period, to claw  
back from individuals some or all of the award in certain circumstances, 
including (i) in the case of material restatement of the results of the  
Group, (ii) significant reputational damage to the Group, or (iii) serious 
misconduct by the individual. However, in the case of (i) and (ii) the 
Remuneration Committee may only exercise its discretion for up to  
two years from the end of the performance period.
Under the AZIP plan rules the maximum market value of shares 
that may be awarded at the date of grant in respect of any year  
is 500% of a participant’s annual base salary.
127 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Restricted shares
In certain circumstances, as part of the recruitment arrangements, an Executive Director may be awarded restricted shares. There are no performance measures 
attached to awards of restricted shares because typically they will be awarded for the purpose of compensating newly recruited Executive Directors for loss of 
entitlements on leaving a previous employment. However, the Remuneration Committee will consider whether the lost incentives were subject to performance 
measures and their likely vesting. If foregone awards were subject to performance testing, then the compensatory AstraZeneca award will normally be granted  
under the PSP and/or AZIP in order to align the performance conditions attaching to the award to the delivery of the Company’s strategy. Restricted share awards  
will generally be used only when the foregone compensation was not subject to performance testing.
The Remuneration Committee may divide an award of restricted shares into tranches vesting at different points and may apply performance measures bespoke  
to the individual if it considers it appropriate. If it decides to attach performance conditions, the performance conditions and period will be defined at grant.
In most instances, there are no performance conditions attached to these awards. They will therefore vest in full if the individual remains in office on the vesting date. 
On vesting, the cash value equivalent to dividends accrued during the vesting period will be paid.
There are no contractual provisions for clawback or malus of awards of restricted shares.
Restricted shares may be used for the same purpose on the recruitment of other employees. 
AstraZeneca also operates another restricted share plan (the AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan) to provide LTI awards to eligible employees globally. 
Currently Executive Directors and other senior executives are not eligible to participate in this plan.
Award of restricted shares
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and framework used to assess performance Maximum opportunity
In certain circumstances, 
as part of recruitment 
arrangements, an 
Executive Director may  
be made awards of 
restricted shares. This 
would ordinarily be to 
compensate for loss of 
remuneration opportunities 
suffered on leaving 
previous employment. 
See above. There is no maximum value of an award which may 
be granted. 
The Remuneration Committee will determine the value 
of the award at grant, as it considers appropriate in all 
the circumstances.
Restricted Share Plan (RSP)
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and framework used to assess performance Maximum opportunity
The RSP is a LTI plan 
designed to align the 
variable pay of our key 
employees, excluding 
Executive Directors, 
directly to the delivery  
of our business strategy.
The RSP provides for the granting of restricted share awards to key employees, 
excluding Executive Directors.
Mr Dunoyer, who was appointed as an Executive Director subsequent to his 
appointment as EVP, GPPS, was granted an award of restricted shares to compensate 
for loss of entitlements as a result of leaving his previous employment.
Under the RSP plan rules the maximum market value 
of shares that may be awarded at the date of grant in 
respect of any year is 500% of a participant’s annual 
base salary.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the value 
of the award at grant, as it considers appropriate in all 
the circumstances.
In the case of Mr Dunoyer, the maximum payable is 
100% of the shares awarded (65,505 shares).
UK employee share plans
All UK-based employees, including the Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the SAYE Option Scheme and Share Incentive Plan, which are HM Revenue  
& Customs (HMRC) approved plans.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and framework used to assess performance Maximum opportunity
Encouraging share 
ownership
The Company operates an HMRC-approved SIP whereby UK employees, including 
Executive Directors, may save a regular amount over one year with which to purchase 
Partnership shares and for which, currently, a Matching share is granted for every four 
shares purchased.
Partnership shares up to £125 per month from pre-tax 
pay or such other maximum amount as determined 
by the Company within the parameters of applicable 
legislation.
SAYE Option Scheme (SAYE)
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and framework used to assess performance Maximum opportunity
Encouraging share 
ownership
The Company operates an HMRC-approved save as you earn option scheme whereby 
UK employees, including Executive Directors, may save a regular amount over three or 
five years with which to purchase shares. Currently, shares are acquired at a 10% 
discount to the market price prevailing at the date of the commencement of the 
scheme. A maximum discount of 20% may be made available under the scheme.
Up to £250 per month from post-tax pay or such 
other maximum amount as determined by the 
Company within the parameters of applicable 
legislation.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors continued
Corporate Governance
128 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors 
The charts below illustrate how much the current Executive Directors could receive under different performance scenarios in 2016, 
assuming a constant share price. In order to compile the charts, the following assumptions have been made:
Minimum 
remuneration
Consists of the fixed elements of remuneration only: base salary, taxable benefits and pension
 > base salary is that applicable in 2016
 > taxable benefits are taken from the corresponding figure in the Executive Directors’ single total figure 
remuneration table for 2015 as set out on page 107 
 > pension measured as a cash payment equivalent to 30% of base salary in the case of the CEO and 24%  
of base salary in the case of the CFO.
Base salary 
£’000
Taxable benefits 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Pascal Soriot 1,190 115  357  1,662 
Marc Dunoyer 707  70 170 947 
Remuneration for 
on-plan performance 
(target)
Based on what the Executive Director would receive if performance were in line with the Company’s expectations
 > on-target annual bonus payout of 100% of base salary for the CEO, and 90% for the CFO
 > LTI shares, which vest at an on-target expected value of 250% of base salary for the CEO, and 200% in the 
case of the CFO. 
Remuneration for  
outperformance 
(above target/
maximum)
Based on what the Executive Director would receive at stretch performance and maximum vesting of the 
performance shares
 > an annual bonus payout of 180% of base salary for the CEO, and 150% for the CFO
 > maximum vesting of the awards made under the Company’s LTI plans (representing 100% of the face value of the 
PSP and AZIP awards where the PSP has an expected value of 50% and the AZIP an expected value of 100%).
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Outperformance
On plan
Minimum
Fixed (base pay, pension and beneﬁts) Annual Variable Long Term Incentives
0 1 2 3 4 5
Outperformance
On plan
Minimum
£m £m
£1.7m
£6.2m
£9.7m
100%
27% 19% 54%
17% 22% 61%
£0.9m
£3.0m
£4.5m
100%
32% 21% 47%
21% 24% 55%
Marc Dunoyer Pascal Soriot
When granting LTI awards the Remuneration Committee applies a target as a percentage of base salary weighted 25% in favour of the 
AZIP and 75% in favour of the PSP .
The face value of the AZIP and PSP awards for the CEO at target is 437 .5% of base salary. For 2015, the Remuneration Committee 
awarded an above-target award at a face value of 499% which is taken into account in the figures provided in the outperformance row  
of the chart above.
The face value of the AZIP and PSP awards for the CFO at target is 350% of base salary. 
Approach to recruitment remuneration for Executive Directors
The Company seeks to pay no more than necessary to recruit the best candidate available for a role as an Executive Director. On the 
recruitment of a new Executive Director, the Company seeks to put in place a remuneration package which is broadly in line with the 
remuneration package applicable to relevant incumbent Executive Directors. However, in order to offer a competitive package to the most 
capable candidate, the Company may consider providing remuneration arrangements that exceed those of existing Executive Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee may also agree to pay allowances to expatriates in line with the Company’s international assignment policy 
which provides for support towards housing, schooling and other relocation or assignment related costs. 
The remuneration package offered to new recruits may include any element listed in the policy table above, or any other element which  
the Remuneration Committee considers is appropriate given the particular circumstances, with due respect to the interests of the 
Company’s shareholders. 
 
129 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Operating guidelines: The Remuneration Committee is aware that the pharmaceutical industry is global and that future 
Executive Directors might come from organisations with very different pay structures and practices. The Remuneration 
Committee believes that it is in the interests of shareholders to retain an element of flexibility in the recruitment policy  
to enable it to recruit the best candidates. However, this flexibility is limited. As described below, our intention is to use 
buy-out awards on recruitment only to compensate a new recruit for awards which are forfeited at the previous employer. 
All other aspects of the compensation opportunity of a new recruit will be subject to the maxima contained in the Policy. 
In considering which elements to include, and in determining the approach for all relevant elements, the Remuneration Committee will take 
into account a number of different factors, including typical market practice, existing arrangements for the other Executive Directors and 
internal relativities and market positioning. 
The Company may reimburse the costs of financial planning and tax advice to Executive Directors. The Company also provides  
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the law and the Company’s Articles  
to all Executive Directors.
The Company may find it necessary to compensate a new recruit for forfeiture of entitlements from a previous employer. The value of such 
compensation cannot be anticipated and will depend upon a range of factors including the circumstances of the individual in question.  
In such circumstances, the Company will seek to offer a package weighted towards equity in the Company. However, the precise nature  
of the compensation package will depend on the type of entitlement that the recruit is foregoing and which the Company will generally seek  
to compensate in kind; the buyout might therefore comprise cash and/or restricted shares and/or LTI. The Remuneration Committee will 
obtain and take into account independent valuations of the entitlements to determine the appropriate level of compensation.
Shares which could be offered to the new recruit would be granted under LTI plans available at the time or under a plan specific to that 
individual as permitted under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules. Performance measures may apply to such share awards.  
The Company’s policy seeks to link the performance of the Executive Director to the performance of the Company in any given period.  
The precise targets and measures will depend on the objectives of the Company and the individual at that time and will be determined  
by the Remuneration Committee. 
The Company will not offer cash or shares to newly recruited Executive Directors as a bonus, or ‘golden hello’ on joining other than to 
compensate for the loss of a previous remuneration opportunity. Where compensation is offered to a new recruit on his or her hire, the 
Company will explain the reasons for this to shareholders in a timely manner, and will provide details of the payments.
Operating guidelines: The Remuneration Committee will not grant cash or share awards as a ‘golden hello’. As described 
above, cash or share awards granted on joining the Company will be to compensate a new recruit for loss of previous 
remuneration awards only.
Ongoing annual variable remuneration will not exceed an award which comprises up to 250% of base salary under the annual bonus, and 
up to 500% of base salary under the PSP and up to 500% of base salary under the AZIP . If the Remuneration Committee ever felt that it 
would be in the interests of shareholders to grant annual variable awards to a new Executive Director with values exceeding the historical 
range of 0 – 680% of base salary (comprising up to 180% under the annual bonus and up to 500% in aggregate under the LTI plans), it 
would consult major shareholders in advance.
The Company intends to honour all remuneration arrangements previously entered into in the case of Group employees who are promoted 
to the position of an Executive Director. 
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors continued
Corporate Governance
130 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Service contracts for Executive Directors
Save as noted below, it is not intended that service contracts for new Executive Directors will contain terms that are materially different from 
those summarised below or contained in the Policy set out in this Remuneration Policy Report. The contractual obligations below are 
applicable to each of the current Executive Directors unless stated otherwise, and to the Executive Directors only.
Notice period The Company may terminate the employment of an Executive Director by giving not less than 12 months’ written 
notice. The Company may agree, on the appointment of a new Executive Director, that any notice given by the 
Company will not expire prior to the second anniversary of the commencement date of the Executive Director’s 
appointment. The Company agreed to such a provision in the case of Mr Dunoyer. 
An Executive Director may terminate his employment on 12 months’ written notice.
Payment in 
lieu of notice
The Company may terminate an Executive Director’s contract at any time with immediate effect and pay him a 
sum in lieu of notice. This sum will consist of (i) the base salary that the relevant Executive Director would have 
been entitled to receive during the notice period and (ii) the cost to the Company of funding the Executive 
Director’s flexible benefit arrangements for this period, including the Company’s contribution in respect of pension. 
The payment in lieu of notice may be paid as a lump sum or the Company may decide to pay the first six months 
of the payment in lieu in equal monthly instalments, with the balance paid within 30 days of the final instalment 
being paid. 
Garden leave If an Executive Director has given or been given notice of termination, the Company has the right to place the 
Executive Director on ‘garden leave’. 
Summary 
termination
The Company may terminate an Executive Director’s employment summarily, in particular defined circumstances 
such as gross misconduct, with no further payment.
Payments in 
lieu of holiday
If, on termination, the relevant Executive Director has exceeded his accrued holiday entitlement, the value of this 
excess may be deducted by the Company from any sums payable. If the Executive Director has unused holiday 
entitlement, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to require the Executive Director to take such unused 
holiday during any notice period, or make a payment in lieu of it calculated in the same way as the value of any 
excess holiday.
Directors’ and 
Officers’ Liability 
Insurance
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the law and the 
Company’s Articles is provided to the Executive Directors for the duration of their employment and for a minimum 
of five years following termination.
Deemed 
treatment 
under AZIP 
and restricted 
share award
In respect of awards made to compensate Mr Soriot for loss of remuneration opportunity at his previous employer, 
if Mr Soriot gives notice of termination of his employment after the end of the performance period under the AZIP 
but before the end of the holding period, the award under the AZIP will vest on the earlier of the end of the holding 
period and the end of the period of 24 months from the date of cessation of employment, unless the 
Remuneration Committee determines otherwise. If Mr Soriot’s employment is terminated by the Company (other 
than in the event of prescribed misconduct events), his restricted share award will continue to subsist.
131 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Principles of payment for loss of office for Executive Directors
The Company does not make additional payments for loss of office, other than, as appropriate, payments in lieu of notice as described 
above or payments in respect of damages if the Company terminates an Executive Director’s service contract in breach of contract  
(taking into account, as appropriate, the Director’s ability to mitigate his loss). The Remuneration Committee has discretion to award 
payments in certain circumstances, as set out below, depending on the nature of the termination and the Executive Director’s performance. 
The LTI plans are governed by plan rules, which define how individual awards under those plans should be treated upon termination of 
employment. Provision is also made for the treatment of awards in respect of corporate activity including sale of a business outside the 
Group. The treatment of awards in these circumstances may also be subject to Remuneration Committee discretion. Generally, awards 
under LTI plans will only be allowed to vest for those Executive Directors who leave the Company by mutual agreement, for example in 
circumstances of ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy or retirement, or where employment terminates by reason of the Executive 
Director’s death (see the table opposite for further information). In addition to any payment in lieu of notice, the individual components of 
remuneration and other payments which may be payable on loss of office are set out below, subject to the terms of any applicable bonus 
rules or share incentive plan rules:
>  Annual bonus  
An Executive Director may receive a bonus for the performance year in which he leaves the Company. Typically this sum will reflect  
an on-target bonus pro-rated for the part of the year in which he worked. This is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and  
will depend on the circumstances, including an assessment of the Executive Director’s performance in the relevant period and the 
circumstances of his departure. The deferred share element of previous bonuses granted, and any deferred share element of the bonus 
awarded in respect of the departing year, may still vest for the benefit of the departing Executive Director at the end of the period of 
deferral despite the fact that the Executive Director did not work for the entirety of this period. The Remuneration Committee has the 
discretion to accelerate and/or retain the deferral period and allow shares to vest for the benefit of the Executive Director on his departure 
and/or in accordance with the vesting schedule as the case may be. The Remuneration Committee will decide whether it is appropriate  
in the circumstances for these shares to vest for the benefit of the departing Executive Director. 
>  LTI plans 
The rules of the LTI plans envisage circumstances under which some, all or none of an Executive Director’s shares held under LTI plans 
will vest in connection with his departure. The exact timing and number of shares vesting will depend on the circumstances, including the 
Executive Director’s reason for leaving (as set out in the table opposite) and may be subject to Remuneration Committee discretion, 
depending on what it considers to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
>  Restricted share awards and awards under the RSP 
The treatment on termination will depend upon the terms of the individual Executive Director’s awards on recruitment. The Remuneration 
Committee has discretion to determine the treatment at the time of departure based on what it considers to be fair and reasonable in  
the circumstances.
>  Non-statutory redundancy payment 
Executive Directors are not entitled to non-statutory redundancy payments.
>  Pension contributions and other benefits 
Pension contributions and other benefits for Executive Directors will be payable up to the termination date or as part of a payment in lieu 
of notice as described on page 131.
>  Payments in relation to statutory rights 
The amount considered reasonable to pay by the Remuneration Committee in respect of statutory rights may be included in the overall 
termination payment.
>  Payments required by law 
The Company may pay damages, awards, fines or other compensation awarded to or in respect of an Executive Director by any 
competent court or tribunal or other payments required to be made on termination of employment by any applicable law, regulator or 
collective labour agreement.
>  Mi t i ga t i on 
The departing Executive Director will be required to mitigate his loss by using reasonable efforts to secure new employment.
>  Professional fees 
The Company may pay an amount considered reasonable by the Remuneration Committee in respect of fees for legal and tax advice, 
and outplacement support for the departing Executive Director.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors continued
Corporate Governance
132 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Treatment of LTI and Deferred Bonus Plan awards on cessation of employment
Plan
Termination by mutual agreement (broadly in circumstances of ill-health, injury, disability, 
redundancy or retirement and in the case of death and certain corporate events eg sale  
of a business outside the Group) Other leaver scenarios
Deferred Bonus Plan 
(Annual Bonus Plan)
Awards will vest at the end of the relevant deferral period, unless the Remuneration 
Committee decides otherwise.
Ordinarily awards will lapse unless the 
Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to 
apply the treatment for leavers by mutual agreement.
PSP
Where cessation of employment occurs within three years of the date of grant 
awards will vest, pro rata to the time elapsed between the date of grant of the 
award and the date of cessation of employment, at the end of the performance 
period after performance has been assessed, to the extent that the performance 
target(s) measured over the performance period has been met. 
Where cessation of employment occurs during any holding period the award will 
vest in respect of all the shares that continue to be subject to the award as soon as 
practicable following the cessation of employment.
However, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to permit the award to vest 
immediately on cessation of employment where that cessation occurred as a result 
of one of the events mentioned above to the extent that the performance target(s) 
has, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied from the date of 
grant to the date of cessation of employment. 
However, if the Remuneration Committee believes that exceptional circumstances 
warrant this, it may exercise its discretion to vest the award on another basis.
Ordinarily awards will lapse unless the 
Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion  
to preserve all or part of an award and apply the 
default treatment for leavers by mutual agreement 
as described in this table.
This discretion will not be exercised in the case  
of dismissal for gross misconduct. 
AZIP
Death, ill-health, injury or disability:
 > in the performance period: the award will vest as soon as practicable following 
the cessation of employment, pro-rated to take into account the period elapsed 
between the date of grant and the date of cessation of employment relative to  
the performance period and pro-rated to take into account the satisfaction  
of any performance measure(s), as agreed by the Remuneration Committee 
 > in the holding period: the award will vest in respect of all the shares that continue 
to be subject to the award as soon as practicable following the cessation of 
employment.
Redundancy, retirement or certain corporate events (eg sale of a business outside 
the Group):
 > in the performance period: the award will vest at the later of the end of the 
performance period and the end of the period of 24 months from the date of 
cessation of employment, to the extent any performance measures have been 
met by the end of the performance period and pro-rated to take into account  
the period elapsed between the date of grant and the date of cessation of 
employment relative to the performance period 
 > in the holding period: the award will vest in respect of all shares that continue to 
be subject to the award at the earlier of the end of the holding period and the end 
of the period of 24 months from the date of cessation of employment. Where the 
Remuneration Committee terminates an Executive Director’s employment (other 
than for gross misconduct) during the holding period, the awards will vest on the 
same basis.
In each case described above, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to vest 
the award or part of the award on a different basis.
Ordinarily awards will lapse unless the 
Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion  
to apply the default treatment for leavers by reason 
of redundancy or retirement described in this table.
Restricted shares and 
awards under the RSP
Awards will lapse unless the Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion  
to preserve all or part of an award.
In relation to awards granted on or after 3 February 2014 and, where that award 
was granted at the time of the Executive Director’s recruitment to the Company in 
compensation for any awards or bonuses forfeited at his previous employer, the 
award will vest on the date his employment ceases, pro-rated to take into account 
the period elapsed between the date of grant and the date of cessation of 
employment, unless the Remuneration Committee decides not to pro-rate or  
to pro-rate on some other basis.
Ordinarily awards will lapse unless the 
Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion  
to preserve all or part of an award.
133 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Corporate Governance Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, receive annual Board fees. Additional fees are also payable for membership and 
chairmanship of a Board Committee. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or the grant of share 
awards or options. No pension contributions are made on their behalf. The annual Board fees applicable to Non-Executive Directors during 
2013 are set out below. Fees applicable in future years will be set out in the corresponding year’s Implementation Report. The remuneration 
of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors. The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by 
the other members of the Remuneration Committee and the Senior independent Non-Executive Director. 
No Director is involved in any decision relating to his or her own remuneration.
Annual Board and Committee fees
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
The annual fees are 
intended to be sufficient 
(but no more than 
necessary) to attract, 
retain and develop 
high-calibre individuals.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, receive annual Board fees and additional fees for 
membership and chairmanship of a Board Committee. 
The individual fees paid to a Non-Executive Director are subject to periodic review and may be 
increased in the future to ensure that they remain sufficient to attract high-calibre individuals while 
remaining fair and proportionate. While Non-Executive Directors currently receive their fees in cash,  
the Company reserves the right to award part, or all, of their fees in shares.
There are no contractual provisions for clawback or malus of fees.
Non-Executive Director fees in 2013:
The maximum fees payable in 
aggregate to the Non-Executive 
Directors may not exceed 
£2,250,000 per year under the 
Company’s Articles, as approved  
by the Company’s shareholders.
£
Chairman’s fee 500,000
Basic Non-Executive Director’s fee 75,000
Senior independent Non-Executive Director 30,000
Membership of the Audit Committee 20,000
Membership of the Remuneration Committee 15,000
Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee
1
20,000
Membership of the Science Committee 10,000
Chairman of the Science Committee
1
7,000
1
 This fee is in addition to the fee for membership of the relevant Committee.
Benefits
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Intended to attract and 
retain high-calibre 
individuals.
The Company also provides Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and an indemnity to the fullest 
extent permitted by the law and the Company’s Articles and may also reimburse the costs of financial 
planning and tax advice.
The maximum amount payable in 
respect of these costs and cost of 
insurance will be the reimbursement 
of the Directors’ benefits grossed up 
for any tax payable by the individual.
Other costs and expenses
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Intended to reimburse 
individuals for legitimately 
incurred costs and 
expenses.
In addition to the Chairman’s fee, a proportion of the office costs of the Chairman are reimbursed.  
In 2013, this amounted to £40,000. The amount of office costs to be reimbursed each year will be 
determined at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, based on an assessment of the 
reasonable requirements of the Chairman. The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to approve 
contributions by the Company to office costs of other Non-Executive Directors in circumstances where 
such payments are deemed proportionate and reasonable.
The Company will pay for all travel (including travel to the Company’s offices), hotel and other expenses 
reasonably incurred by Non-Executive Directors in the course of the Company’s business, for example, 
professional fees such as secretarial support, and reimbursement for domestic security arrangements 
such as lights and alarms following a security assessment.
There are no contractual provisions for clawback or malus of other costs and expenses.
The maximum amounts payable in 
respect of these costs and expenses 
will be the reimbursement of the 
Directors’ costs and expenses 
grossed up for any tax payable by 
the individual.
Letters of appointment
None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract but all have letters of appointment. In accordance with the Articles, following 
their appointment, all Directors must retire at each AGM and may present themselves for election or re-election. The Company is mindful  
of the independence provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and, in this regard, it is anticipated that Non-Executive Directors’ 
overall tenure will not normally exceed nine years. The Chairman may terminate his appointment at any time, with three months’ notice. 
None of the Non-Executive Directors has a notice period or any provision in his or her letter of appointment giving him, or her, a right to 
compensation payable upon early termination of appointment.
On behalf of the Board
A C N Kemp 
Company Secretary 
4 February 2016
Corporate Governance
134 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 135
 > for the Parent Company Financial 
Statements, state whether FRS 101 has 
been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the 
Parent Company Financial Statements
 > prepare the Financial Statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Group and the Parent Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Parent Company and enable 
them to ensure that its Financial Statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They 
have general responsibility for taking such 
steps as are reasonably open to them to 
safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, 
the Directors are also responsible for 
preparing a Directors’ Report, Strategic 
Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
Corporate Governance Report and Audit 
Committee Report that comply with that law 
and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for preparing this 
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information and 
the Group and Parent Company Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
Group and Parent Company Financial 
Statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group 
Financial Statements in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the Parent 
Company Financial Statements in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards, 
including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ and applicable law.
Under company law, the Directors must not 
approve the Financial Statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent 
Company and of their profit or loss for that 
period. In preparing each of the Group and 
Parent Company Financial Statements, the 
Directors are required to:
 > select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently
 > make judgements and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent
 > for the Group Financial Statements, 
state whether they have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU
Preparation of the Financial Statements 
and Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on our 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of Financial 
Statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement 
pursuant to DTR 4
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
our knowledge:
 > The Financial Statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole.
 > The Directors’ Report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the 
issuer and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board of Directors on 
4 February 2016
Pascal Soriot 
Director
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are 
subject to the risks that controls may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions 
or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Directors assessed the effectiveness of 
AstraZeneca’s internal control over financial 
reporting as at 31 December 2015 based on 
the criteria set forth by the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission in Internal Control-Integrated 
Framework (2013). Based on this assessment, 
the Directors believe that, as at 31 December 
2015, the internal control over financial 
reporting is effective based on those criteria.
KPMG LLP, an independent registered 
public accounting firm, has audited the 
effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting as at 31 December 2015 and, 
as explained on page 136, has issued an 
unqualified report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for establishing 
and maintaining adequate internal control 
over financial reporting. AstraZeneca’s 
internal control over financial reporting is 
designed to provide reasonable assurance 
over the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of consolidated Financial 
Statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles.
Due to its inherent limitations, internal control 
over financial reporting may not prevent or 
detect misstatements. Projections of any 
Directors’ Responsibilities for, and Report on, 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Financial Statements Opinions and conclusions 
arising from our audit
1.  Our opinion on the Group Financial 
Statements is unmodified
We have audited the Group Financial 
Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 set out on pages 
140 to 195. In our opinion the Group Financial 
Statements: 
 > give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 
and of its profit for the year then ended; 
 > have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union (EU); and
 > have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2.  Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs 
as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB)
As explained in the Group accounting policies 
section of the Group Financial Statements set 
out on pages 140 to 195, the Group, in 
addition to complying with its legal obligation 
to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has 
also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements 
comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
3.  Our assessment of risks of 
material misstatement
We summarise below the risks of material 
misstatement that had the greatest effect 
on our audit, our key audit procedures to 
address those risks and our findings from 
those procedures in order that the Company’s 
members as a body may better understand 
the process by which we arrived at our 
audit opinion. Our findings are the result of 
procedures undertaken in the context of and 
solely for the purpose of our statutory audit 
opinion on the Group Financial Statements as 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members 
of AstraZeneca PLC only 
a whole and consequently are incidental to 
that opinion, and we do not express discrete 
opinions on separate elements of the Group 
Financial Statements. 
Rebates, discounts, allowances and 
returns in the US ($3,307m)
Refer to page 101 (Audit Committee Report), 
page 145 (accounting policy) and page 77 
(financial risk management).
The risk
Rebates, chargebacks and returns under 
contractual and regulatory requirements in 
the United States of America (‘US’), which 
are deducted in arriving at revenue, are 
complex and require significant judgement 
and estimation by management in 
establishing an appropriate accrual. 
Our response
Our principal audit procedures included: 
testing the Group’s controls surrounding 
the deductions made to revenue for rebates, 
chargebacks and returns and key manual and 
systems-based controls in the order-to-cash 
transaction cycle. Our audit work involved 
testing key controls including reconciliations 
between sales systems and the general 
ledger and those over claims, credits and 
system accrual rates. We also assessed 
the accuracy of the calculation of the accrual, 
corroborated inputs and key assumptions, 
both to internal and independent sources 
including sales contracts with customers; 
performed an analysis of the accrual balance 
and deductions to sales year on year, 
corroborating movements compared with 
expectations and payment claims and 
considered the historical accuracy of the 
accrual. We also assessed the adequacy of the 
Group’s disclosure of its rebates, chargebacks 
and returns policy, the judgement involved 
and other related disclosures.
Our findings
In determining the appropriateness of the 
rebates, chargebacks and returns deductions 
in accordance with contractual and regulatory 
requirements, there is room for judgement 
and we found that within that, the Group’s 
judgement was balanced (2014: balanced). 
We found the assumptions used and the 
resulting estimates to be balanced (2014: 
balanced). We also found no errors in the 
year-end rebate accrual calculations. 
We found the disclosures on rebates, 
chargebacks and returns to be proportionate. 
Carrying value of intangible assets 
($22,646m)
Refer to page 101 (Audit Committee Report), 
page 147 (accounting policy), page 158 
(financial disclosures) and page 79 (financial 
risk management).
The risk
The Group has significant intangible assets 
arising from the acquisition of products both 
launched and in development. Recoverability 
of these assets is based on forecasting and 
discounting future cash flows, which are 
inherently highly judgemental. For products 
in development the main risk is achieving 
successful trial results and obtaining 
required clinical and regulatory approvals. 
For launched products, the key risk is the 
ability to successfully commercialise the 
individual product concerned. 
Our response
In this area our principal audit procedures 
included testing the Group’s controls 
surrounding intangible asset impairments 
and evaluating the Group’s assumptions 
used in assessing the recoverability of 
intangible assets, in particular, revenue and 
cash flow projections and useful economic 
lives. We also performed sensitivity analysis 
over individual intangible asset models, where 
we considered there to be a higher risk of 
KPMG LLP has also reported separately 
on the Company Financial Statements of 
AstraZeneca PLC and on the information 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is 
described as having been audited. This audit 
report is set out on page 196.
The report set out below is provided in 
compliance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). KPMG LLP has 
also issued reports in accordance with 
standards of the Public Company Accounting 
Oversight Board in the US, which will be 
included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F 
to be filed with the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission. Those reports are 
unqualified and include opinions on the 
Group Financial Statements and on 
the effectiveness of internal control over 
financial reporting as at 31 December 2015 
(Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404). The 
Directors’ statement on internal control over 
financial reporting is set out on page 135.
Auditor’s Reports on the Financial Statements 
and on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
(Sarbanes‑Oxley Act Section 404)
136 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 137
impairment, to assess the level of sensitivity 
to key assumptions and focus our work in 
those areas. Our procedures for products 
in development included assessing the 
reasonableness of the Group’s assumptions 
regarding probability of obtaining regulatory 
approval through comparison to industry 
practice and consideration of trial readouts, 
regulatory announcements and the Group’s 
internal governance and approval process. 
We also interviewed a range of key Research, 
Development and Commercial personnel to 
corroborate these assumptions. For launched 
products we discussed key assumptions 
including the size of the therapeutic area 
market, the product’s projected share of this 
and expected pricing and associated costs. 
Our procedures also included challenging 
internally generated evidence by reviewing 
analyst commentaries, consensus forecasts 
and retrospective assessment of the accuracy 
of the Group’s projections. We also assessed 
the adequacy of related disclosures in the 
Group’s financial statements.
Our findings
We found the Group’s assumptions and 
the resulting estimates to be balanced 
(2014: balanced). We found that the disclosures 
proportionately describe the inherent degree 
of subjectivity in the estimates and the 
potential impact on future periods of revisions 
to these estimates.
Litigation and contingent liabilities 
(provisions of $357m)
Refer to page 101 (Audit Committee Report), 
page 147 (accounting policy), page 186 
(financial disclosures) and page 80 (financial 
risk management).
The risk
In the normal course of business, litigation and 
contingent liabilities may arise from product-
specific and general legal proceedings, from 
guarantees or from government investigations. 
The amounts involved are potentially material 
and the application of accounting standards 
to determine the amount, if any, to be provided 
as a liability, is inherently subjective.
Our response
Having made enquiries of Directors and 
in-house legal counsel to obtain their view 
on the status of significant legal matters, our 
principal audit procedures included: testing 
the Group’s controls surrounding litigation 
and contingent liabilities, obtaining formal 
confirmations from the Group’s external 
counsel for all significant legal cases and 
discussions with external counsel where 
necessary. In addition we used our own 
forensic and compliance specialists to assess 
the Group’s compliance logs and reports to 
identify actual and potential non-compliance 
with laws and regulations, both those specific 
to the Group’s business and those relating to 
the conduct of business generally. We then 
analysed correspondence with regulators, 
considered legal expenses incurred during 
the year, monitored external sources and 
considered assessments made of the 
probability of defending any litigation and 
the reliability of estimating any obligation. 
We also assessed whether the Group’s 
disclosures detailing significant legal 
proceedings adequately disclose the 
potential liabilities of the Group.
Our findings
Whilst the outcome of these litigation matters 
is inherently uncertain in each case, we found 
that the Group applied balanced judgements 
(2014: balanced), on a case by case basis, in 
assessing whether or not a provision should be 
recognised. We found that the assumptions 
used and the resulting liability recorded to be 
balanced (2014: balanced). We found that 
the Group gives extensive disclosure on the 
potential liability in excess of that recognised 
in the Financial Statements and the significant 
but unquantifiable contingent liability in 
respect of these litigation matters.
Tax provisioning ($1,734m)
Refer to page 101 (Audit Committee Report), 
page 146 (accounting policy), page 192 
(financial disclosures) and page 81 (financial 
risk management).
The risk
Due to the Group operating in a number of 
different tax jurisdictions and the complexities 
of transfer pricing and other international 
tax legislation, accruals for tax contingencies 
require the Directors to make judgements 
and estimates in relation to tax issues 
and exposures.
Our response
In this area our principal audit procedures 
included: testing the Group’s controls 
surrounding tax provisioning, assessment 
of correspondence with the relevant tax 
authorities and the use of our own local 
and international tax specialists to analyse 
and challenge the assumptions used by 
management to determine tax provisions, 
based on our knowledge and experiences 
of the application of the relevant legislation 
by authorities and courts. We also assessed 
the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in 
respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
Our findings
We found the Group’s estimate of the 
amounts to be recognised as tax liabilities 
to be conservative (2014: conservative) and 
that the disclosures provide a proportionate 
description of the current status of uncertain 
tax positions.
Post-retirement benefits ($1,974m)
Refer to page 101 (Audit Committee Report), 
page 145 (accounting policy), page 166 
(financial disclosures) and page 80 (financial 
risk management).
The risk
Significant estimates are made in valuing the 
Group’s post-retirement defined benefit plans. 
Small changes in assumptions and estimates 
used to value the Group’s net pension deficit 
could have a significant effect on the results 
and financial position of the Group. 
Our response
Our principal audit procedures included the 
testing of the Group’s controls surrounding the 
post-retirement defined benefit plans valuations 
and the challenge of key assumptions, being 
the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality/
life expectancy, which are included in the 
valuation calculations of the Group’s 
retirement benefit obligations in countries 
with significant defined benefit pension plans, 
with the support of our own actuarial 
specialists. This involved a comparison of 
these key assumptions used against our own 
internal benchmarks and externally derived 
data. We obtained and assessed third party 
assurance reports on controls over the 
valuation of pension assets held by key 
custodians and compared asset values to third 
party confirmations. Additionally, we assessed 
the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in 
respect of post-retirement benefits.
Our findings
Overall, we found the key assumptions used 
in, and the resulting estimate of, the valuation 
of retirement benefit obligations within the 
Group to be mildly optimistic (2014: balanced). 
The third party assurance reports did not 
identify significant deviations in the operation 
of controls over the valuation of assets which 
caused us to change the scope or extent 
of our procedures and we found no errors in 
our comparison of asset values to third party 
confirmations. We found the disclosures 
in respect of post-retirement benefits to 
be proportionate.
Overall findings
In reaching our audit opinion on the Group 
Financial Statements we took into account 
the findings that we describe above and 
those for other, lower risk areas. Overall the 
findings from across the whole audit are that, 
although the Group Financial Statements use 
estimates that are mainly balanced, there is 
one conservative estimate and one mildly 
optimistic estimate. However, compared with 
materiality and considering the qualitative 
aspects of the Group Financial Statements as 
a whole, our opinion on the Group Financial 
Statements is unmodified.
4.  Our application of materiality and 
an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group Financial 
Statements as a whole was set at $140m 
(2014: $94m), determined with reference to 
a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, 
normalised to exclude this year’s asset 
impairments and fair value movement on 
contingent consideration as disclosed in 
Notes 9 and 18, which are specifically 
audited, of which it represents 5.0% 
(2014: 5.0%).
Financial Statements We report to the Audit Committee any 
corrected or uncorrected identified 
misstatements exceeding $7.0m (0.25% of 
normalised Group profit before taxation), in 
addition to other identified misstatements that 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group operates a significant number 
of trading entities, each of which is 
determined to be a reporting component, 
located in 65 countries around the globe. 
The Operating Segment disclosures in Note 6 
set out the individual significance of each 
geographical region.
We performed audits for group reporting 
purposes at nine components and specified 
risk-focused audit procedures at two 
standalone components as well as at 33 
components serviced by the Group’s shared 
service centres. The latter 35 components 
were not individually financially significant 
enough to require an audit for group reporting 
purposes, but were included in the scope of 
our audit in order to provide further coverage 
over relevant account balances.
The Group operates four principal shared 
service centres (both in-house and outsourced) 
in the UK, Malaysia, Romania and India, 
which process a substantial proportion of 
the Group’s transactions. The outputs from 
the shared service centres are included in 
the financial information of the reporting 
components they service and therefore they 
are not separate reporting components. Each 
of the service centres is subject to specified 
risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly 
the testing of transaction processing and 
review controls. Additional procedures are 
performed by component audit teams at 
certain reporting components to address the 
audit risks not covered by the work performed 
over the shared service centres. These 
procedures are designed to address the risk 
of material misstatement identified through 
our group risk assessment processes. 
This resulted in the coverage shown in the 
neighbouring charts. For the remaining 
components, we performed analysis at the 
Group level to re-examine our assessment 
that there were no significant risks of material 
misstatement within them. 
The Group audit team instructed component 
and shared service centre auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered, including 
the relevant risks detailed above and the 
information to be reported back. The Group 
audit team approved the component materiality 
levels, which ranged from $4m to $100m, 
having regard to the mix of size and risk 
profile of the Group across the components.
The work on all components in scope of our 
work, other than on the Parent Company, 
was performed by component and shared 
service centre auditors. The audit of the 
Parent Company and consolidation was 
performed by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited five component 
locations, during the year, in the UK, Sweden, 
Japan, France and Germany to discuss and 
challenge key risks and audit strategy. Video 
or telephone conference meetings were also 
held with all group reporting component 
auditors throughout the audit and the majority 
of the other component and shared service 
centre auditors that were not physically 
visited. At these visits and meetings, the audit 
approach, findings and observations reported 
to the Group audit team were discussed in 
more detail, and any further work required by 
the Group audit team was then performed 
by the component auditor.
5.  Our opinion on the other matter prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion the information given in the 
Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the Financial 
Statements are prepared is consistent with 
the Group Financial Statements. 
6.  We have nothing to report on the 
disclosures of principal risks
Based on the knowledge we acquired during 
our audit, we have nothing material to add or 
draw attention to in relation to: 
 > the Directors’ statement of Risk overview 
from page 21, concerning the principal 
risks, their management, and, based  
on that, the Directors’ assessment and 
expectations of the Group’s continuing  
in operation over the three years to  
31 December 2018; or 
 > the disclosures in the Group Accounting 
Policies concerning the use of the going 
concern basis of accounting.
138 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
Materiality for the Group Financial Statements
Scoping and coverage
Group revenue (%) 
  A u d i t s for  
group reporting 
purposes 73
    Specified  risk- 
focused audit 
procedures 22 
Components’ absolute 
profits/(losses) (%)
  A u d i t s for 
group reporting 
purposes 69
    Specified  risk- 
focused audit 
procedures 18
Group total assets (%)
  A u d i t s for  
group reporting 
purposes 85
    Specified  risk- 
focused audit 
procedures 4
Pro ﬁt before tax plus
impairments and contingent 
consideration revaluations Materiality
$140m Whole ﬁnancial 
statements materiality
$7m Misstatements reported
to the Audit Committee 
$2,813m AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 139
Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement set out on page 
135, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Financial Statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. A description of the scope of an audit of 
financial statements is provided on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.
uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made 
solely to the Company’s members as a body 
and is subject to important explanations 
and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/
uk/auditscopeukco2014b, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out 
in full and should be read to provide an 
understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis 
of our opinions.
Antony Cates (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, 
Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
4 February 2016
7.  We have nothing to report in respect of 
the matters on which we are required to 
report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required 
to report to you if, based on the knowledge 
we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in this Annual 
Report that contains a material inconsistency 
with either that knowledge or the Financial 
Statements, a material misstatement of fact, 
or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to 
you if: 
 > we have identified material inconsistencies 
between the knowledge we acquired during 
our audit and the Directors’ statement that 
they consider that the annual report and 
Financial Statements taken as a whole is 
fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position 
and performance, business model and 
strategy; or
 > the Audit Committee Report does not 
appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 > certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made; or 
 > we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review: 
 > the Directors’ statements, set out on pages 
96 and 21, in relation to going concern  
and longer-term viability respectively; and
 > the part of the Corporate Governance 
Report on pages 82 to 97 relating to the 
Group’s compliance with the eleven 
provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
above responsibilities.
8.  Other matter – we have reported 
separately on the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
We have reported separately on the 
Parent Company Financial Statements 
of AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended 
31 December 2015 and on the information 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that 
is described as having been audited.
Financial Statements Notes
2015
$m
2014
Restated*
$m
2013
Restated*
$m
Product Sales 1 23,641 26,095 25,711
Externalisation Revenue 1 1,067 452 95
Total Revenue 24,708 26,547 25,806
Cost of sales (4,646) (5,842) (5,261)
Gross profit 20,062 20,705 20,545
Distribution costs (339) (324) (306)
Research and development expense 2 (5,997) (5,579) (4,821)
Selling, general and administrative costs 2 (11,112) (13,000) (12,206)
Other operating income and expense 2 1,500 335 500
Operating profit 4,114 2,137 3,712
Finance income 3 46 78 50
Finance expense 3 (1,075) (963) (495)
Share of after tax losses in joint ventures 10 (16) (6) –
Profit before tax 3,069 1,246 3,267
Taxation 4 (243) (11) (696)
Profit for the period 2,826 1,235 2,571
Other comprehensive income:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement of the defined benefit pension liability 20 652 (766) 8
Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 4 (199) 216 (82)
453 (550) (74)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Foreign exchange arising on consolidation 21 (528) (823) (166)
Foreign exchange arising on designating borrowings in net investment hedges 21 (333) (529) (58)
Fair value movements on derivatives designated in net investment hedges 21 14 100 111
Amortisation of loss on cash flow hedge 1 1 1
Net available for sale (losses)/gains taken to equity (32) 245 69
Tax on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 4 87 50 4
(791) (956) (39)
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (338) (1,506) (113)
Total comprehensive income for the period 2,488 (271) 2,458
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Parent 2,825 1,233 2,556
Non-controlling interests 1 2 15
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Parent 2,488 (266) 2,470
Non-controlling interests – (5) (12)
Basic earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share 5 $2.23 $0.98 $2.04
Diluted earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share 5 $2.23 $0.98 $2.04
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 5 1,264 1,262 1,252
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 5 1,265 1,264 1,254
Dividends declared and paid in the period 23 3,537 3,532 3,499
* 2013 and 2014 comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Externalisation Revenue from other operating income and expense as detailed in Group Accounting Policies.
All activities were in respect of continuing operations.
$m means millions of US dollars.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December
140 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 141
Notes
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 6,413 6,010 5,818
Goodwill 8 11,868 11,550 9,981
Intangible assets 9 22,646 20,981 16,047
Investments in joint ventures 10 85 59 –
Other investments 11 458 502 281
Derivative financial instruments 12 446 465 365
Other receivables 13 907 1,112 1,867
Deferred tax assets 4 1,294 1,219 1,205
44,117 41,898 35,564
Current assets
Inventories 14 2,143 1,960 1,909
Trade and other receivables 15 6,622 7,232 7,879
Other investments 11 613 795 796
Derivative financial instruments 12 2 21 40
Income tax receivable 387 329 494
Cash and cash equivalents 16 6,240 6,360 9,217
16,007 16,697 20,335
Total assets 60,124 58,595 55,899
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 17 (916) (2,446) (1,788)
Trade and other payables 18 (11,663) (11,886) (10,362)
Derivative financial instruments 12 (9) (21) (2)
Provisions 19 (798) (623) (823)
Income tax payable (1,483) (2,354) (3,076)
(14,869) (17,330) (16,051)
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 17 (14,137) (8,397) (8,588)
Derivative financial instruments 12 (1) – (1)
Deferred tax liabilities 4 (2,733) (1,796) (2,827)
Retirement benefit obligations 20 (1,974) (2,951) (2,261)
Provisions 19 (444) (484) (566)
Other payables 18 (7,457) (7,991) (2,352)
(26,746) (21,619) (16,595)
Total liabilities (41,615) (38,949) (32,646)
Net assets 18,509 19,646 23,253
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company
Share capital 22 316 316 315
Share premium account 4,304 4,261 3,983
Capital redemption reserve 153 153 153
Merger reserve 448 448 433
Other reserves 21 1,435 1,420 1,380
Retained earnings 21 11,834 13,029 16,960
18,490 19,627 23,224
Non-controlling interests 19 19 29
Total equity 18,509 19,646 23,253
The Financial Statements from page 140 to 195 were approved by the Board on 4 February 2016 and were signed on its behalf by
Pascal Soriot Marc Dunoyer
Director  Director
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
at 31 December
Financial Statements Share
capital
$m
Share
premium
account
$m
Capital
redemption
reserve
$m
Merger
reserve
$m
Other
reserves
$m
Retained
earnings
$m
Total
attributable
to owners
$m
Non-
controlling
interests
$m
Total
equity
$m
At 1 January 2013 312 3,504 153 433 1,374 17,955 23,731 215 23,946
Profit for the period – – – – – 2,556 2,556 15 2,571
Other comprehensive income – – – – – (86) (86) (27) (113)
Transfer to other reserves
1
– – – – 6 (6) – – –
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – – (3,499) (3,499) – (3,499)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 3 479 – – – – 482 – 482
Share-based payments – – – – – (57) (57) – (57)
Transfer from non-controlling interests to payables – – – – – – – (6) (6)
Dividend paid by subsidiary to non-controlling interests – – – – – – – (3) (3)
Net acquisition of non-controlling interests
2
– – – – – 97 97 (165) (68)
Net movement 3 479 – – 6 (995) (507) (186) (693)
At 31 December 2013 315 3,983 153 433 1,380 16,960 23,224 29 23,253
Profit for the period – – – – – 1,233 1,233 2 1,235
Other comprehensive income – – – – – (1,499) (1,499) (7) (1,506)
Transfer to other reserves
1
– – – – 40 (40) – – –
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – – (3,532) (3,532) – (3,532)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 1 278 – – – – 279 – 279
Share-based payments – – – – – (93) (93) – (93)
Transfer from non-controlling interests to payables – – – – – – – (5) (5)
True-up to Astra AB non-controlling interest buy out – – – 15 – – 15 – 15
Net movement 1 278 – 15 40 (3,931) (3,597) (10) (3,607)
At 31 December 2014 316 4,261 153 448 1,420 13,029 19,627 19 19,646
Profit for the period – – – – – 2,825 2,825 1 2,826
Other comprehensive income – – – – – (337) (337) (1) (338)
Transfer to other reserves
1
– – – – 15 (15) – – –
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – – (3,537) (3,537) – (3,537)
Issue of Ordinary Shares – 43 – – – – 43 – 43
Share-based payments – – – – – (131) (131) – (131)
Net movement – 43 – – 15 (1,195) (1,137) – (1,137)
At 31 December 2015 316 4,304 153 448 1,435 11,834 18,490 19 18,509
1
 Amounts charged or credited to other reserves relate to exchange adjustments arising on goodwill.
2
 Net acquisition of non-controlling interests in 2013 includes acquisitions with cash payments of $110m due in 2014 and disposals with cash of $42m received in 2013.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December
142 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 143
Notes
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 3,069 1,246 3,267
Finance income and expense 3 1,029 885 445
Share of after tax losses of joint ventures 10 16 6 –
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2,852 3,282 4,583
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 152 311 (383)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (315) 108 135
Increase in trade and other payables and provisions 114 2,089 414
Gains on disposal of intangible assets 2 (961) – –
Non-cash and other movements (782) 865 258
Cash generated from operations 5,174 8,792 8,719
Interest paid (496) (533) (475)
Tax paid (1,354) (1,201) (844)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 3,324 7,058 7,400
Cash flows from investing activities
Upfront payments on business acquisitions 24 (2,446) (3,804) (1,158)
Payment of contingent consideration on business acquisitions 18 (579) (657) –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,328) (1,012) (742)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 47 158 69
Purchase of intangible assets (1,460) (1,740) (1,316)
Disposal of intangible assets 1,130 – 35
Purchase of non-current asset investments (57) (130) (91)
Disposal of non-current asset investments 93 59 38
Movement in short-term investments and fixed deposits 283 34 130
Payments to joint ventures 10 (45) (70) –
Interest received 123 140 114
Payments made by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests – (10) (10)
Payments received by subsidiaries from non-controlling interests – – 42
Net cash outflow from investing activities (4,239) (7,032) (2,889)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow before financing activities (915) 26 4,511
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 43 279 482
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (42) (36) (27)
Issue of loans 5,928 919 –
Repayment of loans (884) (750) –
Dividends paid (3,486) (3,521) (3,461)
Hedge contracts relating to dividend payments (51) (14) (36)
Payments to acquire non-controlling interest – (102) –
Movement in short-term borrowings (630) 520 (5)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 878 (2,705) (3,047)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the period (37) (2,679) 1,464
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 6,164 8,995 7,596
Exchange rate effects (76) (152) (65)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 16 6,051 6,164 8,995
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December
Financial Statements The Consolidated Financial Statements 
are presented in US dollars, which is the 
Company’s functional currency.
In preparing their individual Financial 
Statements, the accounting policies of 
some overseas subsidiaries do not conform 
with IASB issued IFRSs. Therefore, where 
appropriate, adjustments are made in order 
to present the Consolidated Financial 
Statements on a consistent basis.
Basis for preparation of Financial 
Statements on a going concern basis
Information on the business environment 
AstraZeneca operates in, including the 
factors underpinning the pharmaceutical 
industry’s future growth prospects, is 
included in the Strategic Report. Details 
of the product portfolio of the Group 
(including patent expiry dates for key 
marketed products), our approach to 
product development and our development 
pipeline are covered in detail with additional 
information by Therapy Area in the Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash 
flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial Review from 
page 62. In addition, Note 25 to the Financial 
Statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its 
capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities and its exposures 
to credit, market and liquidity risk. Further 
details of the Group’s cash balances and 
borrowings are included in Notes 16 and 17 
to the Financial Statements.
The Group has considerable financial resources 
available. As at 31 December 2015, the Group 
has $8.3bn in financial resources (cash 
balances of $6.2bn and undrawn committed 
bank facilities of $3.0bn that are available 
until April 2020, with only $0.9bn of debt due 
within one year). Although no liability was 
recognised at 31 December 2015, the Group 
had entered into an agreement to invest in 
a majority equity stake in Acerta with an 
upfront payment of $2.5bn which was paid 
on 2 February 2016 (see Note 30 to the 
Financial Statements). The Group’s revenues 
are largely derived from sales of products 
which are covered by patents which provide 
a relatively high level of resilience and 
predictability to cash inflows, although 
our revenue is expected to continue to be 
significantly impacted by the expiry of patents 
over the medium term. In addition, government 
price interventions in response to budgetary 
constraints are expected to continue to 
adversely affect revenues in many of our 
mature markets. However, we anticipate new 
revenue streams from both recently launched 
medicines and products in development, and 
the Group has a wide diversity of customers 
and suppliers across different geographic 
areas. Consequently, the Directors believe 
that, overall, the Group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Estimates and judgements
The preparation of the Financial Statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles requires management to make 
estimates and judgements that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at 
the date of the Financial Statements and the 
reported amounts of revenues and expenses 
during the reporting period. Actual results 
could differ from those estimates.
Judgements include matters such as the 
determination of operating segments while 
estimates focus on areas such as carrying 
values, estimated useful lives, potential 
obligations and contingent consideration.
AstraZeneca’s management considers 
the following to be the most important 
accounting policies in the context of the 
Group’s operations.
The accounting policy descriptions set out 
the areas where judgements and estimates 
need exercising, the most significant of 
which are revenue recognition, research and 
development (including impairment reviews 
of associated intangible assets), business 
combinations and goodwill, litigation and 
environmental liabilities, employee benefits 
and taxation.
Further information on estimates and critical 
judgements made in applying accounting 
policies, including details of significant 
methods and assumptions used, is detailed 
in the Financial Review from page 62 and is 
included in Notes 4, 8, 9, 20, 24 and 27 to 
the Financial Statements. Financial risk 
management policies are detailed in Note 25.
Revenue
Revenues comprise Product Sales and 
Externalisation Revenue. 
Revenues exclude inter-company revenues 
and value-added taxes.
Basis of accounting and preparation 
of financial information
The Consolidated Financial Statements 
have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, modified to include revaluation 
to fair value of certain financial instruments 
as described below, in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006 and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs) in response 
to the IAS regulation (EC 1606/2002). The 
Consolidated Financial Statements also comply 
fully with IFRSs as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
The Group updated its revenue accounting 
policy with effect from 1 January 2015. 
Historically, reported revenue reflected only 
Product Sales, with Externalisation Revenue 
forming part of other operating income 
presented below gross profit. From 1 January 
2015, Externalisation Revenue, alongside 
Product Sales, is included in Total Revenue. 
Externalisation Revenue includes 
development, commercialisation and 
collaboration revenue, such as royalties and 
milestone receipts, together with income 
from services or repeatable licences. Income 
is recorded as Externalisation Revenue when 
the Group has a significant ongoing interest 
in the product and/or it is repeatable business 
and there is no derecognition of an intangible 
asset. Disposals of assets and businesses, 
where the Group does not retain an interest, 
will continue to be recorded in other operating 
income. The updated revenue accounting 
policy results in a presentational change to the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income only, 
and has no impact on the Group’s net results 
or net assets. The prior periods included in 
the Group’s Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income have been restated 
accordingly, resulting in $452m of income 
being reclassified from other operating 
income to Externalisation Revenue for 2014 
and $95m of income being reclassified from 
other operating income to Externalisation 
Revenue in 2013.
During the year, the Group has adopted the 
amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’, 
issued by the IASB in November 2013 and 
effective for periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2014. The adoption has not had a 
significant impact on the Group’s profit for 
the period, net assets or cash flows.
The Company has elected to prepare the 
Company Financial Statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards, including 
FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’. 
These are presented on pages 197 to 201 
and the Accounting Policies in respect of 
Company information are set out on page 199.
Group Accounting Policies
144 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 145
recognition criteria are met, intangible assets 
are capitalised and amortised on a straight-
line basis over their useful economic lives 
from product launch. At 31 December 2015, 
no amounts have met recognition criteria.
Payments to in-licence products and 
compounds from third parties for new research 
and development projects (in process research 
and development), generally taking the form 
of upfront payments and milestones, are 
capitalised. Where payments made to 
third parties represent future research and 
development activities, an evaluation is 
made as to the nature of the payments. Such 
payments are expensed if they represent 
compensation for subcontracted research 
and development services not resulting in 
a transfer of intellectual property. By contrast, 
payments are capitalised if they represent 
compensation for the transfer of intellectual 
property developed at the risk of the third party. 
Since acquired products and compounds will 
only generate sales and cash inflows following 
launch, our policy is to minimise the period 
between final approval and launch if it is 
within AstraZeneca’s control to do so. Assets 
capitalised are amortised, on a straight-line 
basis, over their useful economic lives from 
product launch. Under this policy, it is not 
possible to determine precise economic lives 
for individual classes of intangible assets. 
However, lives do not exceed 25 years. 
Intangible assets relating to products in 
development are subject to impairment testing 
annually. All intangible assets are tested for 
impairment when there are indications that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Any impairment losses are recognised 
immediately in profit. Intangible assets relating 
to products which fail during development 
(or for which development ceases for other 
reasons) are tested for impairment at the point 
of termination and are written down to their 
recoverable amount (which is usually zero).
If, subsequent to an impairment loss being 
recognised, development restarts or other 
facts and circumstances change indicating 
that the impairment is less or no longer exists, 
the value of the asset is re-estimated and its 
carrying value is increased to the recoverable 
amount, but not exceeding the original value, 
by recognising an impairment reversal in profit.
Business combinations and goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values 
are attributed to the identifiable assets and 
liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the 
fair value cannot be measured reliably, in which 
case the value is subsumed into goodwill. 
Where the Group fully acquires, through 
a business combination, assets that were 
previously held in joint operations, the Group 
has elected not to uplift the book value of the 
existing interest in the asset held in the joint 
operation to fair value at the date full control 
is taken. Where fair values of acquired 
contingent liabilities cannot be measured 
reliably, the assumed contingent liability is 
not recognised but is disclosed in the same 
manner as other contingent liabilities.
Future contingent elements of consideration, 
which may include development and launch 
milestones, revenue threshold milestones and 
revenue-based royalties, are fair valued at 
the date of acquisition using decision-tree 
analysis with key inputs including probability 
of success, consideration of potential delays 
and revenue projections based on the 
Group’s internal forecasts. Unsettled amounts 
of consideration are held at fair value within 
payables with changes in fair value recognised 
immediately in profit.
Goodwill is the difference between the fair 
value of the consideration and the fair value 
of net assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised 
and subject to an impairment review, both 
annually and when there is an indication that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 
2002, goodwill was amortised over its 
estimated useful life; such amortisation 
ceased on 31 December 2002.
The Group’s policy up to and including 1997 
was to eliminate goodwill arising upon 
acquisitions against reserves. Under IFRS 1 
‘First-time Adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards’ and IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations’, such goodwill will remain 
eliminated against reserves.
Joint arrangements
The Group has arrangements over which it 
has joint control and which qualify as joint 
operations or joint ventures under IFRS 11 
‘Joint Arrangements’. For joint operations, 
the Group recognises its share of revenue 
that it earns from the joint operations and its 
share of expenses incurred. The Group also 
recognises the assets associated with the 
joint operations that it controls and the 
liabilities it incurs under the joint arrangement. 
For joint ventures, the Group recognises its 
interest in the joint venture as an investment 
and uses the equity method of accounting.
Employee benefits
The Group accounts for pensions and other 
employee benefits (principally healthcare) 
under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ issued 
in 2011. In respect of defined benefit plans, 
obligations are measured at discounted 
present value while plan assets are measured 
at fair value. The operating and financing 
costs of such plans are recognised separately 
in profit; current service costs are spread 
systematically over the lives of employees and 
financing costs are recognised in full in the 
periods in which they arise. Remeasurements 
of the net defined pension liability, including 
actuarial gains and losses, are recognised 
immediately in other comprehensive income.
Product Sales
Product sales represent net invoice value less 
estimated rebates, returns and chargebacks. 
Sales are recognised when the significant 
risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred to a third party. In general, this is 
upon delivery of the products to wholesalers. 
In markets where returns are significant 
(currently only in the US), estimates of returns 
are accounted for at the point revenue is 
recognised. In markets where returns are not 
significant, they are recorded when returned. 
For the US market, we estimate the quantity 
and value of goods which may ultimately 
be returned at the point of sale. Our returns 
accruals are based on actual experience 
over the preceding 12 months for established 
products together with market-related 
information such as estimated stock levels at 
wholesalers and competitor activity which we 
receive via third party information services. 
For newly launched products, we use rates 
based on our experience with similar products 
or a predetermined percentage. 
When a product faces generic competition, 
particular attention is given to the possible 
levels of returns and, in cases where the 
circumstances are such that the level of 
returns (and, hence, revenue) cannot be 
measured reliably, revenues are only 
recognised when the right of return expires, 
which is generally on ultimate prescription of 
the product to patients. 
Externalisation Revenue
Externalisation Revenue includes income from 
collaborative arrangements on the Group’s 
products where the Group retains a significant 
ongoing interest and there is no derecognition 
of an intangible asset. These may include 
development arrangements, commercialisation 
arrangements and collaborations.
Income may take the form of upfront access 
fees, milestones and/or sales royalties. 
Generally, upfront access fees are recognised 
upon delivery of the access. Where the 
Group provides ongoing services, revenue 
will be recognised over the duration of those 
services. Milestones and sales royalties 
are recognised when the amount can be 
reliably estimated. 
Further detail on key judgements and 
estimates is included in the Financial Review 
from page 62.
Research and development
Research expenditure is recognised in profit 
in the year in which it is incurred.
Internal development expenditure is capitalised 
only if it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 
‘Intangible Assets’. Where regulatory and 
other uncertainties are such that the criteria 
are not met, the expenditure is recognised 
in profit and this is almost invariably the case 
prior to approval of the drug by the relevant 
regulatory authority. Where, however, 
Financial Statements received. The value of the charge is adjusted 
to reflect expected and actual levels of awards 
vesting, except where the failure to vest is as 
a result of not meeting a market condition. 
Cancellations of equity instruments are 
treated as an acceleration of the vesting period 
and any outstanding charge is recognised in 
profit immediately.
Property, plant and equipment
The Group’s policy is to write off the difference 
between the cost of each item of property, 
plant and equipment and its residual value over 
its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis. 
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated 
remaining lives and residual values of 
individual productive assets, taking account of 
commercial and technological obsolescence 
as well as normal wear and tear. Under this 
policy it becomes impractical to calculate 
average asset lives exactly. However, the total 
lives range from approximately 10 to 50 years 
for buildings, and three to 15 years for plant 
and equipment. All items of property, plant and 
equipment are tested for impairment when 
there are indications that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. Any impairment 
losses are recognised immediately in profit.
Borrowing costs
The Group has no borrowing costs with respect 
to the acquisition or construction of qualifying 
assets. All other borrowing costs are recognised 
in profit as incurred and in accordance with 
the effective interest rate method.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases if they 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
incidental to ownership, otherwise they are 
classified as operating leases. Assets and 
liabilities arising on finance leases are initially 
recognised at fair value or, if lower, the present 
value of the minimum lease payments. The 
discount rate used in calculating the present 
value of the minimum lease payments is the 
interest rate implicit in the lease. Finance 
charges under finance leases are allocated 
to each reporting period so as to produce 
a constant periodic rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the finance liability. 
Rentals under operating leases are charged 
to profit on a straight-line basis.
Subsidiaries
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly 
or indirectly, by AstraZeneca PLC. Control is 
regarded as the exposure or rights to the 
variable returns of the entity when combined 
with the power to affect those returns.
The financial results of subsidiaries are 
consolidated from the date control is 
obtained until the date that control ceases.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. The first in, first out 
or an average method of valuation is used. 
For finished goods and work in progress, 
cost includes directly attributable costs 
and certain overhead expenses (including 
depreciation). Selling expenses and certain 
other overhead expenses (principally central 
administration costs) are excluded. Net 
realisable value is determined as estimated 
selling price less all estimated costs of 
completion and costs to be incurred in selling 
and distribution.
Write-downs of inventory occur in the general 
course of business and are recognised in 
cost of sales.
Trade and other receivables
Financial assets included in trade and other 
receivables are recognised initially at fair 
value. Subsequent to initial recognition 
they are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest rate method, less any 
impairment losses. Trade receivables that are 
subject to debt factoring arrangements are 
derecognised if they meet the conditions for 
derecognition detailed in IAS 39 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’.
Trade and other payables
Financial liabilities included in trade and other 
payables are recognised initially at fair value. 
Subsequent to initial recognition they are 
measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments include 
interests in leases, trade and other receivables 
and payables, liabilities for contingent 
consideration under business combinations, 
and rights and obligations under employee 
benefit plans which are dealt with in specific 
accounting policies.
The Group’s other financial instruments include:
 > cash and cash equivalents
 > fixed deposits
 > other investments
 > bank and other borrowings
 > derivatives.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in 
hand, current balances with banks and similar 
institutions and highly liquid investments 
with maturities of three months or less when 
acquired. They are readily convertible into 
known amounts of cash and are held at 
amortised cost.
Fixed deposits
Fixed deposits, principally comprising funds 
held with banks and other financial institutions, 
are initially measured at fair value, plus direct 
transaction costs, and are subsequently 
remeasured to amortised cost using the 
effective interest rate method at each reporting 
date. Changes in carrying value are recognised 
in profit.
Where the calculation results in a surplus to 
the Group, the recognised asset is limited 
to the present value of any available future 
refunds from the plan or reductions in future 
contributions to the plan. Payments to 
defined contribution plans are recognised 
in profit as they fall due.
Taxation
The current tax payable is based on taxable 
profit for the year. Taxable profit differs 
from reported profit because taxable profit 
excludes items that are either never taxable 
or tax deductible or items that are taxable or 
tax deductible in a different period. The Group’s 
current tax assets and liabilities are calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance 
sheet liability method, providing for temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation 
purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profit will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. This requires judgements to 
be made in respect of the availability of future 
taxable income.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in 
respect of temporary differences associated 
with investments in subsidiaries and branches 
where the Group is able to control the timing 
of reversal of the temporary differences and it 
is probable that the temporary differences will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are calculated using tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the period when the 
liability is settled or the asset realised based 
on tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Accruals for tax contingencies require 
management to make judgements and 
estimates of exposures in relation to tax audit 
issues. Tax benefits are not recognised unless 
the tax positions will probably be sustained. 
Once considered to be probable, management 
reviews each material tax benefit to assess 
whether a provision should be taken against 
full recognition of that benefit on the basis of 
potential settlement through negotiation and/
or litigation. Any liability to interest on tax 
liabilities is provided for in the tax charge. 
See Note 27 to the Financial Statements for 
further details.
Share‑based payments
All plans are assessed and have been classified 
as equity settled. The grant date fair value of 
employee share plan awards is calculated 
using a modified version of the binomial model. 
In accordance with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based 
Payment’, the resulting cost is recognised in 
profit over the vesting period of the awards, 
being the period in which the services are 
146 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 147
Foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions, being 
transactions denominated in a currency 
other than an individual Group entity’s 
functional currency, are translated into the 
relevant functional currencies of individual 
Group entities at average rates for the 
relevant monthly accounting periods, which 
approximate to actual rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities, arising from 
foreign currency transactions, are retranslated 
at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting 
date. Exchange gains and losses on loans and 
on short-term foreign currency borrowings 
and deposits are included within finance 
expense. Exchange differences on all other 
foreign currency transactions are recognised 
in operating profit in the individual Group 
entity’s accounting records.
Non-monetary items arising from foreign 
currency transactions are not retranslated in the 
individual Group entity’s accounting records.
In the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
income and expense items for Group entities 
with a functional currency other than US dollars 
are translated into US dollars at average 
exchange rates, which approximate to actual 
rates, for the relevant accounting periods. 
Assets and liabilities are translated at the 
US dollar exchange rates prevailing at the 
reporting date. Exchange differences arising 
on consolidation are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar 
denominated loans or derivatives are 
designated as net investment hedges of foreign 
operations. Exchange differences arising on 
retranslation of net investments, and of 
foreign currency loans which are designated in 
an effective net investment hedge relationship, 
are recognised in other comprehensive income 
in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Foreign exchange derivatives hedging net 
investments in foreign operations are carried at 
fair value. Effective fair value movements are 
recognised in other comprehensive income, 
with any ineffectiveness taken to the income 
statement. Gains and losses accumulated 
in the translation reserve will be recycled to 
profit when the foreign operation is sold.
Litigation and environmental liabilities
AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, 
the settlement of which may involve cost to 
the Group. Provision is made where an adverse 
outcome is probable and associated costs, 
including related legal costs, can be estimated 
reliably. In other cases, appropriate disclosures 
are included.
Where it is considered that the Group is 
more likely than not to prevail, or in the rare 
circumstances where the amount of the 
legal liability cannot be estimated reliably, 
legal costs involved in defending the claim 
are charged to profit as they are incurred.
Where it is considered that the Group has 
a valid contract which provides the right to 
reimbursement (from insurance or otherwise) 
of legal costs and/or all or part of any loss 
incurred or for which a provision has been 
established, the best estimate of the amount 
expected to be received is recognised as an 
asset only when it is virtually certain.
AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental 
liabilities relating to its past operations, 
principally in respect of soil and groundwater 
remediation costs. Provisions for these costs 
are made when there is a present obligation 
and where it is probable that expenditure on 
remedial work will be required and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the cost. Provisions 
are discounted where the effect is material.
Impairment
The carrying values of non-financial assets, 
other than inventories and deferred tax 
assets, are reviewed at least annually to 
determine whether there is any indication of 
impairment. For goodwill, intangible assets 
under development and for any other assets 
where such indication exists, the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated based 
on the greater of its value in use and its fair 
value less cost to sell. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows, 
adjusted for the risks specific to each asset, 
are discounted to their present value using 
a discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money, 
the general risks affecting the pharmaceutical 
industry and other risks specific to each 
asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
assets are grouped together into the 
smallest group of assets that generates cash 
inflows from continuing use that are largely 
independent of the cash flows of other 
assets. Impairment losses are recognised 
immediately in profit.
International accounting transition
On transition to using adopted IFRSs in the 
year ended 31 December 2005, the Group 
took advantage of several optional exemptions 
available in IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of 
International Financial Reporting Standards’. 
The major impacts which are of continuing 
importance are detailed below:
 > Business combinations – IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations’ has been applied from 
1 January 2003, the date of transition, 
rather than being applied fully retrospectively. 
As a result, the combination of Astra and 
Zeneca is still accounted for as a merger, 
rather than through purchase accounting. 
If purchase accounting had been adopted, 
Zeneca would have been deemed to have 
acquired Astra.
 > Cumulative exchange differences – 
the Group chose to set the cumulative 
exchange difference reserve at 1 January 
2003 to zero.
Other investments
Where investments have been classified as 
held for trading, they are measured initially 
at fair value and subsequently remeasured 
to fair value at each reporting date. Changes 
in fair value are recognised in profit.
In all other circumstances, the investments are 
classified as ‘available for sale’ , initially measured 
at fair value (including direct transaction costs) 
and subsequently remeasured to fair value 
at each reporting date. Changes in carrying 
value due to changes in exchange rates on 
monetary available for sale investments or 
impairments are recognised in profit. All other 
changes in fair value are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
Impairments are recorded in profit when 
there is a decline in the value of an investment 
that is deemed to be other than temporary. 
On disposal of the investment, the cumulative 
amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income is recognised in profit as part of the 
gain or loss on disposal.
Bank and other borrowings
The Group uses derivatives, principally interest 
rate swaps, to hedge the interest rate exposure 
inherent in a portion of its fixed interest rate 
debt. In such cases the Group will either 
designate the debt as fair value through profit 
or loss when certain criteria are met or as the 
hedged item under a fair value hedge.
If the debt instrument is designated as fair 
value through profit or loss, the debt is initially 
measured at fair value (with direct transaction 
costs being included in profit as an expense) and 
is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date 
with changes in carrying value being recognised 
in profit (along with changes in the fair value of 
the related derivative). Such a designation has 
been made where this significantly reduces an 
accounting mismatch which would result from 
recognising gains and losses on different bases.
If the debt is designated as the hedged item 
under a fair value hedge, the debt is initially 
measured at fair value (with direct transaction 
costs being amortised over the life of the 
bonds), and is remeasured for fair value 
changes in respect of the hedged risk at each 
reporting date with changes in carrying value 
being recognised in profit (along with changes 
in the fair value of the related derivative).
Other interest-bearing loans are initially 
measured at fair value (with direct transaction 
costs being amortised over the life of the 
bond) and are subsequently remeasured to 
amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method at each reporting date. Changes 
in carrying value are recognised in profit.
Derivatives
Derivatives are initially measured at fair value 
(with direct transaction costs being included 
in profit as an expense) and are subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each reporting date. 
Changes in carrying value are recognised 
in profit.
Financial Statements In addition, the following amendments have 
been issued: 
 > Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for 
Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, 
effective for periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2016.
 > Amendments to IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and 
Equipment’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ 
Clarification of Acceptable Methods of 
Depreciation and Amortisation, effective for 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
 > Amendments to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated 
Financial Statements’ and IAS 28 
‘Investments in Associates and Joint 
Ventures (2011)’ Sale or Contribution of 
Assets between an Investor and its 
Associate or Joint Venture. The IASB has 
deferred those amendments until a date 
to be determined by the IASB, although 
early application is permitted.
 > Amendments to IAS 1 (Disclosure Initiative), 
effective for periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2016.
The above amendments are not expected 
to have a significant impact on the Group’s 
net results, net assets or disclosures. The 
amendments to IFRS 11 were endorsed by the 
EU on 24 November 2015, the amendments 
to IAS 16 and IAS 38 were endorsed by the 
EU on 2 December 2015 and the amendments 
to IAS 1 were endorsed by the EU on 
18 December 2015. The amendments to 
IFRS 10 and IAS 28 have yet to be endorsed 
by the EU.
Applicable accounting standards and 
interpretations issued but not yet adopted
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ was finalised 
by the IASB in July 2014 and is effective for 
accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2018. The new standard will replace 
existing accounting standards. It is applicable 
to financial assets and liabilities, and will 
introduce changes to existing accounting 
concerning classification and measurement, 
impairment (introducing an expected-loss 
method), hedge accounting, and on the 
treatment of gains arising from the impact 
of credit risk on the measurement of liabilities 
held at fair value. The standard has not yet 
been endorsed by the EU. The adoption of 
IFRS 9 is not expected to have a significant 
impact on the Group’s net results or net 
assets, although the full impact will be subject 
to further assessment. 
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers’ was issued by the IASB in May 
2014. It is effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The 
new standard will replace existing accounting 
standards, and provides enhanced detail 
on the principle of recognising revenue to 
reflect the transfer of goods and services 
to customers at a value which the company 
expects to be entitled to receive. The standard 
also updates revenue disclosure requirements. 
The standard has yet to be endorsed by the 
EU. The Group is continuing to assess the 
impact of IFRS 15 on the results of the Group 
and including, but not limited to, the impact 
on licence income and milestone revenues.
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ was issued by the IASB in 
January 2016 and is effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. 
The new standard will replace IAS 17 ‘Leases’ 
and will eliminate the classification of leases 
as either operating leases or finance leases 
and, instead, introduce a single lessee 
accounting model. The standard has yet 
to be endorsed by the EU. The adoption of 
IFRS 16 is not expected to have a significant 
impact on the Group’s net results or net assets, 
although the full impact will be subject to 
further assessment.
148 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
149
1 Revenue
Product Sales
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity:
Symbicort 3,394 3,801 3,483
Pulmicort 1,014 946 867
Tudorza/Eklira 190 13 –
Daliresp 104 – –
Duaklir 27 – –
Others 258 303 327
4,987 5,063 4,677
Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases:
Onglyza 786 820 378
Brilinta/Brilique 619 476 283
Bydureon 580 440 151
Farxiga/Forxiga 492 225 10
Byetta 316 327 206
Legacy:
Crestor 5,017 5,512 5,622
Seloken/Toprol-XL 710 758 750
Atacand 358 501 611
Plendil 234 249 260
Others 377 494 559
9,489 9,802 8,830
Oncology:
Iressa 543 623 647
Lynparza 94 – –
Tagrisso 19 – –
Legacy:
Zoladex 816 924 996
Faslodex 704 720 681
Casodex 267 320 376
Arimidex 250 298 351
Others 132 142 142
2,825 3,027 3,193
Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal:
Nexium 2,496 3,655 3,872
Seroquel XR 1,025 1,224 1,337
Synagis 662 900 1,060
Local Anaesthetics 404 488 510
Losec/Prilosec 340 422 486
FluMist/Fluenz 288 295 245
Seroquel IR 250 178 345
Merrem 241 253 293
Diprivan 200 252 265
Movantik/Moventig 29 – –
Others 405 536 598
6,340 8,203 9,011
Product Sales 23,641 26,095 25,711
Externalisation Revenue
Externalisation Revenue in 2015 was $1,067m (2014: $452m; 2013: $95m).
In 2015, Externalisation Revenue incudes $450m on entering into a collaboration with Celgene on durvalumab, $200m on entering into a 
collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo on Movantik and $100m on entering into a collaboration with Valeant on brodalumab.
In 2014, Externalisation Revenue includes $250m from a licence agreement with Pfizer on Nexium OTC.
Royalty income of $87m (2014: $53m; 2013: $60m) is included in Externalisation Revenue.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements 150 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
2 Operating profit
Operating profit includes the following significant items:
Research and development expense
In 2013, research and development included a reversal of the intangible asset impairment charge of $285m, booked in 2011 for Lynparza (olaparib).
Selling, general and administrative costs
In 2015, selling, general and administrative costs includes a credit of $378m (2014: charge of $529m) resulting from changes in the fair value of 
contingent consideration arising from the acquisition of the diabetes alliance with BMS. These adjustments reflect revised estimates for future 
sales performance for the products acquired and, as a result, revised estimates for future royalties payable.
In 2015, selling, general and administrative costs also include a total of $313m of legal provisions relating to a number of legal proceedings in 
various jurisdictions in relation to several marketed products.
In July 2014, the US Internal Revenue Service issued final regulations that affected the recognition of the annual Branded Pharmaceutical Fee, 
imposed by the health care reform legislation in 2010. As a result, entities covered by the legislation now accrue for the obligation as each sale 
occurs. AstraZeneca recorded a catch-up charge of $226m in 2014 to reflect this new basis, $113m of which was recorded in selling, general 
and administrative costs and $113m as a deduction from revenue.
In 2013, selling, general and administrative costs included an intangible asset impairment charge of $1,620m against Bydureon following 
revised estimates for future sales performance.
Further details of impairment charges and reversals for 2015, 2014 and 2013 are included in Notes 7 and 9.
Other operating income and expense
2015
$m
2014
Restated*
$m 
2013
Restated*
$m
Royalties
Income 322 533 561
Amortisation (114) (212) (157)
Impairment of intangible assets (64) (18) –
Gains on disposal of intangible assets 961 – –
Net gains/(losses) on disposal of other non-current assets 85 (235) 13
Other income 310 267 105
Other expense – – (22)
Other operating income and expense 1,500 335 500
* 2013 and 2014 comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Externalisation Revenue from other operating income and expense as detailed in Group Accounting Policies.
Royalty amortisation and impairment relates to income streams acquired with MedImmune and amounts relating to our arrangements with Merck.
Gains on disposal of intangible assets in 2015 includes $380m on the disposal of US rights to Entocort, $215m on the disposal of Rest of World 
rights to Entocort, $193m on the disposal of global rights to Myalept and $165m on the disposal of global rights to Caprelsa.
Net losses on disposal of non-current assets in 2014 included a loss of $292m on disposal of Alderley Park.
Restructuring costs
The tables below show the costs that have been charged in respect of restructuring programmes by cost category and type. Severance provisions 
are detailed in Note 19.
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Cost of sales 158 107 126
Research and development expense 258 497 490
Selling, general and administrative costs 618 662 805
Other operating income and expense – 292 –
Total charge 1,034 1,558 1,421
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Severance costs 298 246 632
Accelerated depreciation and impairment 81 153 399
Relocation costs 34 209 –
Loss on disposal of Alderley Park – 292 –
Other 621 658 390
Total charge 1,034 1,558 1,421
Other costs are those incurred in designing and implementing the Group’s various restructuring initiatives including costs of decommissioning 
sites impacted by changes to our global footprint, temporary leave costs during relocation, internal project costs, and external consultancy fees.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
151
2 Operating profit continued
Financial instruments
Included within operating profit are the following net gains and losses on financial instruments:
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
(Losses)/gains on forward foreign exchange contracts (22) (98) 102
Losses on receivables and payables (36) (64) (136)
Gains and losses on available for sale current investments 74 31 13
Total 16 (131) (21)
Gains and losses on available for sale current investments includes gains of $43m (2014: gains of $9m; 2013: gains of $19m) which have been 
reclassified from other comprehensive income.
3 Finance income and expense
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Finance income
Returns on fixed deposits and equity securities 8 10 9
Returns on short-term deposits 28 23 23
Fair value gains on debt and interest rate swaps 10 16 18
Net exchange gains – 29 –
Total 46 78 50
Finance expense
Interest on debt and commercial paper (361) (383) (388)
Interest on overdrafts, finance leases and other financing costs (31) (35) (25)
Net interest on post-employment defined benefit plan net liabilities (Note 20) (77) (92) (79)
Net exchange losses (36) – (3)
Discount unwind on contingent consideration arising on business combinations (Note 18) (524) (391) –
Discount unwind on other long-term liabilities (46) (62) –
Total (1,075) (963) (495)
Net finance expense (1,029) (885) (445)
Financial instruments
Included within finance income and expense are the following net gains and losses on financial instruments:
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Interest and fair value adjustments in respect of debt designated at fair value through profit or loss, net of derivatives 6 (7) (4)
Interest and changes in carrying values of debt designated as hedged items, net of derivatives (10) 8 5
Interest and fair value changes on fixed and short-term deposits, equity securities and other derivatives 46 45 42
Interest on debt, overdrafts, finance leases and commercial paper held at amortised cost (384) (415) (406)
Fair value losses of $30m (2014: $29m fair value losses; 2013: $43m fair value losses) on interest rate fair value hedging instruments and $30m 
fair value gains (2014: $29m fair value gains; 2013: $42m fair value gains) on the related hedged items have been included within interest and 
changes in carrying values of debt designated as hedged items, net of derivatives. All fair value hedge relationships were effective during the year.
Fair value losses of $5m (2014: $4m fair value losses; 2013: $77m fair value losses) on derivatives related to debt instruments designated at fair 
value through profit or loss and $15m fair value gains (2014: $3m fair value gains; 2013: $82m fair value gains) on debt instruments designated 
at fair value through profit or loss have been included within interest and fair value adjustments in respect of debt designated at fair value through 
profit or loss, net of derivatives. Ineffectiveness on the net investment hedge taken to profit was $nil (2014: $nil; 2013: $nil). 
4 Taxation
Taxation recognised in the profit for the period in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is as follows:
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Current tax expense
Current year 1,037 981 1,352
Adjustment to prior years (404) (109) 46
633 872 1,398
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (482) (833) (699)
Adjustment to prior years 92 (28) (3)
(390) (861) (702)
Taxation recognised in the profit for the period 243 11 696 152 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
4 Taxation continued
Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows:
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Current and deferred tax
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurement of the defined benefit liability (133) 182 (7)
Deferred tax impact of reduction in Sweden and UK tax rates (58) – (92)
Share-based payments (8) 34 17
Total (199) 216 (82)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Foreign exchange arising on consolidation (8) (39) 19
Foreign exchange arising on designating borrowings in net investment hedges 80 150 –
Net available for sale losses/(gains) recognised in other comprehensive income 14 (64) (16)
Other 1 3 1
Total 87 50 4
Taxation relating to components of other comprehensive income (112) 266 (78)
The reported tax rate of 8% for the year ended 31 December 2015 benefited from a $186m adjustment following agreement of US federal tax 
liabilities of open years up to 2008, other net reductions in provisions for tax contingencies partially offset by the impact of internal transfers of 
intellectual property resulting in a net credit of $181m and revaluations of contingent consideration arising on business combinations (credit of 
$432m with related tax charge of $39m). Excluding these effects, the reported tax rate for the year was 22%.
The cash tax paid for the year was $1,354m which was 44% of profit before tax.
Taxation has been provided at current rates on the profits earned for the periods covered by the Group Financial Statements. The 2015 prior 
period current tax adjustment relates mainly to a $186m tax benefit following agreement of US federal tax liabilities of open years to 2008, 
net reductions in provisions for tax contingencies totalling $259m and tax accrual to tax return adjustments. The 2014 prior period current tax 
adjustment relates mainly to a reduction in provisions for tax contingencies, including a benefit of $117m arising from the inter-governmental 
agreement of a transfer pricing matter, partially offset by tax accrual to tax return adjustments. The 2013 prior period current tax adjustment 
relates mainly to an increase in provisions for tax contingencies partially offset by tax accrual to tax return adjustments. 
The 2015, 2014 and 2013 prior period deferred tax adjustments relate mainly to tax accrual to tax return adjustments. 
To the extent that dividends remitted from overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are expected to result in additional taxes, appropriate 
amounts have been provided for. No deferred tax has been provided for unremitted earnings of Group companies overseas as these are 
considered permanently employed in the business of these companies. Unremitted earnings may be liable to overseas taxes and/or UK taxation 
(after allowing for double tax relief) if distributed as dividends. The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries and branches for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised totalled approximately $6,957m at 31 December 2015 
(2014: $6,128m; 2013: $6,196m).
Factors affecting future tax charges
As a group with worldwide operations, AstraZeneca is subject to several factors that may affect future tax charges, principally the levels and 
mix of profitability in different jurisdictions, transfer pricing regulations, tax rates imposed and tax regime reforms. In 2015, the UK Government 
substantively enacted legislation to reduce the main rate of UK Statutory Corporation Tax to 18% by 2020. Details of material tax exposures 
and items currently under audit and negotiation are set out in Note 27.
Tax reconciliation to UK statutory rate
The table below reconciles the UK statutory tax charge to the Group’s total tax charge.
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Profit before tax 3,069 1,246 3,267
Notional taxation charge at UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%; 2013: 23.25%) 621 268 760
Differences in effective overseas tax rates (144) (195) (29)
Deferred tax (credit)/charge relating to reduction in UK and other tax rates
1
(25) 23 (59)
Unrecognised deferred tax asset 149 34 (20)
Items not deductible for tax purposes 29 50 11
Items not chargeable for tax purposes – (39) (10)
Other items
2
(75) 7 –
Adjustments in respect of prior periods
3
(312) (137) 43
Total tax charge for the year 243 11 696
1
 The 2015 item relates to the reduction in the UK Statutory Corporation Tax rate from 20% to 18% effective from 1 April 2020. The 2014 and 2013 items relate to the reduction in the UK Statutory 
Corporation Tax rate from 23% to the rate of tax of 20% effective from 1 April 2015. 
2
 Other items in 2015 included the impact of internal transfers of intellectual property (tax charge of $181m) and the release of certain tax contingencies following the expiry of the relevant statute of 
limitations (tax credit of $256m). Other items in 2014 included the impact of internal transfers of intellectual property including recognition of deferred tax benefits acquired as part of a business 
combination (tax charge of $304m), and the release of certain tax contingencies following the expiry of the relevant statute of limitations (tax credits of $297m).
3
 Further detail explaining the adjustments in respect of prior periods is set out above.
AstraZeneca is domiciled in the UK but operates in other countries where the tax rates and tax laws are different to those in the UK. The impact 
of differences in effective overseas tax rates on the Group’s overall tax charge is noted above. Profits arising from our manufacturing operation 
in Puerto Rico are granted special status and are taxed at a reduced rate compared with the normal rate of tax in that territory under a tax 
incentive grant continuing until 2031.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
153
4 Taxation continued
Deferred tax
The movements in the net deferred tax balance during the year are as follows:
Intangibles,
property, plant
& equipment
1
$m
Pension and 
post-retirement 
benefits
$m
Intercompany
inventory 
transfers
$m
Untaxed
reserves
2
$m
Losses and 
tax credits 
carried forward
3
$m
Accrued
expenses 
and other
$m
Total
$m
Net deferred tax balance at 1 January 2013 (2,688) 553 921 (1,284) 411 622 (1,465)
Taxation expense 441 26 (154) 183 81 125 702
Other comprehensive income – (90) – – – (7) (97)
Additions through business combinations
4
(812) – – – 81 5 (726)
Exchange (5) 21 (31) (13) – (8) (36)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2013 (3,064) 510 736 (1,114) 573 737 (1,622)
Taxation expense 543 (4) (6) 368 (44) 4 861
Other comprehensive income 150 215 – – – (35) 330
Additions through business combinations
5
(147) – (35) – – 37 (145)
Exchange 40 (93) (65) 168 (4) (47) (1)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2014 (2,478) 628 630 (578) 525 696 (577)
Taxation expense 355 30 156 (156) 58 (53) 390
Other comprehensive income 80 (198) – – – (9) (127)
Additions through business combinations
6
(1,206) – – – 161 – (1,045)
Exchange (12) (33) (48) 42 (8) (21) (80)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2015
7
(3,261) 427 738 (692) 736 613 (1,439)
1
 Includes deferred tax on contingent liabilities in respect of intangibles.
2
 Untaxed reserves relate to taxable profits where the tax liability is deferred to later periods.
3
 Includes losses and tax credits carried forward which will expire within 13 to 20 years.
4
 The deferred tax liability of $726m relates to the acquisition of Pearl Therapeutics ($319m), Omthera ($198m), Amplimmune ($205m) and Spirogen ($4m) as detailed in Note 24.
5
 The deferred tax liability of $145m relates to the acquisition of BMS’s share of Global Diabetes Alliance Assets ($28m) and the acquisition of Definiens Group ($117m).
6
 The deferred tax liability of $1,045m relates to the acquisition of ZS Pharma.
7
 The UK had a net deferred tax asset of $273m as at 31 December 2015, mainly in respect of the pension and post-retirement benefits, which has been recognised on the basis of sufficient 
forecast future taxable profits against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The net deferred tax balance, before the offset of balances within countries, consists of:
Intangibles,
property, plant 
& equipment
$m
Pension and 
post-retirement 
benefits
$m
Intercompany
inventory
transfers
$m
Untaxed
reserves
$m
Losses and 
tax credits 
carried forward
$m
Accrued
expenses 
and other
$m
Total
$m
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2013 347 518 775 – 573 855 3,068
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2013 (3,411) (8) (39) (1,114) – (118) (4,690)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2013 (3,064) 510 736 (1,114) 573 737 (1,622)
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2014 1,212 631 657 – 525 838 3,863
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2014 (3,690) (3) (27) (578) – (142) (4,440)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2014 (2,478) 628 630 (578) 525 696 (577)
Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2015 1,055 430 780 – 736 732 3,733
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2015 (4,316) (3) (42) (692) – (119) (5,172)
Net deferred tax balance at 31 December 2015 (3,261) 427 738 (692) 736 613 (1,439)
Analysed in the statement of financial position, after offset of balances within countries, as:
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Deferred tax assets 1,294 1,219 1,205
Deferred tax liabilities (2,733) (1,796) (2,827)
Net deferred tax balance (1,439) (577) (1,622)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets of $414m have not been recognised in respect of deductible temporary differences (2014: $216m; 2013: $214m) because 
it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits therefrom.
5 Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share
2015 2014 2013
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders ($m) 2,825 1,233 2,556
Basic earnings per Ordinary Share $2.23 $0.98 $2.04
Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share $2.23 $0.98 $2.04
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue for basic earnings (millions) 1,264 1,262 1,252
Dilutive impact of share options outstanding (millions) 1 2 2
Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 1,265 1,264 1,254
The earnings figures used in the calculations above are post-tax. 154 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
6 Segment information
AstraZeneca is engaged in a single business activity of biopharmaceuticals and the Group does not have multiple operating segments. 
AstraZeneca’s biopharmaceuticals business consists of the discovery and development of new products, which are then manufactured, marketed 
and sold. All of these functional activities take place (and are managed) globally on a highly integrated basis. These individual functional areas 
are not managed separately. 
The SET, established and chaired by the CEO, is the vehicle through which he exercises the authority delegated to him from the Board for the 
management, development and performance of our business. It is considered that the SET is AstraZeneca’s chief operating decision making body 
(as defined by IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’). The operation of the SET is principally driven by the management of the commercial operations, 
R&D, and manufacturing and supply. In addition to the CEO, CFO, the General Counsel and the Chief Compliance Officer, the SET comprises 
nine Executive Vice-Presidents representing IMED, MedImmune, Global Medicines Development, North America, Europe, International, GPPS, 
Operations & Information Services, and Human Resources. All significant operating decisions are taken by the SET. While members of the SET have 
responsibility for implementation of decisions in their respective areas, operating decision making is at SET level as a whole. Where necessary, 
these are implemented through cross-functional sub-committees that consider the Group-wide impact of a new decision. For example, product 
launch decisions would be initially considered by the SET and, on approval, passed to an appropriate sub-team for implementation. The impacts 
of being able to develop, produce, deliver and commercialise a wide range of pharmaceutical products drive the SET decision making process.
In assessing performance, the SET reviews financial information on an integrated basis for the Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, 
and on the same basis as, the Group’s IFRS Financial Statements. The high upfront cost of discovering and developing new products coupled 
with the relatively insignificant and stable unit cost of production means that there is not the clear link that exists in many manufacturing 
businesses between the revenue generated on an individual product sale and the associated cost and hence margin generated on a product. 
Consequently, the profitability of individual drugs or classes of drugs is not considered a key measure of performance for the business and is 
not monitored by the SET.
Resources are allocated on a Group-wide basis according to need. In particular, capital expenditure, in-licensing, and R&D resources are 
allocated between activities on merit, based on overall therapeutic considerations and strategy under the aegis of the Group’s Early Stage 
Product Committees and a single Late Stage Product Committee. 
Geographic areas
The following tables show information by geographic area and, for Total Revenue and property, plant and equipment, material countries. The 
figures show the Total Revenue, operating profit and profit before tax made by companies located in that area/country, together with segment 
assets, segment assets acquired, net operating assets, and property, plant and equipment owned by the same companies; export sales and 
the related profit are included in the area/country where the legal entity resides and from which those sales were made.
Total Revenue
2015
$m
2014
Restated*
$m
2013
Restated*
$m
UK
External 2,176 1,878 1,854
Intra-Group 6,001 4,718 5,041
8,177 6,596 6,895
Continental Europe
Belgium 176 260 265
France 1,015 1,325 1,303
Germany 608 687 624
Italy 544 688 729
Spain 426 495 497
Sweden 645 639 464
Others 1,448 1,794 1,830
Intra-Group 4,664 4,763 4,930
9,526 10,651 10,642
The Americas
Canada 530 583 607
US 9,949 10,692 10,198
Others 1,018 1,165 1,177
Intra-Group 2,167 2,346 2,005
13,664 14,786 13,987
Asia, Africa & Australasia
Australia 435 657 811
China 2,548 2,228 1,836
Japan 1,985 2,202 2,403
Others 1,205 1,254 1,208
Intra-Group 46 56 52
6,219 6,397 6,310
Continuing operations 37,586 38,430 37,834
Intra-Group eliminations (12,878) (11,883) (12,028)
Total Revenue 24,708 26,547 25,806
* 2013 and 2014 comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Externalisation Revenue from other operating income and expense as detailed in Group Accounting Policies.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
155
6 Segment information continued 
Export sales from the UK totalled $6,851m for the year ended 31 December 2015 (2014: $5,709m; 2013: $6,192m). Intra-Group pricing is 
determined on an arm’s length basis.
Operating (loss)/profit (Loss)/profit before tax
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
UK (743) (851) (171) (1,113) (1,174) (467)
Continental Europe 3,412 1,780 3,055 3,023 1,477 3,016
The Americas 1,101 818 591 821 549 477
Asia, Africa & Australasia 344 390 237 338 394 241
Continuing operations 4,114 2,137 3,712 3,069 1,246 3,267
Non-current assets
1
Total assets
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
UK 6,251 5,826 4,525 14,712 14,926 16,199
Continental Europe 8,690 8,764 4,102 10,636 11,184 6,924
The Americas 26,499 24,750 24,535 31,604 29,324 29,146
Asia, Africa & Australasia 937 874 832 3,172 3,161 3,630
Continuing operations 42,377 40,214 33,994 60,124 58,595 55,899
Assets acquired
2
Net operating assets
3
 
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
UK 1,478 2,703 637 3,713 3,002 2,400
Continental Europe 653 6,362 747 3,704 4,110 4,168
The Americas 4,215 2,732 2,490 22,334 20,190 21,583
Asia, Africa & Australasia 172 199 236 1,458 1,570 2,002
Continuing operations 6,518 11,996 4,110 31,209 28,872 30,153
1
 Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets and derivative financial instruments.
2
 Included in Assets acquired are those assets that are expected to be used during more than one period (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets).
3
 Net operating assets exclude short-term investments, cash, short-term borrowings, loans, derivative financial instruments, retirement benefit obligations and non-operating receivables and payables.
Property, plant and equipment
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
UK 1,024 824 1,226
Sweden 1,023 971 1,158
US 2,986 2,830 2,048
Rest of the world 1,380 1,385 1,386
Continuing operations 6,413 6,010 5,818
Geographic markets
The table below shows Product Sales in each geographic market in which customers are located.
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
UK 588 773 685
Continental Europe 5,180 6,394 6,521
The Americas 11,031 11,892 11,515
Asia, Africa & Australasia 6,842 7,036 6,990
Continuing operations 23,641 26,095 25,711
Product Sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party. In general this is 
upon delivery of the products to wholesalers. Transactions with two wholesalers (2014: two; 2013: one) individually represented greater than 
10% of Product Sales. The value of these transactions recorded as Product Sales were $3,458m and $2,757m (2014: $3,261m and $2,67 4m; 2013: 
$3,166m). 156 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
7 Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
$m
Plant and
equipment
$m
Assets in course
of construction
$m
Total property,
plant and
equipment
$m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 5,850 8,645 576 15,071
Capital expenditure 21 222 565 808
Additions through business combinations (Note 24) 1 3 4 8
Transfer of assets into use 67 295 (362) –
Disposals and other movements (275) (773) (7) (1,055)
Exchange adjustments 19 61 (5) 75
At 31 December 2013 5,683 8,453 771 14,907
Capital expenditure 34 184 874 1,092
Additions through business combinations (Note 24) 213 206 96 515
Transfers in from other non-current assets 156 124 70 350
Transfer of assets into use 136 405 (541) –
Disposals and other movements (976) (962) (27) (1,965)
Exchange adjustments (334) (698) (123) (1,155)
At 31 December 2014 4,912 7,712 1,120 13,744
Capital expenditure 23 223 1,155 1,401
Additions through business combinations (Note 24) 21 – – 21
Transfer of assets into use 269 359 (628) –
Disposals and other movements (239) (442) (3) (684)
Exchange adjustments (174) (384) (76) (634)
At 31 December 2015 4,812 7,468 1,568 13,848
Depreciation
At 1 January 2013 2,668 6,314 – 8,982
Charge for year 331 575 – 906
Impairment 7 94 – 101
Disposals and other movements (73) (900) – (973)
Exchange adjustments 19 54 – 73
At 31 December 2013 2,952 6,137 – 9,089
Charge for year 252 524 – 776
Disposals and other movements (639) (744) – (1,383)
Exchange adjustments (214) (534) – (748)
At 31 December 2014 2,351 5,383 – 7,734
Charge for year 198 479 – 677
Impairment 9 19 – 28
Disposals and other movements (203) (411) – (614)
Exchange adjustments (102) (288) – (390)
At 31 December 2015 2,253 5,182 – 7,435
Net book value
At 31 December 2013 2,731 2,316 771 5,818
At 31 December 2014 2,561 2,329 1,120 6,010
At 31 December 2015 2,559 2,286 1,568 6,413
Impairment charges in 2015 were attributable to assets dedicated to the production and manufacture of Caprelsa, for which global product rights 
were divested during the year and to strategy changes affecting manufacturing operations in the US. These charges have been recognised in 
cost of sales.
Impairment charges in 2013 were attributable to strategy changes affecting manufacturing operations in China and the impact of restructuring 
our site footprint in the US. These charges were recognised in cost of sales.
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
The net book value of land and buildings comprised:
Freeholds 2,432 2,489 2,656
Leaseholds 127 72 75
Included within plant and equipment are Information Technology assets held under finance leases with a net book value of $70m (2014: $74m; 
2013: $86m).
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
157
8 Goodwill
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
Cost
At 1 January 11,868 10,307 10,223
Additions through business combinations (Note 24) 456 1,841 77
Exchange and other adjustments (143) (280) 7
At 31 December 12,181 11,868 10,307
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 318 326 325
Exchange and other adjustments (5) (8) 1
At 31 December 313 318 326
Net book value at 31 December 11,868 11,550 9,981
For the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill, the Group is regarded as a single cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount is based on value in use using discounted risk-adjusted projections of the Group’s pre-tax cash flows over 10 years 
which is considered by the Board as a reasonable period given the long development and life-cycle of a medicine. The projections include 
assumptions about product launches, competition from rival products and pricing policy as well as the possibility of generics entering the 
market. In setting these assumptions we consider our past experience, external sources of information (including information on expected 
increases and ageing of the populations in our established markets and the expanding patient population in newer markets), our knowledge 
of competitor activity and our assessment of future changes in the pharmaceutical industry. The 10-year period is covered by internal budgets 
and forecasts. Given that internal budgets and forecasts are prepared for all projections, no general growth rates are used to extrapolate 
internal budgets and forecasts for the purposes of determining value in use. No terminal value is included as these cash flows are more than 
sufficient to establish that an impairment does not exist. The methods used to determine recoverable amounts have remained consistent with 
the prior year.
In arriving at value in use, we disaggregate our projected pre-tax cash flows into groups reflecting similar risks and tax effects. For each group 
of cash flows we use an appropriate discount rate reflecting those risks and tax effects. In arriving at the appropriate discount rate for each 
group of cash flows, we adjust AstraZeneca’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital (7.0% for 2015, 2014 and 2013) to reflect the impact 
of risks relevant to that group of assets, the time value of money and tax effects. The weighted average pre-tax discount rate we used was 
approximately 10% (2014: 10%; 2013: 10%).
As a further check, we compare our market capitalisation to the book value of our net assets and this indicates significant surplus at 
31 December 2015 (and 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013).
No goodwill impairment was identified.
The Group has also performed sensitivity analysis calculations on the projections used and discount rate applied. The Directors have concluded 
that, given the significant headroom that exists, and the results of the sensitivity analysis performed, there is no significant risk that reasonable 
changes in any key assumptions would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed its value in use. 158 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
9 Intangible assets
Product, 
marketing and
distribution rights
$m
Other
intangibles
$m
Software
development
costs
$m
Total
$m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 22,862 2,135 1,905 26,902
Additions through business combinations (Note 24) 2,045 371 – 2,416
Additions – separately acquired 635 – 166 801
Disposals (46) – – (46)
Exchange and other adjustments 57 (7) 19 69
At 31 December 2013 25,553 2,499 2,090 30,142
Additions through business combinations (Note 24) 6,926 575 – 7,501
Additions – separately acquired 907 25 115 1,047
Disposals (23) – (41) (64)
Exchange and other adjustments (1,464) (287) (138) (1,889)
At 31 December 2014 31,899 2,812 2,026 36,737
Additions through business combinations (Note 24) 3,162 – – 3,162
Additions – separately acquired 1,341 60 77 1,478
Disposals (198) (4) (14) (216)
Exchange and other adjustments (886) (73) (70) (1,029)
At 31 December 2015 35,318 2,795 2,019 40,132
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2013 7,659 1,578 1,217 10,454
Amortisation for year 1,498 93 188 1,779
Impairment 2,025 – 57 2,082
Impairment reversals (285) – – (285)
Disposals (11) – – (11)
Exchange and other adjustments 58 11 7 76
At 31 December 2013 10,944 1,682 1,469 14,095
Amortisation for year 2,008 193 183 2,384
Impairment 81 18 23 122
Disposals (23) – (41) (64)
Exchange and other adjustments (465) (240) (76) (781)
At 31 December 2014 12,545 1,653 1,558 15,756
Amortisation for year 1,718 174 107 1,999
Impairment 143 – 5 148
Disposals (31) (2) (14) (47)
Exchange and other adjustments (271) (52) (47) (370)
At 31 December 2015 14,104 1,773 1,609 17,486
Net book value 
At 31 December 2013 14,609 817 621 16,047
At 31 December 2014 19,354 1,159 468 20,981
At 31 December 2015 21,214 1,022 410 22,646
Other intangibles consist mainly of licensing and rights to contractual income streams.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
159
9 Intangible assets continued 
Amortisation charges are recognised in profit as follows:
Product, 
marketing and
distribution rights
$m
Other
intangibles
$m
Software
development
costs
$m
Total
$m
Year ended 31 December 2013
Cost of sales 502 – – 502
Research and development expense – 30 – 30
Selling, general and administrative costs 898 4 188 1,090
Other operating income and expense 98 59 – 157
Total 1,498 93 188 1,779
Year ended 31 December 2014
Cost of sales 701 – – 701
Research and development expense – 60 – 60
Selling, general and administrative costs 1,203 25 183 1,411
Other operating income and expense 104 108 – 212
Total 2,008 193 183 2,384
Year ended 31 December 2015
Cost of sales 369 – – 369
Research and development expense – 57 – 57
Selling, general and administrative costs 1,321 31 107 1,459
Other operating income and expense 28 86 – 114
Total 1,718 174 107 1,999
Impairment charges are recognised in profit as follows:
Product, 
marketing and
distribution rights
$m
Other
intangibles
$m
Software
development
costs
$m
Total
$m
Year ended 31 December 2013
Research and development expense 335 – – 335
Selling, general and administrative costs 1,690 – 57 1,747
Total 2,025 – 57 2,082
Year ended 31 December 2014
Research and development expense 81 – – 81
Selling, general and administrative costs – – 23 23
Other operating income and expense – 18 – 18
Total 81 18 23 122
Year ended 31 December 2015
Research and development expense 79 – – 79
Selling, general and administrative costs – – 5 5
Other operating income and expense 64 – – 64
Total 143 – 5 148
The impairment reversal of $285m booked in 2013 was recorded in research and development expense.
Impairment charges and reversals
In 2015 and 2014, impairment charges relate to the termination, or reassessment of the likelihood of success, of several individual projects, 
none of which had significant capitalised values.
In 2013, AstraZeneca commenced enrolment of the first patient in the first of several Phase III clinical programmes for Lynparza (olaparib). As a 
result of the initiation of this programme, an impairment charge of $285m, taken in 2011, was reversed and the full historic carrying value of the 
asset restored to the balance sheet. There are several indications currently under development for Lynparza (olaparib) and, at the date of the 
reversal of the impairment, the recoverable value of the intangible asset relating to Lynparza (olaparib) determined using value in use calculations 
as detailed below, was estimated to be at least $650m above its carrying value. The 2013 impairment charge of product, marketing and distribution 
rights included a charge of $1,758m against the intangible asset for Bydureon, acquired as part of the 2012 collaboration with BMS on Amylin 
products, following revised estimates for future sales performance that were below AstraZeneca’s commercial expectations at that time of 
entering into the collaboration. Impairment charges also included $136m following AstraZeneca’s decision not to proceed with regulatory filings 
for fostamatinib. 160 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
9 Intangible assets continued 
The write downs in value of intangible assets, other than those arising from termination of R&D activities, were determined based on value in use 
calculations using discounted risk-adjusted projections of the products’ expected post-tax cash flows over a period reflecting the patent-protected 
lives of the individual products. The full period of projections is covered by internal budgets and forecasts. In arriving at the appropriate discount 
rate to use for each product, we adjust AstraZeneca’s post-tax weighted average cost of capital (7.0% for 2015, 2014 and 2013) to reflect the 
impact of risks and tax effects specific to the individual products. The weighted average pre-tax discount rate we used was approximately 13% 
(2014: 13%; 2013: 13%).
By their nature, the value in use calculations are sensitive to the underlying methods, assumptions and estimates. Consistent with prior years, 
as part of the impairment review process, management has identified that reasonably possible changes in certain key assumptions may cause 
the carrying amount of the intangible assets to exceed the recoverable amount. At 31 December 2015, the Group held intangible assets for 
products in development of $8,732m (2014: $6,598m; 2013: $5,457m), for which the most sensitive assumption is the probability of technical 
success, and intangible assets for launched products of $13,504m (2014: $13,915m; 2013: $9,969m), for which the most sensitive assumptions 
are the projected market share of the therapeutic area and expected pricing. In addition, we consider the sensitivity of our 2015 impairment 
conclusions to possible changes to the post tax discount rate and noted that a change of 1% would have no effect on the level of impairment 
recorded in 2015. Given their nature, impairment adjustments triggered by future events that have yet to occur may be material. In addition, 
there is a significant risk that impairments recognised in any one period may be subject to material adjustments in future periods.
Significant assets
Description
Carrying value
$m
Remaining amortisation 
period
Intangible assets arising from the restructuring of a joint venture with Merck Product, marketing and distribution rights 1,858 1-15 years
RSV franchise assets arising from the acquisition of MedImmune Product, marketing and distribution rights 2,781 10 years
FluMist intangible assets arising from the acquisition of MedImmune Product, marketing and distribution rights 445 16 years
Onglyza intangible assets acquired from BMS Product, marketing and distribution rights 1,308 8 years
Forxiga/Farxiga intangible assets acquired from BMS Product, marketing and distribution rights 1,718 12 years
Bydureon intangible assets acquired from BMS Product, marketing and distribution rights 1,248 15 years
Other diabetes intangible assets acquired from BMS Product, marketing and distribution rights 1,420 7-18 years
Movantik/Moventig asset acquired from Nektar Therapeutics Product, marketing and distribution rights 395 16 years
Intangible assets acquired from Almirall and Actavis Product, marketing and distribution rights 1,778 4-23 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of Definiens Research technology rights 302 14 years
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of Ardea
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 1,434 Not amortised
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of Pearl Therapeutics
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 951 Not amortised
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of Omthera
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 533 Not amortised
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of Amplimmune
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 470 Not amortised
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of ZS Pharma
1
Product, marketing and distribution rights 3,162 Not amortised
1
 Assets in development are not amortised but are tested annually for impairment.
10 Investments in joint ventures
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
At 1 January 59 – –
Additions 45 70 –
Share of after tax losses (16) (6) –
Exchange adjustments (3) (5) –
At 31 December 85 59 –
On 1 December 2015, AstraZeneca entered into a joint venture agreement with Fujifilm Kyowa Kirin Biologics Co., Ltd. to develop a biosimilar 
using the combined capabilities of the two parties. The agreement resulted in the formation of a joint venture entity based in the UK, Centus 
Biotherapeutics Limited. AstraZeneca contributed $45m in cash to the joint venture entity and has a 50% interest in the joint venture.
On 30 April 2014, AstraZeneca entered into a joint venture agreement with Samsung Biologics Co., Ltd. to develop a biosimilar using the combined 
capabilities of the two parties. The agreement resulted in the formation of a joint venture entity based in the UK, Archigen Biotech Limited, with 
a branch in South Korea. AstraZeneca contributed $70m in cash to the joint venture entity and has a 50% interest in the joint venture. 
Both investments are accounted for using the equity method.
Aggregated summarised financial information for the joint venture entities is set out below.
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Non-current assets 123 76 –
Current assets 75 58 –
Current liabilities (11) (6) –
Net assets 187 128 –
Amount attributable to AstraZeneca 93 64 –
Exchange adjustments (8) (5) –
Carrying value of investments in joint ventures 85 59 –
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
161
11 Other investments
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
Non-current investments
Equity securities available for sale 458 502 281
Total 458 502 281
Current investments
Equity securities and bonds available for sale 548 775 735
Equity securities held for trading – – 46
Fixed deposits 65 20 15
Total 613 795 796
The equity securities and bonds available for sale in current investments include $467m (2014: $775m; 2013: $735m) held in a custody account. 
Further details of this custody account are included in Note 20.
Impairment charges of $17m in respect of available for sale securities are included in other operating income and expense (2014: $23m; 2013: $22m).
Equity securities and bonds available for sale, and equity securities held for trading, are held at fair value. The fair value of listed investments is 
based on year end quoted market prices. For unlisted investments whose fair value cannot be reliably measured, cost is considered to approximate 
to fair value. Fixed deposits are held at amortised cost with carrying value being a reasonable approximation of fair value given their short-term nature.
None of the financial assets or liabilities have been reclassified in the year.
Fair value hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments, contained within other investments and carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different 
levels have been defined as follows:
 > Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
 > Level 2:  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (ie as prices) or 
indirectly (ie derived from prices).
 > Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Level 1
$m
Level 2
$m
Level 3
$m
Total
$m
2013
Equity securities and bonds available for sale 807 – 209 1,016
Equity securities held for trading 46 – – 46
Total 853 – 209 1,062
2014 
Equity securities and bonds available for sale 927 – 350 1,277
Total 927 – 350 1,277
2015
Equity securities and bonds available for sale 654 – 352 1,006
Total 654 – 352 1,006
Equity securities available for sale that are analysed at Level 3 include investments in private biotech companies. In the absence of specific market 
data, these unlisted investments are held at cost, adjusted as necessary for impairments, which approximates to fair value. Movements in 
Level 3 investments are detailed below.
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
At 1 January 350 209 138
Additions 49 107 70
Revaluations – 95 –
Transfers out (22) (35) –
Disposals (6) – (8)
Impairments and exchange adjustments (19) (26) 9
At 31 December 352 350 209
Assets are transferred in or out of Level 3 on the date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer. 162 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
12 Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments consist of interest rate swaps (included in instruments designated at fair value if related to debt designated at fair 
value, or instruments in a fair value hedge relationship if formally designated as in a fair value hedge relationship), cross-currency swaps (included in 
instruments designated in net investment hedges), currency options and forward foreign exchange contracts (included below in other derivatives).
Non-current 
assets
$m
Current 
assets
$m
Current 
liabilities
$m
Non-current
liabilities
$m
Total
$m
Designated in a fair value hedge 108 – – – 108
Related to instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 69 16 – – 85
Designated as a net investment hedge 188 – – (1) 187
Other derivatives – 24 (2) – 22
31 December 2013 365 40 (2) (1) 402
Non-current 
assets
$m
Current
assets
$m
Current
liabilities
$m
Non-current
liabilities
$m
Total
$m
Designated in a fair value hedge 79 – – – 79
Related to instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 82 – – – 82
Designated as a net investment hedge 304 – – – 304
Other derivatives – 21 (21) – –
31 December 2014 465 21 (21) – 465
Non-current 
assets
$m
Current
assets
$m
Current
liabilities
$m
Non-current
liabilities
$m
Total
$m
Designated in a fair value hedge 49 – – – 49
Related to instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 77 – – – 77
Designated as a net investment hedge 320 – – – 320
Other derivatives – 2 (9) (1) (8)
31 December 2015 446 2 (9) (1) 438
All derivatives are held at fair value and fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as defined in Note 11. None of the derivatives have been 
reclassified in the year.
The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps is estimated using appropriate zero coupon curve valuation techniques to 
discount future contractual cash flows based on rates at current year end.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options are estimated by cash flow accounting models using appropriate 
yield curves based on market forward foreign exchange rates at the year end. The majority of forward foreign exchange contracts for existing 
transactions had maturities of less than one month from year end. 
The interest rates used to discount future cash flows for fair value adjustments, where applicable, are based on market swap curves at the 
reporting date, and were as follows.
2015 2014 2013
Derivatives 1.2% to 2.1% 1.2% to 2.3% 0.3% to 3.2%
13 Non-current other receivables
Non-current other receivables of $907m (2014: $1,112m; 2013: $1,867m) include a prepayment of $617m (2014: $906m; 2013: $1,276m) which 
represents the long-term element of minimum contractual royalties payable to Shionogi under the global licence agreement for Crestor, which 
was renegotiated in December 2013. The resulting modified royalty structure, which includes fixed minimum and maximum payments in years 
until 2020, has resulted in the Company recognising liabilities, and corresponding prepayments, for the discounted value of total minimum 
payments. The current portion of the prepayment is $260m (2014: $323m; 2013: $350m) and is reported in amounts due within one year (see 
Note 15). Non-current other receivables also include prepayments in relation to our research collaboration with Moderna Therapeutics.
14 Inventories
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
Raw materials and consumables 960 663 570
Inventories in process 545 501 659
Finished goods and goods for resale 638 796 680
Inventories 2,143 1,960 1,909
The Group recognised $2,942m (2014: $3,214m; 2013: $2,981m) of inventories as an expense within cost of sales during the year.
Inventory write-offs in the year amounted to $112m (2014: $126m; 2013: $91m).
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
163
15 Current trade and other receivables
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
Amounts due within one year
Trade receivables 4,685 4,816 5,578
Less: Amounts provided for doubtful debts (Note 25) (52) (54) (64)
4,633 4,762 5,514
Other receivables 543 1,050 684
Prepayments and accrued income 1,268 1,262 1,420
6,444 7,074 7,618
Amounts due after more than one year
Other receivables 28 22 110
Prepayments and accrued income 150 136 151
178 158 261
Trade and other receivables 6,622 7,232 7,879
All financial assets included within current trade and other receivables are held on the consolidated statement of financial position at amortised 
costs with carrying value being a reasonable approximation of fair value.
16 Cash and cash equivalents
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,250 1,009 1,094
Short-term deposits 4,990 5,351 8,123
Cash and cash equivalents 6,240 6,360 9,217
Unsecured bank overdrafts (189) (196) (222)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 6,051 6,164 8,995
The Group holds $110m (2014: $114m; 2013: $119m) of cash and cash equivalents which is required to meet insurance solvency, capital and 
security requirements, and which, as a result, is not readily available for the general purposes of the Group.
Cash and cash equivalents are held on the consolidated statement of financial position at amortised cost. Fair value approximates to carrying value.
17 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Repayment
dates
2015
$m
2014
$m 
2013
$m
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts On demand 189 196 222
Finance leases 67 48 30
5.4% Callable bond US dollars 2014 – – 766
5.125% Non-callable bond euros 2015 – 912 –
Other loans (Commercial paper) Within one year 660 1,290 770
Total 916 2,446 1,788
Non-current liabilities
Finance leases 28 60 72
5.125% Non-callable bond euros 2015 – – 1,035
5.9% Callable bond US dollars 2017 1,796 1,825 1,854
Floating rate notes US dollars 2018 399 – –
1.75% Callable bond US dollars 2018 997 – –
1.95% Callable bond US dollars 2019 997 996 996
2.375% Callable bond US dollars 2020 1,586 – –
0.875% Non-callable bond euros 2021 812 902 –
7% Guaranteed debentures US dollars 2023 355 370 356
3.375% Callable bond US dollars 2025 1,971 – –
5.75% Non-callable bond pounds sterling 2031 515 540 573
6.45% Callable bond US dollars 2037 2,719 2,718 2,717
4% Callable bond US dollars 2042 986 986 985
4.375% Callable bond US dollars 2045 976 – –
Total 14,137 8,397 8,588
All loans and borrowings above are unsecured, except for finance leases which are secured against the Information Technology assets to which 
they relate (see Note 7).  164 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
17 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Instruments in a
fair value hedge
relationship
1
$m
Instruments
designated
at fair value
2
$m
Amortised
cost
3
$m
Total
carrying
value
$m
Fair
value
$m
2013
Overdrafts – – 222 222 222
Finance leases due within one year – – 30 30 30
Finance leases due after more than one year – – 72 72 72
Loans due within one year – 766 770 1,536 1,536
Loans due after more than one year 856 356 7,304 8,516 9,296
Total at 31 December 2013 856 1,122 8,398 10,376 11,156
2014
Overdrafts – – 196 196 196
Finance leases due within one year – – 48 48 48
Finance leases due after more than one year – – 60 60 60
Loans due within one year – – 2,202 2,202 2,202
Loans due after more than one year 828 370 7,139 8,337 9,662
Total at 31 December 2014 828 370 9,645 10,843 12,168
2015
Overdrafts – – 189 189 189
Finance leases due within one year – – 67 67 67
Finance leases due after more than one year – – 28 28 28
Loans due within one year – – 660 660 660
Loans due after more than one year 1,398 355 12,356 14,109 15,132
Total at 31 December 2015 1,398 355 13,300 15,053 16,076
1
 Instruments designated as hedged items in fair value hedge relationships with respect to interest rate risk include a designated portion of the US dollar 5.9% callable bond repayable in 2017, and a 
portion of the US dollar 1.75% callable bond repayable in 2018.
2
 Instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss include the US dollar 7% guaranteed debentures repayable in 2023.
3
 Included within borrowings held at amortised cost are amounts designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations of $1,327m (2014: $1,453m; 2013: $1,608m) held at amortised cost. 
The fair value of these borrowings was $1,516m at 31 December 2015 (2014: $1,641m; 2013: $1,769m).
The fair value of fixed-rate publicly traded debt is based on year end quoted market prices; the fair value of floating rate debt is nominal value, 
as mark to market differences would be minimal given the frequency of resets. The carrying value of loans designated at fair value through profit 
or loss is the fair value; this falls within the Level 1 valuation method as defined in Note 11. For loans designated in a fair value hedge relationship, 
carrying value is initially measured at fair value and remeasured for fair value changes in respect of the hedged risk at each reporting date. All other 
loans are held at amortised cost. Fair values, as disclosed in the table above, are all determined using the Level 1 valuation method as defined 
in Note 11, with the exception of overdrafts and finance leases, where fair value approximates to carrying values.
A gain of $10m was made during the year on the fair value of bonds designated at fair value through profit or loss, due to increased credit risk. 
A gain of $48m has been made on these bonds since designation due to increased credit risk. Changes in credit risk had no material effect on 
any other financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value in the Group Financial Statements. The change in fair value attributable to changes 
in credit risk is calculated as the change in fair value not attributable to market risk. The amount payable at maturity on bonds designated at fair 
value through profit or loss is $288m.
The interest rates used to discount future cash flows for fair value adjustments, where applicable, are based on market swap curves at the 
reporting date, and were as follows.
2015 2014 2013
Loans and borrowings 1.2% to 2.1% 1.2% to 2.3% 0.3% to 3.2%
18 Trade and other payables
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Current liabilities
Trade payables 3,469 3,492 2,499
Value added and payroll taxes and social security 207 201 207
Rebates and chargebacks 3,307 3,530 2,853
Accruals 2,983 3,231 3,606
Other payables 1,697 1,432 1,197
Total 11,663 11,886 10,362
Non-current liabilities
Accruals 256 219 126
Other payables 7,201 7,772 2,226
Total 7,457 7,991 2,352
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
165
18 Trade and other payables continued
With the exception of contingent consideration payables of $6,411m (2014: $6,899m; 2013: $514m) held within other payables, that arose on 
business combinations (see Note 24), and which are held at fair value within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as defined in Note 11, all other 
financial liabilities are held at amortised cost with carrying value being a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Contingent consideration
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
At 1 January 6,899 514 –
Additions arising on business combinations (Note 24) – 6,138 532
Settlements (579) (657) –
Revaluations (432) 512 (18)
Discount unwind 524 391 –
Foreign exchange (1) 1 –
At 31 December 6,411 6,899 514
As detailed in Note 24, contingent consideration arising from business combinations is fair valued using decision-tree analysis, with key inputs 
including the probability of success, consideration of potential delays and the expected levels of future revenues. 
Revaluations of contingent consideration are recognised in selling, general and administrative costs and include a decrease of $378m in 2015 
(2014: an increase of $529m) based on revised milestone probabilities, and revenue and royalty forecasts, relating to the acquisition of BMS’s 
share of the Global Diabetes Alliance.
Further details of the potential future payments on our business combinations, including details of the possible ranges of payments, are included 
in Note 24. Management has identified that reasonably possible changes in certain key assumptions including the likelihood of achieving 
successful trial results, obtaining regulatory approval, the projected market share of the therapeutic area and expected pricing for launched 
products may cause the calculated fair value of the above contingent consideration to vary materially in future years.
19 Provisions
Severance
$m
Environmental
$m
Employee 
benefits
$m
Legal
$m
Other 
provisions
$m
Total
$m
At 1 January 2013 637 88 148 100 371 1,344
Charge for year 652 27 20 23 49 771
Cash paid (532) (28) (19) (78) (24) (681)
Reversals (20) – – (5) (78) (103)
Exchange and other movements 34 – 3 19 2 58
At 31 December 2013 771 87 152 59 320 1,389
Additions arising on business acquisitions 39 – – – – 39
Charge for year 254 15 8 91 66 434
Cash paid (472) (17) (16) (71) (57) (633)
Reversals (21) – – (4) (39) (64)
Exchange and other movements (45) (1) 19 (1) (30) (58)
At 31 December 2014 526 84 163 74 260 1,107
Additions arising on business acquisitions – – – – 10 10
Charge for year 338 8 7 313 40 706
Cash paid (408) (25) (12) (69) (43) (557)
Reversals (40) – – – (12) (52)
Exchange and other movements (13) – – 39 2 28
At 31 December 2015 403 67 158 357 257 1,242
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Due within one year 798 623 823
Due after more than one year 444 484 566
Total 1,242 1,107 1,389
AstraZeneca is undergoing a global restructuring initiative which involves rationalisation of the global supply chain, the sales and marketing organisation, 
IT and business support infrastructure, and R&D. Employee costs in connection with the initiatives are recognised in severance provisions.
Details of the environmental and legal provisions are provided in Note 27.
Employee benefit provisions include the Deferred Bonus Plan. Further details are included in Note 26.
Other provisions comprise amounts relating to specific contractual or constructive obligations and disputes.
No provision has been released or applied for any purpose other than that for which it was established. 166 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
20 Post-retirement benefits
Pensions
Background
The Company and most of its subsidiaries offer retirement plans which cover the majority of employees in the Group. Many of these plans are 
‘defined contribution’, where AstraZeneca’s contribution and resulting charge is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees’ pay. 
However, several plans, mainly in the UK, the US, Sweden and Germany, are ‘defined benefit’, where benefits are based on employees’ length 
of service and average final salary (typically averaged over one, three or five years). The major defined benefit plans, apart from the collectively 
bargained Swedish plan (which is still open to employees born before 1979), have been closed to new entrants since 2000. During 2010, following 
consultation with its UK employees’ representatives, AstraZeneca introduced a freeze on pensionable pay at 30 June 2010 levels for defined 
benefit members of the UK Pension Fund.
The major defined benefit plans are funded through separate, fiduciary-administered funds. The cash funding of the plans, which may from time 
to time involve special payments, is designed, in consultation with independent qualified actuaries, to ensure that the assets together with future 
contributions should be sufficient to meet future obligations. The funding is monitored rigorously by AstraZeneca and appropriate fiduciaries 
specifically with reference to AstraZeneca’s credit rating, market capitalisation, cash flows and the solvency of the relevant pension scheme.
Financing Principles
97% of the Group’s defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2015 are in schemes within the UK, the US, Sweden or Germany. In these 
countries, the pension obligations are funded with reference to the following financing principles:
 > The Group has a fundamental belief in funding the benefits it promises to employees.
 > The Group considers its pension arrangements in the context of its broader capital structure. In general, it does not believe in committing 
excessive capital for funding while it has better uses of capital within the business nor does it wish to generate surpluses.
 > The pension funds are not part of the Group’s core business. The Group believes in taking some rewarded risks with the investments 
underlying the funding, subject to a medium to long-term plan to reduce those risks if opportunities arise.
 > The Group recognises that deciding to hold certain investments may cause volatility in the funding position. The Group would not wish to 
amend its contribution level for relatively small deviations from its preferred funding level, because it is expected that there will be short-term 
volatility, but it is prepared to react appropriately to more significant deviations. 
 > In the event that local regulations require an additional level of financing, the Group would consider the use of alternative methods of providing 
this that do not require immediate cash funding but help mitigate exposure of the pension arrangement to the credit risk of the Group.
These principles are appropriate to AstraZeneca’s business at the present date; should circumstances change they may require review.
AstraZeneca has developed a funding framework to implement these principles. This determines the cash contributions payable to the pension 
funds, but does not affect the IAS 19 liabilities. To reduce the risk of committing excess capital to pension funds, liability valuations are based on 
the expected return on the actual pension assets, rather than a corporate bond yield. At present, this puts a different, lower value on the liabilities 
than IAS 19.
UK
With regard to the Group’s UK defined benefit fund, the above principles are modified in light of the UK regulatory requirements (summarised below) 
and resulting discussions with the Pension Fund Trustee. 
Role of Trustees (UK)
The UK Pension Fund is managed by a corporate Trustee which is legally separate from the Company. The Trustee Directors are composed of 
representatives appointed by both the employer and employees, and include an independent professional Trustee Director. The Trustee Directors 
are required by law to act in the interest of all relevant beneficiaries and are responsible in particular for the asset investment policy plus the 
day to day administration of the benefits. They are also responsible for jointly agreeing with the employer the level of contributions due to the 
UK Pension Fund (see below).
Funding requirements (UK)
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently (ie to a level in excess of the current expected cost of providing benefits). 
On a triennial basis the Trustee and the Company must agree the contributions required (if any) to ensure the Fund is fully funded over time on 
a suitable prudent measure. The last funding valuation of the AstraZeneca Pension Fund was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 31 March 
2013. An updated funding valuation is due as at 31 March 2016.
In addition, AstraZeneca makes contributions to a separate account which is held outside the UK Pension Fund. The assets held in this account 
will be payable to the AstraZeneca Pension Fund in agreed circumstances, for example, in the event of AstraZeneca and the Pension Fund 
Trustee agreeing on a change to the current long-term investment strategy. At 31 December 2015, £315m ($467m) of assets held in this 
separate account are included within other investments (see Note 11). The structure of this separate account is a custody account held by 
AstraZeneca with HSBC. There is a charge in favour of the Pension Fund Trustee over the assets held in this custody account.
Under the current funding plan, a lump sum contribution of £196m ($305m) was made towards the deficit in January 2015, with a further 
contribution of £51m ($76m) due before 31 March 2016. Contributions are made by transferring assets from the custody account described 
above. The Company and the UK Pension Fund are currently exploring revised funding plans and extended target dates for full funding.
Under the agreed funding principles used to set the statutory funding target, the key assumptions as at 31 March 2013 were as follows: long-term 
UK price inflation set at 3.55% per annum, salary increases at 0% per annum (as a result of pensionable pay levels being frozen in 2010), pension 
increases at 3.2% per annum and investment returns at 4.86% per annum. The resulting valuation of the Fund’s liabilities on that basis were 
£4,887m ($7,241m) compared to a market value of assets at 31 March 2013 of £4,394m ($6,510m).
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
167
20 Post-retirement benefits continued
Under the governing documentation of the UK Pension Fund, any future surplus in the Fund would be returnable to AstraZeneca by refund 
assuming gradual settlement of the liabilities over the lifetime of the fund. As such, there are no adjustments required in respect of IFRIC 14 
‘IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction’.
Regulation (UK)
The UK pensions market is regulated by the Pensions Regulator whose statutory objectives and regulatory powers are described on its website, 
www.thepensionsregulator.gov.uk.
Rest of Group
The IAS 19 positions as at 31 December 2015 are shown below for each of the other countries with significant defined benefit plans. These plans 
account for 90% of the Group’s defined benefit obligations outside the UK. The US and Sweden pension funds are managed by fiduciary bodies 
with responsibility for the investment policies of those funds. These plans are funded in line with the financing principles and contributions paid as 
prescribed by the funding framework.
 > The US defined benefits programme was actuarially revalued at 31 December 2015, when plan obligations were $1,794m and plan assets 
were $1,566m. This includes obligations in respect of the non-qualified plan which is largely unfunded.
 > The Swedish defined benefits programme was actuarially revalued at 31 December 2015, when plan obligations were estimated to amount 
to $1,423m and plan assets were $1,045m.
 > The German defined benefits programme was actuarially revalued at 31 December 2015. In accordance with practice in Germany, the plan 
has a low level of funding; plan obligations amounted to $345m and plan assets were $19m. 
On current bases, it is expected that contributions (excluding those in respect of past service deficit contributions) during the year ending 
31 December 2016 for the four main countries will be $173m.
Post-retirement benefits other than pensions
In the US, and to a lesser extent in certain other countries, AstraZeneca’s employment practices include the provision of healthcare and life 
assurance benefits for retired employees. As at 31 December 2015, some 3,433 retired employees and covered dependants currently benefit 
from these provisions and some 10,582 current employees will be eligible on their retirement. AstraZeneca accrues for the present value of such 
retiree obligations over the working life of the employee. In practice, these benefits will be funded with reference to the financing principles.
The cost of post-retirement benefits other than pensions for the Group in 2015 was $23m (2014: $20m; 2013: $16m). Plan assets were $293m 
and plan obligations were $318m at 31 December 2015. These benefit plans have been included in the disclosure of post-retirement benefits 
under IAS 19.
Financial assumptions
Qualified independent actuaries have updated the actuarial valuations under IAS 19 of the major defined benefit schemes operated by the Group 
to 31 December 2015. The assumptions used by the actuaries are chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the 
long-term nature of the schemes, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. These assumptions were as follows:
2015 2014
UK Rest of Group UK Rest of Group
Inflation assumption 3.0% 2.1% 3.1% 2.0%
Rate of increase in salaries –
1
3.0% –
1
3.2%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.0% 0.8% 3.0% 0.8%
Discount rate 3.8% 3.8% 3.5% 3.0%
1
 Pensionable pay frozen at 30 June 2010 levels following UK fund changes.
Demographic assumptions
The mortality assumptions are based on country-specific mortality tables. These are compared to actual AstraZeneca experience and adjusted 
where sufficient data is available. Additional allowance for future improvements in life expectancy is included for all major schemes where there 
is credible data to support this continuing trend.
The table below illustrates life expectancy assumptions at age 65 for male members retiring in 2015 and members expected to retire in 2035 
(2014: 2014 and 2034 respectively).
Life expectancy assumption for a male member retiring at age 65
Country 2015 2035 2014 2034
UK 23.2 24.5 23.7 25.3
US 22.9 24.4 23.1 24.7
Sweden 20.5 22.4 20.5 22.4
Germany 18.7 21.5 18.7 21.5
The UK life expectancy has fallen over the year due to a higher-than-expected number of pensioner-age deaths in the UK over 2014/15, compared 
to the prior year assumptions. This has created the expectation of a less rapid rate of longevity improvement in future years, which has been 
reflected by the Company by adopting the CMI 2015 Mortality Projections Model with a 1% long-term improvement rate in 2015. 168 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
20 Post-retirement benefits continued
Risks associated with the Company’s defined benefit pensions
The UK defined benefit plan accounts for 65% of the Group’s defined benefit obligations and exposes the Company to a number of risks, the 
most significant of which are:
Risk Description Mitigation
Volatile asset 
returns 
The Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO) is calculated using 
a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; 
asset returns that differ from the discount rate will create 
an element of volatility in the solvency ratio. The UK Pension 
Fund holds a significant proportion (over 40%) in growth 
assets. The largest allocation within the growth asset 
portfolio is held in equities (approximately 23%). Although 
these growth assets are expected to outperform corporate 
bonds in the long term, they can lead to volatility and 
mismatching risk in the short term. The allocation to growth 
assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given 
the UK Pension Fund’s long-term objectives. 
The Company and Trustee have put in place an equity option 
hedging strategy for the UK Pension Fund to reduce the 
volatility of equity investment returns. This strategy covers 
over 60% of the equity exposure. 
In addition, changes to the investment strategy have been 
adopted over the course of the year which further diversify 
the growth portfolio and which are expected to reduce 
investment risk and increase expected returns. 
The investment strategy will continue to evolve to further 
improve the expected risk/return profile over 2016.
The Company and Trustee have hedged the vast majority 
(over 90%) of unintended non-sterling, overseas currency 
risk within the UK Pension Fund assets. 
Changes in 
bond yields 
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the 
present value placed on the DBO for accounting purposes, 
although this will be partially offset by an increase in the 
value of the UK Pension Fund’s bond holdings. 
The UK Pension Fund holds a significant proportion of its 
assets (around 35%) in corporate bonds, which provide a 
hedge against falling bond yields (falling yields which increase 
the DBO will also increase the value of the bond assets). 
This interest rate hedge is further extended by investments in 
gilts and the use of interest rate derivatives, so that overall the 
UK Pension Fund liabilities are approximately 45% hedged 
against falling interest rates on an economic value basis. 
Note that there are some differences in the credit quality 
of bonds held by the UK Pension Fund and the bonds 
analysed to decide the DBO discount rate, such that there 
remains some risk should yields on different quality bond/
swap assets diverge. 
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the DBO is indexed in line with 
price inflation (specifically inflation in the UK Retail Price 
Index) and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities 
(although, in most cases, this is capped at an annual 
increase of 5%). 
The UK Pension Fund holds some inflation-linked assets 
which provide a hedge against higher-than-expected inflation 
increases on the DBO. This is augmented by inflation swaps, 
such that overall the UK Pension Fund assets hedge 
approximately 50% of the liability exposure to changes in 
expected inflation on an economic value basis.
Life expectancy The majority of the UK Pension Fund’s obligations are to 
provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases 
in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities. 
The UK Pension Fund entered into a longevity swap during 
2013 which provides hedging against the longevity risk of 
increasing life expectancy over the next 78 years for around 
10,000 of the Pension Fund’s current pensioners and covers 
$3.4bn of the Pension Fund’s liabilities. A one year increase 
in life expectancy will result in $207m increase in pension 
fund assets.
Other risks
There are a number of other risks of running the UK Pension Fund including operational risks (such as paying out the wrong benefits) and 
legislative risks (such as the government increasing the burden on pension through new legislation).
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
169
20 Post-retirement benefits continued
Post-retirement scheme deficit
The assets and obligations of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group at 31 December 2015, as calculated in accordance with 
IAS 19, are shown below. The fair values of the schemes’ assets are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to 
significant change before they are realised. The present value of the schemes’ obligations is derived from cash flow projections over long 
periods and is therefore inherently uncertain.
2015 2014
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
Scheme assets
Equity: Global (exc. Emerging markets) 1,362 770 2,132 1,700 1,005 2,705
Equity: Emerging markets 140 1 141 320 21 341
Government bonds: Global (exc. Emerging markets) 1,614 421 2,035 1,373 255 1,628
Government bonds: Emerging markets 3 59 62 74 63 137
Investment grade corporate bonds (AAA-BBB): Global (exc. 
Emerging markets) 2,273 940 3,213 3,112 1,563 4,675
Investment grade corporate bonds (AAA-BBB): Emerging markets 30 – 30 106 9 115
Other corporate bonds: Global (exc. Emerging markets) 61 6 67 33 78 111
Other corporate bonds: Emerging markets 23 2 25 – – –
Derivatives: Interest rate contracts (111) (32) (143) (94) 30 (64)
Derivatives: Inflation rate contracts (92) 9 (83) (63) – (63)
Derivatives: Foreign exchange contracts (84) 3 (81) (14) (26) (40)
Derivatives: Other (140) – (140) 16 – 16
Derivatives: Longevity swap (37) – (37) – – –
Investment funds: Private equity funds (no quoted market price) – – – – 38 38
Investment funds: Hedge funds 531 154 685 335 111 446
Investment funds: Hedge funds (no quoted market price) 390 373 763 1 – 1
Cash and cash equivalents 436 159 595 302 76 378
Others 68 89 157 110 12 122
Total fair value of scheme assets
1
6,467 2,954 9,421 7,311 3,235 10,546
Scheme obligations
Present value of scheme obligations in respect of:
Active membership (1,094) (1,420) (2,514) (1,168) (1,763) (2,931)
Deferred membership (1,862) (986) (2,848) (2,474) (1,125) (3,599)
Pensioners (4,495) (1,538) (6,033) (5,200) (1,767) (6,967)
Total value of scheme obligations (7,451) (3,944) (11,395) (8,842) (4,655) (13,497)
Deficit in the scheme as recognised in the statement of 
financial position (984) (990) (1,974) (1,531) (1,420) (2,951)
1
 Included in scheme assets is $nil (2014: $nil) of the Company’s own assets.
Fair value of scheme assets
2015 2014
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
At beginning of year 7,311 3,235 10,546 7,021 3,248 10,269
Interest income on scheme assets 257 100 357 307 133 440
Expenses (5) (10) (15) (5) (4) (9)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (375) (64) (439) 670 274 944
Exchange adjustments (311) (97) (408) (426) (291) (717)
Employer contributions 360 42 402 88 96 184
Participant contributions 5 – 5 6 – 6
Settlements (447) – (447) – – –
Benefits paid (328) (252) (580) (350) (221) (571)
Scheme assets’ fair value at end of year 6,467 2,954 9,421 7,311 3,235 10,546
The actual return on the plan assets was a loss of $82m (2014: gain of $1,384m). 170 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
20 Post-retirement benefits continued
Movement in post-retirement scheme obligations
2015 2014
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
Present value of obligation in scheme at beginning of year (8,842) (4,655) (13,497) (8,403) (4,127) (12,530)
Current service cost (34) (105) (139) (33) (103) (136)
Past service cost (44) 16 (28) (63) (22) (85)
Participant contributions (5) – (5) (6) – (6)
Benefits paid 328 252 580 350 221 571
Interest expense on post-retirement scheme obligations (301) (133) (434) (369) (163) (532)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 613 478 1,091 (841) (869) (1,710)
Obligations arising on acquisitions – – – (4) (50) (54)
Settlements 447 – 447 – – –
Exchange adjustments 387 203 590 527 458 985
Present value of obligations in scheme at end of year (7,451) (3,944) (11,395) (8,842) (4,655) (13,497)
The obligations arise from the following plans:
2015 2014
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
Funded – pension schemes (7,429) (3,142) (10,571) (8,815) (3,694) (12,509)
Funded – post-retirement healthcare – (281) (281) – (360) (360)
Unfunded – pension schemes – (506) (506) – (586) (586)
Unfunded – post-retirement healthcare (22) (15) (37) (27) (15) (42)
Total (7,451) (3,944) (11,395) (8,842) (4,655) (13,497)
The weighted average duration of the post-retirement scheme obligations in the UK is 16 years and 14 years in the Rest of Group.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income disclosures
The amounts that have been charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, in respect of defined benefit schemes for the 
year ended 31 December 2015, are set out below.
2015 2014
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
UK
$m
Rest of Group
$m
Total
$m
Operating profit
Current service cost (34) (105) (139) (33) (103) (136)
Past service cost (44) 16 (28) (63) (22) (85)
Expenses (5) (10) (15) (5) (4) (9)
Total charge to operating profit (83) (99) (182) (101) (129) (230)
Finance expense
Interest income on scheme assets 257 100 357 307 133 440
Interest expense on post-retirement scheme obligations (301) (133) (434) (369) (163) (532)
Net interest on post-employment  
defined benefit plan liabilities (44) (33) (77) (62) (30) (92)
Charge before taxation (127) (132) (259) (163) (159) (322)
Other comprehensive income
Difference between the actual return and the  
expected return on the post-retirement scheme assets (375) (64) (439) 670 274 944
Experience gains/(losses) arising on the  
post-retirement scheme obligations 3 56 59 (8) (13) (21)
Changes in financial assumptions underlying the  
present value of the post-retirement scheme obligations 370 386 756 (848) (725) (1,573)
Changes in demographic assumptions 240 36 276 15 (131) (116)
Remeasurement of the defined benefit liability 238 414 652 (171) (595) (766)
Included in total assets and obligations for the UK is $nil (2014: $473m) in respect of the Investment Account (defined contribution) section of the 
UK Pension Fund. In 2015, AstraZeneca decided to no longer convert assets held in the Investment Account section into the defined benefit 
section, as members reached retirement. As a result, settlements within the year include $447m relating to the Investment Account being 
removed from both the UK assets and liabilities with a net impact of $nil on the overall deficit. 
Past service cost in 2015 includes a credit to operating income of $21m arising from the reduction of the pre-65 maximum annual cost of 
medical coverage in the US retiree health plans.
Group costs in respect of defined contribution schemes during the year were $302m (2014: $238m). Past service cost relates predominantly to 
enhanced pensions on early retirement in the UK and Sweden.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Financial Statements
171
20 Post-retirement benefits continued
Rate sensitivities
The following table shows the US dollar effect of a change in the significant actuarial assumptions used to determine the retirement benefits 
obligations in our four main defined benefit pension obligation countries.
2015 2014
+0.5% -0.5% +0.5% -0.5%
Discount rate
UK ($m) 530 (600) 622 (676)
US ($m) 111 (118) 119 (125)
Sweden ($m) 143 (164) 201 (232)
Germany ($m) 32 (37) 39 (45)
Total ($m) 816 (919) 981 (1,078)
2015 2014
+0.5% -0.5% +0.5% -0.5%
Inflation rate
1
UK ($m) (525) 517 (457) 520
US ($m) (14) 15 (19) 19
Sweden ($m) (159) 140 (229) 200
Germany ($m) (21) 19 (25) 23
Total ($m) (719) 691 (730) 762
2015 2014
+0.5% -0.5% +0.5% -0.5%
Rate of increase in salaries
UK ($m) – – – –
US ($m) (12) 12 (15) 15
Sweden ($m) (66) 58 (82) 72
Germany ($m) (1) 1 (1) 1
Total ($m) (79) 71 (98) 88
2015 2014
+1 year -1 year +1 year -1 year
Mortality rate
UK ($m) (313)
2
314
3
(318) 324
US ($m) (24) 25 (25) 26
Sweden ($m) (63) 62 (105) 105
Germany ($m) (13) 13 (15) 15
Total ($m) (413) 414 (463) 470
1
 Rate of increase in pensions in payment follows inflation.
2
 Of the $313m increase, $207m is covered by the longevity swap.
3
 Of the $314m decrease, $214m is covered by the longevity swap.
The sensitivity to the financial assumptions shown above has been estimated taking into account the approximate duration of the liabilities and 
the overall profile of the plan membership. The sensitivity to the life expectancy assumption has been estimated based on the distribution of the 
plan cash flows. 172 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
21 Reserves
Retained earnings
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off directly to reserves resulting from acquisitions, net of disposals, amounted to $624m (2014: $639m; 
2013: $679m) using year end rates of exchange. At 31 December 2015, 49,105 shares, at a cost of $4m, have been deducted from retained 
earnings (2014: 168,388 shares, at a cost of $10m; 2013: 99,341 shares, at a cost of $2m).
There are no significant statutory or contractual restrictions on the distribution of current profits of subsidiaries; undistributed profits of prior years 
are, in the main, permanently employed in the businesses of these companies. The undistributed income of AstraZeneca companies overseas 
might be liable to overseas taxes and/or UK taxation (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were to be distributed as dividends (see 
Note 4).
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Cumulative translation differences included within retained earnings
Balance at beginning of year 490 1,782 1,901
Foreign exchange arising on consolidation (528) (823) (166)
Exchange adjustments on goodwill (recorded against other reserves) (15) (40) (6)
Foreign exchange arising on designating borrowings in net investment hedges (333) (529) (58)
Fair value movement on derivatives designated in net investment hedges 14 100 111
Net exchange movement in retained earnings (862) (1,292) (119)
Balance at end of year (372) 490 1,782
Other reserves
The other reserves arose from the cancellation of £1,255m of share premium account by the Company in 1993 and the redenomination of share 
capital ($157m) in 1999. The reserves are available for writing off goodwill arising on consolidation and, subject to guarantees given to preserve 
creditors at the date of the court order, are available for distribution. 
22 Share capital of the Company
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Issued Ordinary Shares ($0.25 each) 316 316 315
Redeemable Preference Shares (£1 each – £50,000) – – –
At 31 December 316 316 315
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry limited class voting rights and no dividend rights. This class of shares is capable of redemption at par 
at the option of the Company on the giving of seven days’ written notice to the registered holder of the shares.
The movements in the number of Ordinary Shares during the year can be summarised as follows:
No. of shares
2015 2014 2013
At 1 January 1,263,143,338 1,257,170,087 1,246,779,548
Issues of shares 979,332 5,973,251 10,390,539
At 31 December 1,264,122,670 1,263,143,338 1,257,170,087
Share repurchases
No Ordinary Shares were repurchased by the Company in 2015 (2014: nil; 2013: nil).
Share option schemes
A total of 1.0m Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in respect of share option schemes (2014: 6.0m Ordinary Shares; 2013: 10.4m 
Ordinary Shares). Details of Directors’ interests in shares are shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report from page 103.
Shares held by subsidiaries
No shares in the Company were held by subsidiaries in any year. 
23 Dividends to shareholders
2015
Per share
2014
Per share
2013
Per share
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Final $1.90 $1.90 $1.90 2,400 2,395 2,372
Interim $0.90 $0.90 $0.90 1,137 1,137 1,127
Total $2.80 $2.80 $2.80 3,537 3,532 3,499
The second interim dividend, to be confirmed as final, is $1.90 per Ordinary Share and $2,402m in total. This will be payable on 21 March 2016.
On payment of the dividends, exchange gains of $2m (2014: losses of $3m; 2013: gains of $1m) arose. These exchange gains are included in 
Note 3.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 173
24 Acquisitions of business operations
2015 Acquisitions
ZS Pharma
On 17 December, AstraZeneca completed the acquisition of ZS Pharma, a biopharmaceutical company based in San Mateo, California. 
ZS Pharma uses its proprietary ion-trap technology to develop novel treatments for hyperkalaemia, a serious condition of elevated potassium 
in the bloodstream, typically associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and chronic heart failure (CHF).
The acquisition gives AstraZeneca access to the potassium-binding compound ZS-9, a potential best-in-class treatment for hyperkalaemia, 
which is under regulatory review by the US Food and Drug Administration with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act goal date of 26 May 2016. 
A submission for European Marketing Application Authorisation was made late in 2015.
ZS Pharma represents a strong fit with AstraZeneca’s pipeline and portfolio in Cardiovascular and Metabolic disease, one of the Company’s 
three main therapy areas. AstraZeneca’s strategy focuses on reducing morbidity, mortality and organ damage by addressing multiple risk factors 
across cardiovascular disease, diabetes and chronic kidney disease. ZS-9 complements the Company’s increasing focus on CKD and CHF, 
including the investigational medicine roxadustat, which is currently in Phase III development for patients with anaemia associated with CKD, 
as well as its leading diabetes portfolio.
Under the terms of the agreement, AstraZeneca has acquired 100% of the share capital of ZS Pharma for $90 per share in an all-cash transaction, 
or approximately $2.7bn in aggregate transaction value.
ZS Pharma has around 200 employees across three sites in California, Texas and Colorado. The combination of intangible product rights with 
an established workforce and their associated operating processes, principally those related to research and development and manufacturing, 
requires that the transaction is accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3.
Goodwill is principally attributable to the commercial synergies AstraZeneca expects to be able to realise upon launch of ZS-9, the value of the 
specialist knowhow inherent in the acquired workforce and the accounting for deferred taxes. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for 
tax purposes.
ZS Pharma’s results have been consolidated into the Group’s results from 17 December 2015. From the period from acquisition to 31 December 
2015, ZS Pharma’s revenues and loss were immaterial.
If the acquisition had taken effect at the beginning of the reporting period in which the acquisition occurred (1 January 2015), on a pro forma basis, 
the revenue of the combined Group for 2015 would have been unchanged and the profit after tax would have been $2,702m. This pro forma 
information does not purport to represent the results of the combined Group that actually would have occurred had the acquisition taken place 
on 1 January 2015 and should not be taken to be representative of future results.
Given the proximity of the completion of the transaction to the date the Financial Statements were approved, the finalisation of the accounting 
entries for this transaction has yet to be completed. Our provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired is detailed 
below. Our assessment will be completed in 2016.
Fair value
$m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets (Note 9) 3,162
Property, plant and equipment (Note 7) 21
3,183
Current assets 169
Current liabilities (50)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (1,045)
Other liabilities (13)
(1,058)
Total net assets acquired 2,244
Goodwill (Note 8) 456
Total upfront consideration 2,700
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired (73)
Less: upfront consideration settled in January 2016 (181)
Net cash outflow 2,446
Acquisition costs were immaterial.
Financial Statements 174 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
2014 Acquisitions
BMS’s share of Global Diabetes Alliance Assets
On 1 February 2014, AstraZeneca completed the acquisition of BMS’s interests in the companies’ diabetes alliance. The acquisition provided 
AstraZeneca with 100% ownership of the intellectual property and global rights for the development, manufacture and commercialisation of the 
diabetes business, including Onglyza (saxagliptin), Kombiglyze XR (saxagliptin and metformin HCl extended release), Komboglyze (saxagliptin 
and metformin HCl), Farxiga (dapagliflozin, marketed as Forxiga outside the US), Byetta (exenatide), Bydureon (exenatide extended release for 
injectable suspension), Myalept (metreleptin) and Symlin (pramlintide acetate). 
The transaction consolidated worldwide ownership of the diabetes business within AstraZeneca, leveraging its primary and specialty care 
capabilities and its geographical reach, especially in emerging markets. The transaction included the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of 
Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC, and the asset purchase of the additional intellectual property and global rights not already owned by AstraZeneca, 
for the development, manufacture and commercialisation of Onglyza, Kombiglyze XR, Komboglyze and Farxiga, including associated BMS 
employees. This combination of intangible product rights and manufacturing assets with an established workforce and their associated 
operating processes, principally those related to the global manufacturing and selling and marketing operations, required that the acquisition 
be accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3. 
Upfront consideration for the acquisition of $2.7bn was paid on 1 February 2014, with further payments of up to $1.4bn being payable for future 
regulatory, launch and sales-related milestones as well as various sales-related royalty payments up until 2025. The amount of royalties payable 
under the agreement is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict, given the direct link to future sales and the range of outcomes cannot be 
reliably estimated. The maximum amount payable in each year is with reference to net sales. AstraZeneca also agreed to make payments up 
to $225m when certain additional assets are transferred. Contingent consideration was fair valued using decision-tree analysis, with key inputs 
including the probability of success, consideration of potential delays and the expected levels of future revenues. In accordance with IFRS 3, 
the fair value of contingent consideration, including future royalties, was recognised immediately as a liability. 
The acquiring entity within the Group was a Swedish krona functional currency subsidiary. Foreign currency risk arises from the retranslation of 
the US dollar denominated contingent consideration. To manage this foreign currency risk the contingent consideration liability has been designated 
as the hedge instrument in a net investment hedge of the Group’s underlying US dollar net investments. Exchange differences on the retranslation 
of the contingent consideration liability are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. Any ineffectiveness 
is taken to profit.
In addition to the acquired interests, AstraZeneca entered into certain agreements with BMS to maintain the manufacturing and supply chain of 
the full portfolio of diabetes products and to deliver specified clinical trials with an agreed number of R&D and manufacturing employees dedicated 
to diabetes remaining with BMS to progress the diabetes portfolio and support the transition for these areas. Payments by AstraZeneca to BMS 
in relation to these arrangements are expensed as incurred. No amounts were recognised in the initial acquisition accounting in relation to these 
arrangements but were separated, at fair value, from the business combination accounting.
The terms of the agreement partially reflected settlement of the launch and sales-related milestones under the pre-existing Onglyza and Farxiga 
collaboration agreements, which were terminated in relation to the acquisition. The expected value of those pre-existing milestones was $0.3bn 
and was recognised as a separate component of consideration and excluded from the business combination accounting. Subsequently, these 
separate intangible assets have been recognised.
Goodwill of $1,530m arising on the transaction is underpinned by a number of elements, which individually cannot be quantified. Most significant 
among these are the synergies AstraZeneca expects to be able to generate through more efficient manufacturing processes and the incremental 
value accessible through strategic and operational independence upon taking full control of the alliance. Goodwill of $1.5bn is expected to be 
deductible for tax purposes.
The fair value of receivables acquired as part of the acquisition approximated the gross contractual amounts receivable. There were no significant 
amounts which were not expected to be collected. 
The results from the additional acquired interests in the diabetes alliance were consolidated into the Group’s results from 1 February 2014, which 
added revenue of $895m in the period to 31 December 2014. Due to the highly integrated nature of the diabetes alliance, and the fact that it is 
not operated through a separate legal entity, the incremental direct costs associated with the additional acquired interest are not separately 
identifiable and it is impracticable therefore to disclose the profit or loss recognised in the period since acquisition.
If the acquisition had taken effect at the beginning of the reporting period in which the acquisition occurred (1 January 2014), on a pro forma 
basis, the revenue of the combined Group for 2014 would have been $26,174m. As detailed above, it is impracticable to disclose a pro forma 
profit after tax. This pro forma information does not purport to represent the results of the combined Group that actually would have occurred 
had the acquisition taken place on 1 January 2014 and should not be taken to be representative of future results. 
Almirall
On 31 October 2014, the Group completed the agreement with Almirall to transfer the rights to Almirall’s respiratory franchise to AstraZeneca.
The transaction provided AstraZeneca with 100% of the rights for the development and commercialisation of Almirall’s existing proprietary 
respiratory business, including rights to revenues from Almirall’s existing collaborations, as well as its pipeline of investigational novel therapies. 
The franchise includes Eklira (aclidinium); Duaklir Genuair, the combination of aclidinium with formoterol which had been filed for registration in the 
EU and developed in the US (EU approval received in November 2014); LAS100977 (abediterol), a once-daily long-acting beta 2-agonist (LABA) 
in Phase II; an M3 antagonist beta 2-agonist (MABA) platform in pre-clinical development (LAS191351, LAS194871) and Phase I (LAS190792); 
and multiple pre-clinical programmes. Almirall Sofotec, an Almirall subsidiary focused on the development of innovative proprietary devices, 
also transferred to AstraZeneca. In addition, Almirall employees dedicated to the respiratory business, including Almirall Sofotec employees, 
transferred to AstraZeneca.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 175
24 Acquisitions of business operations continued
Upfront consideration for the acquisition of $878m was paid in November 2014, with further payments of up to $1.22bn being payable for future 
development, launch, and sales-related milestones. AstraZeneca also agreed to make various sales-related payments. The amount of royalties 
payable under the agreement is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict, given the direct link to future sales and the range of outcomes 
cannot be reliably estimated. The maximum amount payable in each year is with reference to net sales. Contingent consideration was fair 
valued using decision-tree analysis, with key inputs including the probability of success, consideration of potential delays and the expected 
levels of future revenues.
The acquiring entity within the Group was a pounds sterling functional currency subsidiary. Foreign currency risk arises from the retranslation 
of the contingent consideration. To manage this foreign currency risk the contingent consideration liability has been designated as the hedge 
instrument in a net investment hedge. Exchange differences on the retranslation of the contingent consideration liability are recognised in other 
comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. Any ineffectiveness is taken to profit.
Almirall’s pipeline of novel respiratory assets and its device capabilities further strengthen AstraZeneca’s Respiratory portfolio, which includes 
Symbicort and Pulmicort, as well as the investigational medicines in development. The addition of aclidinium and the combination of aclidinium 
with formoterol, both in proprietary Genuair device, allows AstraZeneca to offer patients a choice between dry powder inhaler and metered- 
dose inhaler devices across a range of molecules and combinations.
The combination of intangible product rights with an established workforce and their associated operating processes, principally those related 
to the selling and marketing operations, requires that the transaction is accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3. 
Goodwill of $311m is underpinned by a number of elements, which individually cannot be quantified. Most significant among these is the premium 
attributable to the significant competitive advantage associated with AstraZeneca’s complementary portfolio and that attributable to a highly 
skilled workforce. Goodwill of $0.3bn is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Almirall’s respiratory franchise results were consolidated into the Group’s results from 31 October 2014. For the period from acquisition to 
31 December 2014, Almirall’s respiratory franchise revenues were $13m. Due to the highly integrated nature of the respiratory franchise, and the 
fact that it is not operated through a separate legal entity, the incremental direct costs associated with the acquired interest are not separately 
identifiable and it is impracticable therefore to disclose the profit or loss recognised in the period since acquisition.
If the acquisition had taken effect at the beginning of the reporting period in which the acquisition occurred (1 January 2014), on a pro forma 
basis, the revenue of the combined Group for 2014 would have been $26,198m. As detailed above, it is impracticable to disclose a pro forma 
profit after tax. This pro forma information does not purport to represent the results of the combined Group that actually would have occurred 
had the acquisition taken place on 1 January 2014 and should not be taken to be representative of future results.
Definiens
On 25 November 2014, AstraZeneca completed the acquisition of Definiens Group, a privately-held German company focused on imaging 
and data analysis technology, known as Tissue Phenomics™, which dramatically improves the identification of biomarkers in tumour tissue.
Definiens technology provides detailed cell-by-cell readouts from target structures on tissue slides and allows the correlation of this information 
with data derived from other sources, generating new knowledge and supporting better decisions in research, diagnostics and therapy.
AstraZeneca acquired 100% of Definiens shares for an upfront consideration of $150m and contingent consideration of up to $150m based on 
reaching three predetermined development milestones. Contingent consideration was fair valued using decision-tree analysis, with key inputs 
including the probability of success and consideration of potential delays.
The acquiring entity within the Group was a pounds sterling functional currency subsidiary. Foreign currency risk arises from the retranslation of 
the US dollar denominated contingent consideration. To manage this foreign currency risk the contingent consideration liability has been designated 
as the hedge instrument in a net investment hedge of the Group’s underlying US dollar net investments. Exchange differences on the retranslation 
of the contingent consideration liability are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. Any ineffectiveness 
is taken to profit.
Definiens’ results were consolidated into the Group’s results from 25 November 2014. For the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014, 
Definiens’ revenues were immaterial, in the context of the Group’s revenues, and its loss after tax was immaterial.
If the acquisition had taken effect at the beginning of the reporting period in which the acquisition occurred (1 January 2014), on a pro forma 
basis, the revenue of the combined Group for 2014 would have been unchanged and the change in profit after tax would have been immaterial. 
This pro forma information does not purport to represent the results of the combined Group that actually would have occurred had the acquisition 
taken place on 1 January 2014 and should not be taken to be representative of future results.
Financial Statements 176 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
24 Acquisitions of business operations continued
The fair values assigned to the business combinations completed in 2014 were:
2014 acquisitions
BMS’s share of
Global Diabetes
Alliance Assets
$m
Almirall
$m
Definiens
$m
Total
$m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets (Note 9) 5,746 1,400 355 7,501
Property, plant and equipment (Note 7) 478 37 – 515
6,224 1,437 355 8,016
Current assets 480 24 – 504
Current liabilities (278) (2) – (280)
Non-current liabilities (84) (11) (117) (212)
Total net assets acquired 6,342 1,448 238 8,028
Goodwill (Note 8) 1,530 311 – 1,841
Fair value of total consideration 7,872 1,759 238 9,869
Less: fair value of contingent consideration (Note 18) (5,169) (881) (88) (6,138)
Total upfront consideration 2,703 878 150 3,731
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired – (2) – (2)
Net cash outflow 2,703 876 150 3,729
Acquisition costs arising on acquisitions in 2014 were immaterial.
2013 acquisitions
Pearl Therapeutics
On 27 June 2013, AstraZeneca completed the acquisition of Pearl Therapeutics. Pearl Therapeutics is based in Redwood City, California, and 
is focused on the development of inhaled small molecule therapeutics for respiratory disease. AstraZeneca acquired 100% of Pearl Therapeutics’ 
shares for an upfront consideration of $569m. In addition, consideration of up to $450m is payable if specified development and regulatory 
milestones in respect of any triple combination therapies and selected future products that AstraZeneca develops using Pearl Therapeutics’ 
technology platform are achieved. Sales-related payments of up to a further $140m are payable if pre-agreed cumulative sales thresholds are 
exceeded. Contingent consideration was fair valued using decision-tree analysis, with key inputs including the probability of success and 
consideration of potential delays.
Goodwill of $44m was recorded for the acquisition and is underpinned by a number of elements, which individually cannot be quantified. Most 
significant among these is the synergistic benefit generated by acquiring Pearl Therapeutics’ workforce, whose skills and knowhow are critical 
to the best and most efficient completion of the ongoing development programmes.
Pearl Therapeutics’ results were consolidated into the Group’s results from 27 June 2013. For the period from acquisition to 31 December 2013, 
Pearl Therapeutics’ revenues were immaterial, in the context of the Group’s revenue, and its loss after tax was $49m.
Omthera Pharmaceuticals
On 18 July 2013, AstraZeneca completed the acquisition of Omthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Omthera is a specialty pharmaceutical company 
based in Princeton, New Jersey, focused on the development and commercialisation of new therapies for abnormal levels of lipids in the blood, 
referred to as dyslipidaemia. 
AstraZeneca acquired 100% of Omthera’s shares for an upfront consideration of $323m with up to $120m in future development and approval 
milestones. Contingent consideration was fair valued using decision-tree analysis, with key inputs including the probability of success and 
consideration of potential delays.
Omthera’s results were consolidated into the Group’s results from 18 July 2013. For the period from acquisition to 31 December 2013, Omthera’s 
revenues were immaterial, in the context of the Group’s revenue, and its loss after tax was $10m. 
Amplimmune
On 4 October 2013, AstraZeneca completed the acquisition of Amplimmune, a privately-held, Maryland, US-based biologics company focused 
on developing novel therapeutics in cancer immunology. Under the terms of the agreement, AstraZeneca acquired 100% of Amplimmune’s 
shares for an initial consideration of $225m and deferred consideration of up to $275m based on reaching predetermined development 
milestones. Contingent consideration was fair valued using decision-tree analysis, with key inputs including the probability of success and 
consideration of potential delays.
The acquisition bolsters AstraZeneca’s Oncology pipeline by obtaining multiple early-stage assets for its immune-mediated cancer therapy 
(IMT-C) portfolio, including AMP-514, an anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) monoclonal antibody (MAb). Other Amplimmune assets include 
multiple preclinical molecules targeting the B7 pathways. 
Goodwill of $33m arising on the acquisition is underpinned by a number of elements, which individually cannot be quantified, but include 
Amplimmune’s very early programmes of potential interest for oncology, immunology and infectious diseases, as well as research tools and 
animal models.
Amplimmune’s results were consolidated into the Group’s results from 4 October 2013. For the period from acquisition to 31 December 2013, 
Amplimmune’s revenues were immaterial, in the context of the Group’s revenue, and its loss after tax was $5m. 
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 177
24 Acquisitions of business operations continued
Spirogen
On 15 October 2013, AstraZeneca completed the acquisition of Spirogen, a privately-held biotech company focused on antibody drug conjugate 
technology for use in oncology. AstraZeneca acquired 100% of Spirogen’s shares for an initial consideration of $200m and deferred consideration 
of up to $240m based on reaching predetermined development milestones. Existing out-licensing agreements and associated revenue streams 
were excluded from this acquisition. Contingent consideration was fair valued using decision-tree analysis, with key inputs including the probability 
of success and consideration of potential delays.
AstraZeneca also entered into a collaboration agreement with ADC Therapeutics to jointly develop two of ADC Therapeutics’ antibody-drug 
conjugate programmes in preclinical development. AstraZeneca also made an equity investment in ADC Therapeutics, which has an existing 
licensing agreement with Spirogen.
Spirogen’s results were consolidated into the Group’s results from 15 October 2013. For the period from acquisition to 31 December 2013, 
Spirogen’s revenues were immaterial, in the context of the Group’s revenue, and its loss after tax was immaterial. 
The fair values assigned to the business combinations completed in 2013 were:
2013 acquisitions
Pearl Therapeutics
$m
Omthera
$m
Amplimmune
$m
Spirogen
$m
Total
$m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets (Note 9) 985 526 534 371 2,416
Property, plant and equipment (Note 7) – – 7 1 8
Deferred tax assets 60 18 14 – 92
1,045 544 555 372 2,516
Current assets 12 67 17 – 96
Current liabilities (4) (10) (8) – (22)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities (379) (216) (219) (4) (818)
Total net assets acquired 674 385 345 368 1,772
Goodwill (Note 8) 44 – 33 – 77
Fair value of total consideration 718 385 378 368 1,849
Less: fair value of contingent consideration (Note 18) (149) (62) (153) (168) (532)
Total upfront consideration 569 323 225 200 1,317
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired (4) (63) (17) – (84)
Less: deferred upfront consideration – – (75) – (75)
Net cash outflow 565 260 133 200 1,158
Acquisition costs arising on acquisitions in 2013 were immaterial.
If the 2013 acquisitions had taken effect at the beginning of the reporting period in which the acquisitions occurred (1 January 2013), on a 
pro forma basis, the revenue of the combined Group for 2013 would have been unchanged and the profit after tax would have been $2,458m. 
This pro forma information has been prepared taking into account any amortisation, interest costs and related tax effects but does not purport 
to represent the results of the combined Group that actually would have occurred had the acquisition taken place on 1 January 2013 and should 
not be taken to be representative of future results.
25 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank overdrafts, finance leases, loans, current and non-current 
investments, cash and short-term deposits. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage the Group’s funding and liquidity 
requirements. The Group has other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from 
its operations. 
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit. Each of these is 
managed in accordance with Board-approved policies. These policies are set out below.
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency forwards and swaps, currency options, cross-currency swaps and interest rate 
swaps for the purpose of hedging its foreign currency and interest rate risks. The Group may designate certain financial instruments as either 
fair value hedges or net investment hedges in accordance with IAS 39. Key controls applied to transactions in derivative financial instruments 
are: to use only instruments where good market liquidity exists, to revalue all financial instruments regularly using current market rates and to 
sell options only to offset previously purchased options or as part of a risk management strategy. The Group is not a net seller of options, and 
does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Capital management
The capital structure of the Group consists of shareholders’ equity (Note 22), debt (Note 17) and cash (Note 16). For the foreseeable future, 
the Board will maintain a capital structure that supports the Group’s strategic objectives through:
 > managing funding and liquidity risk
 > optimising shareholder return
 > maintaining a strong, investment-grade credit rating.
The Group utilises factoring arrangements for selected trade receivables. These factoring arrangements qualify for full derecognition of the 
associated trade receivables under IAS 39.
Funding and liquidity risk are reviewed regularly by the Board and managed in accordance with policies described below.
Financial Statements 178 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
25 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
The Board’s distribution policy comprises a regular cash dividend and, subject to business needs, a share repurchase component. The Board 
regularly reviews its shareholders’ return strategy, and in 2012 decided to suspend share repurchases in order to retain strategic flexibility.
The Group’s net debt position (loans and borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivative financial instruments) 
has increased from a net debt position of $3,223m at the beginning of the year to a net debt position of $7 ,762m at 31 December 2015, primarily 
as a result of increased outflows from investing activities, including acquisitions.
Liquidity risk
The Board reviews the Group’s ongoing liquidity risks annually as part of the planning process and on an ad hoc basis. The Board considers 
short-term requirements against available sources of funding, taking into account forecast cash flows. The Group manages liquidity risk by 
maintaining access to a number of sources of funding which are sufficient to meet anticipated funding requirements. Specifically, the Group 
uses US commercial paper, committed bank facilities and cash resources to manage short-term liquidity and manages long-term liquidity by 
raising funds through the capital markets. The Group is assigned short-term credit ratings of P-2 by Moody’s and A-2 by Standard and Poor’s. 
The Group’s long-term credit rating is A3 stable outlook by Moody’s and A- stable outlook by Standard and Poor’s.
In addition to cash and cash equivalents of $6,240m, fixed deposits of $65m, less overdrafts of $189m at 31 December 2015, the Group has 
committed bank facilities of $3bn available to manage liquidity. At 31 December 2015, the Group has issued $1,327m under a Euro Medium 
Term Note programme and $12,782m under a SEC-registered programme. The Group regularly monitors the credit standing of the banking 
group and currently does not anticipate any issue with drawing on the committed facilities should this be necessary. The committed facilities 
of $3bn mature in April 2020 and were undrawn at 31 December 2015.
The maturity profile of the anticipated future contractual cash flows including interest in relation to the Group’s financial liabilities, on an 
undiscounted basis and which, therefore, differs from both the carrying value and fair value, is as follows:
Bank
overdrafts
and other
loans
$m
Bonds
$m
Finance
leases
$m
Trade
and other
payables
$m
Total
non-derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Interest
rate swaps
$m
Cross-
currency
swaps
$m
Total
derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Total
$m
Within one year 993 1,217 34 10,370 12,614 (70) (16) (86) 12,528
In one to two years – 1,482 33 1,044 2,559 (70) (16) (86) 2,473
In two to three years – 393 31 660 1,084 (51) (16) (67) 1,017
In three to four years – 2,143 18 285 2,446 (51) (16) (67) 2,379
In four to five years – 290 3 230 523 (51) (15) (66) 457
In more than five years – 10,497 – 1,010 11,507 (77) (229) (306) 11,201
993 16,022 119 13,599 30,733 (370) (308) (678) 30,055
Effect of interest (1) (6,872) (17) – (6,890) 370 97 467 (6,423)
Effect of discounting, fair values and 
issue costs – 132 – (885) (753) (193) 24 (169) (922)
31 December 2013 992 9,282 102 12,714 23,090 (193) (187) (380) 22,710
Bank
overdrafts
and other
loans
$m
Bonds
$m
Finance
leases
$m
Trade
and other
payables
$m
Total
non-derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Interest
rate swaps
$m
Cross-
currency
swaps
$m
Total
derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Total
$m
Within one year 1,488 1,490 45 11,909 14,932 (52) (16) (68) 14,864
In one to two years – 401 45 1,720 2,166 (52) (16) (68) 2,098
In two to three years – 2,151 31 936 3,118 (52) (16) (68) 3,050
In three to four years – 298 8 924 1,230 (16) (19) (35) 1,195
In four to five years – 1,298 1 1,323 2,622 (16) (325) (341) 2,281
In more than five years – 10,135 – 7,002 17,137 (62) – (62) 17,075
1,488 15,773 130 23,814 41,205 (250) (392) (642) 40,563
Effect of interest (2) (6,461) (22) – (6,485) 250 83 333 (6,152)
Effect of discounting, fair values and 
issue costs – (63) – (3,937) (4,000) (161) 5 (156) (4,156)
31 December 2014 1,486 9,249 108 19,877 30,720 (161) (304) (465) 30,255
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 179
25 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Bank
overdrafts
and other
loans
$m
Bonds
$m
Finance
leases
$m
Trade
and other
payables
$m
Total
non-derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Interest
rate swaps
$m
Cross-
currency
swaps
$m
Total
derivative
financial
instruments
$m
Total
$m
Within one year 851 568 66 11,701 13,186 (54) (17) (71) 13,115
In one to two years – 2,318 41 1,522 3,881 (54) (17) (71) 3,810
In two to three years – 1,865 22 1,110 2,997 (19) (26) (45) 2,952
In three to four years – 1,444 10 1,277 2,731 (15) (330) (345) 2,386
In four to five years – 2,025 2 2,187 4,214 (15) – (15) 4,199
In more than five years – 14,192 – 5,313 19,505 (44) – (44) 19,461
851 22,412 141 23,110 46,514 (201) (390) (591) 45,923
Effect of interest (2) (8,194) (46) – (8,242) 201 67 268 (7,974)
Effect of discounting, fair values and 
issue costs – (109) – (3,990) (4,099) (126) 3 (123) (4,222)
31 December 2015 849 14,109 95 19,120 34,173 (126) (320) (446) 33,727
Where interest payments are on a floating rate basis, it is assumed that rates will remain unchanged from the last business day of each year 
ended 31 December.
It is not expected that the cash flows in the maturity profile could occur significantly earlier or at significantly different amounts, with the exception 
of $6,411m of contingent consideration held within other payables at fair value (see Note 18).
Market risk
Interest rate risk
The Group maintains a mix of fixed and floating rate debt. The portion of fixed rate debt was approved by the Board and any variation requires 
Board approval.
A significant portion of the long-term debt entered into in 2007 in order to finance the acquisition of MedImmune and entered into in 2015 in 
order to finance the acquisition of ZS Pharma has been held at fixed rates of interest. The Group uses interest rate swaps and forward rate 
agreements to manage this mix. 
At 31 December 2015, the Group held interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1.6bn, converting the 7% guaranteed debentures payable in 
2023 to floating rates, partially converting the 5.9% callable bond maturing in 2017 to floating rates and partially converting the 1.75% callable bond 
maturing in 2018 to floating rates. The interest rate swap on the 2018 bond was entered into in 2015. No new interest rate swaps were entered 
into during 2014 or 2013. At 31 December 2015, swaps with a notional value of $1.35bn were designated in fair value hedge relationships and 
swaps with a notional value of $0.29bn related to debt designated as fair value through profit or loss. Designated hedges are expected to be 
effective and therefore the impact of ineffectiveness on profit is not expected to be material. The accounting treatment for fair value hedges and 
debt designated as fair value through profit or loss is disclosed in the Group Accounting Policies section from page 144. The majority of 
surplus cash is currently invested in US dollar liquidity funds earning floating rates of interest. 
The interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments, as at 31 December 2015, 31 December 2014 and 31 December 
2013, is set out below. In the case of current and non -current financial liabilities, the classification includes the impact of interest rate swaps 
which convert the debt to floating rate.
2015 2014 2013
Fixed rate
$m
Floating rate
$m
Total
$m
Fixed rate
$m
Floating rate
$m
Total
$m
Fixed rate
$m
Floating rate
$m
Total
$m
Financial liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Current 67 849 916 960 1,486 2,446 30 1,758 1,788
Non-current 11,986 2,151 14,137 7,199 1,198 8,397 7,376 1,212 8,588
Total 12,053 3,000 15,053 8,159 2,684 10,843 7,406 2,970 10,376
Financial assets
Fixed deposits – 65 65 – 20 20 – 15 15
Cash and cash equivalents – 6,240 6,240 – 6,360 6,360 – 9,217 9,217
Total – 6,305 6,305 – 6,380 6,380 – 9,232 9,232
In addition to the financial assets above, there are $6,494m (2014: $7 ,576m; 2013: $7 ,772m) of other current and non-current asset investments 
and other financial assets on which no interest is received. 
Financial Statements 180 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
25 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Foreign currency risk
The US dollar is the Group’s most significant currency. As a consequence, the Group results are presented in US dollars and exposures are 
managed against US dollars accordingly.
Translational
Approximately 60% of Group external sales in 2015 were denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, while a significant proportion of 
manufacturing, and research and development costs were denominated in pounds sterling and Swedish krona. Surplus cash generated by 
business units is substantially converted to, and held centrally in, US dollars. As a result, operating profit and total cash flow in US dollars will be 
affected by movements in exchange rates.
This currency exposure is managed centrally, based on forecast cash flows. The impact of movements in exchange rates is mitigated significantly 
by the correlations which exist between the major currencies to which the Group is exposed and the US dollar. Monitoring of currency exposures 
and correlations is undertaken on a regular basis and hedging is subject to pre-execution approval.
Where there is non-US dollar debt and an underlying net investment of that amount in the same currency, the Group applies net investment 
hedging. As at 31 December 2015, 3.4% of interest-bearing loans and borrowings were denominated in pound sterling and 5.4% of interest-
bearing loans and borrowings were denominated in euros. Exchange differences on the retranslation of debt designated as net investment 
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. Any ineffectiveness is taken to profit. Exchange 
differences on foreign currency borrowings not designated in a hedge relationship are taken to profit.
During 2013, the Group entered into a cross-currency swap to convert the remaining un-hedged $250m of the 1.95% 2019 maturing bond into 
fixed Japanese yen debt. This instrument was designated in a net investment hedge against the foreign currency risk of the Group’s Japanese 
yen net assets. In 2014, $125m of the Japanese yen cross-currency swap was de-designated from the net investment hedge in order to maintain 
hedge effectiveness.
Also in 2013, the Group entered into a cross-currency swap to convert $151m into fixed Chinese renminbi debt maturing in 2018. This instrument 
was designated in a net investment hedge against the foreign currency risk of the Group’s Chinese renminbi net assets. Fair value movements 
on the revaluation of the cross-currency swaps are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. Any 
ineffectiveness would be taken to profit.
Foreign currency risk arises where the Group has intercompany funding and investments in certain subsidiaries operating in countries with 
exchange controls. The most significant risk in this respect is Venezuela, where the Group has approximately $98m equivalent of local currency 
cash, on which there have been delays in obtaining approval for remittance outside the country.
The official exchange rate for essential goods and services is VEF 6.3/$ as published by CENCOEX (the National Foreign Trade Center). However, 
alternative exchange rates exist and these include the SICAD (Supplementary Foreign Currency Administration System) rate and the SIMADI 
(Sistema Marginal de Divisas) rate, which was introduced in 2015. At 31 December 2015, the SICAD rate was VEF 13.5/$ (31 December 2014: 
VEF 12.0/$) and the SIMADI rate was VEF 199.7/$.
For the period to 31 December 2015, the Group used the SICAD rate for the consolidation of the financial statements of the Venezuelan subsidiaries. 
The Group believes that the SICAD rate represents the most appropriate rate for consolidation as it reflects their best expectation of the rate at 
which profits will be remitted. Factors such as future uncertainty and significant delays experienced in remitting cash at the CENCOEX rate, as 
well as management actions in dealing with the government to settle a portion of the overdue receivables at the SICAD rate were taken into account.
If the Group were to use the SIMADI rate for the consolidation of the financial statements of the Venezuelan subsidiaries, the Group would be 
exposed to a potential income statement devaluation loss of $163m on its total intercompany balances with the subsidiaries in Venezuela and 
the local currency cash would be reduced to $7m on consolidation.
Transactional
One hundred percent of the Group’s major transactional currency exposures on working capital balances, which typically extend for up to three 
months, are hedged, where practicable, using forward foreign exchange contracts against individual Group companies’ reporting currency. In 
addition, the Group’s external dividend, which is paid principally in pounds sterling and Swedish krona, is fully hedged from announcement to 
payment date. Foreign exchange gains and losses on forward contracts transacted for transactional hedging are taken to profit.
Sensitivity analysis 
The sensitivity analysis set out below summarises the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes in 
market rates and prices. The range of variables chosen for the sensitivity analysis reflects our view of changes which are reasonably possible 
over a one-year period. Market values are the present value of future cash flows based on market rates and prices at the valuation date. For 
long-term debt, an increase in interest rates results in a decline in the fair value of debt.
The sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 100 basis point change in interest rates in all currencies from their levels at 31 December 
2015, with all other variables held constant. Based on the composition of our long-term debt portfolio as at 31 December 2015, a 1% increase 
in interest rates would result in an additional $30m in interest expense being incurred per year. The exchange rate sensitivity analysis assumes 
an instantaneous 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates from their levels at 31 December 2015, with all other variables held constant. 
The +10% case assumes a 10% strengthening of the US dollar against all other currencies and the -10% case assumes a 10% weakening of 
the US dollar.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 181
25 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Each incremental 10% movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have approximately the same effect as the initial 10% detailed in the 
table below and each 1% change in interest rates would have approximately the same effect as the 1% detailed in the table below.
Interest rates Exchange rates
31 December 2013 +1% -1% +10% -10%
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of financial instruments ($m) 669 (839) (12) 12
Impact on profit: (loss)/gain ($m) – – (274) 274
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) ($m) – – 262 (262)
Interest rates Exchange rates
31 December 2014 +1% -1% +10% -10%
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of financial instruments ($m) 844 (856) 85 (85)
Impact on profit: (loss)/gain ($m) – – (247) 247
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) ($m) – – 332 (332)
Interest rates Exchange rates
31 December 2015 +1% -1% +10% -10%
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of financial instruments ($m) 997 (1,150) 136 (136)
Impact on profit: (loss)/gain ($m) – – (91) 91
Impact on equity: gain/(loss) ($m) – – 227 (227)
There has been no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the above sensitivity analysis over the three-year period.
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets, such as cash balances (including fixed deposits and cash and cash equivalents), derivative 
instruments, trade and other receivables. The Group is also exposed in its net asset position to its own credit risk in respect of the 2023 debentures 
which are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the 
customer. The Group is exposed to customers ranging from government-backed agencies and large private wholesalers to privately owned 
pharmacies, and the underlying local economic and sovereign risks vary throughout the world. Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to 
minimise risks by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance. The Group establishes an allowance for impairment 
that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of specific trade and other receivables where it is deemed that a receivable may not be 
recoverable. When the debt is deemed irrecoverable, the allowance account is written off against the underlying receivable. 
In the US, sales to three wholesalers accounted for approximately 84% of US sales (2014: three wholesalers accounted for approximately 75%; 
2013: three wholesalers accounted for approximately 77%).
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Not past due 4,388 4,316 5,059
Past due 0-90 days 189 354 330
Past due 90-180 days 21 75 78
Past due > 180 days 35 17 47
4,633 4,762 5,514
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Movements in provisions for trade receivables
At 1 January 54 64 64
Income statement 2 (2) (5)
Amounts utilised, exchange and other movements (4) (8) 5
At 31 December 52 54 64
The allowance for impairment has been calculated based on past experience and is in relation to specific customers. Given the profile of our 
customers, including large wholesalers and government-backed agencies, no further credit risk has been identified with the trade receivables 
not past due other than those balances for which an allowance has been made.
Financial Statements 182 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
25 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Other financial assets
The Group may hold significant cash balances as part of its normal operations, with the amount of cash held at any point reflecting the level of 
cash flow generated by the business and the timing of the use of that cash. The majority of excess cash is centralised within the Group treasury 
entity and is subject to counterparty risk on the principal invested. This risk is mitigated through a policy of prioritising security and liquidity over 
return, and as such cash is only invested in high credit quality investments. Counterparty limits are set according to the assessed risk of each 
counterparty and exposures are monitored against these limits on a regular basis. The majority of the Group’s cash is invested in US dollar 
AAA-rated liquidity funds, fully collateralised repurchase agreements and short-term bank deposits.
The most significant concentration of financial credit risk at 31 December 2015 was $4,389m invested in five AAA-rated liquidity funds. The 
liquidity fund portfolios are managed by the related external third party fund managers to maintain the AAA rating. No more than 15% of fund 
value is invested within each individual fund. There were no other significant concentrations of financial credit risk at the reporting date.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had investments of $1,050m (2014: $300m; 2013: $nil) in short-term repurchase agreements, which are fully 
collateralised investments. In the event of any default, ownership of the collateral would revert to the Group and would be readily convertible to 
cash. The value of the collateral held at 31 December 2015 was $1,098m (2014: $316m; 2013: $nil).
All financial derivatives are transacted with commercial banks, in line with standard market practice. The Group has agreements with some bank 
counterparties whereby the parties agree to post cash collateral, for the benefit of the other, equivalent to the market valuation of the derivative 
positions above a predetermined threshold. The carrying value of such cash collateral held by the Group at 31 December 2015 was $451m 
(2014: $457m; 2013: $326m).
26 Employee costs and share plans for employees
Employee costs
The average number of people, to the nearest hundred, employed by the Group is set out in the table below. In accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006, this includes part-time employees.
2015 2014 2013
Employees
UK 7,100 7,200 7,200
Continental Europe 14,800 13,800 14,000
The Americas 17,500 16,800 14,600
Asia, Africa & Australasia 20,700 18,100 15,800
Continuing operations 60,100 55,900 51,600
Geographical distribution described in the table above is by location of legal entity employing staff. Certain staff will spend some or all of their 
activity in a different location.
The number of people employed by the Group at the end of 2015 was 61,500 (2014: 57,500; 2013: 51,500).
The costs incurred during the year in respect of these employees were:
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Salaries 4,603 4,657 3,833
Social security costs 567 664 622
Pension costs 484 459 445
Other employment costs 474 499 376
6,128 6,279 5,276
Severance costs of $338m are not included above (2014: $254m; 2013: $652m).
The Directors believe that, together with the basic salary system, the Group’s employee incentive schemes provide competitive and market-
related packages to motivate employees. They should also align the interests of employees with those of shareholders, as a whole, through 
long-term share ownership in the Company. The Group’s current UK, Swedish and US schemes are described below; other arrangements 
apply elsewhere.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 183
26 Employee costs and share plans for employees continued
Bonus plans
The AstraZeneca UK Performance Bonus Plan
Employees of participating AstraZeneca UK companies are invited to participate in this bonus plan, which rewards strong individual performance. 
Bonuses are paid in cash. The Company also offers UK employees the opportunity to buy Partnership Shares (Ordinary Shares). Employees 
may invest up to £1,800 over a 12 month accumulation period and purchase Partnership Shares in the Company with the total proceeds at 
the end of the period. The purchase price for the shares is the lower of the price at the beginning or the end of the 12-month period. In 2010, 
the Company introduced a Matching Share element in respect of Partnership Shares, the first award of which was made in 2011. Partnership 
Shares and Matching Shares are held in the HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC)-approved All-Employee Share Plan. At the Company’s AGM in 
2002, shareholders approved the issue of new shares for the purposes of the All-Employee Share Plan.
The AstraZeneca Executive Annual Bonus Scheme
This scheme is a performance bonus scheme for Directors and senior employees who do not participate in the AstraZeneca UK Performance 
Bonus Plan. Annual bonuses are paid in cash and reflect both corporate and individual performance measures. The Remuneration Committee 
has discretion to reduce or withhold bonuses if business performance falls sufficiently short of expectations in any year such as to make the 
payment of bonuses inappropriate.
The AstraZeneca Deferred Bonus Plan
This plan was introduced in 2006 and is used to defer a portion of the bonus earned under the AstraZeneca Executive Annual Bonus Scheme 
into Ordinary Shares in the Company for a period of three years. The plan currently operates only in respect of Executive Directors and members 
of the SET. Awards of shares under this plan are typically made in March each year, the first award having been made in February 2006.
Sweden
In Sweden, an all-employee performance bonus plan is in operation, which rewards strong individual performance. Bonuses are paid 50% into 
a fund investing in AstraZeneca equities and 50% in cash. The AstraZeneca Executive Annual Bonus Scheme, the AstraZeneca Performance 
Share Plan and the AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan all operate in respect of relevant AstraZeneca employees in Sweden.
US
In the US, there are two all-employee short-term or annual performance bonus plans in operation to differentiate and reward strong individual 
performance. Annual bonuses are paid in cash. There is also one senior staff long-term incentive scheme, under which 93 participants may be 
eligible for awards granted as AstraZeneca ADSs. AstraZeneca ADSs necessary to satisfy the awards are purchased in the market or funded 
via a share trust. The AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan and the AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan operate in respect of relevant 
employees in the US.
Share plans 
The charge for share-based payments in respect of share plans is $211m (2014: $178m; 2013: $156m). The plans are equity settled.
The AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan
This plan was approved by shareholders in 2005 for a period of 10 years. Generally, awards could be granted at any time, but not during a close 
period of the Company. The first grant of awards was made in June 2005. Awards granted under the plan vest after three years and can be 
subject to the achievement of performance conditions. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan 
and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated, including agreeing performance targets and which employees would 
be invited to participate. There were no grants of awards under this plan in 2015. The plan has been replaced by the AstraZeneca 2014 Performance 
Share Plan. Further details of this plan can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report from page 103.
Shares
’000
WAFV
1 
pence
WAFV
1 
$
Shares awarded in June 2013 2,867 1649 25.73
Shares awarded in August 2013 197 1649 25.12
Shares awarded in November 2013 30 1649 26.38
Shares awarded in February 2014 37 n/a 30.55
Shares awarded in March 2014 2,368 1952 32.34
1
 Weighted average fair value.
Financial Statements 184 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
26 Employee costs and share plans for employees continued
The AstraZeneca 2014 Performance Share Plan
This plan was approved by shareholders in 2014 for a period of 10 years and replaces the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan. Generally, 
awards can be granted at any time, but not during a close period of the Company. The first grant of awards was made in May 2014. Awards 
granted under the plan vest after three years, or in the case of Executive Directors, after an additional two-year holding period, and can be 
subject to the achievement of performance conditions. For awards to all participants in 2015, vesting is subject to a combination of measures 
focused on scientific leadership, revenue growth and financial performance. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing  
any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated, including agreeing performance targets 
and which employees should be invited to participate. Further details of this plan can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report from 
page 103. The main grant of awards in 2015 under the plan was in March with further grants in June, August, September and November.
Shares
‘000
WAFV
pence
WAFV
$
Shares awarded in May 2014 12 2133 35.75
Shares awarded in August 2014 141 2156 35.79
Shares awarded in September 2014 40 2250 n/a
Shares awarded in November 2014 2 n/a 36.62
Shares awarded in March 2015 2,223 2381 35.29
Shares awarded in June 2015 36 2087 33.05
Shares awarded in August 2015 152 2123 33.21
Shares awarded in September 2015 8 n/a 32.32
Shares awarded in November 2015 7 2178 33.31
The AstraZeneca Investment Plan
This plan was introduced in 2010 and approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM. The main grant of awards in 2015 under the plan was in 
March, with a further, smaller grant in August. Awards granted under the plan vest after eight years and are subject to performance conditions 
measured over a period of between three and eight years. For awards granted in 2015, the performance conditions relate to the annual dividend 
paid to shareholders and dividend cover over a four-year performance period. The awards are then subject to a four-year holding period before 
they can vest. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in 
which the plan should be operated, including agreeing performance targets and which employees should be invited to participate. Further details 
of this plan can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report from page 103.
Shares
’000
WAFV
 
pence
WAFV
 
$
Shares awarded in June 2013 157 3297 51.45
Shares awarded in August 2013 8 3302 n/a
Shares awarded in March 2014 67 3904 64.68
Shares awarded in September 2014 7 4499 n/a
Shares awarded in March 2015 64 4762 70.58
Shares awarded in August 2015 4 n/a 66.42
The AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan
This plan was introduced in 2010. The main grant of awards in 2015 under the plan was in March, with a further, smaller grant in August. This plan 
provides for the grant of restricted stock unit (RSU) awards to selected below SET-level employees and is used in conjunction with the AstraZeneca 
Performance Share Plan to provide a mix of RSUs and performance shares. Awards typically vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant 
and are contingent on continued employment with the Company. The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under 
the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan should be operated.
Shares
’000
WAFV
 
pence
WAFV
 
$
Shares awarded in March 2013 1,417 3254 49.42
Shares awarded in June 2013 986 3297 51.45
Shares awarded in August 2013 13 3206 50.23
Shares awarded in March 2014 2,076 3904 64.68
Shares awarded in August 2014 25 4312 71.57
Shares awarded in March 2015 1,966 4762 70.58
Shares awarded in August 2015 17 4245 66.42
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 185
Financial Statements
26 Employee costs and share plans for employees continued
The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan
This plan was introduced in 2008 and provides for the grant of restricted share awards to key employees, excluding Executive Directors. Awards 
are made on an ad hoc basis with variable vesting dates. The plan has been used five times in 2015 to make awards to 365 employees. The 
Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the way in which the plan 
should be operated.
Shares
’000
WAFV
 
pence
WAFV
 
$
Shares awarded in February 2013 2 3125 n/a
Shares awarded in March 2013 144 n/a 49.23
Shares awarded in June 2013 25 n/a 51.45
Shares awarded in August 2013 119 3302 50.23
Shares awarded in September 2013 85 n/a 49.21
Shares awarded in November 2013 739 3297 52.76
Shares awarded in February 2014 115 4042 61.10
Shares awarded in March 2014 155 n/a 64.68
Shares awarded in May 2014 134 4265 71.50
Shares awarded in August 2014 72 4312 71.57
Shares awarded in September 2014 64 4499 74.05
Shares awarded in November 2014 9 4672 73.23
Shares awarded in March 2015 164 4762 70.58
Shares awarded in June 2015 69 4174 66.09
Shares awarded in August 2015 31 4245 66.42
Shares awarded in September 2015 41 4199 64.64
Shares awarded in November 2015 41 4355 66.62
The fair values were determined using a modified version of the binomial model. This method incorporated expected dividends but no other 
features into the measurements of fair value. The grant date fair values of share awards disclosed in this section do not take account of service 
and non-market related performance conditions. 186 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
27 Commitments and contingent liabilities
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Commitments
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and software development costs not 
provided for in these accounts 518 438 481 
Guarantees and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, for which no security has been given, are not expected to result in any 
material financial loss.
Research and development collaboration payments
The Group has various ongoing collaborations, including in-licensing and similar arrangements with development partners. Such collaborations 
may require the Group to make payments on achievement of stages of development, launch or revenue milestones, although the Group generally 
has the right to terminate these agreements at no cost. The Group recognises research and development milestones as intangible assets once 
it is committed to payment, which is generally when the Group reaches set trigger points in the development cycle. Revenue-related milestones 
are recognised as intangible assets on product launch at a value based on the Group’s long-term revenue forecasts for the related product. 
The table below indicates potential development and revenue-related payments that the Group may be required to make under such collaborations.
Total
$m
Under 1 year
$m
Years 1 and 2
$m
Years 3 and 4
$m
Years 5 
and greater
$m
Future potential research and development milestone payments 8,818 428 1,464 1,952 4,974
Future potential revenue milestone payments 4,754 3 279 1,270 3,202
The table includes all potential payments for achievement of milestones under ongoing research and development arrangements. Revenue-related 
milestone payments represent the maximum possible amount payable on achievement of specified levels of revenue as set out in individual contract 
agreements, but exclude variable payments that are based on unit sales (eg royalty-type payments) which are expensed as the associated sale 
is recognised. The table excludes any payments already capitalised in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The future payments we disclose represent contracted payments and, as such, are not discounted and are not risk adjusted. As detailed in the 
Risk section from page 212, the development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex and risky process that may fail at any 
stage in the development process due to a number of factors (including items such as failure to obtain regulatory approval, unfavourable data 
from key studies, adverse reactions to the product candidate or indications of other safety concerns). The timing of the payments is based on 
the Group’s current best estimate of achievement of the relevant milestone.
Environmental costs and liabilities
The Group’s expenditure on environmental protection, including both capital and revenue items, relates to costs that are necessary for implementing 
internal systems and programmes, and meeting legal and regulatory requirements for processes and products.
They are an integral part of normal ongoing expenditure for carrying out the Group’s research, manufacturing and commercial operations and 
are not separated from overall operating and development costs. There are no known changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements 
resulting in material changes to the levels of expenditure for 2013, 2014 or 2015.
In addition to expenditure for meeting current and foreseen environmental protection requirements, the Group incurs costs in investigating and 
cleaning up land and groundwater contamination. In particular, AstraZeneca has environmental liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, 
leased and third party sites.
In the US, Zeneca Inc., and/or its indemnitees, have been named as potentially responsible parties (PRPs) or defendants at approximately 15 sites 
where Zeneca Inc. is likely to incur future environmental investigation, remediation, operation and maintenance costs under federal, state, statutory 
or common law environmental liability allocation schemes (together, US Environmental Consequences). Similarly, Stauffer Management 
Company LLC (SMC), which was established in 1987 to own and manage certain assets of Stauffer Chemical Company acquired that year, 
and/or its indemnitees, have been named as PRPs or defendants at 33 sites where SMC is likely to incur US Environmental Consequences. 
AstraZeneca has also given indemnities to third parties for a number of sites outside the US. These environmental liabilities arise from legacy 
operations that are not currently part of the Group’s business and, at most of these sites, remediation, where required, is either completed or 
nearing completion.
AstraZeneca has made provisions for the estimated costs of future environmental investigation, remediation, operation and maintenance activity 
beyond normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Group’s R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges, where a present obligation 
exists, it is probable that such costs will be incurred and they can be estimated reliably. With respect to such estimated future costs, there were 
provisions at 31 December 2015 in the aggregate of $67m (2014: $84m; 2013: $87m), mainly relating to the US. Where we are jointly liable or 
otherwise have cost-sharing agreements with third parties, we reflect only our share of the obligation. Where the liability is insured in part or in 
whole by insurance or other arrangements for reimbursement, an asset is recognised to the extent that this recovery is virtually certain.
It is possible that AstraZeneca could incur future environmental costs beyond the extent of our current provisions. The extent of such possible 
additional costs is inherently difficult to estimate due to a number of factors, including: (1) the nature and extent of claims that may be asserted 
in the future; (2) whether AstraZeneca has or will have any legal obligation with respect to asserted or unasserted claims; (3) the type of remedial 
action, if any, that may be selected at sites where the remedy is presently not known; (4) the potential for recoveries from or allocation of liability 
to third parties; and (5) the length of time that the environmental investigation, remediation and liability allocation process can take. Notwithstanding 
and subject to the foregoing, we estimate the potential additional loss for future environmental investigation, remediation, remedial operation and 
maintenance activity above and beyond our provisions to be, in aggregate, between $71m and $119m (2014: $50m and $80m; 2013: $50m 
and $90m), which relates mainly to the US.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 187
27 Commitments and contingent 
liabilities continued
Where it is considered that the Group is more 
likely than not to prevail, legal costs involved 
in defending the claim are charged to profit 
as they are incurred.
Where it is considered that the Group has 
a valid contract which provides the right to 
reimbursement (from insurance or otherwise) 
of legal costs and/or all or part of any loss 
incurred or for which a provision has been 
established, and we consider recovery to 
be virtually certain, the best estimate of the 
amount expected to be received is recognised 
as an asset.
Assessments as to whether or not to recognise 
provisions or assets, and of the amounts 
concerned, usually involve a series of complex 
judgements about future events and can 
rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. 
AstraZeneca believes that the provisions 
recorded are adequate based on currently 
available information and that the insurance 
recoveries recorded will be received. However, 
given the inherent uncertainties involved in 
assessing the outcomes of these cases, 
and in estimating the amount of the potential 
losses and the associated insurance recoveries, 
we could in the future incur judgments or 
insurance settlements that could have a 
material adverse effect on our results in any 
particular period.
IP claims include challenges to the Group’s 
patents on various products or processes and 
assertions of non-infringement of patents. 
A loss in any of these cases could result 
in loss of patent protection on the related 
product. The consequences of any such loss 
could be a significant decrease in product 
sales, which could have a material adverse 
effect on our results. The lawsuits filed by 
AstraZeneca for patent infringement against 
companies that have filed ANDAs in the US, 
seeking to market generic forms of products 
sold by the Group prior to the expiry of the 
applicable patents covering these products, 
typically also involve allegations of non-
infringement, invalidity and unenforceability 
of these patents by the ANDA filers. In the 
event that the Group is unsuccessful in 
these actions or the statutory 30-month stay 
expires before a ruling is obtained, the ANDA 
filers involved will also have the ability, subject 
to FDA approval, to introduce generic versions 
of the product concerned.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will 
vigorously defend and enforce, its IP.
Over the course of the past several years, 
including in 2015, a significant number 
of commercial litigation claims in which 
AstraZeneca is involved have been resolved, 
particularly in the US, thereby reducing 
potential contingent liability exposure 
arising from such litigation. Similarly, in 
Legal proceedings
AstraZeneca is involved in various legal 
proceedings considered typical to its business, 
including actual or threatened litigation and/or 
actual or potential government investigations 
relating to employment matters, product 
liability, commercial disputes, pricing, sales 
and marketing practices, infringement of IP 
rights, and the validity of certain patents 
and competition laws. The more significant 
matters are discussed below.
Most of the claims involve highly complex 
issues. Often these issues are subject to 
substantial uncertainties and, therefore, the 
probability of a loss, if any, being sustained 
and an estimate of the amount of any loss 
is difficult to ascertain. Consequently, for 
a majority of these claims, it is not possible to 
make a reasonable estimate of the expected 
financial effect, if any, that will result from 
ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these 
cases, AstraZeneca discloses information with 
respect to the nature and facts of the cases.
With respect to each of the legal proceedings 
described below, other than those for which 
provision has been made, we are unable to 
make estimates of the possible loss or range 
of possible losses at this stage, other than 
as set forth in this section. We also do not 
believe that disclosure of the amount sought 
by plaintiffs, if known, would be meaningful 
with respect to those legal proceedings. 
This is due to a number of factors, including 
(1) the stage of the proceedings (in many 
cases trial dates have not been set) and the 
overall length and extent of pre-trial discovery; 
(2) the entitlement of the parties to an action 
to appeal a decision; (3) clarity as to theories 
of liability, damages and governing law; 
(4) uncertainties in timing of litigation; 
and (5) the possible need for further legal 
proceedings to establish the appropriate 
amount of damages, if any.
While there can be no assurance regarding 
the outcome of any of the legal proceedings 
referred to in this Note 27, based on 
management’s current and considered view 
of each situation, we do not currently expect 
them to have a material adverse effect on 
our financial position. This position could of 
course change over time, not least because 
of the factors referred to above.
In cases that have been settled or adjudicated, 
or where quantifiable fines and penalties have 
been assessed and which are not subject 
to appeal (or other similar forms of relief), 
or where a loss is probable and we are able 
to make a reasonable estimate of the loss, 
we generally indicate the loss absorbed or 
make provision for our best estimate of the 
expected loss.
part due to patent litigation and settlement 
developments, greater certainty has been 
achieved regarding possible generic entry 
dates with respect to some of our patented 
products. At the same time, like other 
companies in the pharmaceutical sector 
and other industries, AstraZeneca continues 
to be subject to government investigations 
around the world. 
Patent litigation
Brilinta (ticagrelor) 
US patent litigation
In September and October 2015, 
AstraZeneca received Paragraph IV notices 
challenging patents listed in the FDA Orange 
Book with reference to Brilinta. AstraZeneca 
has received notice from 15 companies that 
each submitted an ANDA seeking to market 
ticagrelor. In October and November 2015, 
in the US District Court for the District of 
Delaware, AstraZeneca filed patent 
infringement lawsuits in response to these 
Paragraph IV notices from the ANDA filers. 
Litigation is at an early stage and no trial 
dates have been set. 
Byetta (exenatide)
US patent litigation
In December 2014, AstraZeneca commenced 
patent litigation in response to a Paragraph IV 
notice from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. 
(Teva). Trial is scheduled for December 2016 
in the US District Court for the District of 
Delaware (the District Court). In December 
2015, AstraZeneca commenced patent 
litigation in response to a Paragraph IV notice 
from Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC (Amneal) 
in the District Court. The Amneal proceedings 
are at an early stage and no trial date has 
been set.
In November 2015, Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC 
and Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
(together, Sanofi) served AstraZeneca with 
a complaint for declaratory judgment that 
Sanofi’s proposed lixisenatide product 
would not infringe three AstraZeneca patents. 
Sanofi also alleges invalidity of the patents. 
In December 2015, AstraZeneca filed an 
answer including counterclaims that Sanofi’s 
proposed lixisenatide product would infringe 
several AstraZeneca patents. Certain 
patents-at-issue are listed in the FDA Orange 
Book with reference to Byetta. Proceedings 
are in the early stages in the US District Court 
for the District of Delaware. No trial date has 
been set in the proceedings against Sanofi.
Separately, in December 2015, Sanofi filed 
petitions in the US Patent Trial and Appeals 
Board for inter partes review of certain 
patents that are also at issue in the above-
referenced District Court litigation against 
Sanofi. Proceedings are at an early stage.
Financial Statements 188 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
In October 2015, Hexal filed a notice of 
opposition against European Patent No. 
2,266,573 (the ‘573 Patent) granted in 
June 2015. The ‘573 Patent is related  
to the ‘138 patent referred to above.
Losec/Prilosec (omeprazole) 
US patent litigation 
In 2008, Apotex Inc. (Apotex) was found 
to infringe AstraZeneca’s US Patent Nos. 
4,786,505 and 4,853,230. In 2013, the US 
District Court for the Southern District of 
New York (the District Court) ordered Apotex to 
pay $76 million in damages with an additional 
sum of $28 million in pre-judgment interest, 
and an unspecified amount of post-judgment 
interest. Apotex appealed. In April 2015, the 
US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit 
affirmed the bulk of the damages award, with 
the exception of a small portion of the award 
which related to sales post patent expiration 
during a portion of the paediatric exclusivity 
period. In July 2015, the District Court ordered 
Apotex to pay approximately $99m to 
AstraZeneca. The proceeding is now closed 
and AstraZeneca has recognised the income.
Patent proceedings outside the US
In Canada, in 2004, AstraZeneca brought 
proceedings against Apotex Inc. (Apotex) 
for infringement of several patents related to 
Losec. In February 2015, the Federal Court 
of Canada found that Apotex had infringed 
AstraZeneca’s Canadian Patent No. 
1,292,693. Apotex has appealed.
Movantik/Moventig (naloxegol)
US patent litigation
In October 2015, Neptune Generics LLC, an 
affiliate of Gerchen Keller Capital LLC, filed for 
inter partes review (IPR) with the US Patent 
Office challenging the validity of one of the six 
patents listed in the FDA Orange Book with 
reference to Movantik. The IPR relates to 
US Patent No. 7,786,133, which is licensed 
to AstraZeneca from Nektar Therapeutics. 
AstraZeneca is considering its response.
Patent proceedings outside the US
In Europe, in October 2014, Generics UK Ltd. 
(trading as Mylan) filed an opposition to the 
grant of European Patent No. 1,694,363. 
This matter is scheduled for oral proceedings 
on 25 February 2016. 
Nexium (esomeprazole magnesium) 
US patent litigation 
In September 2015, AstraZeneca received 
a Paragraph IV notice from Zydus 
Pharmaceuticals (USA) Inc. and Cadila 
Healthcare Ltd. (together, Zydus) challenging 
certain patents listed in the FDA Orange Book 
with reference to Nexium oral suspension. 
Zydus submitted an ANDA seeking to market 
esomeprazole magnesium oral suspension. 
In October 2015, in response to Zydus’ notice, 
AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement 
lawsuit against Zydus in the US District Court 
for the District of New Jersey (the District 
Court). The Nexium oral suspension litigation 
27 Commitments and contingent 
liabilities continued
In the UK, in October 2015, Resolution 
Chemicals Ltd., commenced an action 
alleging partial invalidity and non-infringement 
of the supplementary protection certificate 
related to the Crestor substance patent. 
AstraZeneca has responded.
Daliresp (roflumilast) 
US patent litigation 
In April 2015, AstraZeneca received 
Paragraph IV notices challenging patents 
listed in the FDA Orange Book with reference 
to Daliresp. AstraZeneca has received notice 
from 11 companies that each submitted an 
ANDA seeking to market roflumilast. In May 
2015 and subsequently, in the US District 
Court for the District of New Jersey, 
AstraZeneca filed patent infringement lawsuits 
in response to these Paragraph IV notices 
from the ANDA filers. Litigation is at an early 
stage and no trial dates have been set.
Faslodex (fulvestrant) 
US patent litigation 
In 2014, 2015 and 2016, AstraZeneca filed 
patent infringement lawsuits in the US District 
Court in New Jersey relating to four patents 
listed in the FDA Orange Book with reference 
to Faslodex, after AstraZeneca received seven 
Paragraph IV notices relating to six ANDAs 
seeking FDA approval to market generic 
versions of Faslodex prior to the expiration of 
AstraZeneca’s patents. The first trial is expected 
to be scheduled for the second half of 2016. 
In September 2015, AstraZeneca also filed 
a patent infringement lawsuit relating to one 
of the seven Paragraph IV notices in the 
US District Court in West Virginia which is 
currently stayed by the West Virginia court. 
Patent proceedings outside the US 
In Brazil, in February 2013, Eurofarma 
Laboratorios S.A. (Eurofarma) filed a nullity 
action against a formulation patent for 
Faslodex in the 31st Specialized Intellectual 
Property Federal Court of Rio de Janeiro 
(the Court). In October 2015, the Court 
ruled in Eurofarma’s favour and invalidated 
AstraZeneca’s patent. In November 2015, 
AstraZeneca appealed the decision.
In Germany, in July 2015, AstraZeneca was 
served with a nullity complaint by Hexal AG 
(Hexal), commencing invalidity proceedings 
before the Federal Patent Court, and requesting 
revocation of the German part of the Faslodex 
formulation use patent, European Patent 
No. 1,250,138 (the ‘138 patent). In September 
2015, AstraZeneca filed a request for a 
provisional injunction against Hexal in the 
Regional Court of Düsseldorf after Hexal 
threatened to launch a generic Faslodex 
product in the fourth quarter of 2015. The 
provisional injunction request was denied in 
November 2015. AstraZeneca filed an appeal 
against this decision in November 2015. In 
December 2015, AstraZeneca filed an 
infringement suit against Hexal in the Regional 
Court of Mannheim referring to their threatened 
launch of a generic Faslodex product.
Crestor (rosuvastatin calcium) 
US patent litigation
AstraZeneca is defending three patent 
infringement lawsuits in the US District Court 
for the District of South Carolina (the District 
Court) which, among other things, claim 
that AstraZeneca’s Crestor sales induce 
infringement of the plaintiffs’ patents. The first 
was filed in April 2011 by plaintiff Palmetto 
Pharmaceuticals, LLC (Palmetto), and the other 
two, which have been consolidated, were 
filed in July and December 2013 by co-
plaintiffs Medical University of South Carolina 
Foundation for Research Development and 
Charleston Medical Therapeutics, Inc. In 
December 2015, the District Court issued 
an order dismissing the first of these cases, 
filed by Palmetto, and entered judgment 
in AstraZeneca’s favour. In January 2015, 
Palmetto filed notice that it intends to appeal.
Patent proceedings outside the US 
In Australia, in 2011 and 2012, AstraZeneca 
instituted proceedings against Actavis 
Australia Pty Ltd, Apotex Pty Ltd and Watson 
Pharma Pty Ltd asserting infringement of 
three formulation and method patents for 
Crestor. AstraZeneca was unsuccessful in 
defending the validity of these patents, at trial 
and on appeal. This patent litigation concluded 
in September 2015 when the High Court 
of Australia dismissed an appeal filed by 
AstraZeneca. Relevant parties could pursue 
damages claims against AstraZeneca. 
A provision has been taken in respect of 
generic entities which were prevented by 
court order from launching their products in 
Australia before AstraZeneca’s patents were 
subsequently found invalid.
In Japan, in 2014, Teva Pharma Japan Inc. 
(Teva) filed a patent invalidation request with 
the Japanese Patent Office (JPO) in relation to 
the Crestor substance patent. In June 2015, 
the JPO dismissed Teva’s request. Teva 
appealed the decision but subsequently 
withdrew the appeal. A second invalidation 
action relating to the same patent has been 
filed by an individual. 
In the Netherlands, in 2014, AstraZeneca 
received a letter from Resolution Chemicals 
Ltd. (Resolution) indicating that it had sought 
marketing authorisation for a rosuvastatin zinc 
product. In April 2014, AstraZeneca received 
a writ of summons from Resolution alleging 
partial invalidity and non-infringement of the 
supplementary protection certificate (SPC) 
related to the Crestor substance patent. In 
July 2015, the District Court of the Hague 
determined that the SPC does not extend to 
zinc salts of rosuvastatin and that Resolution’s 
product does not infringe the SPC. AstraZeneca 
appealed and the appeal was heard in 
November 2015. A decision is expected in 
the first quarter of 2016.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 189
27 Commitments and contingent 
liabilities continued
Patent proceedings outside the US 
In Canada, in April 2015, AstraZeneca and 
Teva Canada Limited (Teva) entered into a 
settlement agreement ending the ongoing 
patent litigation between the parties, as well 
as a claim for section 8 damages, and 
allowing Teva to continue selling generic 
Seroquel XR in Canada. 
In Italy, in June 2015, following a challenge to 
the validity of the formulation patent covering 
Seroquel XR by Sandoz S.p.A. and Sandoz 
A/S, the Court of Turin found the Seroquel XR 
formulation patent invalid. 
In Germany, generic entities have claimed, 
or could claim, damages relating to the 
preliminary injunction issued in April 2012 
that prevented generic Seroquel XR sales by 
those entities until the injunction was lifted 
following a November 2012 Federal Patent 
Court decision that held that the Seroquel XR 
patent was invalid. A provision has been taken.
In France, in April 2015, Mylan SAS (Mylan) 
brought a patent invalidation action against 
AstraZeneca’s French designation of the 
Seroquel XR formulation patent, European 
Patent No. 0,907,364 (the ‘364 Patent). 
AstraZeneca is defending that action and has 
brought a claim against Mylan for infringement 
of the ‘364 Patent. In the third quarter of 2015, 
Mylan launched its generic Seroquel XR 
product at-risk. In November 2015, AstraZeneca 
obtained a preliminary injunction against 
Mylan, which was overturned on appeal in 
December 2015. AstraZeneca had a similar 
litigation pending against Accord Healthcare 
France SAS and Accord Healthcare Limited 
that was settled in January 2016. 
Vimovo (naproxen/esomeprazole 
magnesium) 
Patent proceedings outside the US 
In Canada, in January 2015, AstraZeneca 
received two notices of allegation from 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals ULC. In response, 
AstraZeneca and Pozen Inc. (the licensee 
and patent holder, respectively), commenced 
proceedings in relation to Canadian Patent 
No. 2,449,098.
Product liability litigation
Byetta/Bydureon (exenatide) 
Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of AstraZeneca, and/or AstraZeneca 
are among multiple defendants in various 
lawsuits filed in federal and state courts in the 
US involving approximately 2,500 claims of 
physical injury from treatment with Byetta and/or 
Bydureon. The lawsuits allege multiple types 
of injuries including pancreatitis, pancreatic 
cancer, thyroid cancer, and kidney cancer. A 
multi-district litigation has been established in 
the US District Court for the Southern District 
of California (the District Court) in regard to the 
alleged pancreatic cancer cases in federal 
courts. Further, a co-ordinated proceeding has 
been established in Los Angeles, California in 
regard to the various lawsuits in California 
state courts. 
is at an early stage and no trial date has been 
set. Separately, several Nexium and Nexium 
24HR (OTC) patent litigations are ongoing in 
the District Court. Proceedings are at various 
stages and no trial dates have been set.
Patent proceedings outside the US 
In Canada, in July 2014, the Federal Court 
found Canadian Patent No. 2,139,653 invalid 
and not infringed by Apotex Inc. On 6 July 
2015, AstraZeneca’s appeal was dismissed. 
AstraZeneca has sought leave to appeal to 
the Supreme Court of Canada.
In Canada, in July 2014, AstraZeneca 
received a notice of allegation from Teva 
Canada Limited (Teva) alleging either that 
Teva’s esomeprazole magnesium product 
would not infringe the patents listed on 
the Canadian Patent Register in relation 
to Nexium or, alternatively, that certain of 
the patents were invalid. AstraZeneca 
commenced a proceeding in 2014, but has 
now discontinued its application pursuant 
to a settlement agreement.
In Canada, in July 2015, Pharmascience Inc. 
commenced an action for damages allegedly 
suffered during the period while it was unable 
to launch its esomeprazole product due to 
ongoing proceedings under the Patented 
Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations. 
AstraZeneca is defending the claim.
Onglyza (saxagliptin) and Kombiglyze XR 
(saxagliptin and metformin) 
US patent litigation 
Beginning April 2014 and continuing into 2015, 
a number of generics companies sent notices 
that they had submitted ANDAs for saxagliptin 
hydrochloride 2.5mg and 5mg tablets 
containing a Paragraph IV Certification 
alleging that US Patent Nos. 7,951,400 
(the ‘400 Patent) and RE44,186 (the ‘186 
Patent), listed in the FDA Orange Book with 
reference to Onglyza, are invalid, unenforceable 
and/or will not be infringed by the products as 
described in the ANDAs. Several of these 
companies also sent notices that they had 
submitted ANDAs for saxagliptin hydrochloride 
and metformin 2.5mg/1000mg, 5mg/1000mg, 
and 5mg/500mg tablets containing a 
Paragraph IV Certification alleging that US 
Patent Nos. 8,628,799 (the ‘799 Patent) and/
or the ‘186 Patent listed in the FDA Orange 
Book with reference to Kombiglyze XR, are 
invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be 
infringed by the products as described in 
the ANDAs. AstraZeneca initiated patent 
infringement proceedings asserting the ‘400 
Patent, the ‘186 Patent and the ‘799 Patent 
in the US District Court for the District of 
Delaware (District Court) against all of the 
above-referenced patent challenges. The 
District Court dismissed without prejudice 
all claims and counterclaims with respect to 
the ‘799 Patent and the ‘400 Patent. 
Following the District Court’s denial of Mylan 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s (Mylan) motion to 
dismiss for lack of jurisdiction in 2014, Mylan 
was granted the right to appeal that decision 
to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal 
Circuit and argument was heard on that 
appeal in January 2016. 
In June 2015, Mylan filed a petition for an inter 
partes review (IPR) with the US Patent and 
Trademark Office (USPTO) challenging the 
validity of the ‘186 Patent. In December 2015, 
the USPTO declined to institute the IPR 
(the December Decision). In January 2016, 
Mylan filed a Request for Rehearing with 
the USPTO seeking reconsideration of the 
December Decision. 
Pulmicort Respules (budesonide 
inhalation suspension) 
US patent litigation 
In February 2015, the US District Court for 
the District of New Jersey (the District Court) 
determined that the asserted claims of US 
Patent No. 7,524,834 were invalid and denied 
AstraZeneca’s motion for an injunction against 
Apotex, Inc. and Apotex Corp., Breath Limited, 
Sandoz, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. 
(together, the Generic Challengers) pending 
an appeal of the District Court’s decision. 
AstraZeneca appealed that decision to the 
US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit 
(the Court of Appeals) and filed an Emergency 
Motion for an Injunction Pending Appeal. 
The Court of Appeals granted AstraZeneca’s 
motion and issued an injunction against the 
Generic Challengers pending appeal. In May 
2015, the Court of Appeals affirmed the 
District Court’s decision and lifted the 
injunction that was issued. Since 2009, various 
injunctions were issued in this matter. Damages 
claims based on those injunctions have been 
filed and a provision has been taken.
Seroquel XR (quetiapine fumarate) 
US patent litigation 
In February 2015, AstraZeneca settled patent 
infringement litigation against Pharmadax, Inc. 
and Pharmadax USA, Inc. (together, 
Pharmadax) that was pending in the US District 
Court for the District of New Jersey by granting 
Pharmadax a licence to the Seroquel XR 
product patent effective from 1 November 
2016, or earlier in certain circumstances. 
In February 2015, AstraZeneca filed a patent 
infringement lawsuit against Macleods 
Pharmaceuticals, Ltd., Macleods Pharma USA, 
Inc. and AB Pharmaceuticals, LLC. (together, 
Macleods) in the US District Court for the District 
of New Jersey. In June 2015, AstraZeneca 
settled the patent infringement litigation by 
granting Macleods a licence to the Seroquel XR 
product patent effective from 1 November 
2016, or earlier in certain circumstances.
Financial Statements 190 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Onglyza (saxagliptin) 
Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of AstraZeneca, and/or AstraZeneca 
are among multiple defendants in various 
lawsuits filed in federal and state courts in 
the US involving multiple plaintiffs claiming 
physical injury from treatment with Onglyza. 
The lawsuits allege injuries including pancreatic 
cancer. The lawsuit that was pending claiming 
congestive heart failure from treatment with 
Onglyza has been dismissed.
Seroquel IR (quetiapine fumarate) 
With regard to the Seroquel product liability 
litigation in the US, AstraZeneca is currently 
defending one case in active litigation involving 
a single plaintiff. 
With regard to insurance coverage for the legal 
defence costs and settlements that have been 
incurred in connection with the Seroquel IR 
product liability claims in the US related to 
alleged diabetes and/or other related alleged 
injuries, all disputes with insurers have now 
been settled.
Commercial litigation 
Crestor (rosuvastatin calcium) 
Qui tam litigation 
In January and February 2014, AstraZeneca 
was served with lawsuits filed in the US 
District Court for the District of Delaware 
under the qui tam (whistleblower) provisions 
of the federal False Claims Act and related 
state statutes, alleging that AstraZeneca 
directed certain employees to promote 
Crestor off-label and provided unlawful 
remuneration to physicians in connection 
with the promotion of Crestor. The DOJ and 
all US states have declined to intervene in 
the lawsuits. This litigation has been stayed 
pending trial court disposition or earlier 
resolution of the Texas Attorney General 
litigation involving Crestor disclosed below. 
Texas Attorney General litigation
In January 2015, following a previously 
disclosed investigation by the State of Texas 
into AstraZeneca’s sales and marketing 
activities involving Crestor, AstraZeneca 
was served with a lawsuit in which the 
Texas Attorney General’s Office intervened in 
a state whistleblower action pending in Travis 
County Court, Texas. The lawsuit alleges 
that AstraZeneca engaged in inappropriate 
promotion of Crestor and improperly 
influenced the formulary status of Crestor. 
Israel
In November 2012, a Motion to Certify a Claim 
as a Class Action and Statement of Claim were 
filed in Israel in the District Court in Tel Aviv, 
Jaffa, against AstraZeneca and four other 
pharmaceutical companies for alleged 
deception and failure to disclose material 
facts to consumers regarding potential adverse 
events associated with certain drugs, including 
Crestor. In July 2013, an amended Motion 
to Certify a Claim as a Class Action and 
Statement of Claim containing similar 
allegations to those in the first action were 
filed in the same court against the same 
defendants. The court has not yet ruled on 
the Motion to Certify.
Nexium (esomeprazole magnesium) 
Consumer litigation 
AstraZeneca is a defendant in a class action 
filed in Delaware State Court alleging that 
AstraZeneca’s promotion, advertising and 
pricing of Nexium to physicians, consumers 
and third party payers was unfair, unlawful 
and deceptive. This action is the last of a 
number of similar, previously resolved lawsuits. 
In July 2015, the court granted AstraZeneca’s 
motion to dismiss and entered judgment 
in AstraZeneca’s favour. The plaintiffs are 
appealing to the Delaware Supreme Court.
Settlement anti-trust litigation 
AstraZeneca is a defendant in a multi-district 
litigation class action and individual lawsuit 
alleging that AstraZeneca’s settlements of 
certain patent litigation in the US relating to 
Nexium violated US anti-trust law and various 
state laws. A trial in the US District Court for 
the District of Massachusetts commenced in 
October 2014 and, in December 2014, a jury 
returned a verdict in favour of AstraZeneca. 
Following the court’s denial of plaintiffs’ 
motion for a new trial and preliminary 
injunction, the court entered judgment in 
favour of AstraZeneca in September 2015. 
The plaintiffs have appealed that judgment. 
Nexium/Prilosec trademark litigation 
AstraZeneca filed separate complaints in the 
US District Court for the District of Delaware 
(the Delaware District Court) against 
Camber Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Camber) 
and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc. (Dr. Reddy’s) 
to enforce certain AstraZeneca trademark 
rights related to Nexium and Prilosec. 
Dr. Reddy’s has filed its own separate claims 
against AstraZeneca in both the Delaware 
District Court and the US District Court for 
the District of New Jersey. The Delaware 
District Court has issued preliminary injunctions 
against Camber’s and Dr. Reddy’s sales of 
generic esomeprazole magnesium in purple 
capsules. Dr. Reddy’s has appealed the 
decision of the Delaware District Court to the 
US Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and 
the appeal is pending. All cases related to this 
matter have been stayed pending this appeal. 
Seroquel IR (quetiapine fumarate) and 
Seroquel XR (quetiapine fumarate) 
In relation to the state law claims brought by 
state Attorneys General generally alleging that 
AstraZeneca made false and/or misleading 
statements in marketing and promoting 
Seroquel, AstraZeneca remains in litigation 
with the Attorney General of Mississippi. 
In November 2015, the District Court granted 
the defendants’ motion for summary 
judgment and dismissed all claims alleging 
pancreatic cancer that accrued prior to 
11 September 2015. The plaintiffs have 
appealed that ruling. A similar motion was 
granted in favour of the defendants in the 
California state co-ordinated proceeding, 
and judgment has not yet been entered.
A single case pending in Alabama state court 
has been set for trial on 21 June 2016. 
A motion for summary judgment is pending.
Crestor (rosuvastatin calcium)
AstraZeneca is defending a number of 
lawsuits alleging multiple types of injuries 
caused by the use of Crestor, including 
diabetes mellitus, various cardiac injuries, 
rhabdomyolysis, and/or liver and kidney 
injuries. The claims of approximately 600 
plaintiffs, comprising approximately 100 
California residents and approximately 500 
non-California residents, were aggregated in 
one co-ordinated proceeding in Los Angeles, 
California. The claims of approximately 600 
additional plaintiffs are waiting to be added 
to the co-ordination. In October 2014, the 
co-ordination judge dismissed the claims 
of the non-California plaintiffs whose claims 
were in the co-ordinated proceeding. The 
plaintiffs have appealed the October 2014 
order dismissing the non-California plaintiffs 
from the proceeding. There are now 
approximately 700 plaintiffs remaining with 
claims pending in California state court. 
The claims that were pending in the Eastern 
District of Kentucky have been dismissed, 
and the two plaintiffs involved are seeking 
to have their claims reinstated in California.
Farxiga (dapagliflozin)
AstraZeneca has been named as one of 
multiple defendants in a lawsuit filed in the 
US District Court for the Western District 
of Kentucky involving one plaintiff claiming 
physical injury, including diabetic ketoacidosis 
and kidney failure, from treatment with Farxiga.
Nexium (esomeprazole magnesium) 
AstraZeneca has been defending product 
liability lawsuits brought in federal and state 
courts by approximately 1,900 plaintiffs who 
alleged that Nexium caused osteoporotic 
injuries, such as bone deterioration, loss of 
bone density and/or bone fractures, but all 
such claims have now been dismissed with 
judgment entered in AstraZeneca’s favour. 
Approximately 270 plaintiffs have appealed 
the dismissal of their claims to the US Court 
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and fewer 
than 40 plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal 
of their claims to the California Second 
Appellate Division.
27 Commitments and contingent 
liabilities continued
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 191
causing the state government to pay increased 
prices for Toprol-XL. The complaint is very 
similar to prior class action complaints filed by 
private parties against AstraZeneca relating to 
Toprol-XL in 2006 and resolved by settlement 
in 2012. The State seeks an unspecified amount 
of trebled damages and pre-judgment interest.
Other commercial litigation
Average Manufacturer’s Price qui tam 
litigation (Streck) 
AstraZeneca was one of several manufacturers 
named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in 
the US Federal Court in Philadelphia under 
the qui tam (whistleblower) provisions of the 
federal and certain state False Claims Acts 
alleging inaccurate reporting of Average 
Manufacturer’s prices to the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services. The action 
was initially filed in October 2008 but 
remained under seal until May 2011. In July 
2015, AstraZeneca agreed upon a negotiated 
settlement to resolve the dispute. This matter 
is now concluded.
Medco qui tam litigation (Schumann)
AstraZeneca had been named as a 
defendant in a lawsuit filed in the Federal Court 
in Philadelphia (the Federal Court) under 
the qui tam (whistleblower) provisions of the 
federal and certain state False Claims Acts 
alleging overpayments by federal and state 
governments resulting from alleged false 
pricing information reported to the government 
and alleged improper payments intended 
to influence the formulary status of Prilosec 
and Nexium to Medco and its customers. 
In January 2013, the Federal Court granted 
AstraZeneca’s motion and dismissed the 
case with prejudice. The plaintiff appealed. 
In October 2014, the US Court of Appeals 
for the Third Circuit affirmed the Federal 
Court’s decision to dismiss AstraZeneca 
from the litigation with prejudice. The matter 
is now concluded.
Ocimum Lawsuit
In December 2015, AstraZeneca was served 
with a complaint filed by Ocimum Biosciences, 
Ltd. (Ocimum) in the Superior Court for the 
State of Delaware that alleges, among other 
things, breaches of contractual obligations and 
misappropriation of trade secrets, relating to 
a now terminated 2001 licensing agreement 
between AstraZeneca and Gene Logic, Inc. 
(Gene Logic), the rights to which Ocimum 
purports to have acquired from Gene Logic. 
Government investigations/proceedings 
Crestor (rosuvastatin calcium)
The DOJ and all US states have declined 
to intervene in the civil component of an 
investigation regarding Crestor. Prior to 
September 2015, one additional component of 
the investigation remained. In September 2015, 
AstraZeneca was informed that the additional 
component of the investigation has been 
closed, bringing this matter to a conclusion.
Synagis (palivizumab) 
In June 2011, MedImmune received a demand 
from the US Attorney’s Office for the Southern 
District of New York requesting certain 
documents related to the sales and marketing 
activities of Synagis. In July 2011, MedImmune 
received a similar court order to produce 
documents from the Office of the Attorney 
General for the State of New York Medicaid 
and Fraud Control Unit pursuant to what the 
government attorneys advised was a joint 
investigation. MedImmune is co-operating 
with these inquiries.
In May 2012, MedImmune received a subpoena 
duces tecum from the Office of Attorney 
General for the State of Florida Medicaid 
and Fraud Control Unit requesting certain 
documents related to the sales and marketing 
activities of Synagis. MedImmune has 
accepted receipt of the request and has 
co-ordinated with the Florida government to 
provide the appropriate responses and 
co-operate with any related investigation. 
AstraZeneca is unaware of the nature or 
focus of the investigation, however, based on 
the nature of the requests, it appears to be 
similar to the inquiries from the State of New 
York and DOJ (which are described above).
Other government investigations/
proceedings 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
In connection with investigations into 
anti-bribery and corruption issues in the 
pharmaceutical industry, AstraZeneca 
has received inquiries from enforcement 
agencies, including the DOJ and the SEC, 
regarding, among other things, sales practices, 
internal controls, certain distributors and 
interactions with healthcare providers and 
other government officials in several countries. 
AstraZeneca is co-operating with these 
inquiries. AstraZeneca’s investigation has 
involved indications of inappropriate conduct in 
certain countries, including China. Resolution 
of these matters could involve the payment of 
fines and/or other remedies.
Good Manufacturing Practices subpoena 
In March 2013, AstraZeneca received a 
subpoena duces tecum from the US Attorney’s 
Office in Boston seeking documents and 
information relating to products manufactured 
or packaged at AstraZeneca’s Macclesfield 
facility in the UK. AstraZeneca co-operated 
with this inquiry which is now closed.
Additional government inquiries
As is true for most, if not all, major prescription 
pharmaceutical companies operating in 
the US, AstraZeneca is currently involved in 
multiple US federal and state inquiries into 
drug marketing and pricing practices. In 
addition to the investigations described above, 
various federal and state law enforcement 
offices have, from time to time, requested 
information from the Group. There have been 
no material developments in those matters. 
Qui tam litigation in New York 
In September 2015, AstraZeneca was served 
with a lawsuit filed in US Federal Court in 
New York under the qui tam (whistleblower) 
provisions of the federal and certain state 
False Claims Acts. The lawsuit alleges that 
AstraZeneca misrepresented the safety profile 
of, and improperly promoted, Seroquel IR 
and Seroquel XR. The US government and 
the named states have declined to intervene 
in this case.
Qui tam litigation in Delaware
In January and February 2014, AstraZeneca 
was served with lawsuits filed in the US District 
Court for the District of Delaware under the 
qui tam (whistleblower) provisions of the 
federal False Claims Act and related state 
statutes, alleging that AstraZeneca directed 
certain employees to promote Seroquel 
off-label and provided unlawful remuneration 
to physicians in connection with the promotion 
of Seroquel. The DOJ and all US states have 
declined to intervene in the lawsuits. This 
litigation has been stayed pending trial court 
disposition or earlier resolution of the Texas 
Attorney General litigation involving Seroquel 
disclosed below.
Texas Attorney General litigation
In October 2014, following a previously 
disclosed investigation by the State of Texas 
into AstraZeneca’s sales and marketing 
activities involving Seroquel, the Texas 
Attorney General’s Office intervened in a 
state whistleblower action pending in Travis 
County Court, Texas. The lawsuit alleges 
that AstraZeneca engaged in inappropriate 
promotion of Seroquel and made improper 
payments intended to influence the formulary 
status of Seroquel. 
Synagis (palivizumab) 
In September 2011, MedImmune filed an 
action against AbbVie, Inc. (AbbVie) (formerly 
Abbott International, LLC) in the Circuit Court 
of Montgomery County, Maryland, seeking 
a declaratory judgment in a contract dispute. 
AbbVie’s motion to dismiss was granted. 
In September 201 1, AbbVie filed a parallel action 
against MedImmune in Illinois State Court 
and trial began in August 2015. In September 
2015, a jury returned a verdict in favour of 
AbbVie and awarded AbbVie damages in 
the amount of approximately $94 million. 
In December 2015, MedImmune and AbbVie 
reached a settlement of this matter bringing 
this litigation to a conclusion.
Toprol-XL (metoprolol succinate) 
In March 2015, AstraZeneca was served with 
a state court complaint filed by the Attorney 
General for the State of Louisiana alleging that, 
in connection with enforcement of its patents 
for Toprol-XL, it had engaged in unlawful 
monopolisation and unfair trade practices, 
27 Commitments and contingent 
liabilities continued
Financial Statements 192 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Tax
Where tax exposures can be quantified, 
an accrual is made based on best estimates 
and management’s judgement. Details of 
the movements in relation to material tax 
exposures are discussed below. As accruals 
can be built up over a long period of time 
but the ultimate resolution of tax exposures 
usually occurs at a point in time, and given 
the inherent uncertainties in assessing 
the outcomes of these exposures (which 
sometimes can be binary in nature), 
we could, in future periods, experience 
adjustments to these accruals that have 
a material positive or negative effect on our 
results in any particular period.
Transfer pricing and other 
international tax contingencies
The total net accrual included in the Group 
Financial Statements to cover the worldwide 
exposure to transfer pricing audits is $361m, 
a decrease of $234m compared to 2014 
mainly due to releases following tax authority 
agreement and exchange rate effects. 
AstraZeneca faces a number of transfer 
pricing audits in jurisdictions around the world 
and, in some cases, is in dispute with the tax 
authorities. The issues under discussion are 
often complex and can require many years 
to resolve. Accruals for tax contingencies 
require management to make estimates 
and judgements with respect to the ultimate 
outcome of a tax audit, and actual results could 
vary from these estimates. The international 
tax environment presents increasingly 
challenging dynamics for the resolution of 
transfer pricing disputes. These disputes 
usually result in taxable profits being increased 
in one territory and correspondingly decreased 
in another. Our balance sheet positions for 
these matters reflect appropriate corresponding 
relief in the territories affected. Management 
considers that at present such corresponding 
relief will be available, but given the challenges 
in the international tax environment will keep 
this aspect under careful review.
Management continues to believe that 
AstraZeneca’s positions on all its transfer 
pricing audits and disputes are robust and 
that AstraZeneca is appropriately provided. 
For transfer pricing audits where AstraZeneca 
and the tax authorities are in dispute, 
AstraZeneca estimates the potential for 
reasonably possible additional losses above 
and beyond the amount provided to be up to 
$357m (2014: $521m; 2013: $529m), however, 
management believes that it is unlikely that 
these additional losses will arise. It is possible 
that some of these contingencies may reduce 
in the future to the extent that any tax authority 
challenge is unsuccessful, or matters lapse 
following expiry of the relevant statutes of 
limitation resulting in a reduction in the tax 
charge in future periods.
Other tax contingencies
Included in the tax accrual is $1,373m relating 
to a number of other tax contingencies, 
a decrease of $307m mainly due to releases 
following expiry of statute of limitations and 
exchange rate effects offset by the impact of 
an additional year of transactions relating to 
contingencies for which accruals had already 
been established. For these tax exposures, 
AstraZeneca does not expect material 
additional losses. It is, however, possible 
that some of these contingencies may reduce 
in the future if any tax authority challenge is 
unsuccessful or matters lapse following 
expiry of the relevant statutes of limitation 
resulting in a reduction in the tax charge in 
future periods.
Timing of cash flows and interest 
It is not possible to estimate the timing of 
tax cash flows in relation to each outcome, 
however, it is anticipated that a number of 
significant disputes may be resolved over 
the next one to two years. Included in the 
provision is an amount of interest of $174m 
(2014: $227m; 2013: $344m). Interest is 
accrued as a tax expense.
28 Operating leases
Total rentals under operating leases charged to profit were as follows:
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Operating leases 185 185 188
The future minimum lease payments under operating leases that have initial or remaining terms in excess of one year at 31 December 2015 were 
as follows:
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Obligations under leases comprise:
Not later than one year 95 100 92
Later than one year and not later than five years 245 247 248
Later than five years 69 91 110
Total future minimum lease payments 409 438 450
29 Statutory and other information
2015
$m
2014
$m
2013
$m
Fees payable to KPMG LLP and its associates:
Group audit fee 3.2 2.5 2.2
Fees payable to KPMG LLP and its associates for other services:
The audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 5.4 5.0 5.0
Audit-related assurance services 2.5 2.5 2.6
Tax compliance services 0.1 0.3 0.6
Tax advisory services – – –
Other assurance services 0.5 0.5 0.6
Corporate finance services – – 0.5
Fees payable to KPMG LLP in respect of the Group’s pension schemes:
The audit of subsidiaries’ pension schemes 0.6 0.5 0.4
12.3
1
11.3
1
11.9
1
1
 2015 and 2014 fees payable to KPMG LLP (2013: Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc).
Audit-related assurance services include fees of $1.8m (2014: $1.8m; 2013: $1.7m) in respect of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
27 Commitments and contingent 
liabilities continued
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 193
Related party transactions
The Group had no material related party transactions which might reasonably be expected to influence decisions made by the users of these 
Financial Statements.
Key management personnel compensation
Key management personnel are defined for the purpose of disclosure under IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ as the members of the Board 
and the members of the SET.
2015
$’000
2014
$’000
2013
$’000
Short-term employee benefits 29,265 30,252 25,029
Post-employment benefits 2,636 2,265 2,323
Termination benefits – – 3,855
Share-based payments 17,885 20,253 16,509
49,786 52,770 47,716
Total remuneration is included within employee costs (see Note 26). Further details of Directors’ emoluments are included in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report from pages 103 to 134.
30 Subsequent events
On 2 February 2016, AstraZeneca completed an agreement to invest in a majority equity stake in Acerta Pharma B.V. (Acerta), a privately-
owned biopharmaceutical company based in the Netherlands and US. The transaction provides AstraZeneca with a potential best-in-class 
irreversible oral Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor, acalabrutinib (ACP-196), currently in Phase III development for B-cell blood cancers and 
in Phase I/II clinical trials in multiple solid tumours.
Under the terms of the agreement, AstraZeneca has acquired 55% of the issued share capital of Acerta for an upfront payment of $2.5bn. 
A further payment of $1.5bn will be paid either on receipt of the first regulatory approval for acalabrutinib for any indication in the US, or the end 
of 2018, depending on which is first. The agreement also includes options which, if exercised, provide the opportunity for Acerta shareholders 
to sell, and AstraZeneca to buy, the remaining 45% of shares in Acerta. The options can be exercised at various points in time, conditional on 
the first approval of acalabrutinib in both the US and Europe and when the extent of the commercial opportunity has been fully established, 
at a price of approximately $3bn net of certain costs and payments incurred by AstraZeneca and net of agreed future adjusting items, using 
a pre-agreed pricing mechanism. Acerta has approximately 150 employees.
AstraZeneca’s 55% holding is a controlling interest and Acerta’s combination of intangible product rights with an established workforce and 
their operating processes requires that the transaction is accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3. Acerta’s results 
and net assets will be consolidated into the Company’s results from 2 February 2016.
Given the close proximity of the completion of the transaction to the date the Financial Statements were approved, the accounting entries for this 
transaction have not yet been determined. Our provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired will be completed 
in 2016.
Financial Statements 194 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Group Subsidiaries and Holdings
At 31 December 2015 Country
Percentage of 
voting share 
capital held
Wholly owned subsidiaries
Aktiebolaget Hässle Sweden 100
AlphaCore Pharma Limited England 100
AlphaCore Pharma, LLC
1
United States 100
Amylin Ohio LLC
1
United States 100
Amylin Pharmaceuticals LLC
1
United States 100
Ardea Biosciences Limited England 100
Ardea Biosciences, Inc. United States 100
Arrow Therapeutics Limited England 100
Astra Alpha Produtos Farmaceuticos Lda Portugal 100
Astra Export & Trading Aktiebolag Sweden 100
Astra Läkemedel Aktiebolag Sweden 100
Astra Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited South Africa 100
Astra Pharmaceuticals Limited England 100
Astra Tech International Aktiebolag Sweden 100
AstraPharm
2
England 100
AstraZeneca A/S Denmark 100
AstraZeneca do Brasil Limitada Brazil 100
AstraZeneca (Thailand) Limited Thailand 100
AstraZeneca (Wuxi) Trading Co. Ltd China 100
AstraZeneca AB Sweden 100
AstraZeneca AG Switzerland 100
AstraZeneca AS Norway 100
AstraZeneca Asia-Pacific Business 
Services SDN BHD Malaysia 100
AstraZeneca B.V. Netherlands 100
AstraZeneca Biotech AB Sweden 100
AstraZeneca BioVentureHub AB Sweden 100
AstraZeneca Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria 100
AstraZeneca CAMCAR Costa Rica, S.A. Costa Rica 100
AstraZeneca CAMCAR, S.A. Panama 100
AstraZeneca Canada Inc.
3
Canada 100
AstraZeneca China UK Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Collaboration Ventures LLC
1
United States 100
AstraZeneca Colombia S.A. Colombia 100
AstraZeneca Continent B.V. Netherlands 100
AstraZeneca Czech Republic, s.r.o. Czech Republic 100
AstraZeneca d.o.o. Croatia 100
AstraZeneca Death In Service Trustee Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Dunkerque Production SCS France 100
AstraZeneca Eesti OÜ Estonia 100
AstraZeneca Egypt for  
Pharmaceutical Industries JSC Egypt 100
AstraZeneca Egypt for Trading LLC Egypt 100
AstraZeneca Employee Share Trust Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Farmaceutica Chile Limitada Chile 100
AstraZeneca Farmaceutica Holding Spain, S.A. Spain 100
AstraZeneca Farmaceutica Spain S.A. Spain 100
AstraZeneca Finance Coöperatief WA Netherlands 100
AstraZeneca Finance Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Finance S.A.S. France 100
AstraZeneca FZ-LLC United Arab Emirates 100
AstraZeneca Gamma B.V. Netherlands 100
At 31 December 2015 Country
Percentage of 
voting share 
capital held
AstraZeneca GmbH Germany 100
AstraZeneca Health Care S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100
AstraZeneca Holding Aktiebolag
4
Sweden 100
AstraZeneca Holding France S.A.S. France 100
AstraZeneca Holding GmbH Germany 100
AstraZeneca Holdings B.V. Netherlands 100
AstraZeneca Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100
AstraZeneca Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100
AstraZeneca Ilac Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi Turkey 100
AstraZeneca India Private Limited
5
India 100
AstraZeneca Industries, LLC Russia 100
AstraZeneca Insurance Company Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Intermediate Holdings Limited
4
England
 
100
AstraZeneca International Holdings Aktiebolag
2
Sweden 100
AstraZeneca Investment (China) Co., Ltd China 100
AstraZeneca Investments Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Israel Ltd Israel 100
AstraZeneca Japan Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Jota B.V. Netherlands 100
AstraZeneca K.K. Japan 100
AstraZeneca Kft Hungary 100
AstraZeneca Korea Co. Ltd Republic of Korea 100
AstraZeneca Latvija SIA Latvia 100
AstraZeneca Lietuva UAB Lithuania 100
AstraZeneca Limited New Zealand 100
AstraZeneca Luxembourg S.A. Luxembourg 100
AstraZeneca Maroc SARLAU Morocco 100
AstraZeneca Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100
AstraZeneca Nominees Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Nordic AB Sweden 100
AstraZeneca Österreich GmbH Austria 100
AstraZeneca OY. Finland 100
AstraZeneca Peru S.A. Peru 100
AstraZeneca Pharma Poland Sp.z.o.o. Poland 100
AstraZeneca Pharma S.R.L. Romania 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceutical (China) Co. Ltd China 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (Phils.) Inc. Philippines 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited South Africa 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals Aktiebolag Sweden 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals Co., Limited. China 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals Limited Kenya 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals, LLC Russia 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals 
Pakistan (Private) Limited Pakistan 100
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals, LP
6
United States 100
AstraZeneca Produtos Farmaceuticos Lda Portugal 100
AstraZeneca PTY Limited Australia 100
AstraZeneca Quest Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Reims S.A.S. France 100
AstraZeneca Rho B.V. Netherlands 100
AstraZeneca S.A. Greece 100
AstraZeneca S.A. Chile 100
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates and joint ventures, the country of 
incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned as at 31 December 2015 are disclosed below. Unless otherwise stated the share 
capital disclosed comprises ordinary shares which are indirectly held by AstraZeneca PLC. 
Unless otherwise stated the accounting year ends of subsidiaries are 31 December. Products are manufactured in 17 countries worldwide and 
are sold in over 100 countries. The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries at 
31 December 2015.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 195
At 31 December 2015 Country
Percentage of 
voting share 
capital held
AstraZeneca S.A. Argentina 100
AstraZeneca S.A. / N.V. Belgium 100
AstraZeneca S.A.S. France 100
AstraZeneca S.A.
3
Uruguay 100
AstraZeneca Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100
AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Sigma B.V. Netherlands 100
AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 100
AstraZeneca Södertalje 1 AB Sweden 100
AstraZeneca Södertalje 2 AB Sweden 100
AstraZeneca SpA Italy 100
AstraZeneca Sweden Investments Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Taiwan Limited
3
Taiwan 100
AstraZeneca Treasury Limited
2
England 100
AstraZeneca Tunisie SaRL Tunisia 100
AstraZeneca UK Limited England 100
AstraZeneca Ukraina LLC Ukraine 100
AstraZeneca US Investments Limited
4
England
 
100
AstraZeneca Venezuela S.A.
Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela 100
AstraZeneca Zeta B.V. Netherlands 100
AstraZeneca, LP
6
United States 100
AstraZeneca, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100
Atkemix Nine Inc. United States 100
Atkemix Ten Inc. United States 100
Ayzee 1 Limited England 100
AYZEE 2 Limited England 100
AYZEE 3 Limited England 100
AYZEE 4 Limited England 100
AZ Reinsurance Limited Cayman Islands 100
AZENCO2 Limited England 100
AZLP Holdings LLC
1
United States 100
AZ-Mont Insurance Company United States 100
BMS Holdco Inc. United States 100
Cambridge Antibody Technology Group Limited England 100
Corpus Christi Holdings Inc. United States 100
Cresco Ti Systems GmbH Germany 100
Definiens AG Germany 100
Definiens Inc. United States 100
Drimex LLC Egypt 100
Entasis Therapeutics Inc. United States 100
Entasis Therapeutics Limited
7
England 100
Gotland Pharma S.A.
Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela 100
IPR Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Puerto Rico 100
KuDOS Horsham Limited England 100
KuDOS Pharmaceuticals Limited England 100
Laboratorio Beta, S.A. Spain 100
Laboratorio Icaro S.A. Spain 100
Laboratorio Lailan, S.A. Spain 100
Laboratorio Odin, S.A. Spain 100
Laboratorio Tau S.A. Spain 100
MedImmune Biologics Inc. United States 100
MedImmune Limited England 100
MedImmune Pharma B.V. Netherlands 100
MedImmune U.K. Limited England 100
MedImmune Ventures, Inc. United States 100
MedImmune, LLC
1
United States 100
Meronem Group Limited England 100
Novastra Promoção e Comércio Farmacêutico LdaPortugal 100
Novastuart Produtos Farmaceuticos Lda Portugal 100
Omthera Pharmaceuticals Inc. United States 100
Optein, Inc. United States 100
Pearl Therapeutics, Inc. United States 100
At 31 December 2015 Country
Percentage of 
voting share 
capital held
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing 
Company Pty Limited Australia 100
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing 
Division Pty Limited Australia 100
Simesa SpA Italy 100
Sofotec GmbH Germany 100
Spirogen Sarl
2
Switzerland 100
Stauffer Management Company LLC
1
United States 100
Stuart-Produtos Farmacêuticos Lda Portugal 100
Stuart Pharma Aktiebolag Sweden 100
Symbicom Aktiebolag
2
Sweden
 
100
Tika Läkemedel Aktiebolag Sweden 100
Zenco (No 8) Limited England 100
Zeneca Epsilon – Produtos Farmacêuticos Lda Portugal 100
Zeneca Finance (Netherlands) Company England 100
Zeneca Holdings Inc. United States 100
Zeneca Ilac Sanayi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi Turkey 100
Zeneca Inc. United States 100
Zeneca Wilmington Inc.
4
United States 100
Zenecapharma Produtos Farmaceuticos Lda Portugal 100
ZS Pharma Inc. United States 100
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
AstraZeneca Pharma India Limited
5
India 75
I.C. Insurance Holdings Limited England 51
P.T. AstraZeneca Indonesia Indonesia 95
SPA AstraZeneca Al Djazair
8
Algeria 65.77
Joint ventures 
Archigen Biotech Limited
8
England 50
Centus Biotherapeutics Limited
8
England 50
Montrose Chemical Corporation of California United States 50
Significant holdings
Albireo Limited
9
England 23.5
C.C.Global Chemicals Company United States 37.5
Other holdings
ADC Therapeutics Sàrl
10
Switzerland 8.84
Adherium Limited New Zealand 5.6
Affinita Biotech, Inc.
11
United States 16.22
Armaron Bio Pty Ltd
12
Australia 17.43
BlinkBio Inc.
12
United States 18.49
Catabasis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States 10.7
Cerapedics, Inc.
13
United States 8.61
 
Elusys Therapeutics, Inc.
14
United States 7.2
Fibrogen, Inc. United States 1.8
G1 Therapeutics, Inc.
15
United States 18.03
Hydra Biosciences Inc. United States 4.27
Inotek Pharmaceuticals Corporation United States 7.3
Moderna Therapeutics Inc.
16
United States 7
PhaseBio Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
13
United States 14.5
Regulus Therapeutics Inc. United States 6.7
Silence Therapeutics PLC England 0.17
VentiRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
17
United States 12
1
 Ownership held as membership interest.
2
 Ownership held in class A and B shares.
3
 Ownership held in ordinary and special shares.
4
 Directly held by AstraZeneca PLC. 
5
 Accounting year end is 31 March. 
6
 Ownership held as partnership interest.
7
 Ownership held in preference, deferred and ordinary shares. 
8
 Ownership held in class A shares.
9
 Ownership held in class A voting preference shares, class A non-voting preference shares, 
and class B voting preference shares. 
10
 Ownership held in class B ordinary shares and class C ordinary shares.
11
 Ownership held in class A voting and class A non-voting shares.
12
 Ownership held in class B preference shares. 
13
 Ownership held in class C preference shares.
14
 Ownership held in class D preference shares. 
15
 Ownership held in class A preference shares and class B preference shares. 
16
 Ownership held in class D preference shares and class E preference shares. 
17
 Ownership held in class A preference shares. 
Financial Statements 196 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Opinions and conclusions arising 
from our audit
1  Our opinion on the Parent Company 
Financial Statements is unmodified 
We have audited the Parent Company 
Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 set 
out on pages 197 to 201. In our opinion the 
Parent Company Financial Statements: 
 > give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015
 > have been properly prepared in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards, including 
FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’; 
and 
 > have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
2  Our opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion:
 > the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
 > the information given in the Strategic Report 
and the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the Financial Statements 
are prepared is consistent with the Parent 
Company Financial Statements. 
3  We have nothing to report in respect of 
the matters on which we are required to 
report by exception 
The Companies Act 2006 requires us to report 
to you if, in our opinion: 
 > adequate accounting records have not been 
kept by the Parent Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
 > the Parent Company Financial Statements 
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
 > certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made; or 
 > we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit.
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
above responsibilities.
4  Other matter – we have reported separately 
on the Group Financial Statements 
We have reported separately on the Group 
Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for 
the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Scope and responsibilities 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement set out on page 
135, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Parent Company Financial 
Statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. A description of the 
scope of an audit of Financial Statements is 
provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our 
responsibilities, published on our website 
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, 
which are incorporated into this report as if 
set out in full and should be read to provide 
an understanding of the purpose of this 
report, the work we have undertaken and 
the basis of our opinions.
Antony Cates (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, 
Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
4 February 2016
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of 
AstraZeneca PLC only
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 197
AstraZeneca PLC
Notes
2015
$m
2014
$m
Fixed assets
Fixed asset investments 1 30,047 27,426
Current assets
Debtors – other 15 15
Debtors – amounts owed by Group undertakings 7,283 7,303
7,298 7,318
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Non-trade creditors 2 (814) (1,467)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3 – (912)
(814) (2,379)
Net current assets 6,484 4,939
Total assets less current liabilities 36,531 32,365
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 3 (283) (283)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3 (13,705) (7,889)
(13,988) (8,172)
Net assets 22,543 24,193
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 4 316 316
Share premium account 4,304 4,261
Capital redemption reserve 153 153
Other reserves 2,623 2,754
Profit and loss account 15,147 16,709
Shareholders’ funds 22,543 24,193
$m means millions of US dollars.
The Company Financial Statements from page 197 to 201 were approved by the Board on 4 February 2016 and were signed on its behalf by
Pascal Soriot Marc Dunoyer
Director  Director
Company’s registered number 2723534
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December
Financial Statements 198 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December
Share 
capital
$m
Share 
premium
account
$m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
$m
Other 
reserves
$m
Profit and 
loss account
$m
Total 
equity
$m
At 1 January 2014 315 3,983 153 2,847 17,656 24,954
Total comprehensive income for the period
Profit for the period – – – – 2,584 2,584
Amortisation of loss on cash flow hedge – – – – 1 1
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – – 2,585 2,585
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Dividends – – – – (3,532) (3,532)
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions – – – (93) – (93)
Issue of Ordinary Shares 1 278 – – – 279
Total contributions by and distributions to owners 1 278 – (93) (3,532) (3,346)
At 31 December 2014 316 4,261 153 2,754 16,709 24,193
Total comprehensive income for the period
Profit for the period – – – – 1,974 1,974
Amortisation of loss on cash flow hedge – – – – 1 1
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – – 1,975 1,975
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Dividends – – – – (3,537) (3,537)
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions – – – (131) – (131)
Issue of Ordinary Shares – 43 – – – 43
Total contributions by and distributions to owners – 43 – (131) (3,537) (3,625)
At 31 December 2015 316 4,304 153 2,623 15,147 22,543
At 31 December 2015, $15,147m (31 December 2014: $16,709m) of the profit and loss account reserve was available for distribution. Included 
in other reserves is a special reserve of $157m, arising on the redenomination of share capital in 1999.
Included within other reserves at 31 December 2015 is $782m (31 December 2014: $913m) in respect of cumulative share-based payment awards. 
These amounts are not available for distribution.
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 199
Basis of presentation of 
financial information
These financial statements were prepared in 
accordance with FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’. The amendments to FRS 101 
(2014/15 Cycle) issued in July 2015 and 
effective immediately have been applied.
In preparing these financial statements, 
the Company applied the recognition, 
measurement and disclosure requirements 
of International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”), but 
makes amendments where necessary in order 
to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has 
set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 
disclosure exemptions has been taken.
In the transition to FRS 101, the Company has 
applied IFRS 1 while ensuring that its assets 
and liabilities are measured in compliance 
with FRS 101. On transition to IFRS no GAAP 
differences arose.
In these financial statements, the Company 
has applied the exemptions available under 
FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures
 > Statement of Cash Flows and related notes
 > comparative period reconciliations for 
share capital
 > disclosures in respect of transactions 
with wholly owned subsidiaries
 > disclosures in respect of 
capital management
 > the effects of new but not yet 
effective IFRSs
 > disclosures in respect of the compensation 
of Key Management Personnel.
As the Group Financial Statements 
(presented on pages 140 to 195) include the 
equivalent disclosures, the Company has 
also taken the exemptions under FRS 101 
available in respect of the following disclosures
 > IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect 
of group settled share-based payments. 
No individual profit and loss account is 
prepared as provided by Section 408 of 
the Companies Act 2006. The Company 
proposes to continue to adopt the reduced 
disclosure framework of FRS 101 in its next 
financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below 
have, unless otherwise stated, been applied 
consistently to all periods presented in these 
financial statements. 
Basis of accounting
The Company Financial Statements are 
prepared under the historical cost convention, 
modified to include revaluation to fair value 
of certain financial instruments as described 
below, in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006. The Group Financial Statements 
are presented on pages 140 to 195 and have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and as issued by the IASB 
and in accordance with the Group Accounting 
Policies set out on pages 144 to 148. 
The following paragraphs describe the main 
accounting policies, which have been 
applied consistently.
Foreign currencies
Profit and loss account items in foreign 
currencies are translated into US dollars at 
average rates for the relevant accounting 
periods. Assets and liabilities are translated 
at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the 
Company Balance Sheet. Exchange gains 
and losses on loans and on short-term foreign 
currency borrowings and deposits are included 
within net interest payable. Exchange 
differences on all other transactions, except 
relevant foreign currency loans, are taken to 
operating profit.
Taxation
The current tax payable is based on taxable 
profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from 
reported profit because taxable profit excludes 
items that are either never taxable or tax 
deductible or items that are taxable or tax 
deductible in a different period. The Company’s 
current tax assets and liabilities are calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred tax is provided using the balance 
sheet liability method, providing for temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation 
purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profit will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. This requires judgements to 
be made in respect of the availability of future 
taxable income. 
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised 
in respect of temporary differences associated 
with investments in subsidiaries and branches 
where the Company is able to control the timing 
of reversal of the temporary differences and it 
is probable that the temporary differences will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The Company’s deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are calculated using tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the period when the 
liability is settled or the asset realised based 
on tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Accruals for tax contingencies require 
management to make judgements and 
estimates of exposures in relation to tax audit 
issues. Tax benefits are not recognised unless 
the tax positions will probably be sustained. 
Once considered to be probable, management 
reviews each material tax benefit to assess 
whether a provision should be taken against 
full recognition of that benefit on the basis of 
potential settlement through negotiation and/
or litigation. Any liability to interest on tax 
liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
Investments
Fixed asset investments, including investments 
in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed 
for impairment if there are indications that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Share-based payments
The issuance by the Company to employees 
of its subsidiaries of a grant of awards over 
the Company’s shares, represents additional 
capital contributions by the Company to its 
subsidiaries. An additional investment in 
subsidiaries results in a corresponding 
increase in shareholders’ equity. The additional 
capital contribution is based on the fair value of 
the grant issued, allocated over the underlying 
grant’s vesting period, less the market cost of 
shares charged to subsidiaries in settlement 
of such share awards.
Financial instruments
Loans and other receivables are held at 
amortised cost. Long-term loans payable 
are held at amortised cost.
Litigation
Through the normal course of business, the 
AstraZeneca Group is involved in legal disputes, 
the settlement of which may involve cost to 
the Company. Provision is made where an 
adverse outcome is probable and associated 
costs can be estimated reliably. In other 
cases, appropriate descriptions are included.
Company Accounting Policies
Financial Statements 200 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
1 Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiaries
Shares
$m
Loans
$m
Total
$m
At 1 January 2015 16,186 11,240 27,426
Additions – 5,934 5,934
Disposals – (3,069) (3,069)
Capital reimbursement (133) – (133)
Exchange – (116) (116)
Amortisation – 5 5
At 31 December 2015 16,053 13,994 30,047
A list of subsidiaries is included on pages 194 and 195.
2 Non-trade creditors
2015
$m
2014
$m
Amounts due within one year
Short-term borrowings 679 1,309
Other creditors 128 150
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 7 8
814 1,467
3 Loans
Repayment
dates
2015
$m
2014
$m
Amounts due within one year
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
5.125% Non-callable bond euros 2015 – 912
– 912
Amounts due after more than one year
Amounts owed to subsidiaries
7.2% Loan US dollars 2023 283 283
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
5.9% Callable bond US dollars 2017 1,747 1,747
Floating rate notes US dollars 2018 399 –
1.75% Callable bond US dollars 2018 997 –
1.95% Callable bond US dollars 2019 997 996
2.375% Callable bond US dollars 2020 1,586 –
0.875% Non-callable bond euros 2021 812 902
3.375% Callable bond US dollars 2025 1,971 –
5.75% Non-callable bond pounds sterling 2031 515 540
6.45% Callable bond US dollars 2037 2,719 2,718
4% Callable bond US dollars 2042 986 986
4.375% Callable bond US dollars 2045 976 –
13,705 7,889
All loans and borrowings are unsecured.
2015
$m
2014
$m
Loans or instalments thereof are repayable:
After five years from balance sheet date 8,262 5,429
From two to five years 3,979 2,743
From one to two years 1,747 –
Within one year – 912
Total unsecured 13,988 9,084
With the exception of the 2018 floating rate notes, all loans are at fixed interest rates. Accordingly, the fair values of the loans will change as 
market rates change. However, since the loans are held at amortised cost, changes in interest rates and the credit rating of the Company do 
not have any effect on the Company’s net assets.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Financial Statements AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 201
4 Share capital 
Details of share capital movements in the year and share option schemes are included in Note 22 to the Group Financial Statements.
5 Contingent liabilities
In addition to the matter disclosed below, there are other cases where the Company is named as a party to legal proceedings. These include the 
Byetta and Farxiga product liability litigations, each of which are described more fully in Note 27 to the Group Financial Statements.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
In connection with investigations into anti-bribery and corruption issues in the pharmaceutical industry, AstraZeneca has received inquiries from 
enforcement agencies, including the DOJ and the SEC, regarding, among other things, sales practices, internal controls, certain distributors and 
interactions with healthcare providers and other government officials in several countries. AstraZeneca is co-operating with these inquiries. 
AstraZeneca’s investigation has involved indications of inappropriate conduct in certain countries, including China. Resolution of these matters 
could involve the payment of fines and/or other remedies.
Other
The Company has guaranteed the external borrowing of a subsidiary in the amount of $288m.
6 Statutory and other information
The Directors were paid by another Group company in 2015 and 2014.
Financial Statements 202 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
For the year ended 31 December
2011
Restated*
$m
2012
Restated*
$m
2013
Restated*
$m
2014
Restated*
$m
2015
$m
Revenue and profits
Product Sales 33,591 27,973 25,711 26,095 23,641
Externalisation Revenue 29 451 95 452 1,067
Cost of sales (6,026) (5,393) (5,261) (5,842) (4,646)
Distribution costs (346) (320) (306) (324) (339)
Research and development expense (5,523) (5,243) (4,821) (5,579) (5,997)
Selling, general and administrative costs (11,161) (9,839) (12,206) (13,000) (11,112)
Profit on disposal of subsidiary 1,483 – – – –
Other operating income and expense 748 519 500 335 1,500
Operating profit 12,795 8,148 3,712 2,137 4,114
Finance income 50 42 50 78 46
Finance expense (562) (544) (495) (963) (1,075)
Share of after tax losses of joint ventures – – – (6) (16)
Profit before tax 12,283 7,646 3,267 1,246 3,069
Taxation (2,333) (1,376) (696) (11) (243)
Profit for the period 9,950 6,270 2,571 1,235 2,826
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (480) 135 (113) (1,506) (338)
Total comprehensive income for the period 9,470 6,405 2,458 (271) 2,488
Profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 9,917 6,240 2,556 1,233 2,825
Non-controlling interests 33 30 15 2 1
Earnings per share
Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share (basic) $7.29 $4.95 $2.04 $0.98 $2.23
Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share (diluted) $7.25 $4.94 $2.04 $0.98 $2.23
Dividends $2.70 $2.85 $2.80 $2.80 $2.80
Return on revenues
Operating profit as a percentage of Total Revenue 38.1% 28.7% 14.4% 8.0% 16.7%
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 29.5 19.9 9.9 6.1 11.3
At 31 December
2011
$m
2012
$m
2013
$m
2014
$m
2015
$m
Statement of Financial Position
Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 27,267 32,435 31,846 38,541 40,927
Other investments and non-current receivables 543 940 2,513 2,138 1,896
Deferred tax assets 1,514 1,111 1,205 1,219 1,294
Current assets 23,506 19,048 20,335 16,697 16,007
Total assets 52,830 53,534 55,899 58,595 60,124
Current liabilities (15,752) (13,903) (16,051) (17,330) (14,869)
Non-current liabilities (13,612) (15,685) (16,595) (21,619) (26,746)
Net assets 23,466 23,946 23,253 19,646 18,509
Share capital 323 312 315 316 316
Reserves attributable to equity holders of the Company 22,917 23,419 22,909 19,311 18,174
Non-controlling interests 226 215 29 19 19
Total equity and reserves 23,466 23,946 23,253 19,646 18,509
For the year ended 31 December
2011
$m
2012
$m
2013
$m
2014
$m
2015
$m
Cash flows
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from:
Operating activities 7,821 6,948 7,400 7,058 3,324
Investing activities (2,022) (1,859) (2,889) (7,032) (4,239)
Financing activities (9,321) (4,923) (3,047) (2,705) 878
(3,522) 166 1,464 (2,679) (37)
* Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of externalisation revenue from other operating income and expense as detailed in Group Accounting Policies.
For the purpose of computing the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings consist of the income from continuing ordinary activities before 
taxation of Group companies and income received from companies owned 50% or less, plus fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest 
on all indebtedness, amortisation of debt discount and expense, and that portion of rental expense representative of the interest factor.
Group Financial Record
Financial Statements Marketed Products
Respiratory, Inflammation  
and Autoimmunity
 > Accolate (zafirlukast) is an oral  
leukotriene receptor antagonist for the 
treatment of asthma.
 > Bricanyl Respules (terbutaline) is a 
short-acting beta 2-agonist administered  
via a nebuliser for acute treatment of 
asthma and COPD in both children  
and adults. 
 > Bricanyl Turbuhaler (terbutaline) is a 
short-acting beta 2-agonist for the acute 
treatment of bronchial-obstructive 
symptoms in asthma and COPD.
 > Daliresp (roflumilast) is an oral PDE4 
(phosphodiesterase-4) inhibitor for adults  
with severe COPD to decrease their 
number of exacerbations (US only).
 > Duaklir Genuair (aclidinium/formoterol  
in a dry powder inhaler) is a fixed dose 
combination of a long-acting muscarinic 
antagonist (LAMA) and a long-acting 
beta 2-adrenergic receptor agonist (LABA) 
for the maintenance treatment of COPD.
 > Eklira Genuair/Tudorza/Bretaris 
(aclidinium in a dry powder inhaler) is a 
LAMA for the maintenance treatment  
of COPD.
 > Oxis Turbuhaler (formoterol) is a fast 
onset, long-acting beta 2-agonist for the 
treatment of bronchial-obstructive 
symptoms in asthma and COPD.
 > Pulmicort Turbuhaler/Pulmicort 
Flexhaler (budesonide) is an inhaled 
corticosteroid for maintenance treatment 
of asthma. 
 > Pulmicort Respules (budesonide) is  
a corticosteroid, administered via a 
nebuliser, for the treatment of asthma  
in both children and adults.
 > Rhinocort (budesonide) is a nasal steroid 
treatment for allergic rhinitis (hay fever), 
perennial rhinitis and nasal polyps.
 > Symbicort pMDI (budesonide/ 
formoterol in a pressurised metered-dose 
inhaler) is a combination of an inhaled 
corticosteroid and a fast onset, long- 
acting beta 2-agonist for maintenance 
treatment of asthma and COPD, including 
chronic bronchitis and emphysema in the 
US, Australia and some other markets.
 > Symbicort Turbuhaler (budesonide/
formoterol in a dry powder inhaler) is a 
combination of an inhaled corticosteroid 
and a fast onset, long-acting beta 2-
agonist for the maintenance treatment of 
asthma and COPD. In asthma, it is also 
approved for Symbicort Maintenance And 
Reliever Therapy (Symbicort SMART). 
Symbicort Turbuhaler is approved in 
Europe, Japan and many other countries 
excluding the US.
Cardiovascular and  
Metabolic diseases
Cardiovascular disease
 > Atacand
1
/Atacand HCT/Atacand Plus 
(candesartan cilexetil) is an angiotensin II 
antagonist for the 1st line treatment  
of hypertension and symptomatic  
heart failure.
 > Brilinta/Brilique (ticagrelor) is an  
oral antiplatelet for acute coronary 
syndromes (ACS).
 > Crestor
2
 (rosuvastatin calcium) is  
a statin for dyslipidaemia and 
hypercholesterolemia.
 > Plendil (felodipine) is a calcium antagonist  
for hypertension and angina.
 > Seloken/Toprol-XL (metoprolol 
succinate) is a beta-blocker once-daily 
tablet for control of hypertension, heart 
failure and angina.
 > Tenormin
3
 (atenolol) is a beta-blocker for 
hypertension, angina pectoris and other  
CV disorders.
 > Zestril
4
 (lisinopril dihydrate) is an 
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor 
for a wide range of CV diseases, including 
hypertension.
Metabolic disease
 > Bydureon (exenatide extended-release  
for injectable suspension) is a once-
weekly injectable glucagon-like peptide-1 
(GLP-1) receptor agonist available as a 
single-dose tray or a single-dose pen 
indicated to improve glycaemic control,  
in adults with Type 2 diabetes.
 > Byetta (exenatide injection) is a twice-
daily injectable GLP-1 receptor agonist 
indicated to improve glycaemic control in 
adults with Type 2 diabetes. 
 > Farxiga/Forxiga (dapagliflozin) is a 
selective inhibitor of human sodium-
glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2 inhibitor) 
indicated as an adjunct to diet and 
exercise to improve glycaemic control in 
adult patients with Type 2 diabetes. 
 > Kombiglyze XR (saxagliptin and 
metformin hydrochloride extended 
release) combines saxagliptin (Onglyza) 
and extended release metformin 
(metformin XR) in a once-daily tablet  
for Type 2 diabetes.
 > Komboglyze (saxagliptin and metformin 
hydrochloride) combines saxagliptin 
(Onglyza) and metformin immediate 
release (metformin IR) in a twice-daily 
tablet for Type 2 diabetes. 
 > Onglyza (saxagliptin) is an oral  
dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor  
for Type 2 diabetes. 
 > Symlin (pramlintide acetate) is an injected 
amylin analogue for Type 1 and Type 2 
diabetes in patients with inadequate  
glycaemic control.
 > Xigduo (dapagliflozin and metformin 
hydrochloride) combines dapagliflozin  
(Farxiga/Forxiga), an SGLT2 inhibitor,  
and metformin IR, in a twice-daily  
tablet to improve glycaemic control  
in adult patients with Type 2 diabetes  
who are inadequately controlled by 
metformin alone.
 > Xigduo XR (dapagliflozin and metformin 
hydrochloride extended-release) 
combines dapagliflozin (Farxiga/Forxiga), 
an SGLT2 inhibitor, and metformin XR, in 
a once-daily tablet to improve glycaemic 
control in adult patients with Type 2 
diabetes who are inadequately controlled 
by metformin alone.
1
  Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd.
2
   Licensed from Shionogi. The extension of the global licence 
agreement with Shionogi for Crestor and the modification of 
the royalty structure became effective 1 January 2014.
3
   Divested US rights to Tenormin to Alvogen Pharma US Inc. 
effective 9 January 2015.
4
   Licensed from Merck. Divested US rights to Zestril to 
Alvogen Pharma US Inc. effective 9 January 2015.
203 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Marketed Products continued
Oncology 
 > Arimidex (anastrozole) is an aromatase 
inhibitor used to treat breast cancer. It has 
been shown to be significantly superior  
to tamoxifen at preventing breast cancer 
recurrence during and beyond the 
five-year treatment course. 
 > Casodex, Cosudex (bicalutamide) is  
an anti-androgen therapy used to treat 
prostate cancer. A 50mg tablet is used  
for advanced prostate cancer; a 150mg 
tablet is used for locally advanced 
prostate cancer. 
 > Faslodex (fulvestrant) is an injectable 
estrogen receptor antagonist. It is used 
for the treatment of hormone receptor 
positive advanced breast cancer for 
post-menopausal women whose disease 
has progressed following treatment with 
prior endocrine therapy.
 > Iressa (gefitinib) is an epidermal growth 
factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor 
(EGFR-TKI) that acts to block signals  
for cancer cell growth and survival in 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC).
 > Lynparza (olaparib) is an oral poly 
ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor.  
It is approved in the EU for the treatment 
of adult patients with platinum-sensitive 
relapsed BRCA-mutated (germline  
and/or somatic) high-grade serous 
epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary 
peritoneal cancer. It is approved in the US  
for the treatment of patients with germline 
BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer 
who have been treated with three or more 
prior lines of chemotherapy. 
 > Nolvadex (tamoxifen citrate) is a widely 
used breast cancer treatment outside  
the US.
 > Tagrisso (osimertinib) is an EGFR-TKI 
indicated for patients with metastatic 
EGFR T790M mutation-positive NSCLC.
 > Zoladex (goserelin acetate implant) in one 
and three month subcutaneous or 
intra-muscular injections, is a luteinising 
hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) 
agonist used to treat prostate cancer, 
breast cancer and certain benign 
gynaecological disorders. 
Infection, Neuroscience  
and Gastrointestinal
Infection
 > Fluenz/FluMist (influenza vaccine  
live, intra-nasal) is an intra-nasal, live, 
attenuated, trivalent influenza vaccine.
 > Fluenz Tetra/FluMist Quadrivalent
1
 
(influenza vaccine live, intra-nasal) is an 
intra-nasal, live, attenuated, quadrivalent 
influenza vaccine.
 > Merrem/Meronem
2
 (meropenem) is a 
carbapenem anti-bacterial used to treat 
serious infections in hospitalised patients.
 > Synagis
3
 (palivizumab) is a humanised 
MAb used to prevent serious lower 
respiratory tract disease caused by 
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) in 
paediatric patients at high risk of  
acquiring RSV disease.
 > Zinforo
4
 (ceftaroline fosamil) is a  
novel injectable cephalosporin used  
in community-acquired pneumonia  
and complicated skin and soft  
tissue infections.
1
  Daiichi Sankyo holds rights to Fluenz Tetra/FluMist 
Quadrivalent in Japan. 
2
  Licensed from Dainippon Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co., 
Limited.
3
  US rights only. AbbVie holds rights to Synagis outside  
the US. 
4
  Licensed from Forest (now a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Allergan). AstraZeneca holds global rights, excluding the 
US, Canada and Japan.
Neuroscience
 > Diprivan (propofol) is an intravenous 
general anaesthetic used to induce and 
maintain general anaesthesia, intensive 
care sedation and conscious sedation for 
surgical and diagnostic procedures.
 > EMLA (lidocaine and prilocaine) is a  
local anaesthetic for topical application  
(cream and patch) to prevent pain 
associated with injections and minor 
surgical procedures, and to facilitate 
cleansing/debridement of leg ulcers.
 > Movantik/Moventig (naloxegol) is a 
once-daily, peripherally-acting mu-opioid 
receptor antagonist approved for the 
treatment of opioid-induced constipation 
(OIC) in adult patients. The indication 
varies by jurisdiction. 
 > Naropin (ropivacaine) is a long-acting 
local anaesthetic for surgical anaesthesia 
and acute pain management. 
 > Seroquel IR (an immediate release 
formulation of quetiapine fumarate) is an 
atypical anti-psychotic generally approved 
for the treatment of schizophrenia and 
bipolar disorder (mania, depression and 
maintenance). 
 > Seroquel XR (an extended release  
formulation of quetiapine fumarate)  
is generally approved for the treatment  
of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder,  
major depressive disorder and, on  
a more limited basis, for generalised 
anxiety disorder. 
 > Vimovo
1
 (naproxen/esomeprazole 
magnesium) is generally approved for 
symptomatic relief in the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and 
ankylosing spondylitis in patients at risk  
of developing NSAID-associated gastric  
and/or duodenal ulcers.
 > Xylocaine (lidocaine) is a short-acting  
local anaesthetic for topical and  
regional anaesthesia.
 > Zomig (zolmitriptan) is used for the acute 
treatment of migraine, plus for the acute 
treatment of cluster headache in the EU.  
Zomig is available in three formulations:  
oral tablet; orally dispersible tablet; and  
nasal spray.
1
  Licensed from Pozen. Divested US rights to Horizon Pharma 
USA, Inc. effective 22 November 2013.
Gastrointestinal 
 > Losec/Prilosec (omeprazole) is a  
proton pump inhibitor used to treat  
acid-related diseases.
 > Nexium (esomeprazole magnesium)  
is a proton pump inhibitor used to treat 
acid-related diseases.
Additional Information
204 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Development Pipeline
as at 31 December 2015
Includes AstraZeneca sponsored or directed studies only.
Phase III/Pivotal Phase II/Registration
NMEs and significant additional indications
Regulatory submission dates shown for assets in Phase III and beyond. As disclosure of compound information is balanced by the business 
need to maintain confidentiality, information in relation to some compounds listed here has not been disclosed at this time.
Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation
Date 
Commenced 
Phase
Estimated Regulatory Submission/Submission Acceptance
†
US EU Japan China
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity
anifrolumab
#
 TULIP IFN-alphaR MAb systemic lupus erythematosus Q3 2015 2019 
(Fast Track)
2019 2019
benralizumab
#
 CALIMA  
SIROCCO ZONDA  
BISE BORA GREGALE
IL-5R MAb severe asthma Q4 2013 H2 2016 H2 2016 N/A N/A
benralizumab
#
 
TERRANOVA GALATHEA
IL-5R MAb COPD Q3 2014 2018 2018 N/A N/A
brodalumab
#
 
AMAGINE-1,2,3
IL-17R MAb psoriasis Q3 2012 Accepted
1
 Accepted N/A N/A
Zurampic (lesinurad) 
CLEAR 1,2 CRYSTAL
selective uric acid  
reabsorption inhibitor  
(URAT-1)
chronic treatment of 
hyperuricemia in patients  
with gout
Q4 2011 Approved Accepted
2
PT003 GFF PINNACLE LABA/LAMA COPD Q2 2013 Accepted H2 2016 2017 2017
PT010 LABA/LAMA/ICS COPD Q3 2015 2018 2018 2017 2019
tralokinumab STRATOS 1,2 
TROPOS MESOS
IL-13 MAb severe asthma Q3 2014 2018 2018 2018
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases
Brilinta/Brilique
3
 P2Y12 receptor antagonist arterial thrombosis Launched Launched Accepted Launched
Epanova
#
omega-3 carboxylic acids severe hypertriglyceridemia Approved 2018 2019
Farxiga/Forxiga
4
SGLT2 inhibitor Type 2 diabetes Launched Launched Launched Accepted
roxadustat
#
 OLYMPUS  
ROCKIES
hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl 
hydroxylase inhibitor
anaemia in CKD/ESRD Q3 2014 2018 N/A N/A H2 2016
5
ZS-9 (sodium zirconium 
cyclosilicate)
potassium binder hyperkalaemia Accepted Accepted  
Oncology
acalabrutinib
#6
Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) 
inhibitor
B-cell blood cancers H2 2016
cediranib ICON 6 VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor PSR ovarian cancer Q2 2007 Accepted 
(Orphan 
Drug)
durvalumab
#
 PACIFIC PD-L1 MAb stage III NSCLC Q2 2014 2017 2020 2020
durvalumab
#
 HAWK
¶
PD-L1 MAb 2nd line SCCHN (PD-L1 positive) Q1 2015 2017
(Fast Track)
2019 2019
durvalumab
#
  
+ tremelimumab ALPS
¶
PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb metastatic pancreatic ductal 
carcinoma
Q4 2015 2017 2017 2017
durvalumab
#
 + tremelimumab 
ARCTIC
PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb 3rd line NSCLC Q2 2015 2017 2017 2017
durvalumab
#
 + tremelimumab 
CONDOR
¶
PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb 2nd line SCCHN (PD-L1 negative) Q2 2015 2017 2019 2019
durvalumab
#
 + tremelimumab 
DANUBE
PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb 1st line bladder Q4 2015 2018 2018 2018
durvalumab
#
 + tremelimumab 
EAGLE
PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb 2nd line SCCHN Q4 2015 2019 2019 2019
durvalumab
#
 + tremelimumab 
KESTREL
PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb 1st line SCCHN Q4 2015 2018 2018 2018
durvalumab
#
 + tremelimumab 
MYSTIC
PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb 1st line NSCLC Q3 2015 2017 2017 2017
durvalumab
#
 + tremelimumab 
NEPTUNE
PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb 1st line NSCLC Q4 2015 2019 2019 2019
moxetumomab pasudotox
#
  
PLAIT
anti-CD22 recombinant 
immunotoxin
hairy cell leukaemia Q2 2013 2017 
(Orphan Drug)
2018
selumetinib
#
 ASTRA MEK inhibitor differentiated thyroid cancer Q3 2013 2018 2018
selumetinib
#
 SELECT-1 MEK inhibitor 2nd line KRASm NSCLC Q4 2013 2017 2017
Tagrisso (AZD9291) AURA,  
AURA 2
EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor ≥2nd line advanced EGFRm 
T790M NSCLC
Q2 2014 Launched 
(Breakthrough 
designation, 
Priority Review, 
Orphan Drug)
Approved
7
 (Accelerated
 assessment)
Accepted 
(Priority 
Review)
2017
205 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation
Date 
Commenced 
Phase
Estimated Regulatory Submission/Submission Acceptance
†
US EU Japan China
Tagrisso (AZD9291) AURA 3 EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor ≥2nd line advanced EGFRm 
T790M NSCLC
Q3 2014 2017 2017 2017
tremelimumab
¶
 DETERMINE CTLA-4 MAb mesothelioma Q2 2014 H2 2016
(Orphan
 Drug, Fast
 Track)
H2 2016 H2 2016
Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal
CAZ AVI
#
cephalosporin/beta lactamase 
inhibitor 
serious infections, complicated 
intra-abdominal infection, 
complicated urinary tract infection
Q1 2012 N/A Accepted 2017
CAZ AVI
#
cephalosporin/beta lactamase 
inhibitor
hospital-acquired pneumonia/ 
ventilator-associated pneumonia
Q2 2013 N/A Accepted 2017
MEDI-550 pandemic influenza virus  
vaccine
pandemic influenza prophylaxis N/A H1 2016
8
N/A N/A
Zinforo
#
extended spectrum 
cephalosporin with affinity to 
penicillin-binding proteins
pneumonia/skin infections N/A Launched N/A Submitted
Phases I and II 
NMEs and significant additional indications
Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation Phase
Date 
Commenced 
Phase 
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity
abediterol (AZD0548) LABA asthma/COPD II Q4 2007
anifrolumab
#
IFN-alphaR MAb lupus nephritis II Q4 2015
AZD7594 inhaled SGRM asthma/COPD II Q3 2015
AZD7624 inhaled P38 inhibitor COPD II Q4 2014
AZD9412
#
inhaled interferon beta asthma/COPD II Q3 2015
mavrilimumab
#
GM-CSFR MAb rheumatoid arthritis II Q1 2010
MEDI-551
#
CD19 MAb neuromyelitis optica
1
II Q1 2015
MEDI2070
#
IL -23 MAb Crohn’s disease II Q1 2013
abrilumab
#
alpha(4)beta(7) MAb Crohn’s disease/ulcerative colitis II Q4 2012
MEDI9929
#
TSLP MAb asthma/atopic dermatitis II Q2 2014
PT010 LABA/LAMA/ICS asthma II Q2 2014
RDEA3170 selective uric acid reabsorption inhibitor 
(URAT-1)
chronic treatment of hyperuricemia in patients 
with gout
II Q3 2013
tralokinumab IL-13 MAb atopic dermatitis II Q1 2015
anifrolumab
#
IFN-alphaR MAb systemic lupus erythematosus (subcutaneous) I Q4 2015
AZD1419
#
 TLR9 agonist asthma I Q3 2013
AZD7986 DPP1 COPD I Q4 2014
AZD8871 MABA COPD I Q4 2015
AZD8999 MABA COPD I Q4 2013
AZD9567 oral SGRM rheumatoid arthritis I Q4 2015
lesinurad+allopurinol selective uric acid reabsorption inhibitor 
(URAT-1)+xanthine oxidase inhibitor
chronic treatment of hyperuricemia in patients 
with gout
I Q4 2015
MEDI4920 anti-CD40L -Tn3 fusion protein primary Sjögren’s syndrome I Q2 2014
MEDI5872
#
B7RP1 MAb systemic lupus erythematosus I Q4 2008
MEDI7836 IL -13 MAb-YTE asthma I Q1 2015
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases
MEDI6012 LCAT ACS II Q4 2015
AZD4076 anti-miR103/107 oligonucleotide non-alcoholic fatty liver disease/non-alcoholic 
steatohepatitis (NASH)
I Q4 2015
MEDI0382 GLP-1/glucagon dual agonist diabetes/obesity I Q1 2015
MEDI4166 PCSK9/GLP-1 MAb + peptide fusion diabetes/cardiovascular I Q4 2015
MEDI8111 Rh-factor II trauma/bleeding I Q1 2014
†
  US and EU dates correspond to anticipated acceptance  
of the regulatory submission.
# Partnered and/or in collaboration.
¶
 Registrational Phase II/III trial.
1
 US regulatory submission accepted in Q1 2016.
2
 CHMP Positive Opinion received December 2015.
3
 Brilinta in the US; Brilique in rest of world.
4
 Farxiga in the US; Forxiga in rest of world.
5
 Rolling NDA submission to be initiated in H2 2016.
6
 Completion of the agreement with Acerta Pharma Q1 2016.
7
  CHMP Positive Opinion received December 2015. Approval 
received Q1 2016.
8
  MAA submitted December 2015. Regulatory acceptance 
anticipated H1 2016. 
Development Pipeline continued
Additional Information
206 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation Phase
Date 
Commenced 
Phase 
Oncology
AZD1775
#
WEE-1 inhibitor ovarian cancer II Q4 2012
AZD2014 mTOR serine/threonine kinase inhibitor solid tumours II Q1 2013
AZD3759 BLOOM EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor
brain metastases in advanced  
EGFRm NSCLC
II Q4 2015
Tagrisso (AZD9291) BLOOM EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor
AZD4547 FGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor solid tumours II Q4 2011
AZD5069 + durvalumab
#
CXCR2 + PD-L1 MAb
SCCHN II Q3 2015
AZD9150
#
 + durvalumab
#
STAT3 inhibitor + PD-L1 MAb
AZD5363
#
AKT kinase inhibitor breast cancer II Q1 2014
durvalumab
#
PD-L1 MAb solid tumours II Q3 2014
durvalumab
#
 + tremelimumab PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb gastric cancer II Q2 2015
MEDI-551
#
CD19 MAb diffuse B-cell lymphoma II Q1 2012
MEDI-573
#
 IGF MAb metastatic breast cancer II Q2 2012
savolitinib/volitinib
#
MET tyrosine kinase inhibitor papillary renal cell carcinoma II Q2 2014
selumetinib
#
MEK inhibitor 2nd line KRAS wt NSCLC II Q1 2013
AZD0156 ATM serine/threonine kinase inhibitor solid tumours I Q4 2015
AZD2811 Aurora B kinase inhibitor solid tumours I Q4 2015
AZD5312
#
androgen receptor inhibitor solid tumours I Q2 2014
AZD6738 ATR serine/threonine kinase inhibitor solid tumours I Q4 2013
AZD8186 PI3 kinase beta inhibitor solid tumours I Q2 2013
AZD8835 PI3 kinase alpha inhibitor solid tumours I Q4 2014
AZD9150
#
 STAT3 inhibitor haematological malignancies I Q1 2012
Tagrisso (AZD9291) + (durvalumab
#
 or 
selumetinib
#
 or savolitinib
#
) TATTON
EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor + (PD-L1 MAb or 
MEK inhibitor or MET tyrosine kinase inhibitor)
advanced EGFRm NSCLC I Q3 2014
AZD9496 selective oestrogen receptor downregulator 
(SERD)
ER+ breast cancer I Q4 2014
durvalumab
#
PD-L1 MAb solid tumours I Q3 2014
durvalumab
#
 + MEDI0680 PD-L1 MAb + PD-1 MAb solid tumours I Q2 2014
durvalumab
#
 + MEDI6383
#
 OX40 agonist + PD-L1 MAb solid tumours I Q2 2015
durvalumab
#
 + dabrafenib + trametinib
2
PD-L1 MAb + BRAF inhibitor + MEK inhibitor melanoma I Q1 2014
durvalumab
#
 + tremelimumab PD-L1 MAb + CTLA-4 MAb solid tumours I Q4 2013
Iressa + durvalumab
#
PD-L1 MAb + EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor NSCLC I Q2 2014
MEDI0562
#
humanised OX40 agonist solid tumours I Q1 2015
MEDI-551
#
 + rituximab CD19 MAb + CD20 MAb haematological malignancies I Q2 2014
MEDI-565
#
CEA BiTE MAb solid tumours I Q1 2011
MEDI0639
#
DLL -4 MAb solid tumours I Q2 2012
MEDI0680 PD-1 MAb solid tumours I Q4 2013
MEDI1873 GITR agonist fusion protein solid tumours I Q4 2015
MEDI3617
#
ANG-2 MAb solid tumours I Q4 2010
MEDI4276 HER2 bispecific ADC MAb solid tumours I Q4 2015
MEDI6383
#
OX40 agonist solid tumours I Q3 2014
MEDI9197
#
TLR 7/8 agonist solid tumours I Q4 2015
MEDI9447 CD73 MAb solid tumours I Q3 2015
Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal
AZD3241 myeloperoxidase inhibitor multiple system atrophy II Q2 2015
(Orphan Drug)
AZD3293
#
beta-secretase inhibitor Alzheimer’s disease II Q4 2014
CXL
#
 beta lactamase inhibitor/cephalosporin methicillin-resistant S. aureus II Q4 2010
MEDI7510 RSV sF+GLA-SE prevention of RSV disease in older adults II Q3 2015
MEDI8852 influenza A MAb influenza A treatment II Q4 2015
MEDI8897
#
RSV MAb-YTE passive RSV prophylaxis II Q1 2015 
(FDA Fast Track) 
MEDI4893 MAb binding to S. aureus toxin hospital-acquired pneumonia/serious S. aureus 
infection 
II Q4 2014 
(FDA Fast Track)
ATM AVI
#
monobactam/beta lactamase inhibitor targeted serious bacterial infections I Q4 2012
AZD8108 NMDA antagonist suicidal ideation I Q4 2014
MEDI1814 amyloid beta MAb Alzheimer’s disease I Q2 2014
MEDI3902 anti-Psl/PcrV prevention of nosocomial pseudomonas 
pneumonia 
I Q3 2014 
(FDA Fast Track)
#
 Partnered and/or in collaboration.
1
 Neuromyelitis optica: Now lead indication. Multiple sclerosis trial completed in 2015.
2
 MedImmune-sponsored trial in collaboration with Novartis AG.
207 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Significant Life-Cycle Management
Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation
Date 
Commenced 
Phase 
Estimated Regulatory Submission Acceptance
†
US EU Japan China
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity
Duaklir Genuair
#
LAMA/LABA COPD 2018 Launched 2018 2018
Symbicort SYGMA ICS/LABA as-needed use in mild asthma Q4 2014 N/A 2018 2019
Symbicort ICS/LABA breath actuated inhaler asthma/COPD 2018
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases
Brilinta/Brilique
1
 EUCLID P2Y12 receptor antagonist outcomes trial in patients with peripheral 
artery disease
Q4 2012 2017 2017 2017 2018 
Brilinta/Brilique
1
 HESTIA P2Y12 receptor antagonist prevention of vaso-occlusive crises in 
paediatric patients with sickle cell 
disease
Q4 2014 2020 2020
Brilinta/Brilique
1
  
PEGASUS-TIMI 54
P2Y12 receptor antagonist outcomes trial in patients with prior 
myocardial infarction
Q4 2010 Launched 
(Priority 
Review)
Accepted
2
Accepted H2 2016
Brilinta/Brilique
1
 SOCRATES P2Y12 receptor antagonist outcomes trial in patients with stroke  
or TIA
Q1 2014 H1 2016 H1 2016 H2 2016 2017
Brilinta/Brilique
1
 THEMIS P2Y12 receptor antagonist outcomes trial in patients with Type 2 
diabetes and CAD, but without a 
previous history of MI or stroke
Q1 2014 2018 2018 2018 2019
Bydureon EXSCEL GLP-1 receptor agonist Type 2 diabetes outcomes trial Q2 2010 2018 2018 2018
Bydureon weekly suspension GLP-1 receptor agonist Type 2 diabetes Q1 2013 2017 2017
Epanova STRENGTH omega-3 carboxylic acids outcomes trial in statin-treated  
patients at high CV risk, with persistent 
hypertriglyceridemia plus low 
HDL -cholesterol
Q4 2014 2020 2020 2020 2020
Epanova/Farxiga/Forxiga
3
 omega-3 carboxylic acids/ 
SGLT2 inhibitor
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease/
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)
Q1 2015
Farxiga/Forxiga
3
  
DECLARE-TIMI 58
SGLT2 inhibitor Type 2 diabetes outcomes trial Q2 2013 2020 2020
Farxiga/Forxiga
3
 SGLT2 inhibitor Type 1 diabetes Q4 2014 2018 2017 2018
Kombiglyze XR/Komboglyze
4
DPP-4 inhibitor/metformin  
FDC
Type 2 diabetes Launched Launched Submitted
Onglyza SAVOR-TIMI 53 DPP-4 inhibitor Type 2 diabetes outcomes trial Q2 2010 Accepted Launched H2 2016
5
saxagliptin/dapagliflozin FDC DPP-4 inhibitor/SGLT2  
inhibitor FDC
Type 2 diabetes Q2 2012 Accepted
6
Accepted
Xigduo XR/Xigduo
7
SGLT2 inhibitor/metformin  
FDC
Type 2 diabetes Launched Launched 
Oncology
Faslodex FALCON oestrogen receptor antagonist 1st line hormone receptor +ve  
advanced breast cancer
Q4 2012 H2 2016 H2 2016 H2 2016 2020
Lynparza (olaparib) SOLO-1 PARP inhibitor 1st line BRCAm ovarian cancer Q3 2013 2017 2017 2017
Lynparza (olaparib) SOLO-2 PARP inhibitor 2nd line or greater BRCAm PSR ovarian 
cancer, maintenance monotherapy
Q3 2013 H2 2016 2017 2017
Lynparza (olaparib) SOLO-3 PARP inhibitor gBRCA PSR ovarian cancer Q1 2015 2018
Lynparza (olaparib) GOLD PARP inhibitor 2nd line gastric cancer Q3 2013 2017
Lynparza (olaparib) OlympiA PARP inhibitor gBRCA adjuvant breast cancer Q2 2014 2020 2020 2020
Lynparza (olaparib) OlympiAD PARP inhibitor gBRCA metastatic breast cancer Q2 2014 H2 2016 2017 2017
Lynparza (olaparib) POLO PARP inhibitor pancreatic cancer Q1 2015 2018 2018 2018
Lynparza (olaparib) PARP inhibitor prostate cancer Q3 2014 (Breakthrough
Therapy 
designation)
8
Tagrisso (AZD9291) ADAURA EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor adjuvant EGFRm NSCLC Q4 2015 2022 2022  
Tagrisso (AZD9291) FLAURA EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor 1st line advanced EGFRm NSCLC Q1 2015 2017 2017 2017 2020
Tagrisso (AZD9291)  
+ durvalumab
#
 CAURAL
9
EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor  
+ PD-L1 MAb
≥2nd line advanced EGFRm T790M 
NSCLC
Q3 2015
Development Pipeline continued
Additional Information
208 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation
Date 
Commenced 
Phase 
Estimated Regulatory Submission Acceptance
†
US EU Japan China
Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal
Diprivan
#
sedative and anaesthetic conscious sedation N/A Launched Accepted Launched
linaclotide
#
GC-C receptor peptide  
agonist
irritable bowel syndrome with 
constipation (IBS-C)
N/A N/A N/A Accepted
10
Nexium proton pump inhibitor stress ulcer prophylaxis H2 2016
Nexium proton pump inhibitor paediatrics Launched Launched H2 2016 Accepted
Terminations
NME/Line Extension Compound Reason for Discontinuation Area Under Investigation
NME AZD2115
#
Strategic COPD
NME AZD5213 Safety/efficacy Tourette’s syndrome/neuropathic pain
NME AZD5847 Safety/efficacy tuberculosis
NME AZD9977 Safety/efficacy diabetic kidney disease
NME durvalumab
#
 ATLANTIC Strategic 3rd line NSCLC (PD-L1 positive)
NME durvalumab
#
 + MEDI6469
#
Strategic solid tumours
NME selumetinib
#
 SUMIT Safety/efficacy uveal melanoma
NME sifalimumab
#
Strategic systemic lupus erythematosus
1
NME tenapanor (AZD1722)
#
Safety/efficacy ESRD-Pi/CKD with T2DM
NME MEDI-551
#
 + MEDI0680 Safety/efficacy diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
NME MEDI-559 Safety/efficacy passive RSV prophylaxis
NME MEDI6469
#
Strategic solid tumours
NME MEDI6469
#
 + rituximab Strategic solid tumours
NME MEDI6469
#
 + tremelimumab Strategic solid tumours
LCM brodalumab
#
Lack of efficacy asthma
LCM durvalumab
#
 after (Tagrisso (AZD9291) or Iressa  
or (selumetinib
#
 +docetaxel) or tremelimumab)
Strategic NSCLC
LCM MEDI-551
#
Safety/efficacy chronic lymphocytic leukaemia
LCM moxetumomab pasudotox
#
Safety/efficacy paediatric acute lymphoblastic leukaemia
LCM Nexium Regulatory refractory reflux oesphagitis (JP)
LCM tralokinumab Safety/efficacy idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
#
 Partnered and/or in collaboration.
¹ SLE project stopped but molecule under evaluation for alternative indications.
Completed Projects/Divestitures
Compound Mechanism Area Under Investigation
Completed/
Divested 
Estimated Regulatory Submission Acceptance
†
US EU Japan China
Myalept leptin analogue lipodystrophy Completed Launched
Lynparza (olaparib) capsule PARP inhibitor BRCAm PSR ovarian cancer Completed Launched Launched
AZD0914 GyrAR serious bacterial infections (Phase III) Divested in 
Phase II
Movantik/Moventig
#1
oral peripherally-acting  
mu-opioid receptor antagonist
opioid-induced constipation Completed Launched Launched
Bydureon Dual Chamber Pen GLP-1 receptor agonist Type 2 diabetes Completed Launched Launched Launched
brodalumab AMVISION-1,2
2
IL-17R MAb psoriatic arthritis Partnered
Caprelsa
3
VEGFR/EGFR tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor with RET kinase activity
medullary thyroid cancer Divested Launched Launched Approved
4
Accepted
Caprelsa
3
VEGFR/EGFR tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor with RET kinase activity
differentiated thyroid cancer Divested
Entocort
5
glucocorticoid steroid Crohn’s disease/ulcerative colitis Completed/
Divested
Launched Launched Q4 2015 N/A
Iressa EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor EGFRm NSCLC Completed Launched
6
Launched Launched Launched
AZD4901
7
NK3 receptor antagonist polycystic ovarian syndrome Divested in 
Phase II
   
†
  US and EU dates correspond to anticipated acceptance  
of the regulatory submission. 
#
  Partnered and/or in collaboration.
1
 Brilinta in the US; Brilique in rest of world.
2
 CHMP Positive Opinion received December 2015.
3
 Farxiga in the US; Forxiga in rest of world.
4
 Kombiglyze XR in the US; Komboglyze in the EU.
5
  Timing of China submission dependent on US  
regulatory approval.
6 
CRL received October 2015.
7
 Xigduo XR in the US; Xigduo in the EU.
8
  Breakthrough Therapy designation granted for prostate 
cancer patients with BRCA1/2 or ATM gene mutated 
mCRPC who have received previous taxane-based 
chemotherapy and one newer hormonal agent (abiraterone 
or enzalutamide).
9
 Temporarily closed to enrolment.
10
  Submission accepted January 2016.
†
  US and EU dates correspond to anticipated acceptance  
of the regulatory submission.
#
 Partnered and/or in collaboration.
¹ Movantik in the US; Moventig in EU.
²  AstraZeneca has granted Valeant an exclusive licence  
to develop and commercialise brodalumab.
³  Divested to Genzyme (deal completed October 2015).
4
 Approved in Japan in September 2015.
5
  Global rights, outside the US, divested to Tillotts Pharma 
AG in July 2015. AstraZeneca continues to support the 
Japanese regulatory submission.
6 
Launched in US Q3 2015.
7
  Divested to Millendo Therapeutics, Inc. Agreement 
announced January 2016.
209 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Patent Expiries
Patent expiries for our key marketed products 
AstraZeneca is exposed to third party challenges of its patents and products. Generic products may be launched at risk and our 
patents may be revoked, circumvented or found not to be infringed. For more information, please see Risk from page 212. Many of  
our products are subject to challenges by third parties. Details of material challenges by third parties can be found in Note 27 to the 
Financial Statements from page 186. The expiry dates shown below do not include any granted SPC/PTE and/or Paediatric Exclusivity 
periods unless asterisked; see key in footnotes. (In Europe, the exact SPC situation may vary by country as different Patent Offices may 
grant SPC at different rates.) A number of our products are subject to generic competition in one or more markets. Further information 
can be found in the Geographical Review from page 227 .
US
US patent expiry US Product Sales ($m)
Key marketed products New Chemical Entity patent(s) Expiry dates of other patents (such as the FDA Orange Book) 2015 2014 2013
Atacand
3
34 44 72
Brilinta 2018, 2019 2021, 2030 240 146 73
Bydureon 2016
1
, 2017, 2018, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2024, 2025, 2026, 2028 482 374 131
Byetta 2016
1
, 2017, 2018, 2020 209 199 152
Crestor
4
2016
1, 2
 2018
2
, 2021
2
, 2022
2
2,844 2,918 2,912
Daliresp 2020
1
2023, 2024 104 – –
Faslodex 2021
2
356 340 324
Farxiga 2020 2020, 2027, 2028, 2029, 2030 261 122 –
Iressa 2017 (2022
5
) 6 – –
Kombiglyze XR 2023
1
 2025 –
6
–
6
–
6
Lynparza 2022, 2024 2024, 2027, 2028, 2031 70 – –
Nexium 2016
2
, 2018
2
, 2019
2
, 2020
2,7
902 1,876 2,123 
Onglyza 2023
1
 2028 420 481 265
Pulmicort
8
2018, 2019
2
200 211 224 
Seloken/Toprol-XL 89 91 131 
Seroquel XR
9
2017 716 738 743 
Symbicort 2017, 2018, 2021, 2023, 2024, 2026, 2028, 2029 1,520 1,511 1,233 
Synagis 2023 285 499 617 
Tudorza 2020 2016, 2022, 2027 103 – –
Zoladex 2021, 2022 28 26 23 
China, EU and Japan
China patent expiry EU patent expiry
11
Japan patent expiry
China, EU and Japan combined 
Product Sales ($m)
10
Key marketed products 2015 2014 2013
Atacand 
Patents
12
Expired
12
91 151 200
Brilique 255 232 155
NCE Patents 2018, 2019 2018, 2024
1
2018, 2019
Non-NCE Patents 2021 2021
13
2021, 2027
Bydureon 82 59 17
Non-NCE Patents 2020, 2021
14
, 2025
14
2017, 2020, 2021, 2021
1
, 2022, 2024, 
2026, 2027
15
2018, 2021, 2024, 2025, 2026, 
2027, 2028
Byetta 84 105 46
Non-NCE Patents 2020 2017, 2018, 2020, 2021
1,15
2018, 2020
1
Crestor 1,585 1,877 1,864
NCE Patent 2017
1,2
2017
1
Non-NCE Patents 2020, 2021 2020 2021, 2023
1
 
Duaklir Genuair 21 – –
NCE Patent 2020 2025
1
2025
1
Non-NCE Patents 2016, 2022, 2025, 2027 2016, 2022, 2025, 2027, 2028, 2029 2016, 2022, 2025, 2027, 2028
Eklira Genuair 61 12 –
NCE Patent 2020 2025
1
2025
1
Non-NCE Patents 2016, 2022, 2025, 2027 2016, 2022, 2025, 2027, 2028, 2029 2016, 2022, 2025, 2027, 2028
Faslodex 259 295 272
Non-NCE Patents 2021
16
2021 2026
1
Additional Information
210 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 China patent expiry EU patent expiry
11
Japan patent expiry
China, EU and Japan combined 
Product Sales ($m)
10
Key marketed products 2015 2014 2013
Forxiga 134 74 10
NCE Patent 2023 2027
1
2023
Non-NCE Patents 2027, 2028 2027, 2028 2028
1
, 2028
Iressa 389 459 489
NCE Patent 2016 2019
17
2018
Kombiglyze XR –
6
–
6
 –
6
NCE Patent 2021 2026
1
–
Non-NCE Patents 2025 2025 –
Komboglyze –
6
–
6
 –
6
 
NCE Patent 2021 2026
1
–
Non-NCE Patents 2025 2025 –
Lynparza 23 – –
NCE Patent 2021, 2024 2021, 2029
1
2021, 2024
Non-NCE Patents 2024, 2027 2024, 2027 2024, 2027
Nexium 950 966 828
NCE Patent Expired Expired 2018
1
Non-NCE Patents 2018, 2019 2018 2018, 2019
Onglyza 168 164 62
NCE Patent 2021 2024
1
–
Non-NCE Patents 2025 2025 –
Pulmicort
18 
653 564 481
Non-NCE Patents 2018 2018 2018 
Seloken/Toprol-XL 428 428 400
Non-NCE Patents Expired Expired Expired
Seroquel XR 176 306 381
Non-NCE Patents 2017 2017
19
Symbicort 1,310 1,666 1,634
Non-NCE Patents 2018 2018, 2019 2017, 2019, 2020 
Synagis 377 401 443
Non-NCE Patents – 2023 2023
Zoladex 468 526 581
Non-NCE Patents 2021 2021 2021 
1
  Date represents expiry of granted PTE; or expiry of granted SPC where SPC has been granted in several or all countries.
2
 Date includes Paediatric Exclusivity.
3
 Atacand HCT. 
4
 A settlement agreement permits Watson Laboratories, Inc. and Actavis, Inc. (together, Watson) to begin selling its generic version of Crestor and its rosuvastatin zinc product beginning 2 May 2016.
5
 Date in brackets reflects seven years’ Orphan Drug exclusivity to 13 July 2022.
6
 Komboglyze/Kombiglyze XR Product Sales are included in the Onglyza Product Sales figure.
7
 Licence agreements with Teva and Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc. and other generic companies allow each to launch a generic version in the US from May 2014, subject to regulatory approval. 
8
  A licence agreement with Teva permits their ongoing sale in the US of a generic version from December 2009. The 2018 expiry relates to the Flexhaler device, while the 2019 expiry relates to the 
formulation in the Flexhaler presentation and also to Respules.
9
  Licence agreements with various generics companies allow launches of generic versions of Seroquel XR in the US from 1 November 2016 or earlier upon certain circumstances, subject to 
regulatory approval.
10
 Aggregate revenue for China, the EU and Japan.
11
 Expiry in major EU markets.
12
 Takeda retained rights.
13
 The patent was revoked during opposition proceedings at the European Patent Office. The patentee has appealed that decision.
14
 Regulatory approval for the product is pending in China.
15
 There is eight years’ data exclusivity and two years’ market exclusivity for Byetta and Bydureon to 2016.
16
 Decision of the Patent Reexamination Board invalidating the patent suspended pending outcome of appeal process.
17
 SPC expires 2 March 2019. There is eight years’ data exclusivity and two years’ market exclusivity for Iressa in the EU to 24 June 2019.
18
 The 2018 expiry relates to the formulation in the Turbuhaler presentation and to a process useful for the Respules product.
19
 Rights licensed to Astellas.
211 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Risk
Risks and uncertainties
Operating in the pharmaceutical sector carries various inherent risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. In this section, we 
describe the risks and uncertainties that we consider material to our business in that they may have a significant effect on our financial 
condition, results of operations, and/or reputation. 
These risks are not listed in any particular order of priority and have been categorised consistently with the Principal risks detailed from  
page 21. Other risks, unknown or not currently considered material, could have a similar effect. We believe that the forward-looking 
statements about AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identified by words such as ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘expects’ and ‘intends’, and  
that include, among other things, Future prospects in the Financial Review on page 76, are based on reasonable assumptions. However, 
forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties such as those summarised below. They relate to events that may  
occur in the future, that may be influenced by factors beyond our control and that may have actual outcomes materially different from  
our expectations.
Product pipeline and IP risks Impact
Failure to meet development targets
The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, 
risky and lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other 
resources, which may fail at any stage of the process due to various 
factors. These include failure to obtain the required regulatory or marketing 
approvals for the product candidate or its manufacturing facilities; 
unfavourable clinical efficacy data; safety concerns; failure of R&D to 
develop new product candidates; failure to demonstrate adequate 
cost-effective benefits to regulatory authorities and/or payers; and the 
emergence of competing products. 
Because our business model and strategy rely on the success of relatively 
few compounds, the failure of any in line production may have a significant 
negative effect on our business or results of operations.
Production and release schedules for biologics may be more significantly 
impacted by regulatory processes than other products. This is due to more 
complex and stringent regulation on the manufacturing of biologics and 
their supply chain.
A succession of negative drug project results and a failure to reduce 
development timelines effectively, or produce new products that achieve 
the expected commercial success, could frustrate the achievement  
of development targets, adversely affect the reputation of our R&D 
capabilities, and is likely to materially adversely affect our business and 
results of operations. See also Failure to achieve strategic priorities or  
to meet targets or expectations on page 225.
Delay to new product launches
Our continued success depends on the development and successful 
launch of innovative new drugs. The anticipated launch dates of major new 
products significantly affect our business, including investment in large 
clinical studies; the manufacture of pre-launch product stocks; investment 
in marketing materials pre-launch; sales force training; and the timing of 
anticipated future revenue streams from new Product Sales. Launch dates 
are primarily driven by our development programmes and the demands 
from various factors, including adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical 
studies, regulatory demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and 
technology transfer.
Significant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products could  
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of 
operations. For example, for the launch of products that are seasonal in 
nature, delays in regulatory approvals or manufacturing difficulties may 
delay launch to the next season which, in turn, may significantly reduce  
the return on costs incurred in preparing for the launch for that season.  
In addition, a delayed launch may lead to increased costs if, for example, 
marketing and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or performed for 
longer than expected.
Additional Information
212 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Product pipeline and IP risks Impact
Acquisitions and strategic alliances, including licensing and collaborations, may be unsuccessful
We seek licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations to expand  
our product portfolio and geographical presence as part of our business 
strategy. Such licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations are key, 
enabling us to grow and strengthen the business. The success of such 
arrangements is largely dependent on the technology and other IP rights 
we acquire, and the resources, efforts and skills of our partners. 
Also, under many of our licensing arrangements and strategic 
collaborations, we make milestone payments well in advance of the 
commercialisation of the products, with no assurance that we will recoup 
these payments. 
We may also seek to acquire complementary businesses or enter into  
other strategic transactions. The integration of an acquired business could 
involve incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, as 
well as having a negative effect on our reported results of operations from 
acquisition-related charges, amortisation of expenses related to intangibles 
and charges for the implementation of long-term assets. We may also 
experience difficulties in integrating geographically separated organisations, 
systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational cultures. 
Furthermore, we experience strong competition from other pharmaceutical 
companies in respect of licensing arrangements, strategic collaborations, 
and acquisition targets, and therefore, we may be unsuccessful in 
implementing some of our intended projects or we may have to pay a 
significant premium over book or market values for our acquisitions.
If we fail to complete these types of collaborative projects in a timely 
manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, this may limit our ability to 
access a greater portfolio of products, IP technology and shared expertise. 
Additionally, disputes or difficulties in our relationship with our collaborators 
or partners may arise, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of 
interest between parties, which may erode or eliminate the benefits of  
these alliances. 
The incurrence of significant debt or liabilities due to the integration of  
an acquired business could cause deterioration in our credit rating and 
result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. We may issue 
additional shares to pay for acquired businesses, which would result  
in the dilution of our then existing shareholders. 
Further, if liabilities are uncovered in an acquired business, an acquired 
business fails to perform in line with expectations, or a strategic transaction 
does not deliver the results we intended, then the Group or our shareholders 
may suffer losses and may not have adequate remedies against the seller 
or third parties. Integration processes may also result in business 
disruption, diversion of management resources, the loss of key employees 
and other issues, such as a failure to integrate IT and other systems.
213 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Product pipeline and IP risks Impact
Difficulties obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new products
We are subject to strict controls on the commercialisation processes for 
our pharmaceutical products, including their development, manufacture, 
distribution and marketing. Safety, efficacy and quality must be established 
before a drug can be marketed for a given indication. The criteria for 
establishing safety, efficacy and quality may vary by country or region and 
the submission of an application to regulatory authorities may or may not 
lead to the grant of marketing approval. Regulators can refuse to grant 
approval or may require additional data before approval is given, even 
though the medicine may already be launched in other countries. Approved 
products are also subject to regulations, and a failure to comply can 
potentially result in losing regulatory approval to market our products. 
Regulations may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials after 
a drug’s approval, which can result in increased costs, labelling challenges 
or loss of regulatory approval.
Factors, including advances in science and technology, evolving regulatory 
science, and different approaches to benefit/risk tolerance by regulatory 
authorities, the general public, and other third party public interest groups 
influence the initial approvability of new drugs. Existing marketed products 
are also subject to these same forces, and new data and meta-analyses 
have the potential to drive changes in the approval status or labelling. 
Recent years have seen an increase in post-marketing regulatory 
requirements and commitments, and an increased call for third party 
access to regulatory and clinical trial data packages for independent 
analysis and interpretation, and broader data transparency.
Unanticipated and unpredictable policy making by governments and 
regulators can adversely influence regulatory decision making, often 
leading to severe delays in regulatory approval. The predictability of the 
outcome and timing of review processes remains challenging due to 
evolving regulatory science, competing regulatory priorities, unpredictable 
policy making and limits placed on regulatory authority resources.
Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals impact patient and market 
access. In addition, post-approval requirements result in increased  
costs and may impact the labelling and approval status of currently 
marketed products.
Failure to obtain and enforce effective IP protection 
Our ability to obtain and enforce patents and other IP rights in relation to our 
products is an important element in protecting our investment in R&D and 
creating long-term value for the business. Some countries in which we 
operate are still developing their IP laws, others are limiting the applicability 
of their IP laws to certain pharmaceutical inventions. Certain countries may 
seek to limit or deny effective IP protection for pharmaceuticals because of 
adverse political perspectives around the desirability of appropriate IP 
protection for pharmaceuticals.
Limitations on the availability of patent protection or the use of compulsory 
licensing in certain countries in which we operate could have a material 
adverse effect on the pricing and sales of our products and, consequently, 
could materially adversely affect our revenues from those products. More 
information about protecting our IP , the risk of patent litigation and the early 
loss of IP rights is contained in the Intellectual Property section on page 60, 
the Effects of patent litigation in respect of IP rights risk on page 218 and 
the Expiry or loss of, or limitations to, IP rights and consequential pressure 
from generic competition risk on page 215.
Risk continued
Additional Information
214 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Commercialisation risks Impact
Expiry or loss of, or limitations to, IP rights and consequential pressure from generic competition
A pharmaceutical product is protected from being copied for the limited 
period of protection under patent rights and/or related IP rights such as 
Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status. This period of 
protection helps us recoup our overall R&D investment. Early loss of IP 
rights may threaten our ability to recoup our investment in a patent product. 
Expiry or loss of these rights can materially adversely affect our revenues 
and financial condition due to the launch of generic copies of the product  
in the country where the rights have expired or been lost (see the Patent 
Expiries section on pages 210 and 211, which contains a table of certain 
patent expiry dates for our key marketed products). Products protected by 
our IP account for a significant proportion of our revenues. For example, in  
2015, US Product Sales for Crestor and Seroquel XR were $2,844 million 
(2014: $2,918 million) and $716 million (2014: $738 million), respectively. 
Additionally, the expiry or loss of patents covering other innovator 
companies’ products may also lead to increased competition and pricing 
pressure for our own, still-patented, products in the same product class 
due to the availability of lower priced generic products in that product  
class. Typically, products under patent protection or within the period of 
Regulatory Data Protection generate significantly higher revenues than 
those not protected by such rights.
A pharmaceutical product competes with other products marketed by 
research-based pharmaceutical companies and approved for the same 
condition, as well as with generic drugs for that condition marketed by 
generic drug manufacturers. Generic versions of products are often sold  
at lower prices than branded products, as the manufacturer does not have 
to recoup the significant cost of R&D investment and market development. 
The majority of our patented products, including Nexium, Crestor and 
Seroquel XR, are subject to pricing pressures due to competition from 
generic copies of these products and from generic forms of other drugs  
in the same product class (for example, generic forms of Losec/Prilosec, 
Lipitor and Seroquel IR). Additionally, generic manufacturers are often able 
to invest more resources in the marketing of their products than we do, due 
to their lack of R&D expenses.
As well as facing generic competition upon expiry or loss of IP rights,  
we also face the risk that generic drug manufacturers seek to market 
generic versions of our products prior to expiries of our patents and/or the 
Regulatory Exclusivity periods. For example, as detailed in Note 27 to the 
Financial Statements from page 186, we are currently facing challenges 
from numerous generic drug manufacturers regarding our patents relating 
to key products, including Brilinta, Faslodex, Seroquel XR, Byetta, Daliresp, 
Onglyza and Crestor (which goes off-patent in the US in May 2016). Patent 
challenges are also discussed in the Effects of patent litigation in respect of 
IP rights risk on page 218. Generic manufacturers may also take advantage 
of the failure of certain countries to properly enforce Regulatory Data 
Protection and may launch generics during this protected period. This is  
a particular risk in some Emerging Markets where appropriate patent 
protection may be difficult to obtain or enforce.
If challenges to our IP by generic drug manufacturers succeed and generic 
products are launched, or generic products are launched ‘at risk’ on the 
expectation that challenges to our IP will be successful, this may materially 
adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. Furthermore, if 
limitations on the availability, scope or enforceability of patent protection are 
implemented in jurisdictions in which we operate, generic manufacturers in 
these countries may be increasingly able to introduce competing products 
to the market earlier than they would have been able to, had more robust 
patent protection or Regulatory Data Protection been available.
215 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact
Abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars
While no application for a biosimilar has been made in relation to an 
AstraZeneca biologic, various regulatory authorities are implementing or 
considering abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars that would 
compete with patented biologics. 
For example, in 2010, the US enacted the Biologics Price Competition  
and Innovation Act within the ACA, which contains general directives for 
biosimilar applications. The FDA issued final guidance in April 2015 on 
implementing an abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway. In March 2015, 
the FDA approved the first biosimilar product submitted under the 
abbreviated biosimilar pathway. However, significant questions remain, 
including standards for designation of interchangeability and data collection 
requirements to support extrapolation of indications. In addition, due to the 
recent submissions and approvals of abbreviated biosimilar applications, a 
number of legal challenges construing the requirements of the abbreviated 
biosimilar pathway are under review. For example, in July 2015, the US 
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit held that biosimilar applicants were 
not required to provide copies of the biosimilar application or manufacturing 
information but needed to provide 180-day commercial marketing notice  
to the reference sponsor. Although this decision and other ongoing legal 
challenges do not directly impact an AstraZeneca biologic, uncertainty 
regarding the abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway may remain until 
these initial legal challenges reach final conclusion.
In Europe, the EMA published final guidelines on similar biologics 
containing MAbs and in May 2012, the first MAb biosimilar application was 
submitted with recommendation for approval made by the EMA. Notably, 
various jurisdictions have adopted either the EMA guidelines or those set 
forth by WHO to enable biosimilars to enter the market after discrete 
periods of data exclusivity.
The extent to which biosimilars would differ from patented biologics on 
price is unclear. However, due to their complex nature, it is uncertain 
whether biosimilars would have the same impact on patented biologics  
that generic products have had on patented small molecule products. 
In addition, it is uncertain when any such abbreviated approval processes 
may be fully realised, particularly for more complex protein molecules  
such as MAbs. Such processes may materially and adversely affect the 
future commercial prospects for patented biologics, such as the ones that 
we produce. 
Political and socio-economic conditions
We operate in over 100 countries around the world, some of which may be 
subject to political and social instability. There may be disruption to our 
business if there is instability in a particular geographic region, including as 
a result of war, terrorism, riot, unstable governments, civil insurrection or 
social unrest. For instance, our operational risks in Ukraine have increased 
due to growing political and economic uncertainty in the region. 
Deterioration of, or failure to improve, socio-economic conditions, and 
situations and/or resulting events, depending on their severity, could 
adversely affect our supply and/or distribution chain in the affected 
countries and the ability of customers or ultimate payers to purchase  
our medicines. This could adversely affect our business or results  
of operations. Broader economic developments, such as potential 
international sanctions and global oil price developments, could  
exacerbate this effect in the Ukrainian and Russian markets. 
Risk continued
Additional Information
216 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Commercialisation risks Impact
Developing our business in Emerging Markets
The development of our business in Emerging Markets is a critical factor  
in determining our future ability to sustain or increase our global Product 
Sales. This poses various challenges including: more volatile economic 
conditions and/or political environments; competition from multinational 
and local companies with existing market presence; the need to identify 
and to leverage appropriate opportunities for sales and marketing; poor IP 
protection; inadequate protection against crime (including counterfeiting, 
corruption and fraud); inadequate infrastructure to address disease 
outbreaks (such as the Ebola virus); the need to impose developed market 
compliance standards; the need to meet a more diverse range of national 
regulatory, clinical and manufacturing requirements; inadvertent breaches 
of local and international law; not being able to recruit appropriately skilled 
and experienced personnel; identification of the most effective sales and 
marketing channels and route to market; and interventions by national 
governments or regulators restricting market access and/or introducing 
adverse price controls.
The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in Emerging 
Markets or materialisation of the risks and challenges of doing business  
in such markets, including inadequate protection against crime (including 
counterfeiting, corruption and fraud) or inadvertent breaches of local and 
international law may materially adversely affect our reputation, business  
or results of operations.
Challenges to achieving commercial success of new products
The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves 
substantial investment in sales and marketing activities, launch stocks and 
other items. The commercial success of our new medicines is particularly 
important to replace lost Product Sales following patent expiry. We may 
ultimately be unable to achieve commercial success for any number of 
reasons. These include difficulties in manufacturing sufficient quantities  
of the product candidate for development or commercialisation in a timely 
manner, the impact of price control measures imposed by governments 
and healthcare authorities, the outcome of negotiations with third party 
payers, erosion of IP rights, including infringement by third parties, failure  
to show a differentiated product profile and changes in prescribing habits. 
As a result, we cannot be certain that compounds currently under 
development will achieve success, and our ability to accurately assess, 
prior to launch, the eventual efficacy or safety of a new product once in 
broader clinical use can only be based on data available at that time, which 
is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and 
relatively small clinical study patient samples. 
The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for small 
molecule pharmaceutical products, primarily due to differences in the 
mode of administration, technical aspects of the product, and rapidly 
changing distribution and reimbursement environments.
Our products are subject to competition by other products approved for 
the same or similar indication, and the approval of a competitive product 
that is considered superior, or equivalent to, one of our products may result 
in immediate and significant decreases in our revenues.
If a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales growth 
is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we may be unable to fully 
recoup the costs incurred in launching it, which could materially adversely 
affect our business or results of operations. 
Due to the complexity of the commercialisation process for biologics, the 
methods of distributing and marketing biologics could materially adversely 
impact our revenues from the sales of biologics medicines, such as 
Synagis and FluMist/Fluenz. 
217 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact
Effects of patent litigation in respect of IP rights
Any of the IP rights protecting our products may be asserted or challenged 
in IP litigation and/or patent office proceedings initiated against or by 
external parties. We expect our most valuable products to receive the 
greatest number of challenges. Despite our efforts to establish and defend 
robust patent protection for our products, we may not succeed in 
protecting or enforcing our patents in such litigation or other challenges.
We bear the risk that courts may decide that third parties do not infringe 
our asserted IP rights. This may result in AstraZeneca losing exclusivity 
and/or erosion of revenues. 
Where we assert our IP rights but are ultimately unsuccessful, third parties 
may seek damages, alleging, for example, that they have been 
inappropriately restrained from entering the market. In such cases, we bear 
the risk that we incur liabilities to those third parties.
We also bear the risk that we may be found to infringe patents owned or 
licensed exclusively by third parties, including research-based and generic 
pharmaceutical companies and individuals. Third parties may seek 
damages for alleged patent infringement. In the US, they may also seek 
enhanced (ie up to treble) damages for alleged wilful infringement of  
their patents. 
Details of material patent litigation matters can be found in Note 27 to the 
Financial Statements from page 186.
Managing or litigating infringement disputes over so-called ‘freedom to 
operate’ can be costly. We may be subject to injunctions against our 
products or processes and be liable for damages or royalties. We may 
need to obtain costly licences. These risks may be greater in relation to 
biologics and vaccines, where patent infringement claims may relate to 
discovery or research tools, and manufacturing methods and/or biological 
materials. While we seek to manage such risks by, for example, acquiring 
licences, forgoing certain activities or uses, or modifying processes to  
avoid infringement claims and permit commercialisation of our products, 
such steps can entail significant cost and there is no guarantee that they 
will be successful.
If we are not successful in maintaining exclusive rights to market one or 
more of our major products, particularly in the US where we achieve  
our highest Product Sales, our revenue and margins could be materially  
adversely affected.
Unfavourable resolution of such current and similar future patent litigation 
matters could subject us to damages (including enhanced damages), 
require us to make significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal 
proceedings and/or could materially adversely affect our financial condition 
or results of operations. 
Price controls and reductions
Most of our key markets have experienced the implementation of various 
cost control or reimbursement mechanisms for pharmaceutical products.
For example, in the US, prices are being depressed through restrictive 
reimbursement policies and cost control tools such as restricted lists  
and formularies, which employ ‘generic first’ strategies and/or require 
physicians to obtain prior approval for the use of a branded medicine where 
a generic alternative exists. These mechanisms can be used by payers to 
limit the use of branded products and put pressure on manufacturers to 
reduce net prices. In addition, payers are shifting a greater proportion of the 
cost of branded medicines to the patient via out-of-pocket payments at the 
pharmacy counter. The patient out-of-pocket spend is generally in the form 
of a co-payment or, in some cases, a co-insurance, which is designed, 
principally, to encourage patients to use generic medicines. 
In Emerging Markets, governments are increasingly controlling pricing in the 
self-pay sector and favouring locally manufactured drugs.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how pricing 
pressures are affecting our business in our most important markets is set 
out in Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section on page 14 and 
overleaf in the following risk factor.
Due to these pricing pressures, there can be no certainty that we will be 
able to charge prices for a product that, in a particular country or in the 
aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate return on our product 
investment. These pressures, including the increasingly restrictive 
reimbursement policies to which we are subject, as well as potential 
legislation that expands the commercial importation of medicines into the 
US, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. 
We expect these pricing pressures will continue, and may increase.
Risk continued
Additional Information
218 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Commercialisation risks Impact
Economic, regulatory and political pressures
We face continued economic, regulatory and political pressures to limit or 
reduce the cost of our products. 
In 2010, the US enacted the ACA, a comprehensive health reform law  
that expands insurance coverage, implements delivery system reforms  
and places a renewed focus on cost and quality. In terms of specific 
provisions impacting our industry, the law mandates higher rebates and 
discounts on branded drugs for certain Medicare and Medicaid patients  
as well as an industry-wide excise fee. Implementation of several health 
system delivery reforms included in the ACA has commenced and will 
continue through 2018. The ACA expands the patient population eligible  
for Medicaid and provides new insurance coverage for individuals through 
state and federally operated health insurance exchanges. In general, 
patients enrolled in the exchanges are subject to higher cost sharing 
obligations and may not have as robust access to prescription drugs as 
compared to patients enrolled in Medicare Part D or commercial plans. 
Based, in part, on the impact of ACA to other healthcare sectors, there  
is ongoing scrutiny of the US pharmaceutical industry that could result  
in further government intervention and financial constraint. Many 
stakeholders, including some in Congress and others in the broader 
healthcare system, such as health plans, have dramatically increased their 
criticism over the value of medicines in the US and have placed a stronger 
emphasis on innovative therapies. Such criticism and focus on the value of 
medicines has resulted in proposed policy and legislative changes at the 
state and federal levels aimed at imposing price controls on medicines and 
increasing price transparency. For more information, please see Regulatory 
requirements and Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section from 
page 13 and page 14, respectively.
In the EU, efforts by the EC to reduce inconsistencies and improve 
standards in the disparate national pricing and reimbursement systems met 
with little immediate success as Member States guard their right to make 
healthcare budget decisions. The industry continues to be exposed in 
Europe to various ad hoc cost-containment measures and reference 
pricing mechanisms, which impact prices. There is a trend towards 
increasing transparency and comparison of prices among EU Member 
States. Recent controversy regarding the high price of a drug marketed by 
one of our competitors for chronic hepatitis C may provoke further EU 
collaboration and may eventually lead to a change in the overall pricing and 
reimbursement landscape. 
Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of Health Technology 
Assessment (HTA) to provide a rigorous evaluation of the clinical efficacy  
of a product, at, or post, launch. HTA evaluations are also increasingly 
being used to assess the clinical effect, as well as cost-effectiveness,  
of products in a particular health system. This comes as payers and 
policymakers attempt to increase efficiencies in the use and choice of 
pharmaceutical products. 
Further information regarding these pressures is contained in Regulatory 
requirements and Pricing of medicines in the Marketplace section from 
page 13 and page 14, respectively.
While new patients entering the US healthcare system due to the ACA  
may lead to a slight increase in prescription drug utilisation, we expect  
that our financial and other costs resulting from the ACA, many of which  
we are unable to accurately estimate, will far outweigh any increase in 
Product Sales. 
The continued disparities in EU and US pricing systems could lead  
to marked price differentials between markets, which, by way of the 
implementation of existing or new reference pricing mechanisms,  
increases the pricing pressure affecting the industry. The importation of 
pharmaceutical products from countries where prices are low due to 
government price controls, or other market dynamics, to countries where 
prices for those products are higher, is already prevalent and may increase. 
Increased transparency of net prices and strengthened collaboration by 
governments may accelerate the development of further cost containment 
policies (such as procurement or the comparison of net prices etc).
Illegal trade in our products
The illegal trade in pharmaceutical products is widely recognised by 
industry, non-governmental organisations and governmental authorities to 
be increasing. Illegal trade includes counterfeiting, theft and illegal diversion 
(that is, when our products are found in a market where we did not send 
them and where they are not approved or not permitted/allowed to be 
sold). There is a risk to public health when illegally traded products enter  
the supply chain, as well as associated financial risk. Authorities and the 
public expect us to help reduce opportunities for illegal trade in our 
products through securing the integrity of our supply chain, surveillance, 
investigation and supporting legal action against those found to be 
engaged in illegal trade.
Public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products  
as a result of illegal trade could materially adversely affect our reputation  
and financial performance. In addition, undue or misplaced concern  
about this issue may cause some patients to stop taking their medicines, 
with consequential risks to their health. Authorities may take action, 
financial or otherwise, if they believe we are liable for breaches in our own 
supply chains.
There is also a direct financial loss when counterfeit and/or illegally diverted 
products replace sales of genuine products; or genuine products are 
recalled following discovery of counterfeit products; or products which 
have been the subject of theft or illegal diversion are recalled; or illegally 
diverted products replace sales of products which are approved/allowed 
for sale in a market.
219 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Commercialisation risks Impact
Increasing implementation and enforcement of more stringent anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation
There is an increasing global focus on the implementation and enforcement 
of anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation. 
For example, in the UK, the Bribery Act 2010 has extensive extra-territorial 
application, and imposes organisational liability for any bribe paid by 
persons or entities associated with an organisation where the organisation 
failed to have adequate preventative controls in place at the time of the 
offence. In the US, there has been significant enforcement activity in 
respect of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the SEC and DOJ against 
US companies and non-US companies listed in the US. China and other 
countries are also enforcing their own anti-bribery laws more aggressively 
and/or adopting tougher new measures. 
We are the subject of current anti-corruption investigations and there can 
be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, continue to be subject 
to informal inquiries and formal investigations from governmental agencies. 
In the context of our business, governmental officials interact with us in 
various roles that are important to our operations, such as in the capacity  
of a regulator, partner or healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among 
others. Details of these matters are included in Note 27 to the Financial 
Statements from page 186.
Despite taking measures to prevent breaches of applicable anti-bribery  
and anti-corruption laws by our personnel and associated third parties, 
breaches may still occur, potentially resulting in the imposition of significant 
penalties, such as fines, the requirement to comply with monitoring or 
self-reporting obligations, or debarment or exclusion from government 
sales or reimbursement programmes, any of which could materially 
adversely affect our reputation, business or results of operations.
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations
Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result 
in civil and/or criminal legal proceedings being filed against us, or in us 
becoming subject to regulatory sanctions. Regulatory authorities have 
wide-ranging administrative powers to deal with any failure to comply with 
continuing regulatory oversight and this could affect us, whether such 
failure is our own or that of our contractors or external partners.
Failure to comply with applicable laws, including ongoing control and 
regulation, could materially adversely affect our business or results of 
operations. For example, once a product has been approved for marketing 
by the regulatory authorities, it is subject to continuing control and 
regulation, such as the manner of its manufacture, distribution, marketing 
and safety surveillance. For example, if regulatory issues concerning 
compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice or safety  
monitoring regulations for pharmaceutical products (often referred to as 
pharmacovigilance) arise, this could lead to loss of product approvals, 
product recalls and seizures, and interruption of production, which could 
create product shortages and delays in new product approvals, and 
negatively impact patient access and our reputation.
Failure of information technology and cybercrime
We are dependent on effective IT systems. These systems support key 
business functions such as our R&D, manufacturing, supply chain and 
sales capabilities and are an important means of safeguarding and 
communicating data, including critical or sensitive information, the 
confidentiality and integrity of which we rely on. 
Examples of sensitive information that we protect include loss of clinical trial 
records (patient names and treatments), personal information (employee 
bank details, home address), intellectual property of manufacturing process 
and compliance, key research science techniques, AstraZeneca property 
(theft) and privileged access (rights to perform IT tasks).
The size and complexity of our IT systems, and those of our third party 
vendors (including outsource providers) with whom we contract, have 
significantly increased over the past decade and makes such systems 
potentially vulnerable to service interruptions and security breaches from 
attacks by malicious third parties, or from intentional or inadvertent actions 
by our employees or vendors.
Any significant disruption to these IT systems, including breaches of data 
security or cybersecurity, or failure to integrate new and existing IT systems, 
could harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our financial 
condition or results of operations. 
While we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and IT, we may 
be unable to prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could 
result in disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation, 
regulatory penalties, financial losses and/or other costs.
Significant changes in the business footprint and the implementation of the 
IT strategy, including the creation and use of captive offshore Global 
Technology Centres, could lead to temporary loss of capability.
The inability to effectively backup and restore data could lead to permanent 
loss of data that could result in non-compliance with applicable laws  
and regulations.
We and our vendors could be susceptible to third party attacks on our 
information security systems. Such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of 
sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of 
motives and expertise, including criminal groups, ‘hacktivists’ and others. 
From time to time we experience intrusions, including as a result of 
computer-related malware.
Risk continued
Additional Information
220 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Commercialisation risks Impact
Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain
We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and restructuring 
programmes with the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the 
business. However, anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these 
programmes are based on estimates and the actual savings may vary 
significantly. In particular, these cost-reduction measures are often based 
on current conditions and cannot always take into account any future 
changes to the pharmaceutical industry or our operations, including new 
business developments or wage or price increases.
If inappropriately managed, the expected value of these initiatives could be 
lost through low employee engagement and hence productivity, increased 
absence and attrition levels, and industrial action. 
Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost-reduction 
measures, either through the successful conclusion of employee relations 
processes (including consultation, engagement, talent management, 
recruitment and retention), or the possibility that these efforts do not 
generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could materially adversely 
affect our business or results of operations.
Failure of outsourcing
We have outsourced various business-critical operations to third party 
providers. This includes certain R&D processes, IT systems, HR and 
finance, tax and accounting services.
The failure of outsource providers to deliver timely services, and to the 
required level of quality, and the failure of outsource providers to co-operate 
with each other, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or 
results of operations. In addition, such failures could adversely impact our 
ability to meet business targets, maintain a good reputation within the 
industry and with stakeholders, and result in non-compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations.
A failure to successfully manage and implement the integration of IT 
infrastructure services provided by our outsource providers could create 
disruption, which could materially adversely affect our business or results  
of operations. 
In addition, failure to manage outsourcing or insourcing transition 
processes may disrupt our business. For instance, as we transition 
services that previously were outsourced to our service centre in Chennai 
(India), incumbent outsource providers may cease to continue to provide 
the same level of resources and quality of service.
Failure to attract and retain key personnel and failure to successfully engage with our employees
We rely heavily on recruiting and retaining talented employees with a 
diverse range of skills and capabilities to meet our strategic objectives. For 
example, the success of our science activities depends largely on our 
ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of high-quality researchers 
and development specialists. We face intense competition for well-qualified 
individuals, as the supply of people with specific skills and significant 
leadership potential or in specific geographic regions may be limited. 
Our ability to achieve high levels of employee engagement in the workforce, 
and hence benefit from strong commitment and motivation, is key to the 
successful delivery of our business objectives.
The inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, in particular those 
in key scientific and leadership positions and those in our talent pools, may 
weaken our succession plans for critical positions in the medium term, may 
materially adversely affect the implementation of our strategic objectives 
and could ultimately impact our business or results of operations. 
Failure to engage effectively with our employees could lead to business 
disruption in our day-to-day operations, reduce levels of productivity and/or 
increase levels of voluntary turnover, all of which could ultimately adversely 
impact our business or results of operations. 
While we are committed to working on improving drivers of engagement, 
such as increasing our employees’ understanding of our strategy and our 
ongoing efforts to reduce organisational complexity, our efforts may be 
unsuccessful.
221 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Supply chain and business execution risks Impact
Difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products
We may experience difficulties and delays in manufacturing our products, 
such as: 
 > Supply shortages associated with gaps between forecasted and actual 
demand for products.
 > Supply chain disruptions, including those due to natural or man-made 
disasters at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor.
 > Delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of 
existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for 
our products.
 > Inability to supply products due to a product quality failure or regulatory 
agency compliance action such as licence withdrawal, product recall or 
product seizure.
 > Other manufacturing or distribution problems, including changes in 
manufacturing production sites, limits to manufacturing capacity due to 
regulatory requirements, changes in the types of products produced, or 
physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact 
continuous supply.
Manufacturing, forecasting, distribution and sales difficulties may result  
in product shortages and significant delays, which may lead to lost Product 
Sales and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or 
results of operations.
Reliance on third party goods and services
We increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply of goods, such as 
raw materials (for example, the API in some of our medicines), equipment, 
formulated drugs and packaging, and services, all of which are key to our 
operations. Many of these goods are difficult to substitute in a timely 
manner or at all.
Unexpected events and/or events beyond our control could result in the 
failure of the supply of goods and services. For example, suppliers of key 
goods may cease to trade or experience supply chain failures such as 
those described under the risk above. In addition, we may experience 
limited supply of biological materials, such as cells, animal products or 
by-products. Furthermore, government regulations could result in restricted 
access to, use or transport of such materials. 
Third party supply failure could lead to significant delays and/or difficulties 
in obtaining goods and services on commercially acceptable terms and/or 
adversely affect AstraZeneca’s reputation. This may materially adversely 
affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
Loss of access to sufficient sources of key goods and biological materials 
or services may interrupt or prevent planned research activities and/or 
increase our costs. Further information is contained in Working with 
suppliers in Manufacturing and Supply on page 47 .
Manufacturing biologics
Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is complex and may 
require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms 
and facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose, with 
sophisticated quality assurance and control procedures.
Final market release of a biologic depends on a number of in-process 
manufacturing and supply chain parameters to ensure the product 
conforms with its safety, identity and strength requirements and meets its 
quality and purity characteristics. 
Biologics production facilities, especially for drug substance manufacture, 
are very specialised and can take years to develop and bring on line as 
licensed facilities. Predicting demand for certain classes of biologics, 
especially prior to launch, can be challenging. We expect that external 
capacity for biologics drug substance production will remain constrained 
for the next several years and, accordingly, may not be readily available for 
supplementary production in the event that we experience unforeseen 
need for such capacity.
Slight variations in any part of the manufacturing process or  
components may lead to a product that does not meet its stringent  
design specifications. Failure to meet these specifications may lead to 
recalls, spoilage, drug product shortages, regulatory action and/or 
reputational harm.
Risk continued
Additional Information
222 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Legal; regulatory and compliance risks Impact
Adverse outcome of litigation and/or governmental investigations
We may be subject to various product liability, consumer commercial, 
anti-trust, environmental, employment or tax litigation or other legal 
proceedings and governmental investigations. Litigation, particularly in  
the US, is inherently unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for 
damages can result from an adverse verdict. In many cases, plaintiffs may 
claim enhanced damages in extremely high amounts. In particular, the 
marketing, promotional, clinical and pricing practices of pharmaceutical 
manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact  
with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive 
regulation, litigation and governmental investigation. Many companies, 
including AstraZeneca, have been subject to claims related to these 
practices asserted by federal and state governmental authorities and 
private payers and consumers, which have resulted in substantial expense 
and other significant consequences. Note 27 to the Financial Statements 
from page 186 describes the material legal proceedings in which we are 
currently involved.
Governmental investigations for example, under the Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act or federal or state False Claims Acts or legal proceedings, 
regardless of their outcome, could be costly, divert management attention, 
or damage our reputation and demand for our products. Unfavourable 
resolution of current and similar future proceedings against us could 
subject us to criminal liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or 
non-monetary remedies, including enhanced damages, require us to make 
significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and 
could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to anti-competitive behaviour
Any failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to  
anti-competitive behaviour may expose us to regulatory sanctions  
and/or lawsuits from governmental authorities and private, non-
governmental entities. 
Certain of our commercial arrangements with generics companies, which 
have sought to settle patent challenges on terms acceptable to both 
innovator and generics manufacturer, may be subject to challenge by 
competition authorities.
Details of material litigation matters which raise allegations of anti-
competitive behaviour can be found in Note 27 to the Financial Statements 
from page 186.
Where a government authority investigates our adherence to competition 
laws, or we become subject to private party lawsuits, this may result in 
inspections of our sites or requests for documents and other information. 
Competition investigations or legal proceedings could be costly, divert 
management attention or damage our reputation and demand for  
our products. 
Unfavourable resolution of such current and similar future proceedings 
against us could subject us to fines and penalties, including enhanced  
(ie up to treble) damages, require us to make significant provisions in our 
accounts relating to legal proceedings and could materially adversely affect 
our business results of operations, including, by requiring us to change  
our commercial practice.
Substantial product liability claims
Any failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to the 
manufacturing, design, and provision of appropriate warnings concerning 
the dangers and risks of our medicines that result in injuries allegedly 
caused by the use of our medicines could expose us to large product 
liability damages claims, settlements and awards, particularly in the US. 
Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a product or of other competing 
products may increase the risk of product liability claims.
Details of material product liability litigation matters can be found in Note 27 
to the Financial Statements from page 186.
Significant product liability claims can result in requests for documents  
and other information. These legal proceedings could be costly, divert 
management attention or damage our reputation and demand for  
our products.
Unfavourable resolution of such current and similar future product liability 
claims could subject us to enhanced damages, require us to make 
significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and 
could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of 
operations, particularly where such circumstances are not covered by 
insurance. For more information, see the Limited third party insurance 
coverage risk on page 226.
223 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Legal; regulatory and compliance risks Impact
Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to environment, health and safety; environmental and 
occupational health and safety liabilities
Any failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to the 
environment or occupational health or safety may expose us to regulatory 
sanctions and/or lawsuits from governmental authorities and private, 
non-governmental entities. Additionally, the failure to adequately anticipate 
and proactively manage emerging policy and legal developments 
associated with the environment, health and safety could adversely affect 
our licence to operate and/or reputation.
We have environmental and/or occupational health and safety-related 
liabilities at some currently and formerly owned, leased and third party 
sites, the most significant of which are detailed in Note 27 to the Financial 
Statements from page 186.
While we carefully manage compliance and any known liabilities, and  
work to stay ahead of policy and legislative developments, if a significant 
compliance issue, environmental, occupational health or safety incident  
or legal requirement for which we are responsible were to arise, this could 
result in us being responsible for fines and penalties, damages, and other 
costs. In some circumstances, such liability could materially adversely 
affect our business or results of operations. In addition, our financial 
provisions for any obligations that we may have relating to environmental  
or occupational health and safety liabilities may be insufficient if the 
assumptions underlying the provisions, including for example our 
assumptions regarding the portion of waste at a site for which we are 
responsible, prove incorrect or if we are held responsible for additional 
contamination or occupational health and safety-related claims.
Misuse of social media platforms and new technology
We increasingly use the internet, digital content, social media, mobile 
applications and other forms of new technology to communicate internally 
and externally. The accessibility and instantaneous nature of interactions 
with such media may facilitate or exacerbate the risk of data leakages from 
within AstraZeneca or false or misleading statements being made about 
AstraZeneca, which may damage our reputation. As existing social media 
platforms expand and evolve, and new social media platforms emerge, it 
becomes increasingly challenging to identify new points of entry and to put 
structures in place to secure and protect information.
Inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could lead to the unauthorised 
or unintentional public disclosure of sensitive information (such as 
personally identifiable information on employees, healthcare professionals 
or patients, for example, those enrolled in our clinical trials), which may 
damage our reputation, adversely affect our business or results of 
operations and expose us to legal risks, as well as additional legal 
obligations. Similarly, the involuntary public disclosure of commercially 
sensitive information, such as trade secrets through external media 
channels, or an information loss could adversely affect our business or 
results of operations. In addition, negative posts or comments on social 
media websites or other digital channels or new forms of technology about 
us or, for example, the safety of our products, could harm our reputation.
Risk continued
Additional Information
224 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Economic and financial risks Impact
Failure to achieve strategic priorities or to meet targets or expectations
We may from time to time communicate our business strategy or our 
targets or expectations regarding our future financial or other performance 
(for example, the expectations described in Future prospects in the 
Financial Review on page 76). All such statements are of a forward-looking 
nature and are based on assumptions and judgements we make, all  
of which are subject to significant inherent risks and uncertainties, 
including risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of and/or that  
are beyond our control.
Any failure to successfully implement our business strategy may frustrate 
the achievement of our financial or other targets or expectations and, in 
turn, materially damage our brand and materially adversely affect our 
business, financial position or results of operations.
There can be no guarantee that our financial targets or expectations will 
materialise on the expected timeline or at all. Actual results may deviate 
materially and adversely from any such target or expectation, including if 
one or more of the assumptions or judgements underlying any such target 
or expectation proves to be incorrect in whole or in part.
Adverse impact of a sustained economic downturn
A variety of significant risks may arise from a sustained global economic 
downturn including for example the economic slowdown in China, our 
second largest market. Additional pressure from governments and other 
healthcare payers on medicine prices and volumes of sales in response to 
recessionary pressures on budgets may cause a slowdown or a decline in 
growth in some markets. In some cases, those governments most severely 
impacted by the economic downturn may seek alternative ways to settle 
their debts through, for example, the issuance of government bonds which 
might trade at a discount to the face value of the debt. 
In addition, our customers may cease to trade, which may result in  
losses from writing off debts, or the sustained economic downturn  
may unfavourably affect the spending patterns of the consumers of  
our products. 
We are highly dependent on being able to access a sustainable flow of 
liquid funds due to the high fixed costs of operating our business and the 
long and uncertain development cycles of our products. In a sustained 
economic downturn, financial institutions with whom we deal may cease to 
trade and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access monies 
owed to us without a protracted, expensive and uncertain process, if at all. 
More than 95% of our cash investments are managed centrally and are 
invested in collateralised bank deposits or AAA credit rated institutional 
money market funds. Money market funds are backed by institutions in  
the US and the EU, which, in turn, invest in other funds, including sovereign 
funds. This means our credit exposure is a mix of US and EU sovereign 
default risk and financial institution default risk.
While we have adopted cash management and treasury policies to 
manage this risk (see the Financial risk management policies section of the 
Financial Review on page 76), we cannot be certain that these will be as 
effective as they are intended to be, in particular in the event of a global 
liquidity crisis. In addition, open positions where we are owed money and 
investments we have made in financial institutions or money market funds 
cannot be guaranteed to be recoverable. Additionally, if we need access to 
external sources of financing to sustain and/or grow our business, such as 
the debt or equity capital financial markets, this may not be available on 
commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a severe and/or 
sustained economic downturn. This may, for instance, be the case in the 
event of any default by the Group on its debt obligations, which may 
materially adversely affect our ability to secure debt funding in the future  
or our financial condition in general. Further information on debt funding 
arrangements is contained in the Financial risk management policies 
section of the Financial Review on page 76.
Fluctuations in exchange rates
As a global business, currency fluctuations can significantly affect our 
results of operations, which are reported in US dollars. Approximately  
40% of our global 2015 Product Sales were in the US, which is expected  
to remain our largest single market for the foreseeable future. Product Sales  
in other countries are predominantly in currencies other than the US dollar, 
including the euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, Australian dollar  
and Canadian dollar. We have a growing exposure to Emerging Market 
currencies, some of which are subject to exchange controls, and these 
currencies, such as that of Venezuela, may be subject to material 
devaluations against the US dollar. Major components of our cost base  
are located in the UK and Sweden, where an aggregate of approximately 
20% of our employees are based.
Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies  
into US dollars may materially adversely affect our financial condition or 
results of operations. Additionally, some of our subsidiaries import and 
export goods and services in currencies other than their own functional 
currency, and so the financial results of such subsidiaries could be affected 
by currency fluctuations arising between the transaction dates and the 
settlement dates for these transactions. In addition, there are foreign 
exchange differences arising on the translation of equity investments  
in subsidiaries. 
225 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Economic and financial risks Impact
Limited third party insurance coverage
In recent years, the costs associated with product liability litigation  
have increased the cost of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, 
pharmaceutical companies’ product liability insurance. To contain 
insurance costs in recent years, we have continued to adjust our coverage 
profile, accepting a greater degree of uninsured exposure. The Group has 
not held any material product liability insurance since February 2006. In 
addition, where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers may 
reserve the right to deny coverage on various grounds. For example, 
product liability litigation cases relating to Crestor and Nexium in the US are 
not covered by third party product liability insurance. See Note 27 to the 
Financial Statements from page 186 for details.
If we are found to have a financial liability due to product liability or other 
litigation, in respect of which we do not have insurance coverage, or if an 
insurer’s denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, this could require us to 
make significant provisions in our accounts relating to legal proceedings 
and could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
For more information, please see the Substantial product liability claims  
risk on page 223.
Taxation
The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce  
conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in 
individual countries. The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate 
have double tax treaties with other foreign jurisdictions, which provide a 
framework for mitigating the incidence of double taxation on our revenues 
and capital gains.
AstraZeneca’s worldwide operations are taxed under laws in the 
jurisdictions in which they operate. International standards governing the 
global tax environment regularly change. The Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD) has proposed a number of 
changes under the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action Plans.
The resolution of these disputes can result in a reallocation of profits 
between jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in related tax costs, and 
has the potential to affect our cash flows and EPS. Claims, regardless of 
their merits or their outcome, are costly, divert management attention and 
may adversely affect our reputation.
If any of these double tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, 
especially in a territory where a member of the Group is involved in a 
taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, 
such withdrawal or amendment could materially adversely affect our 
business or results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax 
dispute or a failure by the tax authorities to agree through competent 
authority proceedings. See the Financial risk management policies section 
of the Financial Review on page 76 for tax risk management policies  
and Note 27 to the Financial Statements on page 186 for details of current 
tax disputes.
Changes in tax regimes could result in a material impact on the Group’s 
cash tax liabilities and tax charge, resulting in either an increase or a 
reduction in financial results depending upon the nature of the change.  
We represent views to OECD, governments and tax authorities through 
public consultations to ensure international institutions and governments 
understand the business implications of law changes. Specific OECD 
BEPS recommendations that we expect to impact the Group include 
changes to patent box regimes, restrictions of interest deductibility and 
revised transfer pricing guidelines.
Pensions
Our pension obligations are largely backed by assets invested across the 
broad investment market. Our most significant obligations relate to the UK 
pension fund.
Sustained falls in these asset values could reduce pension fund solvency 
levels, which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting the 
cash available for business growth. Similarly, if the present value of the 
liabilities increase due to a sustained low interest rate environment, an 
increase in expectations of future inflation, or an improvement in member 
longevity (above that already assumed), this could also reduce pension 
fund solvency ratios. The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit 
generated by any of these factors may cause the credit rating agencies to 
review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to 
raise debt. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements from page 166 for 
further details of the Group’s pension obligations.
Risk continued
Additional Information
226 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Geographical Review
This section contains further information about the performance of our products within  
the geographical areas in which our sales and marketing efforts are focused. Sales 
relates to Product Sales.
Our financial performance – Product Sales
2015 2014 2013
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
US 9,474 (6) (6) 10,120 4 4 9,691
Europe 5,323 (20) (6) 6,638 – (1) 6,658
Established ROW 3,022 (14) – 3,510 (12) (4) 3,973
Emerging Markets 5,822 – 12 5,827 8 12 5,389
Total 23,641 (9) (1) 26,095 1 3 25,711
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity 
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2015
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Symbicort 3,394 (11) (3) 1,520 1 1,076 (26) (14) 404 (12) 2 394 6 22 3,801
Pulmicort 1,014 7 15 200 (5) 117 (28) (13) 88 (9) 4 609 28 35 946
Tudorza/Eklira 190 n/m n/m 103 n/m 76 n/m n/m 9 n/m n/m 2 n/m n/m 13
Daliresp 104 n/m n/m 104 n/m – – – – – – – – – –
Duaklir 27 n/m n/m – – 26 n/m n/m 1 n/m n/m – – – –
Others 258 (15) (5) 18 (31) 88 (20) (6) 25 (7) 4 127 (9) (1) 303
Total 4,987 (2) 7 1,945 11 1,383 (21) (7) 527 (9) 5 1,132 15 25 5,063
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2014
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Symbicort 3,801 9 10 1,511 23 1,462 (3) (4) 458 8 17 370 14 22 3,483
Pulmicort 946 9 11 211 (6) 162 (5) (6) 97 (13) (6) 476 32 35 867
Tudorza/Eklira 13 n/m n/m – – 13 n/m n/m – – – – – – –
Others 303 (7) (6) 26 (55) 110 (4) (5) 27 (18) (15) 140 16 19 327
Total 5,063 8 10 1,748 15 1,747 (2) (4) 582 2 11 986 22 27 4,677
227 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2015
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Crestor 5,017 (9) (3) 2,844 (3) 916 (24) (9) 571 (14) (1) 686 (6) 2 5,512
Onglyza/Kombiglyze XR/ 
Komboglyze 786 (4) 2 420 (13) 141 (9) 8 66 12 27 159 27 41 820
Seloken/Toprol-XL 710 (6) 4 89 (2) 97 (22) (6) 12 (37) (26) 512 (2) 9 758
Brilinta/Brilique 619 30 44 240 64 230 – 18 37 12 33 112 70 91 476
Bydureon 580 32 35 482 29 81 42 65 8 60 80 9 125 150 440
Farxiga/Forxiga 492 119 137 261 114 126 91 126 32 88 124 73 n/m n/m 225
Atacand 358 (29) (15) 34 (23) 105 (38) (26) 26 (40) (30) 193 (21) (4) 501
Byetta 316 (3) 2 209 5 62 (23) (11) 22 (19) (7) 23 15 30 327
Plendil 233 (6) (2) – – 13 (32) (16) 7 (22) (11) 213 (4) – 249
Tenormin 118 (27) (15) 1 (88) 37 (23) (8) 40 (26) (15) 40 (22) (10) 161
Others 260 (22) (14) 54 (21) 93 (30) (17) 13 (28) (17) 100 (12) (5) 333
Total 9,489 (3) 4 4,634 4 1,901 (17) (1) 834 (12) 1 2,120 – 11 9,802
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2014
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Crestor 5,512 (2) (1) 2,918 – 1,200 (2) (3) 667 (17) (10) 727 7 11 5,622
Onglyza/Kombiglyze XR/ 
Komboglyze 820 117 119 481 82 155 177 175 59 195 210 125 238 251 378
Seloken/Toprol-XL 758 1 4 91 (31) 124 (5) (4) 19 (21) (13) 524 13 17 750
Brilinta/Brilique 476 68 70 146 100 231 42 40 33 94 106 66 120 133 283
Bydureon 440 191 191 374 185 57 235 235 5 n/m n/m 4 100 100 151
Farxiga/Forxiga 225 n/m n/m 122 100 66 n/m n/m 17 n/m n/m 20 n/m n/m 10
Atacand 501 (18) (16) 44 (39) 169 (25) (26) 43 (39) (35) 245 1 5 611
Byetta 327 59 59 199 31 81 125 119 27 145 164 20 186 200 206
Plendil 249 (4) (4) – – 19 (10) (10) 9 (10) (10) 221 (3) (3) 260
Tenormin 161 (18) (15) 8 (47) 48 (6) (6) 54 (30) (23) 51 (6) (4) 197
Others 333 (8) (7) 68 36 133 (19) (19) 18 (28) (24) 114 (7) (5) 362
Total 9,802 11 12 4,451 17 2,283 9 8 951 (11) (3) 2,117 13 17 8,830
Oncology
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2015
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Zoladex 816 (12) 7 28 8 171 (24) (12) 272 (16) (2) 345 (2) 27 924
Faslodex 704 (2) 9 356 5 207 (15) 2 54 (8) 5 87 14 49 720
Iressa 543 (13) (2) 6 n/m 128 (22) (8) 137 (23) (10) 272 (3) 4 623
Casodex 267 (17) (6) 1 (80) 30 (29) (14) 131 (22) (11) 105 1 9 320
Arimidex 250 (16) (5) 19 27 49 (36) (24) 79 (27) (17) 103 4 16 298
Lynparza 94 n/m n/m 70 n/m 23 n/m n/m – – – 1 n/m n/m –
Tagrisso 19 n/m n/m 15 n/m 4 n/m n/m – – – – – – –
Others 132 (7) 6 19 (24) 23 (30) (18) 60 25 44 30 (17) – 142
Total 2,825 (7) 7 514 25 635 (19) (4) 733 (17) (4) 943 – 18 3,027
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2014
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Zoladex 924 (7) (4) 26 13 226 (10) (12) 322 (13) (6) 350 – 4 996
Faslodex 720 6 7 340 5 245 11 10 59 (5) 3 76 3 14 681
Iressa 623 (4) (1) – – 166 (6) (7) 177 (12) (4) 280 4 6 647
Casodex 320 (15) (10) 5 – 42 (21) (21) 169 (25) (18) 104 12 14 376
Arimidex 298 (15) (12) 15 150 76 (18) (19) 108 (30) (24) 99 1 5 351
Others 142 – 4 25 – 33 14 14 48 (20) (13) 36 29 36 142
Total 3,027 (5) (2) 411 7 788 (4) (6) 883 (18) (11) 945 4 8 3,193
Geographical Review continued
Additional Information
228 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal 
Infection
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2015
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Synagis 662 (26) (26) 285 (43) 377 (6) (6) – – – – – – 900
FluMist/Fluenz 288 (2) – 206 (6) 76 9 16 7 – 14 (1) (100) (100) 295
Merrem/Meronem 241 (5) 11 16 167 24 (23) (10) 2 (50) (50) 199 (6) 10 253
Others 59 (24) (17) 24 (41) 6 (25) (25) 3 (67) (22) 26 13 40 78
Total 1,250 (18) (15) 531 (30) 483 (5) (4) 12 (40) (15) 224 (4) 13 1,526
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2014
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Synagis 900 (15) (15) 499 (19) 401 (9) (9) – – – – – – 1,060
FluMist/Fluenz 295 20 20 218 10 70 67 64 7 75 100 – – – 245
Merrem/Meronem 253 (14) (10) 6 (45) 32 (35) (35) 4 (20) (20) 211 (7) (3) 293
Others 78 (13) (10) 41 (27) 5 – (20) 9 (31) (8) 23 64 50 89
Total 1,526 (10) (9) 764 (13) 508 (6) (6) 20 (9) 9 234 (4) – 1,687
Neuroscience
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2015
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Seroquel XR 1,025 (16) (12) 716 (3) 202 (41) (30) 25 (43) (34) 82 (18) (1) 1,224
Seroquel IR 250 40 56 46 n/m 63 (29) (18) 34 (6) 8 107 (14) (5) 178
Local Anaesthetics 392 (20) (6) – – 136 (31) (17) 142 (15) (1) 114 (7) 6 488
Vimovo 84 (13) 2 1 (90) 35 6 27 24 4 22 24 (20) (10) 96
Movantik/Moventig 29 n/m n/m 28 n/m 1 n/m n/m – – – – – – –
Others 332 (21) (10) 22 (12) 84 (24) (10) 65 (22) (11) 161 (20) (10) 420
Total 2,112 (12) (3) 813 16 521 (32) (20) 290 (18) (5) 488 (16) (4) 2,406
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2014
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Seroquel XR 1,224 (9) (8) 738 (1) 343 (18) (18) 44 (39) (35) 99 (7) – 1,337
Seroquel IR 178 (48) (46) (72) n/m 89 (15) (16) 36 (66) (63) 125 (17) (13) 345
Local Anaesthetics 488 (4) – – – 197 (4) (5) 168 (8) (1) 123 1 9 510
Vimovo 96 5 9 10 (50) 33 3 3 23 15 25 30 58 63 91
Others 420 (7) (4) 25 (24) 110 (4) (5) 84 (14) (7) 201 (3) 1 452
Total 2,406 (12) (10) 701 (10) 772 (12) (12) 355 (26) (20) 578 (5) 1 2,735
Gastrointestinal 
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2015
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Nexium 2,496 (32) (26) 902 (52) 284 (23) (7) 549 (9) 5 761 (6) 3 3,655
Losec/Prilosec 340 (19) (10) 18 (32) 97 (25) (10) 74 (30) (19) 151 (5) (1) 422
Others 142 (27) (24) 117 (17) 19 (56) (47) 3 (57) (57) 3 – 33 194
Total 2,978 (30) (24) 1,037 (49) 400 (26) (11) 626 (13) 1 915 (5) 2 4,271
World US Europe Established ROW Emerging Markets Prior year
2014
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
Sales
$m
Actual
growth 
%
CER 
growth
%
World
sales
$m
Nexium 3,655 (6) (4) 1,876 (12) 368 2 2 606 2 9 805 2 5 3,872
Losec/Prilosec 422 (13) (11) 28 (7) 129 (2) (2) 106 (36) (30) 159 (1) 1 486
Others 194 (16) (16) 141 (21) 43 – – 7 – – 3 – 33 231
Total 4,271 (7) (5) 2,045 (12) 540 1 1 719 (7) 1 967 1 5 4,589
229 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information  > China sales in the year increased by 15% 
to $2,530 million (2014: $2,242 million; 
2013: $1,840 million), while Brazil sales 
grew by 16% at CER to $381 million 
(2014: $451 million; 2013: $447 million) 
and Russia sales grew by 21% at CER  
to $231 million (2014: $312 million; 2013: 
$310 million).
2014 in brief
 > AstraZeneca was the fourth largest 
prescription-based pharmaceutical 
company in the US, with a 5.2% market 
share of US pharmaceuticals by  
sales value.
 > AstraZeneca was the tenth largest 
prescription-based pharmaceutical 
company in Europe, with a 2.8% market 
share of sales by value.
 > In the US, sales increased by 4% to 
$10, 120 million (2013: $9,691 million; 2012: 
$10,655 million), driven by an increase in 
Diabetes franchise sales, aided by the 
acquisition of BMS’s 50% interest in the 
diabetes alliance, as well as strong 
performance across our Growth 
Platforms, including Symbicort and 
Brilinta, offset by declines in revenue from 
Nexium, Seroquel IR and Synagis. Sales 
from our Diabetes franchise increased by 
$644 million or 109% to $1,234 million.
 > Sales in Europe decreased by 1% to 
$6,638 million (2013: $6,658 million; 2012: 
$7 , 143 million). Key drivers of the decline 
were the ongoing volume erosion on 
Atacand and Seroquel XR following 
generic entry and the negative price and 
volume impacts primarily related to 
government pricing interventions. Crestor 
volumes declined 3% due to increased 
pressure from generic statins in a number 
of markets. Symbicort sales decreased to 
$1,462 million (2013: $1,502 million; 2012: 
$1,465 million) due to pricing pressure 
and the impact of Symbicort analogues. 
These challenges were partially offset by 
our Growth Platforms, including Brilique 
growth and the expansion of our Diabetes 
portfolio following the acquisition of 
BMS’s interest in the joint diabetes 
alliance plus continued strong demand  
for Fluenz (2014: $70 million; 2013: 
$42 million; 2012: $3 million).
 > Established Rest of World sales 
decreased by 4% to $3,510 million (2013: 
$3,973 million; 2012: $5,080 million). 
Canada continued to be negatively 
impacted by erosion of Crestor and 
Nexium sales due to generic competition, 
with total sales down 1%. Sales in 
Australia were also lower due to generic 
competition to Crestor and Atacand. 
Sales growth in Japan declined by 3% to 
$2,227 million (2013: $2,485 million; 2012: 
$2,904 million), as a result of generic 
pressure on oncology products, Casodex 
and Arimidex, and the impact of the April 
2014 mandated biennial price cut. Strong 
demand in Japan continued for Nexium 
and Crestor , with sales increasing to 
$860 million (2013: $815 million; 2012: 
$665 million).
 > Emerging Markets sales increased by 
12% to $5,827 million (2013: $5,389 
million; 2012: $5,095 million), with sales 
growth in China of 22%. Volume growth 
on Brilinta, our Diabetes and Respiratory 
franchises, Nexium and Crestor , was 
partially offset by pricing pressure, 
predominantly in China and Asia Pacific.
US
In 2015, sales in the US decreased by 6%  
to $9,474 million (2014: $10, 120 million; 2013: 
$9,691 million). Declines in revenue from 
Nexium, Crestor and Synagis were partially 
offset by strong performance of our Growth 
Platforms, including Farxiga, Bydureon and 
Brilinta, the launches of Lynparza and 
Tagrisso as well as the impact of completing 
the acquisition of Actavis’s rights to Tudorza 
and Daliresp in the US. Sales from our 
Diabetes franchise increased by $187 million 
or 15% to $1,421 million (2014: $1,234 
million; 2013: $590 million).
Brilinta sales of $240 million (2014: $146 
million; 2013: $73 million) increased 64%  
in 2015. Brilinta continued its strong 
momentum with significant 2015 growth  
in hospital units purchased volume  
(+58% November 2015), new-to-brand 
prescriptions (39%) and total prescriptions 
(48%), supported with our expanded 
indication to include long-term use in 
patients with a history of heart attack. The 
new label nearly doubles the number of 
patients indicated for Brilinta in the US and is 
highlighted with language that demonstrates 
Brilinta’s superiority over Plavix. Brilinta grew 
its US branded leadership in oral antiplatelet 
(OAP) new-to-brand retail prescription share 
which increased by 2.7 percentage points 
over 2014 to 10.9% in 2015, and Brilinta also 
achieved US branded market leadership in 
share of all OAP new prescriptions for the 
first time in 2015.
Crestor continued to demonstrate resilience 
in the highly competitive statin market, 
89.0% of which is generic. In 2015, Crestor 
was the highest branded retail prescription 
Growth rates in this Geographical  
Review are expressed at CER unless 
otherwise stated. All commentary in this 
section relates to Product Sales.
2015 in brief
 > AstraZeneca is the sixth largest 
prescription-based pharmaceutical 
company in the US, with a 4.5% market 
share of US pharmaceuticals by  
sales value.
 > AstraZeneca is the twelfth largest 
prescription-based pharmaceutical 
company in Europe, with a 2.5% market 
share of sales by value.
 > In 2015, sales in the US decreased by 6% 
to $9,474 million (2014: $10, 120 million; 
2013: $9,691 million). Declines in revenue 
from Nexium, Crestor and Synagis were 
partially offset by strong performance of 
our Growth Platforms, including Farxiga, 
Bydureon and Brilinta, the launches of 
Lynparza and Tagrisso as well as the 
impact of completing the acquisition of 
Actavis’s rights to Tudorza and Daliresp  
in the US.
 > Sales in Europe declined by 6% to $5,323 
million in the year (2014: $6,638 million; 
2013: $6,658 million). Strong growth  
from the Diabetes portfolio was more  
than offset by pricing pressure and 
continued generic competition facing 
Crestor, Nexium and Seroquel XR.  
A 14% decline in Symbicort sales to 
$1,076 million (2014: $1,462 million; 2013: 
$1,502 million) reflected adverse pricing 
movements driven by competition from 
analogues in key markets. Duaklir more 
than doubled its first-half sales in the final 
quarter and Lynparza was launched in 
Europe in 2015.
 > Sales in the Established Rest of World 
(ROW) were stable in the year at 
$3,022 million (2014: $3,510 million; 2013: 
$3,973 million). Japan sales increased  
4% at CER to $2,020 million (2014: 
$2,227 million; 2013: $2,485 million)  
driven by strong growth of Crestor and 
Nexium, though there was a decline in  
the sales of Symbicort. Canada sales 
grew by 4% to $533 million at CER  
(2014: $590 million; 2013: $637 million)  
in the year driven by increased sales  
of Onglyza and Symbicort.
 > Emerging Markets sales in the year 
increased by 12% to $5,822 million (2014: 
$5,827 million; 2013: $5,389 million) with 
contributions to growth emanating from 
across the region. Around 60% of 
Emerging Markets sales were derived 
outside of China in the year. 
Geographical Review continued
Additional Information
230 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 class of medicines by 79% post-launch
1
 and 
by the end of December 2015, over 407 ,000 
patients were on Farxiga or Xigduo XR since 
launch and the Farxiga family captured 
nearly one in four new SGLT2 patient 
treatment decisions. Our SGLT2 franchise 
sales grew by 1 14% from 2014 to 2015.
Lynparza reached $70 million (2014: $nil) 
following the launch of the medicine at the 
end of 2014. Growth was driven by the pool 
of eligible patients awaiting treatment as well 
as patients newly tested for BRCA mutation. 
Tagrisso, the only approved medicine 
indicated for patients with metastatic EGFR 
T790M mutation-positive NSCLC, had sales 
of $15 million following the launch in 
November 2015.
In 2015, sales of Synagis were down 43% to 
$285 million (2014: $499 million; 2013: $617 
million). A key driver of the decline was the 
continued adoption of guidelines from the 
American Academy of Pediatrics Committee 
on Infectious Disease that restricted patients 
eligible for preventive therapy with Synagis. 
FluMist Quadrivalent launched in the US in 
2013 as the first and only FDA-approved 
nasal spray flu vaccine to help protect 
against four strains of influenza. FluMist 
revenues in the US were down 6% to  
$206 million (2014: $218 million; 2013:  
$199 million) driven by delays in supply.
Nexium was the seventh most prescribed 
branded pharmaceutical in the US. Nexium 
sales in the US declined 52% to $902 million 
(2014: $1,876 million; 2013: $2, 123 million) 
due primarily to volume erosion, pricing 
pressure, and recognition of an unfavourable 
returns provision following loss of exclusivity. 
Despite the entrance of multiple generic 
competitors, Nexium remains the branded 
market leader retaining significant 
prescription market share and volume  
within the proton pump inhibitor class, and 
maintains greater than 65% share of the 
esomeprozole molecule market.
Seroquel IR 2015 sales were $46 million 
(2014: negative $72 million; 2013: negative 
$17 million). The loss of exclusivity for 
Seroquel IR in March 2012 and unfavourable 
reserve adjustments for Medicaid liabilities 
and provisions taken on channel inventories 
resulted in negative sales in 2014 and 2013. 
No further adjustments were required in 
2015. The presence of generic competition 
has also impacted the prescription volume 
of Seroquel XR. Sales of Seroquel XR were 
down 3% to $716 million (2014: $738 million; 
2013: $743 million) driven by lower volume. 
Movantik launched in March 2015 and 
achieved US sales of $28 million. In  
March 2015, the Company announced  
a co-commercialisation agreement with 
Daiichi Sankyo for Movantik in the US. 
Movantik share among chronic opioid 
patients starting a new branded Rx laxative 
(NBRx) in the final quarter of 2015 was 29%.
The Affordable Care Act (ACA), which was 
enacted in March 2010, has had, and is 
expected to continue to have, a significant 
impact on our US sales and the US 
healthcare industry as a whole. In 2015, the 
overall measurable reduction in our profit 
before tax for the year due to discounts on 
branded pharmaceutical sales to Medicare 
Part D beneficiaries and an industry-wide 
excise fee was $786 million (2014: $714 
million; 2013: $557 million). This amount 
reflects only those effects of the ACA that 
we know have had or will have a direct 
impact on our financial condition or results 
of operations and which we are therefore 
able to quantify based on known and 
isolatable resulting changes in individual 
financial items within our Financial 
Statements. There are other potential 
indirect or associated consequences of the 
implementation of the ACA, which continue 
to evolve and which cannot be estimated 
but could have similar impacts. These 
include broader changes in access to, or 
eligibility for, coverage under Medicare, 
Medicaid or similar government 
programmes. These could indirectly impact 
our pricing or sales of prescription products 
within the private sector. By their nature and 
the fact that these potentially numerous 
consequences are not directly linked to a 
corresponding and quantifiable impact on 
our Financial Statements, it is not possible 
to accurately estimate the financial impact  
of these potential consequences of the ACA 
or related legislative changes when taken 
together with the number of other market; 
and industry-related factors that can also 
result in similar impacts. Further details on 
the impact of the ACA are contained in 
Pricing of medicines from page 14 and in 
Risk from page 212.
Currently, there is no direct governmental 
control of prices for commercial prescription 
drug sales in the US. However, some 
publicly funded programmes, such as 
Medicaid and TRICARE (Department of 
Defense), have statutorily mandated rebates 
pill in the US and more than a million new 
patients started therapy on Crestor in 2015. 
Crestor achieved sales of $2,844 million 
(2014: $2,918 million; 2013: $2,912 million) 
and a total prescription share within the 
statin market of 8.9% in December 2015. 
Crestor sales in 2015 were 3% below 2014 
sales, with a decrease in volume of 6% 
partially offset by higher average net prices 
(+3%). Crestor continued to maintain its 
strong formulary access, with Commercial/
Medicare preferred access of 85% at the 
end of 2015 (2014: 84%; 2013: 84%).
Symbicort pMDI sales at $1,520 million  
were in line with 2014 (2014: $1,51 1 million; 
2013: $1,233 million), with volume increases 
of 10% and prescription growth of 14.0% 
versus 2014 offset by pricing pressures. 
Symbicort achieved a 34.0% total 
prescription share in the month of 
December 2015, up 1.08 percentage points 
over the month of December 2014 in the 
ICS/LABA market. 
In March 2015, we completed our 
acquisition of Daliresp and Tudorza from 
Forest Laboratories Holdings Ltd (owned  
by Actavis). The acquisition granted 
AstraZeneca US rights for manufacturing 
and commercialisation of these products. 
Daliresp achieved sales of $104 million and 
Tudorza achieved sales of $103 million for 
the 10 months of ownership in 2015.
In February 2014, we completed our 
acquisition of BMS’s 50% interest in our  
joint diabetes alliance. The acquisition gave 
us ownership of the IP and global rights for 
the development, manufacturing and 
commercialisation of the diabetes business, 
which includes Onglyza, Komboglyze, 
Kombiglyze XR, Farxiga/Forxiga, Xigduo, 
Xigduo XR, Byetta, Bydureon and Symlin. 
Onglyza/Kombiglyze XR sales in the US 
declined by 13% to $420 million (2014: $481 
million; 2013: $265 million) primarily driven 
by lower average net price.
Bydureon sales in the US were $482 million 
(2014: $374 million; 2013: $131 million). 
Bydureon prescription market share 
remained static in 2015, with a total 
prescription market share of 19.4% of the 
rapidly growing GLP-1 market in December 
2015. Byetta achieved sales of $209 million 
(2014: $199 million; 2013: $152 million).
Farxiga (launched February 2014) and 
Xigduo XR (launched November 2014) 
accelerated the overall growth of the SGLT2 
231 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information to a difficult environment for branded 
pharmaceuticals in Europe. 
Total sales in Europe were down 6% to 
$5,323 million (2014: $6,638 million; 2013: 
$6,658 million). Volume erosion on Seroquel 
XR and Atacand following generic entries 
resulted in a decrease in sales of 29% to 
$307 million (2014: $512 million; 2013: $641 
million). Crestor sales declined 9%, with a 
7% reduction in volumes and 2% reduction 
in prices as a result of increased competition 
from generic statins in a number of 
countries, including France and Italy. 
Government interventions continue to 
impact both price and volume negatively. 
Our Growth Platform sales partially offset 
these trends. Brilique sales increased 18% 
at CER to $230 million (2014: $231 million; 
2013: $163 million). Our Diabetes franchise 
generated sales of $410 million (2014: $359 
million; 2013: $1 19 million). Respiratory  
sales were negatively impacted by pricing 
pressure on Symbicort and the impact of 
Symbicort analogues, with sales declining 
to $1,076 million (2014: $1,462 million; 2013: 
$1,502 million), as volumes fell by 3% and 
prices fell by 1 1%.
In Germany, sales increased by 4% to  
$601 million (2014: $693 million; 2013:  
$657 million), driven by strong growth 
across the Diabetes portfolio and continued 
growth with Brilique. Total Diabetes sales 
reached $126 million in 2015 (2014: $108 
million; 2013: $32 million). Overall growth 
was partly offset by the ongoing impact  
of pricing and generic versions of Atacand  
and Seroquel XR. 
In the UK and Ireland, sales decreased by 
18% to $633 million (2014: $832 million; 
2013: $766 million), driven by ongoing 
volume erosion on Seroquel XR following 
generic entries and a decline in Zoladex 
sales to $58 million (2014: $83 million; 2013: 
$94 million). Diabetes sales decreased to 
$61 million in 2015 (2014: $68 million; 2013: 
$27 million) and Brilique sales marginally 
decreased to $28 million (2014: $30 million; 
2013: $18 million). 
Sales in France decreased by 9% to $922 
million (2014: $1,213 million; 2013: $1,212 
million), driven by price and volume erosion 
on Atacand and Zoladex, following generic 
entries and subsequent government pricing 
interventions. Increased pressure from 
generic statins has adversely affected 
Crestor , with sales down 12% to  
$298 million (2014: $404 million; 2013:  
$428 million). At constant exchange rates, 
France experienced growth of Brilique with 
$29 million of sales (2014: $30 million; 2013: 
$18 million) and Diabetes with $50 million of 
sales (2014: $52 million; 2013: $20 million).
Sales in Italy decreased by 5% to  
$544 million (2014: $688 million; 2013:  
$737 million), mainly driven by generic 
entries, pricing intervention and the 
implementation of volume prescription 
controls associated with existing and  
new austerity measures.
Sales in Spain increased by 3% at CER  
to $426 million (2014: $497 million; 2013: 
$507 million), mainly driven by strong  
growth across the Growth Platforms.
Established ROW
2
 
Established ROW sales of $3,022 million 
were flat at CER (2014: $3,510 million; 2013: 
$3,973 million). The key products with sales 
growth in Established ROW in 2015 were 
Nexium, Symbicort, Brilinta, and Onglyza.
Japan
Sales in Japan were $2,020 million, 
increasing by 4% at CER but negatively 
impacted on a Reported basis by the 
revaluation of the Japanese yen (2014: 
$2,227 million; 2013: $2,485 million). 
Nexium achieved sales of $405 million 
(2014: $358 million; 2013: $278 million). 
Crestor sales grew by 8% at CER to  
$468 million (2014: $502 million; 2013:  
$537 million), retaining its position as the 
number one brand in the statin market in 
Japan. Symbicort sales at $176 million 
(2014: $207 million; 2013: $175 million) 
decreased by 2%, achieving a market  
share of 39.4%. 
Sales were also negatively impacted by 
generic competition for our non-promoted 
oncology products.
Canada
Canada returned to growth in 2015 driven 
by the strong performance of Symbicort 
and the Diabetes portfolio (including the 
launch of Forxiga in January 2015). 
Canadian sales increased by 4% at CER  
to $533 million (2014: $590 million; 2013: 
$637 million).
and discounts that have the effect of price 
controls for these programmes. Additionally, 
pressure on pricing, availability and use of 
prescription drugs for both commercial and 
public payers continues to increase. This is 
driven by, among other things, an increased 
focus on generic alternatives. Budgetary 
policies within healthcare systems and 
providers, including the use of generics only 
formularies, and increases in patient 
co-insurance or co-payments, are the 
primary drivers of increased generics use.  
In 2015, 84.0% of prescriptions dispensed  
in the US were generic. While widespread 
adoption of a broad national price-control 
scheme in the near future is unlikely, 
increased focus on pharmaceutical prices 
and their impact on healthcare costs is likely 
to continue for the foreseeable future.
Rest of World
Sales of $14, 167 million (2014: $15,975 
million; 2013: $16,020 million) outside the  
US in 2015 was up by 2% at CER but 
negatively impacted on a Reported basis  
by movements in underlying currencies. 
Emerging Markets delivered a strong 
performance, up 12% with sales of $5,822 
million (2014: $5,827 million; 2013: $5,389 
million), with Japan and Canada also 
generating increased sales at CER. Europe 
and Other Established ROW sales were 
down at 6% and 19% respectively reflecting 
the competition from generic products and 
the continuing challenging economic 
environment, partially offset by the 
performance of Growth Platforms. 
Europe
AstraZeneca is the twelfth largest 
pharmaceutical company in Europe,  
with a 2.5% market share of prescription 
sales by value. 
Despite a slight improvement in conditions, 
the macroeconomic environment remains 
challenging, with the ongoing impact of 
austerity measures leading to increased 
pressure on healthcare budgets. Many 
governments in Europe intervene directly  
to control the price, volume and 
reimbursement of medicines. Several 
governments have imposed price 
reductions and increased the use of generic 
medicines as part of healthcare expenditure 
controls. A number of countries are applying 
strict criteria for cost-effectiveness 
evaluations of medicines, which contributes 
Geographical Review continued
Additional Information
232 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 the Russian Federation. The Russian market 
grew by 12% during 2015. AstraZeneca’s 
growth came from Iressa, Pulmicort and 
Brilinta. We have 559 clinical trial sites in 46 
cities. Our new production facility in Vorsino 
is expected to commence commercial 
production in early 2016.
The Latin American pharmaceutical market 
continues to grow. However, in many 
countries, growth is being predominantly 
captured by generics, branded generics 
and private label product offerings. Sales 
were up 15% to $1,024 million (2014: $1, 181 
million; 2013: $1, 188 million) driven principally 
by Brazil, which grew by 16% to $381 million 
(2014: $451 million; 2013: $447 million), 
following successful launch of Forxiga and 
continued strong uptake of Brilinta. Sales in 
Argentina also grew rapidly by 37% driven 
by strong growth in Diabetes, Brilinta and 
Respiratory. The Mexico prescription drug 
market continues to grow. Sales grew by 
1 1% at CER to $195 million (2014: $210 
million; 2013: $206 million), driven by the 
Diabetes and Respiratory Growth Platforms.
In the Middle East and Africa, despite 
political challenges arising from geopolitical 
and broader political conflict, sales grew by 
13%, driven by strong growth in Egypt, 
Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States, and several 
Emerging Markets in Africa as well as steady 
growth in Turkey. Sales in South Africa were 
flat and declined by 13% in Tunisia reflecting 
local market conditions. Sales of $889 
million in Asia were in line with 2014 at CER 
(2014: $948 million; 2013: $900 million). 
Double digit growth in Vietnam, Indonesia, 
Malaysia and India were offset by sales 
decreases due to price erosions incurred  
by loss of exclusivity in Taiwan and Korea.
Launches in Emerging Markets in 2015 
included: Forxiga in India, Colombia, 
Ecuador, and Taiwan; Bydureon in Mexico;  
and Zinforo in Mexico.
1
  Growth based on Invokana trend pre Farxiga launch,  
and the composition of Farxiga and Invokana to  
18 December 2015 (excluding holidays) to derive the  
impact on SGLT2 class.
2
 Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand.
3
 Australia and New Zealand.
4
 Emerging Markets excluding China.
Other Established ROW
3
 
Sales in Other Established ROW declined  
by 19% to $469 million (2014: $693 million; 
2013: $851 million). Sales in Australia 
declined by 21% to $435 million (2014: $658 
million; 2013: $817 million) due to continued 
volume erosion on Crestor and Atacand 
following generic entries in 2013 and pricing 
pressure on other mature brands (Seroquel 
and Arimidex). Nexium sales in Australia 
declined following the loss of exclusivity  
in Australia in August 2014. 
Emerging Markets
In Emerging Markets, sales increased by 
12% to $5,822 million (2014: $5,827 million; 
2013: $5,389 million), which was principally 
driven by growth in China, Russia, Brazil 
and Argentina, and growth across a broad 
range of markets in our strategic Growth 
Platforms – Brilinta, and our Diabetes and 
Respiratory franchises.
In many of the larger markets, such as Brazil 
and Mexico, patients tend to pay directly for 
prescription medicines and consequently, 
these markets are at less risk of direct 
government interventions on pricing and 
reimbursement. In other markets, such as 
South Korea, Taiwan and Turkey, where 
governments pay for medicines, we are 
seeing continued efforts to reduce the cost 
of prescriptions in line with the efforts in 
Europe, Canada and Australia. 
China
Sales in China (excluding Hong Kong) grew 
by 15% to $2,530 million (2014: $2,242 
million; 2013: $1,840 million). AstraZeneca 
remained the second largest multinational 
pharmaceutical company in China during 
2015. Despite the market slowdown, we 
saw continued strong sales of Oncology 
and Respiratory in particular, with sales 
growth of 17% and 38% respectively. We 
have continued to make strong progress  
on the listing of Brilinta, Byetta and Onglyza 
into key hospitals. Brilinta has reached  
$38 million in sales. We continue to have  
the largest sales force among multinational 
pharmaceutical companies in China. The 
number of hospitals covered grew by 34%.
Other Emerging Markets
4
We continued to build our presence in 
Russia, with sales growing by 21% to  
$231 million (2014: $312 million; 2013:  
$310 million) from strong performance  
in the retail segment. To increase access  
to our medicines, we established patient 
affordability programmes in 50 regions of 
233 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Sustainability: supplementary information
 − Continuing to develop and embed a 
consistent approach to human rights 
across our worldwide activities (see 
page 54).
 − Promoting the safety, health and 
wellbeing of all our people worldwide  
as we continue to drive a high-
performance culture and the 
achievement of our business goals  
(see page 57).
A core element of our business strategy  
is value-creating business development 
activity that strengthens our pipeline and 
accelerates growth. This includes targeted 
acquisitions. When we acquire companies 
we aim to align standards of responsible 
business and incorporate the companies  
in the setting of targets and measurement  
of performance.
Benchmarking
As expectations of stakeholders evolve,  
we continue to engage with them and use 
the feedback to inform the development  
of our sustainability strategy and risk 
management planning.
We also use the insights gained from 
external surveys to develop our approach  
in line with global best practice. A member 
of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)
since 2001, we were once again listed in the 
2015 World Index (the top 10% of the largest 
2,500 companies). We also retained our 
listing on the DJSI STOXX – European Index 
(the top 20% of the 600 largest European 
companies) for the eighth year running (one 
of four pharmaceutical companies to do so 
out of 14 assessed). We achieved a total 
score of 84% (2014: 79%) compared with  
a sector best score of 88% (2014: 87%).  
We increased individual scores for 14 out  
of 24 criteria for 2015 (compared to seven  
out of 24 criteria in 2014). These included 
corporate governance, code of conduct, 
marketing practices, supply chain 
management, customer relationship 
management, innovation management, 
environmental policy management system, 
climate strategy, labour practice indicators 
and human rights, human capital 
development, talent attraction and retention, 
occupational health and safety, bioethics 
and health outcomes contribution. While 
these scores are encouraging, we lost 
ground in some areas, including risk and 
crisis management, social reporting, 
environmental reporting and operational 
eco-efficiency, strategy to improve access 
to drugs or products, and addressing cost 
burden. To understand these lower scores 
better, we commissioned an in-depth 
external benchmark survey. We will use  
the analysis to plan ways to improve in  
these areas.
External assurance 
Bureau Veritas has provided independent 
external assurance to a limited level on the 
following sustainability information contained 
within this Annual Report
 > Patient safety, page 44
 > Clinical trials and transparency, page 45
 > Research use of human biological 
samples, page 45 
 > Animal research, page 45
 > Increasing access to healthcare, page 50
 > Healthy Heart Africa, page 51
 > Sales and marketing ethics, page 50
 > Working with suppliers, page 47
 > Natural resource efficiency, page 57
 > Develop a strong and diverse pipeline  
of leaders, page 53
 > Human rights, page 54
 > Managing change, page 54
 > Employee relations, page 54
 > Safety, health and wellbeing, page 57
 > Community investment, page 58
 > Sustainability, page 57
 > Sustainability framework, page 56.
Based on the evidence provided and 
subject to the scope, objectives and 
limitations defined in the full assurance 
statement, nothing has come to the 
attention of Bureau Veritas causing us to 
believe that the sustainability information 
contained within this Annual Report is 
materially misstated. Bureau Veritas is a 
professional services company that has  
a long history of providing independent 
assurance services in environmental,  
health, safety, social and ethical 
management and disclosure.
The full assurance statement, which 
includes Bureau Veritas’s scope of work, 
methodology, overall opinion, and limitations 
and exclusions, is available on our website, 
www.astrazeneca.com.
Summary information about our 
commitment and performance in key areas 
is integrated into the relevant sections of this 
Annual Report. Further information about 
these and other areas is available on our 
website, www.astrazeneca.com.
The Strategy section from page 8  
describes how we create value across the 
life-cycle of a medicine and highlights our 
distinctive capabilities and our strategy.  
Our commitment to operating responsibly 
underpins all of these efforts. This helps  
to ensure the future sustainability of the 
Group in a way that adds value for  
our stakeholders. The Sustainability  
section from page 57 reviews our 
sustainability governance and 
commitments. These encompass:
 > Environmental sustainability: managing 
our impact on the environment, across all 
our operations, with a particular focus on 
carbon emissions, waste and water use 
(see page 57).
 > Access to healthcare: as we expand our 
geographic footprint, exploring ways of 
increasing access to healthcare for more 
people, tailored locally to different patient 
needs (see page 50). 
 > Responsible research: underpinning  
our accelerated drive for innovation with 
sound bioethics worldwide and 
maintaining a strong focus on patient 
safety in everything we do, minimising the 
risks and maximising the benefits of all 
our medicines throughout R&D, and after 
launch (see page 44).
 > Ethical business practices: 
 − Working to consistent global standards 
of ethical sales and marketing practices 
in all our markets as we work to restore 
growth (see page 50).
 − Working only with suppliers who have 
standards consistent with our own as 
we increase our outsourcing to drive 
business efficiency (see page 47).
 − Making a positive contribution to  
our local communities around the 
world, through community support 
programmes consistent with improving 
health and promoting science  
(see page 58).
 > Being a great place to work:
 − Ensuring that diversity in its broadest 
sense is reflected in our leadership  
and people strategies (see pages 52 
and 53). 
Additional Information
234 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 We have used the GHG Protocol  
Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (revised edition). Emission factors 
for electricity have been derived from the 
International Energy Agency and USEPA 
eGRID databases and for all other fuels  
and emission sources from the 2006  
IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories.
Bureau Veritas has undertaken a limited 
assurance on the 2015 GHG emissions 
data. The assurance statement, including 
scope, methodology, overall opinion, and 
limitations and exclusions, is available  
on our website, www.astrazeneca.com.
The above table provides data on our global 
greenhouse gas emissions for 2015.
We have reported on all of the emission 
sources required under the Quoted 
Companies Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. 
These sources fall within our consolidated 
Financial Statements. We do not have 
responsibility for any emission sources  
that are not included in our consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
Carbon reporting 
Global greenhouse gas emissions data for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015
Tonnes of CO 2e
2015 2014 2013 
1
2012
Emissions from:  
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities
2
 324,300 328,700 318,600 318,700
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use
3
273,500 290,300 274,400 277,100
Company’s chosen intensity measurement:  
Emissions reported above normalised to million US dollar revenue 24.2 23.7 23.1 21.3
Supplemental information:  
Net electricity, heat, steam and cooling emissions, after write down due to voluntary purchase of electricity supplied 
under certified low carbon supply contracts or carbon certificates
4
223,700 238,600 238,200 250,800
Supply chain emissions:  
Upstream emissions from personnel air travel, goods transport and waste incineration 156,000 167,900 155,400 169,800
Downstream emissions from HFA propellants released during patient use of our inhaled medicines 508,800 448,900 352,000 299,600
1 
 Regular review of the data is carried out to ensure accuracy and consistency. This has led to slight changes in the data for previous years. None of the changes are statistically significant. The 
data quoted in this Annual Report are generated from the revised data.
2
 Included in this section are greenhouse gases from direct fuel combustion, process and engineering emissions at our sites and from fuel use in our vehicle fleet. 
3
  Greenhouse gases from electricity are calculated using a location-based approach as described in GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (January 2015). Market instruments (US Renewable Energy 
Certificates, UK Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin) are then discounted. This approach is consistent with previous years. In future years Scope 2 emissions reporting will follow the dual 
reporting approach.
4
  Some electricity supplied to our UK sites has been provided under a green power contract and is backed up with an equivalent quantity of Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin and some of 
the electricity consumed at our US sites is covered by purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates.
235 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Results of operations – summary analysis of year ended 31 December 2014 
2014 Reported operating profit – restated
2014 Restated
1
2013 
Restated
1
Percentage of Total Revenue 2014
1
 compared with 2013
1
Reported
$m
CER 
growth
$m
Growth
due to
exchange
effects
$m
Reported
$m
Reported
2014
%
Reported
2013
%
CER 
growth
2
%
Actual 
growth
%
Product Sales 26,095 833 (449) 25,711 3 1
Externalisation Revenue 452 354 3 95 375 378
Total Revenue 26,547 1,187 (446) 25,806 5 3
Cost of sales (5,842) (572) (9) (5,261) (22.0) (20.4) 11 11
Gross profit 20,705 615 (455) 20,545 78.0 79.6 3 1
Distribution costs (324) (23) 5 (306) (1.2) (1.2) 7 6
Research and development expense (5,579) (716) (42) (4,821) (21.0) (18.7) 15 16
Selling, general and administrative costs (13,000) (896) 102 (12,206) (49.0) (47.3) 7 7
Other operating income and expense 335 (136) (29) 500 1.2 2.0 (27) (33)
Operating profit 2,137 (1,156) (419) 3,712 8.0 14.4 (31) (42)
Net finance expense (885) (445)
Share of after tax losses of joint ventures (6) –
Profit before tax 1,246 3,267
Taxation (11) (696)
Profit for the period 1,235 2,571
Basic earnings per share ($) 0.98 2.04
1 
2014 and 2013 results have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Externalisation Revenue from other operating income and expense as detailed in Group Accounting Policies from page 144.
2 
CER growth is calculated using prior year actual results adjusted for certain exchange effects including hedging.
2014 Reconciliation of Reported results to Core results
Core
2
 2014
1
 
compared with 2013
1
2014
Reported
$m
Restructuring
costs
$m
Intangible 
amortisation
and
 impairments 
$m
Acquisition of
 BMS’s share
 of diabetes
 alliance 
$m
Legal 
provisions 
and other
$m
2014 
Core
2
$m
CER 
growth 
%
Actual
growth
%
Gross profit 20,705 107 701 146 – 21,659 4 2
Product Sales gross margin %
3
77.6% 81.3%
Total Revenue gross margin % 78.0% 81.6%
Distribution costs (324) – – – – (324) 7 6
Research and development (5,579) 497 141 – – (4,941) 15 16
Selling, general and administrative costs (13,000) 662 811 932 379 (10,216) 16 15
Other operating income and expense 335 292 230 – (98) 759 19 15
Operating profit 2,137 1,558 1,883 1,078 281 6,937 (13) (17)
Operating margin as a % of Total Revenue 8.0% 26.1%
Net finance expense (885) – – 345 47 (493)
Taxation (11) (255) (376) (356) (42) (1,040)
Basic earnings per share ($) 0.98 1.03 1.19 0.85 0.23 4.28
1 
2014 and 2013 results have been restated to reflect the reclassification of Externalisation Revenue from other operating income and expense as detailed in Group Accounting Policies from page 144.
2 
Each of the measures in the Core column in the above table is a non-GAAP measure.
3
  Gross margin as a % of Product Sales reflects gross profit derived from Product Sales, divided by Product Sales.
Financials (Prior year)
Additional Information
236 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015  > We recorded a catch-up full annual 
charge to SG&A, reflecting this new basis, 
in 2014. The additional year’s charge was 
excluded from Core financial measures  
as detailed below.
Core gross margin as a percentage of 
Product Sales in 2014 was 81.3%, 0.4 
percentage points lower than 2013 at CER 
as the effect of an unfavourable product 
mix, including additional costs associated 
with the Diabetes brands, more than offset 
the benefit of a lower Crestor royalty. 
Core R&D expense in 2014 was up  
15% reflecting increased spend on our 
late-stage pipeline. 
Expenditures in core SG&A in 2014 were 
16% higher than 2013, driven by 
investments in sales and marketing 
dedicated to the Group’s Growth Platforms. 
The acquisitions of BMS’s share of the 
diabetes alliance and the rights to Almirall’s 
respiratory franchise in 2014 added 
approximately 4, 100 employees. The 
selective investment in our Growth 
Platforms was partially funded by a  
decline in G&A costs during 2014.
Core other income in 2014 was up  
19% which included royalty income of  
$533 million.
The 2014 Core operating profit was  
down 13%. Core operating margin in  
2014 was 26. 1% of Total Revenue, down  
6.4 percentage points from 2013. The 
decline in Core operating profit was greater 
than the decline in Total Revenue primarily 
due to expenditure associated with the 
Group’s key Growth Platforms and 
strengthened pipeline.
Core EPS was $4.28 in 2014, down 8% 
compared with 2013. The smaller decline  
in Core EPS compared with Core operating 
profit was largely due to a lower tax rate. 
This favourable tax effect was partially  
offset by an increase in the number of 
shares outstanding and a marginally higher  
Core finance expense in 2014 compared 
with 2013.
Pre-tax adjustments in 2014 to arrive at 
Core profit before tax amounted to  
$5, 192 million in 2014 (2013: $4,678 million). 
Excluded from Core results were: 
 > Restructuring costs totalling $1,558 million 
(2013: $1,421 million), incurred as the 
Group continued the fourth phase of 
restructuring announced in March 2013. 
Restructuring costs included in 2014 
included a $292 million loss on disposal  
of our Alderley Park site.
 > Amortisation totalling $1,784 million  
(2013: $1,591 million) relating to intangible 
assets, except those related to IT and to 
our acquisition of BMS’s share of our 
Global Diabetes Alliance (which are 
separately detailed below). The increase 
was driven by amortisation charges in 
connection with payments in respect  
of our final Merck exit arrangements.
 > Intangible impairment charges of 
$99 million (2013: net $1,712 million, 
including a $1,758 million impairment 
relating to Bydureon). Further details 
relating to intangible asset impairments 
are included in Note 9 to the Financial 
Statements from page 158.
 > Costs associated with our acquisition  
of BMS’s share of our Global Diabetes 
Alliance amounting to $1,423 million. 
Included within this are $407 million  
of amortisation charges, a contingent 
consideration fair value uplift charge of 
$529 million reflecting higher expected 
Diabetes portfolio revenues following  
the successful integration of the newly 
acquired elements, and $345 million of 
interest charges relating to a discount 
unwind on contingent consideration 
arising on the acquisition (as detailed  
in Note 18 to the Financial Statements 
from page 164). 
 > Net legal provisions and other charges of 
$328 million (2013: income of $46 million), 
including a $201 million charge for the 
additional year’s US Branded 
Pharmaceutical Fee and $47 million 
discount unwind charges relating to 
contingent consideration arising on our 
other business combinations as detailed 
in Note 18 to the Financial Statements 
from page 164).
2014 Reported operating profit was down 
31% at CER to $2, 137 million. The larger 
declines compared with the respective  
Core financial measures are mainly the 
result of our enhanced business acquisition 
activities including our acquisition of BMS’s 
share of our Global Diabetes Alliance, offset 
by reduced impairment charges in 2014.
All growth rates in this section are 
expressed at CER unless otherwise stated.
2014 Product Sales increased 3% 
compared with 2013. Accelerating 
performance of the Group’s Growth 
Platforms more than offset the impact of 
volume erosion on mature brands including 
Nexium in the US and pricing pressures in 
Established Markets. 2014 Product Sales in 
the US were up 4% with Europe down 1%. 
Established ROW Product Sales were down 
4%. Emerging Markets Product Sales were 
up 12%, mainly driven by growth in China  
of 22%. China became our second largest 
market in 2014. Further details of our sales 
performance are contained in the 
Geographical Review from page 227 .
Externalisation Revenue
As detailed in the Financial Review from  
page 66, the Group has updated its revenue 
accounting policy. Reflecting the increased 
level of externalisation activity, Externalisation 
Revenue, alongside Product Sales, are now 
included in Total Revenue. 2014 and 2013 
results have been restated to reflect this 
change, resulting in $452 million of income 
being reclassified from other operating 
income to Externalisation Revenue in 2014 
(2013: $95 million).
In mid-2014, the US Internal Revenue 
Service issued final regulations that affected 
how the annual US Branded Pharmaceutical 
Fee, imposed by the health care reform 
legislation in 2010, is recognised. Under the 
new regulations, the fee is based on actual 
sales in the current year which necessitated 
an additional year’s charge to be recognised 
in 2014. In line with other pharmaceutical 
industry peers, we previously accrued for 
this charge based on prior year’s sales and 
recorded the charge as a cost in SG&A.  
The final regulation had two impacts on  
the Group’s results in 2014:
 > As the fee is now calculated on actual 
sales in the current year, AstraZeneca 
considers it more appropriate to account 
for the fee as a deduction from revenue 
rather than a charge to SG&A. The new 
legislation was effective from July 2014 
and, therefore, AstraZeneca treated the 
charge for the period since July 2014 as  
a deduction from revenue rather than as  
a cost in SG&A. In 2014 this had the 
effect of reducing revenue by $1 13 million.  
This presentational change to the income 
statement had no impact on earnings  
for 2014.
237 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information US dollar against sterling, the euro and 
krona, and losses on the remeasurement  
of our defined benefit pension liability  
of $766 million in accordance with the 
requirements of IAS 19 ‘Employee  
Benefits’ (driven by a reduction in the 
discount rate applied to our pension 
liabilities partially offset by actuarial gains  
on our scheme assets).
Cash flow and liquidity – 2014
All data in this section is on a Reported 
basis. 
Net cash generated from operating  
activities was $7 ,058 million in the year 
ended 31 December 2014, compared  
with $7 ,400 million in 2013. Reductions in 
working capital partially offset the lower 
operating profit and higher tax payments.
Working capital movements in 2014 were 
principally driven by general increases in 
trade payables and accruals, as a result of 
our increased R&D and SG&A spend, an 
increase in the US Managed Markets 
liabilities, an additional year’s Branded 
Pharmaceutical levy and a reduction in trade 
receivables principally in Japan and the US.
Non-cash and other movements included 
$512 million relating to fair value adjustments 
on contingent consideration arising on 
business combinations. 
Investment cash outflows in 2014 of $7 , 125 
million (2013: $3, 1 12 million) included $3,804 
million (2013: $1, 158 million) on completion 
of business acquisitions, inclusive of BMS’s 
share of our Global Diabetes Alliance ($2,703 
million), the rights to Almirall’s respiratory 
franchise ($876 million) and the acquisition 
of Definiens ($150 million). The 2013 
comparative period included payments on 
the completion of the acquisitions of Pearl 
Therapeutics, Omthera, Amplimmune and 
Spirogen. Investment cash outflows in 2014 
also include $657 million (2013: $nil) of 
payments against contingent consideration 
arising on business combinations and 
$1,740 million (2013: $1,316 million) for the 
purchase of other intangible assets, which 
included a $409 million payment to Merck 
on the consummation of our Second Option 
and $310 million on the settlement of 
pre-existing launch- and sales-related 
milestones with BMS. 
Net cash distributions to shareholders in 
2014 were $3,242 million (2013: $2,979 
million), through dividends of $3,521 million 
(2013: $3,461 million) partially offset by 
proceeds from the issue of shares of  
$279 million (2013: $482 million) due to  
the exercise of share options. 
At 31 December 2014, outstanding gross 
debt (interest-bearing loans and borrowings) 
was $10,843 million (2013: $10,376 million). 
Of the gross debt outstanding at  
31 December 2014, $2,446 million was  
due within one year (2013: $1,788 million). 
Net debt at 31 December 2014 was  
$3,223 million, compared to a net funds 
position of $39 million at the beginning of 
2014, as a result of the net cash outflow as 
described above.
Financial position – 2014
All data in this section is on a Reported basis.
In 2014, net assets decreased by $3,607 
million to $19,646 million. The decrease in 
net assets was broadly as a result of 
dividends of $3,532 million and adverse 
movements on exchange taken to reserves 
of $1,352 million, partially offset by the 2014 
Group profit of $1,235 million.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment increased  
by $192 million to $6,010 million in  
2014. Additions of $1,607 million (2013:  
$816 million), including $515 million (2013: 
$8 million) arising on business combinations, 
were offset by depreciation of $776 million 
(2013: $906 million) and disposals of  
$582 million (2013: $82 million). Property, 
plant and equipment also increased due  
to the transfer of a prepayment balance  
of $350 million, which related to amounts  
paid to BMS for fixed assets under our 
previous joint operation with BMS; with the 
acquisition of BMS’s interest in the diabetes 
franchise we acquired the underlying 
property, plant and equipment to which  
this prepayment related.
Net finance expense in 2014 was  
$885 million (2013: $445 million). The 
increase was driven by $453 million  
(2013: $nil) related to the discount unwind 
on both contingent consideration arising  
on business combinations ($391 million)  
and other long-term liabilities ($62 million).
The 2014 Reported taxation charge of  
$1 1 million (2013: $696 million), consisted  
of a current tax charge of $872 million (2013: 
$1,398 million) and a credit arising from 
movements on deferred tax of $861 million 
(2013: $702 million). The current tax charge 
in 2014 included a prior period current  
tax credit of $109 million (2013: charge  
of $46 million).
The tax paid in 2014 was $1,201 million, 
which was 96% of Reported profit and 19% 
of Core profit.
The Reported tax rate for 2014 was 0.9% 
compared with 21.3% for 2013. The 
Reported tax rate of 0.9% was impacted  
by a one-off benefit of $1 17 million in respect 
of the inter-governmental agreement of a 
transfer pricing matter, the non-Core impact 
of the revaluation of the fair value of 
contingent consideration arising on 
business combinations (charge of $512 
million with related tax credit of $157 million), 
and the benefit of the UK Patent Box 
legislation ($35 million). Excluding these 
effects, the Reported tax rate for 2014 
would have been 18.2%. The Core tax rate 
for 2014 was 16.2%. Excluding the benefit 
from the transfer pricing agreement and 
Patent Box, the Core tax rate would have 
been 18.5%. Further details relating to 
movements in our taxation balances are 
included in Note 4 to the Financial 
Statements from page 151.
Reported post tax profit for 2014 was 
$1,235 million, a decrease of 34%. Reported 
EPS was down 34% to $0.98.
Total comprehensive income in 2014 
decreased by $2,729 million from the prior 
year, resulting in a loss of $271 million. This 
was driven by the decrease in profit of 
$1,336 million, and a decrease of $1,393 
million in other comprehensive income 
driven by movements in exchange rates in 
our consolidated results of $1,352 million, 
principally due to the strengthening of the 
Financials (Prior year) continued
Additional Information
238 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 reduction of one year’s Shionogi royalty 
payments. The increase in trade payables 
was driven by our increased in year R&D 
and SG&A spend in the later part of 2014. 
The rebates and chargebacks balance 
includes an additional year’s US Branded 
Pharmaceutical levy. 
The decrease in provisions of $282 million  
in 2014 included $633 million of cash 
payments, partially offset by $434 million  
of additional charges recorded in 2014. 
Included within the $434 million of charges 
for 2014 were $254 million for our global 
restructuring initiative and $91 million in 
respect of legal charges. Cash payments  
in 2014 included $472 million for our global 
restructuring programme. 
Tax payable and receivable
Net income tax payable decreased by  
$557 million in 2014 to $2,025 million, 
principally due to cash tax timing 
differences, foreign exchange and a  
$1 17 million adjustment in respect of prior 
periods following the settlement of the 
inter-governmental agreement of a transfer 
pricing matter. The 31 December 2014  
tax receivable balance of $329 million 
comprised tax owing to AstraZeneca  
from certain governments expected to  
be received on settlements of transfer 
pricing audits and disputes and cash  
tax timing differences. Net deferred tax 
liabilities increased by $1,045 million in  
2014, mainly due to a reversal of taxable 
temporary differences.
Retirement benefit obligations
Net retirement benefit obligations decreased 
by $690 million in 2014. Employer 
contributions to the pension scheme of 
$184 million and beneficial exchange 
movements of $268 million were offset by 
service cost charges of $221 million, net 
financing costs of $92 million and net 
remeasurement adjustments of $766 million.
Goodwill and intangible assets
The Group’s goodwill of $1 1,550 million as 
at 31 December 2014 (2013: $9,981 million) 
principally arose on the acquisition of 
MedImmune in 2007 and the restructuring 
of our US joint venture with Merck in 1998. 
Goodwill of $1,841 million arising on our 
acquisitions of BMS’s share of our Global 
Diabetes Alliance ($1,530 million) and the 
rights to Almirall’s respiratory franchise  
($31 1 million) was capitalised in 2014.
Intangible assets amounted to $20,981 
million at 31 December 2014 (2013: $16,047 
million). Intangible asset additions were 
$8,548 million in 2014 (2013: $3,217 million), 
including product rights acquired in our 
acquisitions of $7 ,501 million (2013: $2,416 
million). Amortisation in 2014 was $2,384 
million (2013: $1,779 million). Impairment 
charges in the year amounted to  
$122 million (2013: $2,082 million). 
Further details of our additions to intangible 
assets, and impairments recorded, are 
included in Note 9 to the Financial 
Statements from page 158. 
Receivables, payables and provisions
Trade receivables decreased by $752 million 
to $4,762 million principally in Japan and  
the US.
In 2014, prepayments and accrued income 
decreased by $928 million. As detailed in 
our 2013 Annual Report, in 2013, we 
modified the royalty structure under our 
global licence agreement for Crestor , which 
was amended to include fixed minimum  
and maximum annual royalty payments  
to Shionogi. These future royalties were 
recognised within payables and as a 
prepayment. The reduction in prepayments 
in 2014 was driven by the payment of  
one year’s royalties under this revised 
agreement, along with a transfer of  
$350 million from prepayments to property, 
plant and equipment as detailed above.
Trade and other payables increased by 
$7 , 163 million in 2014 to $19,877 million,  
with increases of $993 million in trade 
payables, $677 million of rebates and 
chargebacks, and $5,781 million in other 
payables, including $6,385 million in 
contingent consideration offset by a 
239 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Shareholder Information
AstraZeneca PLC share listings and prices 
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Ordinary Shares in issue – millions 
At year end 1,292 1,247 1,257 1,263 1,264
Weighted average for year 1,361 1,261 1,252 1,262 1,264
Stock market price – per Ordinary Share 
Highest (pence) 3194.0 3111.5 3612.0 4823.5 4863.0
Lowest (pence) 2543.5 2591.0 2909.5 3549.5 3903.5
At year end (pence) 2975.0 2909.5 3574.5 4555.5 4616.5
Percentage analysis of issued share capital at 31 December 
By size of account 
Number of Ordinary Shares
2011
%
2012
%
2013
%
2014
%
2015
%
1 – 250 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5
251 – 500 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.6
501 – 1,000 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7
1,001 – 5,000 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.9
5,001 – 10,000 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
10,001 – 50,000 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9
50,001 – 1,000,000 13.8 12.6 12.3 13.3 13.0
Over 1,000,000
1
81.7 83.0 83.5 82.7 83.2
1
 Includes Euroclear and ADR holdings.
At 31 December 2015, the Company had 
97 ,260 registered holders of 1,264, 122,670 
Ordinary Shares. There were 104, 150 
holders of Ordinary Shares held under  
the Euroclear Services Agreement, 
representing 10.8% of the issued share 
capital of the Company and approximately 
172,000 holders of ADSs, representing 
10.8% of the issued share capital of the 
Company. With effect from 27 July 2015,  
the Company’s ADS ratio changed to two 
ADSs per one Ordinary Share. The former 
ratio was one ADS per one Ordinary Share. 
With effect from 6 February 2015, Citibank, 
N.A. (Citibank) succeeded JPMorgan  
Chase Bank (JPMorgan) as depositary  
of the ADSs. 
In 1999, in connection with the merger 
between Astra and Zeneca through which 
the Company was formed, the Company’s 
share capital was redenominated in US 
dollars. On 6 April 1999, Zeneca shares 
were cancelled and US dollar shares issued, 
credited as fully paid on the basis of one 
dollar share for each Zeneca share then 
held. This was achieved by a reduction of 
capital under section 135 of the Companies 
Act 1985. Upon the reduction of capital 
becoming effective, all issued and unissued 
Zeneca shares were cancelled and the sum 
arising as a result of the share cancellation 
credited to a special reserve, which was 
converted into US dollars at the rate of 
exchange prevailing on the record date. This 
US dollar reserve was then applied in paying 
up, at par, newly created US dollar shares.
At the same time as the US dollar shares 
were issued, the Company issued 50,000 
Redeemable Preference Shares for cash,  
at par. The Redeemable Preference Shares 
carry limited class voting rights, no dividend 
rights and are capable of redemption, at par, 
at the option of the Company on the giving 
of seven days’ written notice to the 
registered holder of the Redeemable 
Preference Shares.
A total of 826 million Ordinary Shares were 
issued to Astra shareholders who accepted 
the merger offer before the final closing 
date, 21 May 1999. The Company received 
acceptances from Astra shareholders 
representing 99.6% of Astra’s shares and 
the remaining 0.4% was acquired in 2000, 
for cash.
Since April 1999, following the merger of 
Astra and Zeneca, the principal markets for 
trading in the shares of the Company are 
the LSE, the SSE and the NYSE. The table 
overleaf sets out, for 2014 and 2015, the 
reported high and low share prices of the 
Company, on the following bases:
 > For shares listed on the LSE, the reported 
high and low middle market closing 
quotations are derived from the Daily 
Official List.
 > For shares listed on the SSE, the high and 
low closing sales prices are as stated in 
the Official List.
 > For ADSs listed on the NYSE, the 
reported high and low sales prices are as 
reported by Dow Jones (ADR quotations).
Additional Information
240 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Ordinary LSE Ordinary SSE ADS
High (pence) Low (pence) High (SEK) Low (SEK) High (US$) Low (US$)
2014 – Quarter 1 4103.0 3549.5 446.3 380.5 68.38 58.51
– Quarter 2 4823.5 3723.0 532.5 409.7 81.09 62.45
– Quarter 3 4597.0 4092.5 536.0 467.3 76.31 68.49
– Quarter 4 4780.0 4169.5 558.5 484.5 75.38 67.15
2015 – Quarter 1 4847.0 4272.0 625.0 538.0 72.22 64.44
– Quarter 2 4863.0 4019.0 638.0 522.5 73.35 63.71
– Quarter 3 4424.5 3903.5 603.0 508.5 34.54
1
30.28
1
– Quarter 4 4627.5 3947.0 597.5 509.0 34.77 30.47
– July 4347.5 4120.5 584.5 538.0 67.89
1
64.33
1
– August 4424.5 3903.5 603.0 508.5 34.54 30.28
– September 4379.0 4033.5 567.0 523.5 34.37 30.69
– October 4247.5 3947.0 548.0 509.0 32.39 30.47
– November 4520.0 4075.0 597.5 538.0 34.11 30.85
– December 4627.5 4285.5 597.0 550.5 34.77 32.80
1
  With effect from 27 July 2015, the Company’s ADS ratio was changed to two ADSs per one Ordinary Share. The former ratio was one ADS per one Ordinary Share.
Major shareholdings
At 31 December 2015, the following had disclosed an interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company in accordance with the 
requirements of rules 5. 1.2 or 5. 1.5 of the UK Listing Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules:
Shareholder
Number of 
Ordinary Shares
Date of
disclosure to
Company
1
Percentage of
issued share
capital
BlackRock, Inc. 100,885,181 8 December 2009 7.98
Investor AB 51,587,810 2 February 2012 4.08
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 37,925,813 17 July 2015 3.00
1
  Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in Ordinary Shares may have increased or decreased. No requirement to notify the Company of any increase  
or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level. The percentage level may increase (on the cancellation of shares following  
a repurchase of shares under the Company’s share repurchase programme) or decrease (on the issue of new shares under any of the Company’s share plans).
So far as the Company is aware, no other person held a notifiable interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
No changes to major shareholdings were disclosed to the Company between 31 December 2015 and 31 January 2016. Any changes 
between 31 January 2016 and 29 February 2016 will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2016 and Shareholders’ Circular.
Changes in the percentage ownership held by major shareholders during the past three years are set out below. Major shareholders do not 
have different voting rights.
Shareholder
31 January 
2016
31 January 
2015
31 January
 2014
2 February
 2013
BlackRock, Inc. 7.98 7.99 8.01 8.08
Investor AB 4.08 4.08 4.09 4.13
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3.00 < 3.00 3.01 < 3.00
Invesco Limited < 5.00 < 5.00 5.78 5.83
Axa SA < 3.00 < 3.00 4.52 4.57
Legal & General Investment Management Limited < 3.00 < 3.00 < 3.00 4.62
ADSs evidenced by ADRs issued by Citibank, as depositary, are listed on the NYSE. At 31 January 2016, the proportion of Ordinary Shares 
represented by ADSs was 1 1.07% of the Ordinary Shares outstanding.
Number of registered holders of Ordinary Shares at 31 January 2016:
 > In the US: 712
 > Total: 97 ,256
Number of record holders of ADRs at 31 January 2016:
 > In the US: 1,889
 > Total: 1,912
241 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information So far as the Company is aware, it is  
neither directly nor indirectly owned or 
controlled by one or more corporations  
or by any government.
The Company does not know of any 
arrangements, the operation of which  
might result in a change in the control of  
the Company.
At 31 January 2016, the total amount of  
the Company’s voting securities owned by 
Directors and officers of the Company was:
Title of class
Amount 
owned
Percentage 
of class
Ordinary Shares 500,191 0.04
Related party transactions
During the period 1 January 2015 to  
31 January 2016, there were no transactions, 
loans, or proposed transactions between 
the Company and any related parties which 
were material to either the Company or the 
related party, or which were unusual in their 
nature or conditions (see also Note 29 to the 
Financial Statements from page 192).
Options to purchase securities from 
registrant or subsidiaries
(a) At 31 January 2016, options outstanding 
to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were:
Number of shares
Subscription 
price (pence)
Normal 
expiry date
3,725,301 1882 – 3599 2016 – 2021 
The weighted average subscription price of 
options outstanding at 31 January 2016 was 
2713 pence. All options were granted under 
Company employee share schemes.
(b) Included in paragraph (a) are options 
granted to officers of the Company  
as follows:
Number of shares
Subscription 
price (pence)
Normal 
expiry date
40,343 2280 – 3599 2017 – 2021 
(c) At 31 January 2016, none of the Directors 
of the Company held options to subscribe 
for Ordinary Shares.
During the period 1 January 2015 to 
31 January 2016, no Director exercised  
any options.
Dividend payments
For Ordinary Shares listed on the LSE and 
the SSE, the record date for the second 
interim dividend for 2015, payable on  
21 March 2016, is 19 February 2016 and the 
ex-dividend date is 18 February 2016. For 
ADRs listed on the NYSE, the record date is 
19 February 2016 and the ex-dividend date 
is 17 February 2016.
The record date for the first interim dividend 
for 2016, payable on 12 September 2016,  
is 12 August 2016.
Future dividends will normally be paid as 
follows:
 > First interim: Announced in July/August 
and paid in September.
 > Second interim: Announced in January/
February and paid in March. 
Shareview
The Company’s shareholders with  
internet access may visit the website,  
www.shareview.co.uk, and register their 
details to create a portfolio. Shareview is  
a free and secure online service from the 
Company’s registrar, Equiniti Limited, which 
gives access to shareholdings, including 
balance movements, indicative share prices 
and information about recent dividends.
ShareGift
The Company welcomes and values all of 
its shareholders, no matter how many or 
how few shares they own. However, 
shareholders who have only a small number 
of shares whose value makes it uneconomic 
to sell them, either now or at some stage in 
the future, may wish to consider donating 
them to charity through ShareGift, an 
independent charity share donation 
scheme. One feature of the scheme is that 
there is no gain or loss for UK capital gains 
tax purposes on gifts of shares through 
ShareGift, and it may now also be possible 
to obtain UK income tax relief on the 
donation. Further information about 
ShareGift can be found on its website, 
www.sharegift.org, or by contacting 
ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or at 17 Carlton 
House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH. 
ShareGift is administered by The Orr 
Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity 
number 1052686. More information about 
the UK tax position on gifts of shares  
to ShareGift can be obtained from  
HM Revenue & Customs on its website, 
www.hmrc.gov.uk.
The Unclaimed Assets Register
The Company supplies unclaimed dividend 
data to the Unclaimed Assets Register 
(UAR), which provides investors who have 
lost track of shareholdings with an 
opportunity to search the UAR’s database 
of unclaimed financial assets on payment of 
a small fixed fee. The UAR donates part of 
the search fee to charity. The UAR can be 
contacted on 0844 481 8180 or at 
uarenquiries@uk.experian.com.
Results
Unaudited trading results of AstraZeneca in 
respect of the first three months of 2016 will 
be published on 29 April 2016 and results in 
respect of the first six months of 2016 will be 
published on 28 July 2016.
Documents on display
The Articles and other documents 
concerning the Company which are referred 
to in this Annual Report may be inspected  
at the Company’s registered office at  
2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD. 
Taxation for US persons
The following summary of material UK  
and US federal income tax consequences 
of ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADRs  
held as capital assets by the US holders 
described below is based on current UK 
and US federal income tax law, including  
the US/UK double taxation convention 
relating to income and capital gains, 
which entered into force on 31 March  
2003 (the Convention). This summary does 
not describe all of the tax consequences 
that may be relevant in light of the US 
holders’ particular circumstances and  
tax consequences applicable to US  
holders subject to special rules (such  
as certain financial institutions, entities 
treated as partnerships for US federal 
income tax purposes, persons whose 
functional currency for US federal  
income tax purposes is not the US dollar, 
tax-exempt entities, persons subject to 
alternative minimum tax, persons subject  
to the Medicare contribution tax on ‘net 
investment income’, or persons holding 
Ordinary Shares or ADRs in connection  
with a trade or business conducted outside 
of the US). US holders are urged to  
consult their tax advisers regarding the  
UK and US federal income tax 
consequences of the ownership and 
disposition of Ordinary Shares or ADRs  
in their particular circumstances. 
Shareholder Information continued
Additional Information
242 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 not maintain calculations of its earnings  
and profits under US federal income tax 
principles and so it is expected that 
distributions generally will be reported to  
US holders as dividends. The amount of  
the dividend will be the US dollar amount 
received by the depositary for US holders  
of ADRs (or, in the case of Ordinary Shares, 
the US dollar value of the foreign currency 
payment, determined at the spot rate of the 
relevant foreign currency on the date the 
dividend is received by the US holders, 
regardless of whether the dividend is 
converted into US dollars), and it will not be 
eligible for the dividends received deduction 
generally available to US corporations. If the 
dividend is converted into US dollars on the 
date of receipt, US holders of Ordinary 
Shares generally should not be required to 
recognise foreign currency gains or losses  
in respect of the dividend income. They may 
have foreign currency gain or loss (taxable 
at the rates applicable to ordinary income)  
if the amount of such dividend is converted 
into US dollars after the date of its receipt.
Subject to applicable limitations and the 
discussion above regarding concerns 
expressed by the US Treasury, dividends 
received by certain non-corporate US 
holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs may  
be taxable at favourable US federal income 
tax rates. US holders should consult their 
own tax advisers to determine whether they 
are subject to any special rules which may 
limit their ability to be taxed at these 
favourable rates.
Taxation on capital gains
Under present English law, individuals who 
are neither resident nor ordinarily resident  
in the UK, and companies which are not 
resident in the UK, will not be liable for  
UK tax on capital gains made on the 
disposal of their Ordinary Shares or ADRs, 
unless such Ordinary Shares or ADRs  
are held in connection with a trade, 
profession or vocation carried on in the  
UK through a branch or agency or other 
permanent establishment.
A US holder will generally recognise US 
source capital gains or losses for US federal 
income tax purposes on the sale or 
exchange of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in an 
amount equal to the difference between the 
US dollar amount realised and such holder’s 
US dollar tax basis in the Ordinary Shares or 
ADRs. US holders should consult their own 
tax advisers about the treatment of capital 
gains, which may be taxed at lower rates 
than ordinary income for non-corporate US 
holders and capital losses, the deductibility 
of which may be subject to limitations.
Passive Foreign Investment Company 
(PFIC) rules 
We believe that we were not a PFIC for US 
federal income tax purposes for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. However, since 
PFIC status depends on the composition of 
our income and assets, and the market 
value of our assets (including, among 
others, less than 25% owned equity 
investments), from time to time, there  
can be no assurance that we will not be 
considered a PFIC for any taxable year. If we 
were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year 
during which Ordinary Shares or ADRs were 
held, certain adverse tax consequences 
could apply to US holders.
Information reporting and backup 
withholding
Payments of dividends and sales proceeds 
that are made within the US or through 
certain US-related financial intermediaries 
may be subject to information reporting and 
backup withholding, unless: (i) the US holder 
is a corporation or other exempt recipient;  
or (ii) in the case of backup withholding, the  
US holder provides a correct taxpayer 
identification number and certifies that it  
is not subject to backup withholding. The 
amount of any backup withholding from  
a payment to a US holder will be allowed  
as a credit against the holder’s US federal 
income tax liability and may entitle the 
holder to a refund, provided that the 
required information is timely supplied  
to the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
Certain US holders who are individuals  
(and under proposed US Treasury 
regulations, certain entities), may be 
required to report information relating  
to securities issued by non-US persons  
(or foreign accounts through which the 
securities are held), generally on IRS  
Form 8938, subject to certain exceptions 
(including an exception for securities held  
in accounts maintained by US financial 
institutions). US holders should consult  
their tax advisers regarding their reporting 
obligations with respect to the Ordinary 
Shares or ADRs.
This summary is based in part on 
representations of Citibank as depositary  
for ADRs and assumes that each obligation 
in the deposit agreement among the 
Company and the depositary and the 
holders from time to time of ADRs and any 
related agreements will be performed in 
accordance with its terms. The US Treasury 
has expressed concerns that parties to 
whom American depositary shares are 
released before shares are delivered to the 
depositary (pre-release), or intermediaries  
in the chain of ownership between holders 
and the issuer of the security underlying  
the American depositary shares, may be 
taking actions that are inconsistent with  
the claiming, by US holders of American 
depositary shares, of foreign tax credits  
for US federal income tax purposes. Such 
actions would also be inconsistent with the 
claiming of the reduced tax rates, described 
below, applicable to dividends received  
by certain non-corporate US holders. 
Accordingly, the availability of the reduced 
tax rates for dividends received by certain 
non-corporate US holders could be affected 
by actions that may be taken by parties to 
whom ADRs are pre-released.
For the purposes of this summary, the term 
‘US holder’ means a beneficial owner of 
Ordinary Shares or ADRs that is, for US 
federal income tax purposes, a citizen or 
resident of the US, a corporation (or other 
entity taxable as a corporation) created or 
organised in or under the laws of the US, 
any state in the US or the District of 
Columbia, or an estate or trust, the income 
of which is subject to US federal income 
taxation regardless of its source.
This summary assumes that we are not, 
and will not become, a passive foreign 
investment company, as discussed below.
UK and US income taxation of 
dividends
The UK does not currently impose a 
withholding tax on dividends paid by  
a UK company, such as the Company.
For US federal income tax purposes, 
distributions paid by the Company to a US 
holder are included in gross income as 
foreign source ordinary dividend income  
to the extent paid out of the Company’s 
current or accumulated earnings and profits, 
calculated in accordance with US federal 
income tax principles. The Company does 
243 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information UK stamp duty reserve tax  
and stamp duty
A charge to UK stamp duty or UK stamp 
duty reserve tax (SDRT) may arise on the 
deposit of Ordinary Shares in connection 
with the creation of ADRs. The rate of stamp 
duty or SDRT will generally be 1.5% of the 
value of the consideration or, in some 
circumstances, the value of the Ordinary 
Shares. There is no 1.5% SDRT charge  
on the issue of Ordinary Shares (or, where  
it is integral to the raising of new capital,  
the transfer of Ordinary Shares) into the  
ADR arrangement. 
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the 
acquisition or transfer of existing ADRs 
provided that any instrument of transfer or 
written agreement to transfer is executed 
outside the UK and remains at all times 
outside the UK. An agreement for the 
transfer of ADRs will not give rise to a liability 
for SDRT.
A transfer of, or an agreement to, transfer 
Ordinary Shares will generally be subject  
to UK stamp duty or SDRT at 0.5% of the 
amount or value of any consideration, 
provided, in the case of stamp duty, it is 
rounded to the nearest £5.
Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST  
will generally not be subject to stamp duty 
or SDRT, unless such a transfer is made for 
a consideration in money or money’s worth, 
in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, 
usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value  
of the consideration. Paperless transfers  
of Ordinary Shares within CREST are 
generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% 
of the value of the consideration. CREST 
is obliged to collect SDRT from the 
purchaser on relevant transactions settled 
within the system.
Exchange controls and other 
limitations affecting security holders
There are no governmental laws, decrees  
or regulations in the UK restricting the 
import or export of capital or affecting the 
remittance of dividends, interest or other 
payments to non-resident holders of 
Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
There are no limitations under English law  
or the Articles on the right of non-resident or 
foreign owners to be the registered holders 
of, or to exercise voting rights in relation to, 
Ordinary Shares or ADRs or to be registered 
holders of notes or debentures of Zeneca 
Wilmington Inc. or the Company.
Exchange rates 
The following information relating to  
average and spot exchange rates used by 
AstraZeneca is provided for convenience:
UK inheritance tax
Under the current Double Taxation (Estates) 
Convention (the Estate Tax Convention) 
between the US and the UK, Ordinary 
Shares or ADRs held by an individual 
shareholder who is domiciled for the 
purposes of the Estate Tax Convention in 
the US, and is not for the purposes of the 
Estate Tax Convention a national of the  
UK, will generally not be subject to UK 
inheritance tax on the individual’s death or 
on a chargeable gift of the Ordinary Shares 
or ADRs during the individual’s lifetime, 
provided that any applicable US federal gift 
or estate tax liability is paid, unless the 
Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part of the 
business property of a permanent 
establishment of the individual in the UK or, 
in the case of a shareholder who performs 
independent personal services, pertain to  
a fixed base situated in the UK. Where the 
Ordinary Shares or ADRs have been placed 
in trust by a settlor who, at the time of 
settlement, was a US domiciled shareholder, 
the Ordinary Shares or ADRs will generally 
not be subject to UK inheritance tax unless 
the settlor, at the time of settlement, was  
a UK national, or the Ordinary Shares or 
ADRs are part of the business property of  
a permanent establishment of the individual 
in the UK or, in the case of a shareholder 
who performs independent personal 
services, pertain to a fixed base situated in 
the UK. In the exceptional case where the 
Ordinary Shares or ADRs are subject to 
both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift 
or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention 
generally provides for double taxation to  
be relieved by means of credit relief.
SEK/US$ US$/GBP
Average rates (statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash flows) 
2013 6.5089 1.5621
2014 6.7901 1.6532
2015 8.395033 1.53567
End of year spot rates (statement of financial position) 
2013 6.4233 1.6502
2014 7.7451 1.5559
2015 8.41140 1.48165
Compliance requirements under Listing Rule 9.8.4
Other than as set out below, the Company has nothing to report under Listing Rule 9.8.4
Item Location of details in Annual Report
Details of any long-term incentive schemes Note 26 of the Financial Statements and Directors’ Remuneration Report
Shareholder waiver of dividends Page 96 in the Corporate Governance Report 
Shareholder Information continued
Additional Information
244 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 The Board may exercise all the powers of 
the Company to borrow money. Variation of 
these borrowing powers would require the 
passing of a special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders.
All Directors must retire from office at the 
Company’s AGM each year and may  
present themselves for election or re-election. 
Directors are not prohibited, upon reaching  
a particular age, from submitting themselves 
for election or re-election.
Within two months of the date of their 
appointment, Directors are required to 
beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an 
aggregate nominal amount of at least $125, 
which currently represents 500 shares.
Rights, preferences and restrictions 
attaching to shares
As at 31 December 2015, the Company  
had 1,264, 122,670 Ordinary Shares and 
50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares  
in issue. The Ordinary Shares represent 
99.98% and the Redeemable Preference 
Shares represent 0.02% of the Company’s 
total share capital (these percentages have 
been calculated by reference to the closing 
mid-point US$/GBP exchange rate  
on 31 December 2015 as published  
in the London edition of the Financial  
Times newspaper).
As agreed by the shareholders at the 
Company’s AGM held on 29 April 2010,  
the Articles were amended with immediate 
effect to remove the requirement for the 
Company to have an authorised share 
capital, the concept of which was abolished 
under the Companies Act 2006. Each 
Ordinary Share carries the right to vote at 
general meetings of the Company. The rights 
and restrictions attaching to the Redeemable 
Preference Shares differ from those 
attaching to Ordinary Shares as follows: 
 > The Redeemable Preference Shares carry 
no rights to receive dividends.
 > The holders of Redeemable Preference 
Shares have no rights to receive notices 
of, attend or vote at general meetings 
except in certain limited circumstances. 
They have one vote for every 50,000 
Redeemable Preference Shares held.
 > On a distribution of assets of the 
Company, on a winding-up or other return 
of capital (subject to certain exceptions), 
the holders of Redeemable Preference 
Shares have priority over the holders of 
Ordinary Shares to receive the capital 
paid up on those shares.
 > Subject to the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006, the Company  
has the right to redeem the Redeemable 
Preference Shares at any time on giving 
not less than seven days’ written notice.
There are no specific restrictions on  
the transfer of shares in the Company, 
which is governed by the Articles and 
prevailing legislation.
The Company is not aware of any 
agreements between holders of shares that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
shares or that may result in restrictions on 
voting rights. The Company is also not 
aware of any arrangements under which 
financial rights are held by a person other 
than the holder of the shares.
Action necessary to change the rights  
of shareholders
In order to vary the rights attached to any 
class of shares, the consent in writing of the 
holders of three-quarters in nominal value  
of the issued shares of that class or the 
sanction of an extraordinary resolution 
passed at a general meeting of such  
holders is required.
General meetings
AGMs and other general meetings, as  
from time to time may be required, where  
a special resolution is to be passed or a 
Director is to be appointed, require 21 clear 
days’ notice to shareholders. Subject to  
the Companies Act 2006, other general 
meetings require 14 clear days’ notice.
For all general meetings, a quorum of  
two shareholders present in person or by 
proxy, and entitled to vote on the business 
transacted, is required unless each of the 
two persons present is a corporate 
representative of the same corporation; or 
each of the two persons present is a proxy 
of the same shareholder.
Shareholders and their duly appointed 
proxies and corporate representatives are 
entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
Limitations on the rights to own shares
There are no limitations on the rights to  
own shares.
Property
Substantially all of our properties are held 
freehold, free of material encumbrances and 
are fit for their purpose.
For more information please refer to  
Note 7 to the Group Financial Statements  
on page 156.
History and development  
of the Company
AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in 
England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under 
the Companies Act 1985. It is a public 
limited company domiciled in the UK.  
The Company’s registered number is 
2723534 and its registered office is at  
2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD 
(telephone +44 (0)20 7604 8000). From 
February 1993 until April 1999, the 
Company was called Zeneca Group PLC. 
On 6 April 1999, the Company changed  
its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
The Company was formed when the 
pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty 
chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical 
Industries PLC were demerged in 1993.  
In 1999, the Company sold the specialty 
chemical business. Also in 1999, the 
Company merged with Astra of Sweden.  
In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical 
business and merged it with the similar 
business of Novartis to form a new 
company called Syngenta AG.
In 2007 , the Group acquired MedImmune,  
a biologics and vaccines business based  
in the US.
The Group’s corporate office is at  
2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD.
Articles
The current Articles were adopted by 
shareholders at the Company’s AGM held 
on 24 April 2015.
Objects
The Company’s objects are unrestricted.
Any amendment to the Articles requires  
the approval of shareholders by a  
special resolution at a general meeting  
of the Company.
Directors
The Board has the authority to manage  
the business of the Company, for example, 
through powers to allot and repurchase  
its shares, subject where required to 
shareholder resolutions. Subject to certain 
exceptions, Directors do not have power to 
vote at Board meetings on matters in which 
they have a material interest.
The quorum for meetings of the Board is a 
majority of the full Board, of whom at least 
four must be Non-Executive Directors. In the 
absence of a quorum, the Directors do not 
have power to determine compensation 
arrangements for themselves or any 
member of the Board.
Corporate Information
245 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information AstraZeneca, the AstraZeneca logotype and the AstraZeneca symbol are all trade marks of the Group. 
The following brand names which appear in italics in this Annual Report are trade marks of the Group: 
Trade mark
Accolate Farxiga Nolvadex Symlin
Arimidex Faslodex Onglyza Synagis
2
Atacand Fluenz Oxis Turbuhaler Tagrisso
Atacand HCT FluMist Plendil Tenormin
3
Atacand Plus Forxiga Pressair Toprol-XL
Axanum Genuair Prilosec Turbuhaler
Bricanyl Iressa Pulmicort Vimovo
Brilinta Kombiglyze Pulmicort Flexhaler Xigduo
Brilique Komboglyze Pulmicort Respules Xylocaine
Bydureon Losec Pulmicort Turbuhaler Zestril
3
Byetta Lynparza Respules Zoladex
Caprelsa Meronem Rhinocort Zomig
Casodex Merrem Seloken Zurampic
Cosudex Movantik Seroquel
Crestor Moventig Seroquel XR
Diprivan Myalept
1
Symbicort
EMLA Naropin Symbicort SMART
Entocort Nexium Symbicort Turbuhaler
1 
AstraZeneca assigned this trade mark to Aegerion effective 9 January 2015.
2
 AstraZeneca owns this trade mark in the US only. AbbVie owns it in the rest of the world.
3
 AstraZeneca assigned these trade marks in the US to Alvogen effective 9 January 2015.
The following brand names which appear in italics in this Annual Report are trade marks licensed to the Group by the entities set out below:
Trade mark Licensor or Owner
Bretaris Almirall, S.A.
Cubicin Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Daliresp/Daxas Takeda GmbH
Duaklir Almirall, S.A.
Eklira Almirall, S.A.
Epanova Chrysalis Pharma AG
Tudorza Almirall, S.A.
Zinforo Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited
Zytiga
1
Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K.
1
 AstraZeneca has been licensed this trade mark for use in Japan only.
The following brand names which appear in italics throughout this Annual Report are not owned by or licensed to the Group and are owned 
by the entities set out below:
Trade mark Owner
Plavix SANOFI S.A.
Invokana Johnson & Johnson Corporation
Lipitor Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals
messenger RNA Therapeutics Moderna Therapeutics, Inc. 
Trade Marks
Additional Information
246 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Glossary
Market definitions
Region Country
US US
Europe Albania* Czech Republic Hungary Luxembourg* Serbia and Montenegro*
Austria Denmark Iceland* Malta* Slovakia
Belgium Estonia* Ireland Netherlands Slovenia*
Bosnia and Herzegovina* Finland Israel* Norway Spain
Bulgaria France Italy Poland Sweden
Croatia Germany Latvia* Portugal* Switzerland
Cyprus* Greece Lithuania* Romania UK
Established ROW Australia Japan
Canada New Zealand
Emerging Markets Algeria Costa Rica Iraq* Other Africa* Sudan*
Argentina Cuba* Jamaica* Pakistan* Syria*
Aruba* Dominican Republic* Jordan* Palestine* Taiwan
Bahamas* Ecuador Kazakhstan Panama Thailand
Bahrain* Egypt Kuwait* Peru Trinidad and Tobago*
Barbados* El Salvador Lebanon* Philippines Tunisia*
Belarus* Georgia* Libya* Qatar* Turkey
Belize* Guatemala Malaysia Russia Ukraine* 
Bermuda* Honduras Mexico Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
Brazil Hong Kong Morocco* Singapore Uruguay*
Chile India Netherlands Antilles* South Africa Venezuela
China Indonesia Nicaragua South Korea Vietnam*
Colombia Iran* Oman* Sri Lanka* Yemen*
* IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2015 data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health quarterly data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates, and excludes countries with revenue in 2015  
of less than $1 million.
Established Markets means US, Europe and Established ROW.
North America means US and Canada.
Other Established ROW means Australia and New Zealand. 
Other Emerging Markets means all Emerging Markets except China.
Other Africa includes Angola, Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, 
Zambia and Zimbabwe. 
Asia Area comprises India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
US equivalents 
Terms used in this Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accruals Accrued expenses 
Allotted Issued 
Called-up share capital Issued share capital 
Creditors Liabilities/payables 
Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses 
Earnings Net income 
Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans 
Fixed asset investments Non-current investments 
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity 
Interest payable Interest expense 
Loans Long-term debt 
Prepayments Prepaid expenses 
Profit Income 
Profit and loss account Income statement/consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares 
Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits 
247 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information CEO – the Chief Executive Officer of the 
Company.
CER – constant exchange rates.
CFDA – China Food and Drug Administration.
CFO – the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
CHMP – the Committee for Medicinal Products 
for Human Use.
CIS – Commonwealth of Independent States.
Code of Conduct – the Group’s Code  
of Conduct.
Company or Parent Company – AstraZeneca 
PLC (formerly Zeneca Group PLC (Zeneca)).
COPD – chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) – the 
agreement described in the US Corporate 
Integrity Agreement reporting section on  
page 50.
CROs – contract research organisations.
CVMD – Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases.
CV – cardiovascular.
Daiichi Sankyo – Daiichi Sankyo, Inc.
Definiens – Definiens AG.
Director – a director of the Company.
DOJ – the United States Department of Justice.
earnings per share (EPS) – profit for the year 
after tax and non-controlling interests, divided by 
the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 
in issue during the year.
EC – European Commission.
EFPIA – European Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Industries and Associations.
EGFR – epidermal growth factor receptor.
EMA – European Medicines Agency.
EPO – European Patent Office.
EVP – Executive Vice-President. 
EU – the European Union.
FDC – fixed-dose combination.
FDA – the US Food and Drug Administration, 
which is part of the US Department of Health and 
Human Services Agency, which is the regulatory 
authority for all pharmaceuticals (including 
biologics and vaccines) and medical devices in 
the US.
FibroGen – FibroGen, Inc.
Forest – Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
FRC – Financial Reporting Council.
GAAP – Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles.
GMD – Global Medicines Development.
GPPS – Global Product and Portfolio Strategy. 
gross margin – the margin, as a percentage, by 
which sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated 
by dividing the difference between the two by the 
sales figure.
Group – AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
GSK – GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Gulf – Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar 
and the United Arab Emirates.
Heptares – Heptares Ltd.
HHA – Healthy Heart Africa programme.
HR – human resources.
IA – the Group’s Internal Audit Services function.
IAS – International Accounting Standards.
IAS 19 – IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’.
IAS 32 – IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Presentation’.
IAS 39 – IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’.
IASB – International Accounting  
Standards Board.
IFRS – International Financial Reporting 
Standards or International Financial Reporting 
Standard, as the context requires.
IFRS 8 – IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’.
IMED – Innovative Medicines and Early 
Development.
Immunocore – Immunocore Limited.
Innate Pharma – Innate Pharma S.A. 
IP – intellectual property.
IS – information services.
ISAs – International Standards on Auditing.
IT – information technology.
KPI – key performance indicator.
Krona or SEK – references to the currency  
of Sweden.
Kyowa Hakko Kirin – Kyowa Hakko Kirin 
Co., Ltd.
LCM projects – significant life-cycle 
management projects (as determined by potential 
revenue generation), or line extensions.
Lean – means enhancing value for customers 
with fewer resources. 
Lilly – Eli Lilly and Company. 
LTI – long-term incentive, in the context of share 
plan remuneration arrangements.
MAA – a marketing authorisation application, 
which is an application for authorisation to place 
medical products on the market. This is a specific 
term used in the EU and European Economic 
Area markets.
MAb – monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is 
specific, that is, it binds to and attacks one 
particular antigen. 
The following abbreviations and expressions  
have the following meanings when used in this 
Annual Report:
Abbott – Abbott Laboratories. 
AbbVie – AbbVie Inc. 
ACA (Affordable Care Act) – the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act which was 
signed into law on 23 March 2010 as amended 
by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation 
Act which was signed into law on 30 March 2010.
Acerta Pharma – Acerta Pharma B.V.
ACS – Acute Coronary Syndrome.
Actavis – Actavis plc.
ADC Therapeutics – ADC Therapeutics Sàrl.
ADR – an American Depositary Receipt 
evidencing title to an ADS.
ADS – an American Depositary Share 
representing one underlying Ordinary Share.
AGM – an Annual General Meeting  
of the Company.
Aegerion – Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
Almirall – Almirall, S.A.
Amgen – Amgen, Inc. 
Amplimmune – Amplimmune, Inc.
Amylin – Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC (formerly 
Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.). 
ANDA – an abbreviated new drug application, 
which is a marketing approval application for a 
generic drug submitted to the FDA.
Annual Report – this Annual Report and Form 
20-F Information 2015.
API – active pharmaceutical ingredient.
Ardea – Ardea Biosciences, Inc.
Articles – the Articles of Association of the 
Company.
Astellas – Astellas Pharma Inc.
Astra – Astra AB, being the company with whom 
the Company merged in 1999. 
AstraZeneca – the Company and its 
subsidiaries.
AZIP – AstraZeneca Investment Plan.
BACE – beta secretase cleaving enzyme. 
biologic(s) – a class of drugs that are produced 
in living cells.
biosimilars – a copy of a biologic that is 
sufficiently similar to meet regulatory 
requirements.
BMS – Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Board – the Board of Directors of the Company.
Bureau Veritas – Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
Celgene – Celgene International Sàrl.
Glossary continued
Additional Information
248 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Phase II – the phase of clinical research  
which includes the controlled clinical activities 
conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the 
drug in patients with the disease under study and 
to begin to determine the safety profile of the 
drug. Phase II studies are typically conducted in 
small or medium sized groups of patients and 
can be divided into Phase IIa studies, which tend 
to be designed to assess dosing requirements, 
and Phase IIb studies, which tend to assess 
safety and efficacy.
Phase III – the phase of clinical research which 
is performed to gather additional information 
about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often 
in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall 
benefit/risk profile of the drug. Phase III studies 
usually include between several hundred and 
several thousand patients.
PHC – personalised healthcare.
PMDA – Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 
Agency of Japan.
pMDI – pressurised metered-dose inhaler.
pound sterling, £, GBP or pence – references 
to the currency of the UK.
Pozen – POZEN, Inc.
primary care – general healthcare provided by 
physicians who ordinarily have first contact with 
patients and who may have continuing care  
for them.
Proof of Concept – data demonstrating that a 
candidate drug results in a clinical change on an 
acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients with 
the disease.
PSP – AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
PTE – Patent Term Extension, an extension  
of up to five years in the term of a US patent 
relating to a drug which compensates for delays 
in marketing resulting from the need to obtain 
FDA approval. The analogous right in the EU  
is an SPC.
Qiagen – Qiagen Manchester Limited.
R&D – research and development.
Redeemable Preference Share – a 
redeemable preference share of £1 each in the 
share capital of the Company.
Regulatory Data Protection (RDP) – see the 
Intellectual Property section on page 60.
Regulatory Exclusivity – any of the IP rights 
arising from generation of clinical data and 
includes Regulatory Data Protection, Paediatric 
Exclusivity and Orphan Drug status.
Roche – F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG.
RSV – respiratory syncytial virus.
Sanofi– SANOFI S.A.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act – the US Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002.
SEC – the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission, the governmental agency that 
regulates the US securities industry and stock 
markets.
Seroquel – Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR.
SET – Senior Executive Team.
SG&A costs – selling, general and  
administrative costs.
SGLT2 – sodium-glucose co-transporter 2.
Shionogi – Shionogi & Co. Ltd.
SLE – systemic lupus erythematosus.
SPC – supplementary protection certificate.
specialty care – specific healthcare provided  
by medical specialists who do not generally have 
first contact with patients.
Spirogen – Spirogen Sàrl.
Takeda – Takeda Pharmaceutical Company 
Limited.
Teva – Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
Total Revenue – the sum of Product Sales and 
Externalisation Revenue.
TSR – total shareholder return, being the total 
return on a share over a period of time, including 
dividends reinvested.
UK – United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland.
UK Corporate Governance Code – the UK 
Corporate Governance Code published by the 
FRC in September 2014 that sets out standards 
of good practice in corporate governance for  
the UK.
US – United States of America.
US dollar, US$, USD or $ – references to the 
currency of the US.
Valeant – Valeant Holdings Ireland/Valeant 
Pharmaceutical International Inc.
Ventana – Ventana Medical Systems, Inc.
WHO – World Health Organization, the United 
Nations’ specialised agency for health.
YHP – Young Health Programme. 
ZS Pharma – ZS Pharma, Inc.
major market – US, EU, Japan and China.
MAT – moving annual total.
MedImmune – MedImmune, LLC (formerly 
MedImmune, Inc.).
Merck – Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.  
(formerly Merck & Co., Inc.).
MI – myocardial infarction.
Moderna Therapeutics – Moderna 
Therapeutics, Inc.
Myriad – Myriad Genetics, Inc.
NDA – a new drug application to the FDA for 
approval to market a new medicine in the US.
NME – new molecular entity.
Novartis – Novartis Pharma AG.
NSAID – a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
NSCLC – non-small cell lung cancer.
NSTE-ACS – non-ST-Elevation acute coronary 
syndromes.
NYSE – the New York Stock Exchange.
n/m – not meaningful.
Omthera – Omthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
operating profit – sales, less cost of sales,  
less operating costs, plus operating income.
Ordinary Share – an ordinary share of  
$0.25 each in the share capital of the Company.
Orphan Drug – a drug which has been 
approved for use in a relatively low-incidence 
indication (an orphan indication) and has been 
rewarded with a period of market exclusivity; the 
period of exclusivity and the available orphan 
indications vary between markets.
OTC – over-the-counter.
Paediatric Exclusivity – in the US, a six-month 
period of exclusivity to market a drug which  
is awarded by the FDA in return for certain 
paediatric clinical studies using that drug. This 
six-month period runs from the date of relevant 
patent expiry. Analogous provisions are available 
in certain other territories (such as European 
Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) 
paediatric extensions).
PD-L1 – an anti-programmed death-ligand 1.
Pearl Therapeutics – Pearl Therapeutics, Inc.
Pfizer – Pfizer, Inc.
PhRMA – Pharmaceutical Research and 
Manufacturers of America.
Phase I – the phase of clinical research where  
a new drug or treatment is tested in small groups 
of people (20 to 80) to check that the drug can 
achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, 
determine a safe dosage range and identify  
side effects. This phase includes healthy 
volunteer studies.
249 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Index
Information Technology 22, 61, 220
Infrastructure 61
Intangible assets 71, 79-80, 101, 136, 145, 158-160, 239
Intellectual Property 60
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 163-164
Key performance indicators 18-20
Leases 146, 148, 192
Life-cycle of a medicine 10-11
Litigation 22, 80-81, 101, 137, 147, 186-191, 199, 
214-215, 218, 223
Lynparza 34-38
Manufacturing and Supply 46
Market definitions 247
Marketplace 12-15
Oncology 34-38
Operating profit 1, 62-67, 150-151, 236
Operational overview 2
Other investments 147, 161
PARTHENON programme 33
Patent Expiries 15
Patents see Intellectual Property
Patient safety 22, 44-45
Personalised healthcare 43-44
Physician Payments Sunshine Act 50
Pipeline and Therapy Area Introduction 24-41
Political donations 97
Post-retirement benefits 80, 101, 137, 166-171
Primary care 10
Product revenue information 227-233
Property, plant and equipment 71, 146, 156, 238
Provisions 165
Regulatory requirements 13-14
Related party transactions 193, 242
Relations with shareholders 93
Remuneration 107-116
Remuneration Policy 117-134
Research and Development 42-45
Reserves 172
Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity 26-29
Restructuring 68, 150
Results of operations 2014 238
Results of operations 2015 65
Risk 21, 212-226
Sales and Marketing 48-50
Sales by geographical area 227-233
Sales by therapy area 24-41, 227-233
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 81
Science Committee 85, 94
Segment information 154-155
Senior management (SET) 88-89
Share capital 172
Share repurchase 75, 172
Shareholder distributions 76, 96
Shareholder information 240-244
Specialty care 10
Strategic priorities 16-17
Sustainability: supplementary information 234-235
Tagrisso 4, 34, 36
Takeda 5, 28
Taxation 68, 76, 81, 146, 151-153, 199
Taxation information for shareholders 242-244
Trade and other payables 71, 146, 164-165, 239
Trade and other receivables 71, 146, 163, 181
Trade marks 246
Values and purpose 8-9
Young Health Programme 59
ZS Pharma 4, 72, 173
Accounting policies 144, 199
Acerta Pharma 4, 56-57, 193
Acquisitions 173-177
Affordable Care Act 14, 49, 231
Almirall 68-73, 160, 174-176, 237-239
Animal research 45
Annual General Meeting 82, 97, 245 
Articles of Association 245
AstraZeneca at a glance 2
Audit Committee 84, 86-87, 98-102
Audit Committee Report 98-102
Bioethics 44-45, 234
Biologics 10, 13
BMS 70-73, 174
Board of Directors 86-87
Brilinta/Brilique 30-33
Business model 8-9
Cambridge 7, 42, 53-54
Capitalisation and shareholder return 76
Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases 30-33
Cash and cash equivalents 69, 146, 163
Chairman’s Statement 82
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 4
Clinical trials 45
Code of Conduct 95-98
Commitments and contingent liabilities 186-192
Community investment 58-59
Company history 245
Compliance and Internal Audit Services 95
Consolidated Statements 140-143
Corporate Information 245
Corporate Integrity Agreement 50
Corporate Governance 82-135
Definiens 72, 175-176
Development pipeline 25, 205-209
Diabetes 30-33
Directors’ interest in shares 114-115
Directors’ responsibility statement 135
Diversity 52-53, 90-91
Dividends 76, 96, 172
Earnings per Ordinary Share 153
Employee costs and share plans for employees 182-185
Employees 52-54
Ethics 50, 96
Environmental impact 58
Finance income and expense 151
Financial instruments 146, 151, 161-162
Financial position 2014 238-239
Financial position 2015 71
Financial Review 62-81
Financial risk management 76-77, 177-182
Financial Statements 2015 135-202
Financial summary 2
Financials 2014 236-239
Gender diversity 52-53
Geographical Review 227-233
Global pharmaceutical sales 12-13
Glossary 247-249
Group Financial Record 202
Group Subsidiaries and Holdings 194-195
Growth Platforms 7, 16-17
Healthy Heart Africa programme 51
Human Rights 54
Independent auditor’s report 136-139
Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal 39-41
Inflammation see Respiratory, Inflammation and 
Autoimmunity
Additional Information
250 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Important information for readers of this Annual Report
Inclusion of Reported performance, 
Core financial measures and constant 
exchange rate growth rates
AstraZeneca’s determination of non-GAAP 
measures together with our presentation of 
them within our financial information may 
differ from similarly titled non-GAAP 
measures of other companies.
Statements of competitive position, 
growth rates and sales
In this Annual Report, except as otherwise 
stated, market information regarding the 
position of our business or products relative 
to its or their competition is based upon 
published statistical sales data for the  
12 months ended 30 September 2015 
obtained from IMS Health, a leading supplier 
of statistical data to the pharmaceutical 
industry. Unless otherwise noted, for the 
US, dispensed new or total prescription 
data and audited sales data are taken, 
respectively, from IMS Health National 
Prescription Audit and IMS National Sales 
Perspectives for the 12 months ended 
31 December 2015; such data is not 
adjusted for Medicaid and similar rebates. 
Except as otherwise stated, these market 
share and industry data from IMS Health 
have been derived by comparing our sales 
revenue with competitors’ and total market 
sales revenues for that period. Except as 
otherwise stated, growth rates are given  
at CER. For the purposes of this Annual 
Report, unless otherwise stated, references 
to the world pharmaceutical market or 
similar phrases are to the 54 countries 
contained in the IMS Health database, 
which amounted to approximately 97%  
(in value) of the countries audited by  
IMS Health.
AstraZeneca websites
Information on or accessible through our 
websites, including www.astrazeneca.com, 
www.astrazenecaclinicaltrials.com and 
www.medimmune.com, does not form  
part of and is not incorporated into this 
Annual Report.
External/third party websites
Information on or accessible through any 
third party or external website does not form 
part of and is not incorporated into this 
Annual Report.
Figures
Figures in parentheses in tables and in the 
Financial Statements are used to represent 
negative numbers.
Cautionary statement regarding 
forward-looking statements
The purpose of this Annual Report is to 
provide information to the members of the 
Company. The Company and its Directors, 
employees, agents and advisers do not 
accept or assume responsibility to any other 
person to whom this Annual Report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come 
and any such responsibility or liability is 
expressly disclaimed. In order, among other 
things, to utilise the ‘safe harbour’ provisions 
of the US Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995 and the UK Companies 
Act 2006, we are providing the following 
cautionary statement: This Annual Report 
contains certain forward-looking statements 
with respect to the operations, performance 
and financial condition of the Group, 
including, among other things, statements 
about expected revenues, margins, 
earnings per share or other financial or other 
measures. Forward-looking statements are 
statements relating to the future which are 
based on information available at the time 
such statements are made, including 
information relating to risks and 
uncertainties. Although we believe that the 
forward-looking statements in this Annual 
Report are based on reasonable 
assumptions, the matters discussed in the 
forward-looking statements may be 
influenced by factors that could cause 
actual outcomes and results to be materially 
different from those expressed or implied  
by these statements. The forward-looking 
statements reflect knowledge and 
information available at the date of the 
preparation of this Annual Report and the 
Company undertakes no obligation to 
update these forward-looking statements. 
We identify the forward-looking statements 
by using the words ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, 
‘expects’, ‘intends’ and similar expressions 
in such statements. Important factors that 
could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those contained in forward-looking 
statements, certain of which are beyond our 
control, include, among other things, those 
factors identified in the Risk section from 
page 212 of this Annual Report. Nothing in 
this Annual Report should be construed as 
a profit forecast.
251 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Registrar
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
UK
Tel: (freephone in the UK) 0800 389 1580
Tel: (outside the UK) +44 (0)121 415 7033
Swedish Central Securities Depository
Euroclear Sweden AB
PO Box 191
SE-101 23 Stockholm
Sweden
Tel: +46 (0)8 402 9000
US Depositary
Citibank Shareholder Services
PO Box 43077
Providence
RI 02940-3077
US
Tel: (toll free in the US) + 1 (888) 697 8018
Tel: (outside the US) + 1 (781) 575 4555
citibank@shareholders-online.com
Registered office and corporate 
headquarters
AstraZeneca PLC
2 Kingdom Street
London W2 6BD
UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7604 8000
Investor relations
UK: as above
US:
Investor Relations
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP
One MedImmune Way
Gaithersburg MD 20878
US
Tel: + 1 (301) 398 0000
 For more information please see  
 www.astrazeneca.com
252 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
Additional Information Designed and produced by
Board and SET photography  
by Marcus Lyon
 This Annual Report is printed on Heaven 42 which is FSC
®
 
certified virgin fibre. The pulp is a mix; partly bleached using  
an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process and partly bleached  
using a Totally Chlorine Free process. It is printed in the UK  
by Pureprint using its 
®
 and 
®
 environmental 
printing technology, and vegetable inks were used throughout. 
Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both the manufacturing 
mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental 
Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship 
Council
®
 chain-of-custody certified. AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
AstraZeneca PLC 
2 Kingdom Street 
London W2 6BD 
UK 
T: +44 (0)20 7604 8000
 This Annual Report is also available on our website,  
 www.astrazeneca.com/annualreport2015
