 Build to Last
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report
Chairman’s introduction 02
Group Chief Executive’s report 04
Group at a glance 06
Market review 10
Business model 12
Our priorities 14
Chief Financial Officer’s review 18
Performance review 22
Directors’ valuation of the Investments portfolio 31
Building a sustainable business  34
Risk management framework 42
Principal risks 44
Governance
Chairman’s introduction 51
Board of Directors 52
Governance report 54
Risk management and internal control 57
Audit and Risk Committee 59
Nomination Committee 62
Safety and Sustainability Committee 62
Group Tender and Investment Committee 63
Finance and General Purposes Committee 63
Directors’ report – other disclosures 64
Remuneration report 68
Financial Statements
Independent auditor’s report 85
Financial statements 90
Notes to the Financial Statements 100
Other Information
Unaudited Group five-year summary 178
Shareholder information 179
Balfour Beatty Annual 
Report and Accounts 2015  
interactive pdf
The functionality of this PDF is 
outlined below. Please note that  
tablet and mobile users will 
experience a reduced functionality.
On the cover: 
We have built The Diamond, a multi-disciplinary 
teaching and research facility in Sheffield with 
specialised laboratories and a clean room to facilitate 
study and research.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Contents
Key
Front cover
Previous page
Next page
Previous view
Main contents page
Go online balfourbeatty.com/ar2014 Build to Last
Build to Last, our transformation 
programme launched in early 2015, 
has made this a significant year in the 
development of Balfour Beatty. 
We are implementing consistent 
processes to integrate our businesses 
into a Group with greater transparency 
and control. Our main markets are 
providing a positive backdrop, so that 
with stronger governance we can both 
win and deliver business on the right 
terms. Looking to the future, we are 
investing to maintain Balfour Beatty’s 
expertise and assets.
By the end of 2016 we will achieve 
our Phase One targets and over the 
medium term, we will reach industry-
standard margins.
But above all, Build to Last is putting 
in place the foundations to build a 
Balfour Beatty with market leading 
strengths and performance over the 
longer term.
We are Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe. 
We Build to Last.
 Read more on p14
01 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Chairman’s introduction
2015 is the year that Balfour Beatty began making the 
changes that are necessary to restore the business 
to strength.
Once again the financial results are disappointing, 
reflecting the legacy issues which have scarred 
Balfour Beatty in recent years. However, despite these 
problems Balfour Beatty retains one of the strongest 
balance sheets in the sector, supportive clients, 
a dedicated workforce and growing core markets 
providing a solid platform from which to turn around 
our business.
Performance
With new governance and controls introduced 
across the business, Balfour Beatty is repositioning, 
withdrawing from certain types of work and focusing 
on the more profitable opportunities. As we do so, 
we have seen a small reduction in underlying revenues 
(2%) and order book (4%). However, as you would 
expect, the quality of new orders we have chosen 
to bid for and won has improved.
The underlying loss from continuing operations was 
£106 million – losses in Construction Services of 
£229 million were largely caused by historic issues in 
the UK, US and Middle East. Support Services profits 
of £24 million reflect, in part, the point in the regulatory 
cycle of some of its major customers.
The Investments business continued to perform 
strongly. The portfolio was valued at £1.24 billion. 
We continue to invest in new opportunities and realise 
value at the point where we believe it is in the optimum 
interest of shareholders to do so. The portfolio provides 
unique balance to the Group and means that Balfour 
Beatty maintains one of the strongest balance sheets 
in the sector.
Build to Last
Our annual report for 2014 set out Balfour Beatty’s self-
help transformation plan – Build to Last. In this year’s 
report, we are able to provide you with more detail 
about how the plan has been rolled out across the 
business; the difference it is making; and the progress 
we have made to deliver our initial, Phase One targets 
of £200 million cash in and £100 million cost out over 
24 months. We are on course to meet these targets.
Management of the business has been strengthened 
with a new leadership team and an organisation  
re-aligned with key customer segments. The Build to Last 
programme is gaining traction throughout the business, 
demonstrated by the significant improvement in the 
Group’s cash performance this year.
“  Whilst much remains to be  
done, I am confident that we 
have in place the right foundations 
and the right management to 
deliver the long-term success 
of the business.”
Restoring Balfour Beatty  
to strength
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
02 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Markets
Importantly, we are continuing to win new business 
across our core markets – the order book is worth 
£11.0 billion. Our new work is not business which is 
being bought at the expense of future profitability, 
but good business won on better terms across 
our operations. 
Against a backdrop of rising markets, our customers 
recognise the expertise that exists within Balfour 
Beatty’s teams. That is why we are selected for jobs 
such as the Thames Tideway tunnel, the ‘Smart 
Motorways’ work on the M5, M6 and M4 and the 
Bergstrom Expressway, to name just a few. 
The Board
I joined the Board on 26 March, one of five new Board 
members in 2015. Strengthening the Board has been 
a key priority for me since my appointment.
Leo Quinn joined as Group Chief Executive on 
1 January, the transformation plan he started 
implementing from day one was outlined in the 2014 
report. Philip Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, took up 
his appointment in June. Philip was previously Group 
Finance Director at Hogg Robinson Group plc. Prior to 
which, he was Group Finance Director at VT Group.
Stephen Billingham and Stuart Doughty joined as non-
executive Directors. Stephen has immense experience 
of different industries, including construction and 
support services, both from the supplier and the client 
side, as well as having a strong background in finance 
in several complex organisations. Stuart is the former 
Chief Executive of engineering company Costain plc, 
and has 45 years of highly relevant, in-depth experience 
in the construction industry.
We have also had four retirements from the Board 
during the year: my predecessor, Steve Marshall, 
Duncan Magrath, Robert Amen and Peter Zinkin. 
Quite remarkably Peter joined the business in 1981 and 
I wish to thank him, Duncan, Robert and Steve for their 
time at Balfour Beatty.
Our people
Balfour Beatty is a people business and I am proud of 
the expertise, enthusiasm and dedication that I see 
from so many of our colleagues. 2015 has been an 
unprecedented year of change at Balfour Beatty and 
the early successes and importantly the continued 
focus on delivering for our clients is a result of the 
dedication of so many colleagues. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for 
the commitment they have demonstrated this year.
Contracting is an inherently dangerous industry; it is 
therefore incumbent from the Board to the newest 
apprentice joining the firm to understand the risks 
and take action to mitigate and prevent accidents. 
Safety is one of our core Build to Last goals – with our 
objective being Zero Harm. The new Board Safety and 
Sustainability Committee assesses serious incidents to 
review that we are doing all we can to ensure that our 
workers, suppliers, subcontractors and members of the 
public with whom we interact are kept safe. 
Across our business, four people working for Balfour 
Beatty died during 2015. A fifth was killed in Aberdeen 
early in 2016. Words are inadequate to express my 
regret that there are five families mourning their loved 
ones. On behalf of the Board, I would like to formally 
send our condolences and give an assurance that we 
will do all we can to prevent future accidents.
Dividend
By the end of 2016, Balfour Beatty will have achieved 
its Phase One targets: costs are coming down and cash 
flow has improved substantially, such that the Board 
expects to reinstate the dividend, at an appropriate 
level, at the interim results in August 2016.
Conclusion
As you will read in this report, this has been a year of 
significant and necessary change at Balfour Beatty. 
Whilst much remains to be done, I am confident that 
we have in place the right foundations and the right 
management to deliver the long-term success of the 
business and one which can provide our customers, 
employees and shareholders with superior returns.
Philip Aiken AM
Chairman
03 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Group Chief Executive’s review
“  Build to Last is putting in place 
the foundations to deliver value for 
clients, colleagues, shareholders 
and wider society.”
  Read more on pages 14-17
T ransforming the business
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
04 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 This was a year of fundamental change at Balfour 
Beatty as the Build to Last transformation programme 
was implemented.
Coming into 2015, the business performance had 
deteriorated as a decade of forced growth culminated 
in an overly complex business, poor contract discipline 
and unaffordable overhead costs. Whilst the sale of 
Parsons Brinckerhoff in late 2014 provided liquidity to the 
balance sheet, the cash situation for the Group remained 
a challenge.
Decisive action was taken to arrest the decline. The Build 
to Last transformation programme was launched in early 
2015, beginning with a 24-month “self-help” phase. 
Senior leadership was upgraded and immediate steps 
taken to strengthen governance, controls and processes. 
Cost reduction plans were agreed, the proposed share 
buy-back was cancelled, the dividend suspended and 
agreement reached to re-phase a deficit contribution to 
the pension fund. 
The initial “self-help” phase of Build to Last targeted 
£200m cash in and £100m of cost out within 24 months. 
Half way through this period the Group is on course 
to deliver on these specific targets and the progress 
made in improving the cash performance in 2015 gives 
confidence that colleagues, at every level, are fully 
engaged in delivering change.
Build to Last is designed to address the Group’s 
performance as it affects all stakeholders – customers 
and supply chain, employees and subcontractors, 
investors and communities – by driving continuous 
measurable improvement. The steps that are 
being taken are often, in themselves, simple and 
straightforward. However, taken together they are 
transforming Balfour Beatty against four goals: Lean, 
Expert, Trusted and Safe.
In 2016, Balfour Beatty will continue to work through the 
legacy contracts, increasingly able to look to a future as 
an organisation with lean ways of working, differentiated 
by its experts, trusted by clients and leading on safe 
working practices. Build to Last is putting in place the 
foundations to deliver value for clients, colleagues, 
shareholders and wider society.
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive
05 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Leading the way with more 
than 100 years’ experience
Construction Services
The construction businesses in the 
UK and US, and joint ventures in the 
Middle East and South East Asia, 
are top tier and all operate across the 
infrastructure and building sectors.
Support Services
Support Services manages, upgrades 
and maintains critical national 
infrastructure, and its capabilities 
complement both the Construction 
Services and Infrastructure 
Investments divisions.
What we do
 – Building
 – Civil engineering
 – Ground engineering
 – Mechanical and electrical services
 – Rail engineering
 – Refurbishment and fit-out
What we do
 – Upgrade and maintain water, 
gas and electricity networks
 – Highways network management, 
operation and maintenance
 – Rail renewals
78% 15%
Order book
1
£7.9bn
Revenue
1
£6,388m
(Loss)/profit from operations
1,2
£(229)m
Order book
1
£3.1bn
Revenue
1
£1,259m
Profit from operations
1
£24m
Total revenue Total revenue
Infrastructure is the backbone 
of the economy and society. 
Everyone relies on energy, 
water, communications, 
transport and buildings.
Balfour Beatty finances, 
develops, builds and maintains the 
infrastructure that underpins daily 
life, supports communities and 
enables economic growth.
Together with our partners and 
supply chain of small and large 
firms, we know how to deliver 
innovative, efficient and highly 
complex infrastructure projects 
with the highest levels of quality, 
safety and technical expertise. 
We integrate with customers and 
local supply chains, and work with 
local communities.
Group at a glance
 Construction Services p22
1
 From continuing operations including  
share of joint ventures and associates,  
before non-underlying items.
2
 Total loss from continuing operations  
was £280 million (2014: £391 million),  
including non-underlying items. Support Services p26
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
06 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Infrastructure Investments
The Investments business is a 
recognised leader in public private 
partnerships (PPP) and other 
developments in both the UK and US 
and its activities generate additional 
construction and service work for other 
parts of the Group.
What we do
 – Develop and finance both public and 
private infrastructure projects around 
the world
 – Operate a portfolio of more than  
70 long-term infrastructure projects
7%
Revenue generated this year
1
£8,235m
Employees worldwide (Group + JVs)
34,000 
Directors’ valuation
£1.24bn
Revenue
1
£588m
Pre-tax result
1
£161m
Total revenue
Portfolio valuation
The Group continued to make substantial 
investments into the portfolio with 
£102 million of cash invested into 
projects in 2015.
  Directors’ valuation of the Investments 
portfolio p31
Revenue by region
1
Portfolio valuation December 2015
Value by sector
Sector
No. projects 
(2014)
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Roads 13 (13) 412  467 
Healthcare 4 (4) 137  225 
Schools 7 (8) 76  102 
Student accommodation 5 (3) 69  28 
OFTOs 3 (3) 40 82
Waste & biomass 4 (3) 40 14
Other  4 (4) 28  25 
UK total 40 (38) 802  943 
US military housing 21 (21) 355  322 
Healthcare 2 (2) 5  4 
Student accommodation 4 (3) 26  9 
Other  4 (2) 18  2 
North America total 31 (28) 404  337 
BBIP fund   38  20 
Total 71 (66) 1,244  1,300 
UK
£3,813m
46%
North America
£3,346m 
41%
Rest of the world
£1,076m
13%
 Infrastructure Investments p28
07 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Top row (from left to right) 
Thames Tideway 
M25 
New Parkland Hospital
Bottom row (from left to right) 
Runcorn Bridge 
Dr. Phillips Centre for the Performing Arts 
Crossrail
T rusted to deliver 
engineering  excellence
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
08 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 09 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Medium-term outlook
Main markets providing  
a positive backdrop
UK US
Building Infrastructure Building Infrastructure
2015 market 
growth
Medium-term 
market outlook
Balfour Beatty 
prospects
Flat – some growth
Strong growth in industrial, 
weaker growth in public 
and commercial building.
Strong growth
Strong growth in 
lodging, offices 
and manufacturing. 
Growth
 – Austerity measures 
dampen growth in 
public sector. 
 – Private sector continues 
to grow as long as 
economic conditions 
stay positive.
 – Risk from global 
economic slowdown.
Growth
 – Particular hotspots 
expected in commercial 
and office construction.
 – Risk from global 
economic slowdown.
Increased selectivity 
in regional business 
to drive higher quality 
project portfolio. 
Increased selectivity in 
US Buildings business 
to drive higher quality 
project portfolio.
Strong growth
 – Large pipeline of major 
infrastructure projects – 
timing of these is key.
 – Power T+D and rail 
spend impacted 
by delays in 2016 
but expected to 
grow thereafter. 
Flat – some growth
 – New federal funding 
deal provides certainty 
but spend levels flat in 
real terms. 
 – Water sector should 
grow with the economy.
Well positioned for major 
schemes and regulatory 
spending uplift. 
Leading position in rail 
transit and target states. 
Able to capitalise on trend 
to design/build despite flat 
market overall.
Strong growth
Strong growth after two 
years of stagnation. 
Hotspots in power and 
roads, whilst rail slowed.
Flat – some decline
Lack of secure funding 
constrained growth 
in transport. 
Elsewhere, growth in water 
and sewage was offset by 
a declining power sector.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Market review Medium-term outlook
Headlines
Long-term drivers for infrastructure
Ageing infrastructure due to under investment
After years of under investment in the UK and US 
infrastructure markets, an upswing is due. 
Population growth
Steady overall population growth in all our markets 
boosted by urbanisation and growth in particular areas 
such as the sun belt in the US. 
Infrastructure investment as a % GDP 
G7 Countries 
excluding US and UK
UK US
Hong Kong United Arab Emirates
  Recovery in UK and US 
markets continued in 2015. 
  Medium-term outlook is positive 
but key risks are the timing of major 
infrastructure projects in the UK 
and any sustained slowdown in 
the global economy.
  Increased selectivity in growing 
markets will enable Balfour Beatty 
to drive improvement.
  Long-term market drivers for 
infrastructure remain sound.
Decline
Delays in infrastructure 
spending partially offset by 
stable building market.
Growth
Continued construction 
market recovery, 
including growth in new 
development schemes.
Strong growth
 – Strong infrastructure 
pipeline and 
residential drivers.
 – Risks of further delays 
to infrastructure projects 
and the effect of China 
slow down. 
Flat – some decline
 – Expo 2020 should drive 
growth in Dubai, but 
low oil prices likely to 
impact Middle East 
region as a whole.
Well positioned for 
next batch of major 
infrastructure projects.
Increased selectivity 
in general contracting 
and M&E businesses 
to drive higher quality 
project portfolio.
1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013
1.2
0.9
0.6
0.3
0
11 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Population growth 2015–2020 CAGR
0.7%
0.7%
0.8%
2.9%
UAE Hong
Kong
US UK Financing, developing, building 
and maintaining complex 
infrastructure projects around 
the world
How we create value
Represents 78% of our 
revenue, and is responsible for 
the design, engineering and 
construction across the most 
complex infrastructure and 
building projects.
Our services activities 
manage, upgrade and 
maintain critical infrastructure. 
They complement both 
Construction Services and 
Infrastructure Investments.
We develop and structure finance to 
enable our customers to achieve their 
infrastructure ambitions. We also invest 
directly in infrastructure assets, particularly 
when there are opportunities to manage 
the project on completion.
Cross-selling across customer base
Knowledge transfer
Infrastructure 
Investments
Construction 
Services
Support 
Services
Investment assets 
balance favourable working 
capital of construction 
business generating  
a return in their  
own right
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
12 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
A business model to create value
Higher margin contracts
 
Higher margin contracts
Construction delivery expertise
 
Asset management expertise Our differentiation
Local presence
We have global scale, but work 
locally with our customers 
where they need us.
Sector expertise  
and capability
Individual infrastructure 
projects will have very unique 
requirements whether a road 
network or hydro-electric 
dam. Our sector expertise 
is essential to ensure the 
successful delivery of 
each project.
World-class process
Customers need total trust 
in our ability to manage 
the project from start to 
finish, to scope, on time 
and to budget.
Excellent safety and ethics
Safety is fundamental to 
us delivering our business 
model, as is the manner 
in which we do business. 
We take a long-term view, 
doing the right thing to make 
sure we build a respected 
sustainable business.
How we manage 
our business risk
8-stage gated lifecycle to 
ensure work winning efforts 
are focused on the right 
opportunities and projects 
are delivered effectively.
 Read more on p42
How we create value
13 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 What does it mean? Why is it important? Our KPIs
Lean
Deliver value to our customers by 
improving operational efficiency  
and eliminating waste right through 
the supply chain.
We want to make sure that our customers get the best value for their money; we need to 
be relentless in driving out unnecessary costs and work with our customers to ensure their 
money is spent in the best way possible. Providing customers with better value for their 
money drives our competitiveness and provides Balfour Beatty with the capital to invest 
back into developing our expertise. Lean is measured against our financial returns: operating 
profit and cash flow performance.
 Read more on p16
£163m
Net cash 
£(106)m
Operating profit/(loss) 
Expert
Ensure we have the best engineering, 
design and project management 
capabilities. 
We deliver world-class buildings and infrastructure for our customers by constantly  
driving innovation. Our strongest differentiator is our engineering and project management 
capabilities. Having the best talent supported by the strongest supply chain creates 
a virtuous circle that ensures we win the best and most exciting projects to deliver.  
Expert is measured against employee satisfaction and retention.
 Read more on p16
60%
Average employee satisfaction
Trusted
Be the construction partner of choice 
for our customers and supply chain 
by delivering on our promises. 
Customers must have confidence in our ability to deliver and to do what we say we will do. 
A robust risk framework ensures that challenges are mitigated and projects are delivered 
in the right way. Satisfied customers provide us with the opportunities and projects for the 
future. Trusted is measured against customer satisfaction.
 Read more on p17
82%
Average customer 
satisfaction rating 
Safe
We must ensure the health and 
safety of everyone who comes into 
contact with our activities.
Health and safety is at the heart of everything we do – we must protect our employees, 
our supply chain partners, our customers and the public. Construction is an inherently 
dangerous business and without the highest standards of safety we don’t have a licence to 
operate. A safe and healthy workplace is also happier, more motivated and more efficient. 
Safe is measured against our commitment to Zero Harm.
 Read more on p17
0.24
Lost Time Injury Rate,  
excluding international JVs
When we deliver buildings and 
infrastructure, we expect them to 
survive the test of time. For Balfour 
Beatty to remain at the forefront 
of our industry we need to 
continuously improve efficiency, 
lead innovation and always 
operate safely. These are the 
drivers of value for our customers.
Improved efficiency means smarter 
working, elimination of waste and 
creating a Lean supply chain to deliver 
better value for our customers. 
This allows us to invest in developing 
our expertise. Having the finest 
Experts allows us to extend what 
we are capable of building and drives 
improvements in everything we do; 
this means our customers can Trust 
us to deliver on all that we promise, 
including safety. Safety is never 
compromised. We Build to Last.
Our priorities
Build to Last:  
A transformation programme to 
return Balfour Beatty to strength
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
14 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Our priorities What does it mean? Why is it important? Our KPIs
Lean
Deliver value to our customers by 
improving operational efficiency  
and eliminating waste right through 
the supply chain.
We want to make sure that our customers get the best value for their money; we need to 
be relentless in driving out unnecessary costs and work with our customers to ensure their 
money is spent in the best way possible. Providing customers with better value for their 
money drives our competitiveness and provides Balfour Beatty with the capital to invest 
back into developing our expertise. Lean is measured against our financial returns: operating 
profit and cash flow performance.
 Read more on p16
£163m
Net cash 
£(106)m
Operating profit/(loss) 
Expert
Ensure we have the best engineering, 
design and project management 
capabilities. 
We deliver world-class buildings and infrastructure for our customers by constantly  
driving innovation. Our strongest differentiator is our engineering and project management 
capabilities. Having the best talent supported by the strongest supply chain creates 
a virtuous circle that ensures we win the best and most exciting projects to deliver.  
Expert is measured against employee satisfaction and retention.
 Read more on p16
60%
Average employee satisfaction
Trusted
Be the construction partner of choice 
for our customers and supply chain 
by delivering on our promises. 
Customers must have confidence in our ability to deliver and to do what we say we will do. 
A robust risk framework ensures that challenges are mitigated and projects are delivered 
in the right way. Satisfied customers provide us with the opportunities and projects for the 
future. Trusted is measured against customer satisfaction.
 Read more on p17
82%
Average customer 
satisfaction rating 
Safe
We must ensure the health and 
safety of everyone who comes into 
contact with our activities.
Health and safety is at the heart of everything we do – we must protect our employees, 
our supply chain partners, our customers and the public. Construction is an inherently 
dangerous business and without the highest standards of safety we don’t have a licence to 
operate. A safe and healthy workplace is also happier, more motivated and more efficient. 
Safe is measured against our commitment to Zero Harm.
 Read more on p17
0.24
Lost Time Injury Rate,  
excluding international JVs
15 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Build to Last
The Group launched the Build to Last transformation 
programme in early 2015 as a framework to drive 
continuous improvement for all stakeholders against 
four goals – Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe – as 
measured by cash/EBIT, employee engagement, 
customer satisfaction and Zero Harm. Rapid action was 
taken to remove layers and upgrade leadership and 
governance through a simplified Group structure.  
As a result Balfour Beatty is stabilising and making 
significant progress on its four goals:
Lean
 – Deliver value to customers by improving operational 
efficiency and eliminating waste right through the 
supply chain.
 – The Group metric is cash and EBIT – in the first phase, 
delivering £200 million of cash in and £100 million of 
cost out in the first 24 months.
The Group’s underlying cash performance improved in 
2015. Cash flow in 2015 was £357 million better than 
2014, excluding the proceeds from the sale of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff. This was the result of:
 – Strong discipline around cash and working capital;
 – Enhanced financial processes – including more 
consistent reporting and driving down cash 
management into projects;
 – Group-wide “Cash is our Compass” employee 
training; and
 – Management incentives aligned to delivering 
better performance.
In 2015 good progress was made against the targeted 
£100 million of cost out. Actions were taken to simplify 
the business, including the reduction of 846 indirect 
employees, and standardise working practices which 
delivered £60 million of annualised savings in the year, 
comprising: £39 million of savings from centralising 
back office and support functions; £13 million from IT; 
and £8 million from indirect procurement.
 – Business unit and support function costs have been 
reduced in the year. Balfour Beatty’s back office 
structure was a legacy of a decade of forced growth. 
The Group was unnecessarily complicated with lack 
of integration, inefficiencies in processes, lack of 
accountability and control and significant additional 
cost. A federated structure had resulted in supporting 
functions such as HR and IT being run independently 
within each unit, causing duplication of services. 
During 2015, support functions were formed across 
all businesses to standardise working practices. 
This will allow significant savings as duplicate 
systems are removed and a more focused, value 
added approach is taken. For example, a review 
of Human Resource policies uncovered multiple 
different policies for each part of the business; a 
process is now underway to remove duplication and 
cut the number of HR policies from c.200 to around 
50. Office costs were also reduced by rationalising 
a number of property locations, including relocating 
from the Group head office, a saving of £2 million.
 – IT systems have seen significant change during 
the year. The Group is simultaneously focused on 
increasing the effectiveness of its software, whilst 
also driving out cost from an inefficient IT estate with 
poor levels of customer support and sub-optimal 
outsourcing agreements. In the UK construction 
business, where it was vital to increase transparency 
and migrate away from ageing systems to a single 
platform, the Oracle R12 system was rolled out in 
August. To reduce costs, a review of the architecture 
of the IT systems concluded with notice served on 
the external infrastructure support contract.
 – The Group spends approximately £7 billion with 
suppliers. The existing procurement processes 
were fragmented with localised arrangements and 
a disjointed supply base. Therefore, improvements 
to procurement processes are a key focus to deliver 
value for customers and to drive out cost for the 
Group. An enhanced procurement capability for the 
business is now being put in place, with immediate 
savings being realised from indirect procurement 
in 2015. Whilst the latter is a smaller proportion of 
the overall spend, it provides the opportunity for 
immediate results. In 2016 the focus will move on 
to direct procurement costs, with the opportunity 
to reduce third-party spend across a range of 
categories. Here Balfour Beatty does not necessarily 
realise the full financial benefit directly, due to gain 
share agreements with some clients, but improves 
the Group’s competitive advantage.
Progress continues to be made to simplify the 
business, with the sale of the signalling business 
SSL in May and agreement to sell the German 
rail electrification business, subject to regulatory 
approvals, reached in December. The UK Regional 
construction business is in the process of rationalising 
its management structure and offices. The Support 
Services and US Construction businesses have 
removed a layer of management.
Expert
 – Ensure that Balfour Beatty has the best 
engineering, design, project management and 
delivery capabilities.
 – The Group metric is average employee satisfaction.
Both the Board and executive management were 
strengthened significantly during 2015. In addition, the 
management structure was simplified and rationalised, 
with layers removed in US Construction and Support 
Services. There were five additions to the Board, 
with a new Chairman, Group Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer joining in the first half of 2015. 
In addition, Stephen Billingham and Stuart Doughty 
joined as non-executive Directors. Stephen has broad 
experience across multiple industries, including 
construction and support services, both from the 
supplier and the client side, as well as having a strong 
background in finance in several complex organisations. 
Stuart is the former chief executive of engineering 
company Costain plc, and has 45 years of highly relevant, 
in-depth experience in the construction industry.
 – In addition to the roles of Group Chief Executive 
and Chief Financial Officer, executive management 
was upgraded during the year, with two-thirds 
of the executive committee comprising new 
appointments to Balfour Beatty or people new to 
post. The business held its first Group Leadership 
Conference in January 2016, bringing together 300 
leaders from across the business.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
16 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Our priorities continued 
Build to Last continued  – The organisation structure of the UK businesses was 
simplified with the heads of Major Projects, Gas and 
Water, Power T&D and Rail all now reporting 
directly to the Group Chief Executive, as does the 
new role of managing director for the Regional and 
Engineering Services business.
At the end of 2015 Balfour Beatty relocated from its 
central London offices to new devolved offices which are 
modern and largely open plan, providing staff with a more 
productive and collaborative working environment.
The ‘My Contribution’ initiative is the mechanism to 
engage all staff directly in Build to Last. Since its launch 
in June, over 3,000 ideas have been submitted, which 
will drive both measurable savings and improvement to 
key processes.
Reward and recognition has been aligned across the 
Group. In 2015, a significant proportion of all bonuses 
were linked to cash performance. A new Group CEO 
share awards scheme has been introduced to align 
incentives for selected key staff who do not qualify for 
share-based bonuses.
For the first time, a single Group-wide employee opinion 
survey was carried out in November, which will provide 
a baseline to monitor employee engagement throughout 
the Build to Last programme.
In 2015, Balfour Beatty hired 156 apprentices and 216 
graduates across the UK and the US. Balfour Beatty is 
a member of The 5% Club, committed to the aim of 
ensuring that, within two years, 5% of the UK workforce 
are apprentices, graduates or sponsored students on 
structured development programmes. The proportion 
of the UK workforce in these categories increased from 
3. 1 % to 4.6% in 2015.
Trusted
 – Be the construction partner of choice for customers 
and supply chain by delivering on promises.
 – The Group metric is customer satisfaction.
During 2015, Balfour Beatty continued to win landmark 
contracts in all its key markets. Considerable progress 
was made to review, adapt and implement improved 
governance, processes and controls particularly with 
respect to the bidding and operation of contracts.
The 8-gated business lifecycle is now mandated for 
all new business with systems and controls in place 
to ensure compliance. The process reduces the risk of 
pursuing inappropriate opportunities, underbidding or 
accepting inappropriate levels of risk. It also reviews the 
cash profile of projects.
Prior to the introduction of the process, progress of bids 
could not be measured. Today across the UK and US 
approximately 14% of bids are known to be terminated 
before Gate 4, the final stage before bid submission. 
Building on the investment in Oracle R12 and Hyperion, 
the Group is using data analytics through the pilot 
of a new, standardised, project reporting and risk-
identification system. For the first time, this will provide 
a complete overview of all active projects to both local 
and senior management eliminating a large amount 
of manual work previously required and improving the 
speed and accessibility of the information required by 
decision makers.
Automated audit tests and business rules – which 
create a risk-weighted list of ‘review required’ projects 
– are being piloted in the UK. The system will be rolled 
out across the businesses in 2016, starting with UK 
Regional construction followed by US Construction. 
This will enable management for the first time to 
invasively monitor and review any project in the system. 
The Group focused on significantly improving customer 
engagement in 2015. The number of customer reviews 
carried out increased by 70% to 1,057 (2014: 622). 
Customer satisfaction scores were higher in 2015 at 
82% (2014: 77%).
Safe
 – Ensure the health and safety of everyone who 
comes into contact with Balfour Beatty’s activities.
 – The Group metric is Zero Harm.
Many of the activities carried out by Balfour Beatty can 
be, by their nature, potentially dangerous. It is therefore 
essential the health and safety of employees and 
those who come into contact with Balfour Beatty is 
a paramount consideration.
A new Group Safety and Sustainability Board 
Committee has been created to ensure that appropriate 
Board governance is maintained over the businesses 
in their identifying and remedy of potential risks. 
Safety matters are regularly reviewed by the Executive 
Committee and Business Unit leadership teams. 
A single UK Health and Safety function was created to 
strengthen leadership and ensure that best practice is 
shared across the business.
The reinvigorated focus on safety has seen an increase 
in safety ‘observations’ of 100%. These observations 
can be identifying positive activities and behaviours, 
as well as potential issues. These observations are an 
indicator of staff engagement.
The Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) for the Group, 
excluding international joint ventures, improved from 
0.31 to 0.24. The recent Group employee opinion 
survey demonstrated that staff have confidence in 
the Group’s attitude to safety. 
New sentencing guidelines published by the Ministry 
of Justice came into effect in early 2016 which have 
the potential to lead to significantly higher penalties for 
Health and Safety breaches. The impact on the industry 
is yet to be fully understood.
17 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Group financial summary
As the business repositioned to focus on profitable 
opportunities, underlying revenue from continuing 
operations, including joint ventures and associates, 
declined by 2% to £8,235 million (2014: £8,440 million). 
Revenue at constant exchange rates (CER) fell by 6% 
as sterling fell against both of the Group’s principal 
foreign currencies, the US dollar and Hong Kong dollar. 
As a result of improved controls and disciplines on 
bidding, together with the decision to withdraw 
from certain types of work in non-core areas, the 
underlying order book declined by 4% in 2015 to 
£11.0 billion (2014: £11.4 billion), down 6% at CER. 
However the quality of the order book improved as 
the business increased bid margin thresholds and 
focused on jobs where the Group can deliver value. 
Construction Services remained stable at £7.9 billion 
(2014: £7.9 billion) as an 11% increase in the US 
offset a 17% decline in the UK; the improved bidding 
framework resulted in lower order intake in areas of the 
UK business that suffered from the greatest contract 
problems in the prior year. The Support Services order 
book declined by 11% to £3.1 billion (2014: £3.5 billion) 
caused largely as the business continued to execute on 
long-term contracts and by the decision to exit a poor 
performing local authority contract. 
At the year-end there was a strong pipeline of projects 
across both Support Services and Construction 
Services that were awarded preferred bidder status 
during 2015. These are not yet included in the order 
book, but are expected to reach final award in 2016.
The underlying loss from continuing operations 
was £106 million (2014: £58 million). 
Infrastructure Investments continued to deliver 
excellent results with profit from operations of 
£132 million (2014: £127 million), including the benefit 
of £95 million of gains from investment disposals 
(2014: £93 million). Underlying losses in Construction 
Services of £229 million (2014: £209 million) were 
largely caused by historic issues in the UK, US and 
Middle East, whilst the Far East performed in line with 
expectations. Support Services profits of £24 million 
(2014: £50 million) were lower than the prior year 
reflecting, in part, the regulatory cycle of some of its 
major customers; profitability in 2015 was impacted by 
lower volumes in the power sector and lower lifecycle 
cost benefits being realised in the utilities sector, as 
well as tough comparatives from the prior year, which 
included positive contract settlements and a strong 
performance in the transportation business.
Results for the year
2015 2014 
Revenue from continuing operations,  
including joint ventures and associates
– underlying £8,235m £8,440m 
– reported £8,444m £8,793m 
Pre-tax loss from continuing operations
– underlying £(123)m £(80)m 
– reported £(199)m £(304)m 
Post-tax (loss)/profit from discontinued operations
– underlying £(1)m £24m 
– reported £nil £242m 
Loss per share
– underlying (19.8)p (8.0)p 
– basic (30.1)p (8.6)p 
Chief Financial Officer’s review
Repositioning Balfour Beatty 
for profitable growth
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
18 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Total loss from continuing operations, including non-
underlying items, was lower than the previous year 
at £182 million (2014: £281 million). This was largely 
due to an improved performance from the Engineering 
Services contracts reported within non-underlying 
items which contributed a loss from operations of 
£8 million (2014: £88 million). Rail Germany’s trading 
losses were £2 million (2014: £23 million).
Net finance costs decreased by £6 million to £17 million 
(2014: £23 million) predominantly due to lower pension 
net interest expense of £3 million (2014: £16 million), 
partially offset by lower subordinated debt 
interest income of £24 million (2014: £29 million). 
Total reported loss before tax from continuing 
operations was £199 million (2014: £304 million). 
Including discontinued operations, the post-tax loss of 
£206 million (2014: £59 million) was greater than the 
prior year due to the £234 million gain on the sale of 
Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2014 that benefited the prior 
year comparative.
Non-underlying items
Pre-tax losses from non-underlying items for 
continuing operations reduced by £148 million to 
£76 million (2014: £224 million). The improvement 
was largely due to lower trading losses on certain 
legacy ES contracts of £8 million (2014: £88 million) 
and lower trading losses in Rail Germany of £2 million 
(2014: £23 million). Non-underlying items also include 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £10 million 
(2014: £11 million).
Significant other non-underlying items included 
£23 million of costs incurred relating to the Group’s 
Build to Last transformation programme which was 
launched in early 2015. At the same time, the Group 
incurred other restructuring costs of £9 million, 
relating to restructuring costs incurred in Rail Germany 
and Heery. Rail Germany also recognised further 
impairment in its underlying assets of £11 million, 
including £4 million relating to joint ventures and 
associates. This is as a result of an impairment 
assessment following an agreement to sell parts 
of Rail Germany to Tianjin Keyvia Electric Co Ltd. 
This agreement remains subject to various approvals 
at the year end.
The Group continued its plan to transition other 
business units to its UK shared service centre in 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, incurring further cost in the year 
of £8 million. In addition, the Group impaired £17 million 
of cost capitalised in relation to the transformation of 
its UK IT estate from a federated to a more centralised 
model due to curtailments in scope and termination of 
the agreement with its implementation partner.
The non-underlying charges recognised in 2015 were 
partially offset by a £16 million gain recognised on the 
disposal of Signalling Solutions Ltd in May 2015.
Taxation
The Group’s underlying loss before tax from 
continuing operations for subsidiaries of £170 million 
(2014: £135 million) resulted in an underlying tax charge 
of £11 million (2014: credit £2 million). The tax charge 
principally arises due to significant non-recognition of 
deferred tax assets on losses incurred in the year.
Discontinued operations
The underlying post-tax loss from discontinued 
operations was £1 million (2014: £24 million profit). 
Total post-tax profit from discontinued operations was 
£nil (2014: £242 million).
Profit from discontinued operations reflects an 
additional gain on disposal of £5 million from the sale 
of Parsons Brinckerhoff, which completed in 2014. 
Profit from discontinued operations also included an 
underlying post-tax loss of £1 million relating to Rail Italy 
which was disposed in March 2015 resulting in a loss 
on disposal of £4 million.
Earnings per share
Underlying loss per share from continuing operations 
was 19.7 pence (2014: 11.5 pence), which along 
with non-underlying loss per share from continuing 
operations of 10.5 pence (2014: 32.4 pence) gave 
a total loss per share for continuing operations of 
30.2 pence (2014: 43.9 pence). Total loss per share 
of  30.1 pence (2014: 8.6 pence) increased on the prior 
year due to the gain on the sale of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
that reduced the total loss per share in 2014.
Cash flow performance
The total cash flow performance, including non-
underlying items, improved on the prior year, as 
the Group focused on cash and working capital 
management throughout 2015. Working capital 
generated an inflow of £178 million (2014: outflow 
£31 million), offset by an operating cash outflow, 
before movements in working capital, of £247 million 
(2014: £272 million) and pension deficit payments 
of £66 million (2014: £49 million). Therefore, 
total cash used in operations was £135 million 
(2014: £352 million) – an improvement of £217 million 
compared to the prior year. In addition, tax refunds of 
£6 million were received (2014: £20 million paid).
The total cash movements in the period resulted in a 
£56 million reduction to the Group’s net cash position, 
excluding non-recourse net borrowings, of £163 million. 
This compares to an increase in the Group’s net cash 
position of £285 million in 2014, which was boosted by 
£723 million of net cash consideration from the sale of 
Parsons Brinckerhoff. Excluding the impact of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff, the Group’s cash performance improved 
by £357 million in 2015, compared to 2014.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Operating cash flows
†
(247) (272)
Working capital 178 (31)
Infrastructure Investments
– disposal proceeds 145 159
– new investments (102) (73)
Pension deficit payments (66) (49)
Parsons Brinckerhoff net 
proceeds 25 723
Other 11 (172)
Cash (outflow)/inflow (56) 285
Cash outflow excl. PB net 
proceeds (81) (438)
Opening net cash/(debt)
*
219 (66)
Movements in the year (56) 285
Closing net cash
*
163 219
†
 Before pension deficit payments.
* Excluding infrastructure concessions (non-recourse).
19 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Working capital
The focus on improving working capital management, 
as part of the Build to Last programme, resulted 
in favourable operating working capital increasing 
by £178 million. The increase is mainly driven by 
Construction Services, where an increase in favourable 
working capital of £182 million has occurred. Working  
capital for Support Services was broadly in line with 
December 2014’s position. 
The Group has been particularly focused on driving 
working capital inflows from improvements in its 
billing and WIP management; converting debtors 
and WIP into cash at a quicker rate. This is reflected 
in an improved working capital position held as trade 
and other receivables, which generated a £74 million 
working capital inflow (2014: £43 million outflow), and 
a reduction in inventories and non-construction work in 
progress, which generated a £27 million working capital 
inflow (2014: £30 million outflow). 
Movements in the Group’s due from/due to 
construction contract customers balances, which 
reflect the net unbilled contract position and traded 
profit and loss for each individual construction contract, 
generated a working capital inflow of £313 million 
(2014: £43 million outflow). A portion of this inflow 
is a result of risk contingencies recognised on 
specific construction contracts. Offsetting this is a 
working capital outflow in trade and other payables 
of £236 million (2014: £85 million inflow) as a result 
of the Group settling creditor invoices within a quicker 
timeframe compared to the previous year and cash 
outflows on historic loss-making contracts.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Working capital movements
Inventory & WIP 27 (30)
Construction contract balances
#
313 (43)
Trade & other payables (236) 85
Trade & other receivables 74 (43)
178 (31)
#
 Including provisions.
Including the impact of foreign exchange and disposals 
in the year, favourable working capital increased to 
£890 million at December 2015 (2014: £731 million).
Pensions
The Group’s balance sheet includes aggregate deficits 
of £146 million (2014: £128 million) for pension 
schemes. The Group recorded net actuarial losses 
on those schemes of £86 million (2014: £237 million 
gains). The small increase in the deficit in the year is 
largely as a result of poor performance of the return-
seeking assets in the Group’s largest scheme. 
In July 2015, following the establishment of a Scottish 
Limited Partnership (SLP) into which the Group 
transferred its 40% interest in the Birmingham Hospital 
PFI concession, agreement was reached to defer the 
payment of £85 million, which had been due to be paid 
to the BBPF in 2015, over the period to 2023 with the 
first payment of £4 million due in 2016.
The next formal triennial valuation of the Group’s 
largest pension scheme, the Balfour Beatty Pension 
Fund, will be as at 31 March 2016. The Company 
remains committed to proactively working with the 
trustees to agree an appropriate level of funding 
which is consistent with the Build to Last programme 
and allows the Company and the trustees to meet 
their obligations.
Goodwill and intangible assets
The goodwill on the Group’s balance sheet at 
31 December 2015 increased by £18 million to 
£844 million (2014: £826 million), primarily relating to 
movements in foreign currency being partially offset 
by a £4 million charge in respect of Blackpool airport. 
Impairment reviews have been carried out, and none 
of the carrying values have been impaired.
In light of the significant losses incurred within the 
UK construction business in 2015, the Group has 
considered whether a reasonable possible change 
in assumptions would lead to an impairment of the 
goodwill in the related cash-generating units and 
concluded that it is not the case. The stabilisation and 
recovery of the Group’s UK construction business to 
more normal levels of performance is, however, a key 
assumption underpinning the cash flow forecasts 
used to assess the recoverable amount of the 
related goodwill.
Other intangible assets increased to £222 million 
(2014: £216 million), which is primarily driven by 
additions in the period, including £23 million in 
Infrastructure Investments from the continuing 
construction of Edinburgh student accommodation 
and £20 million spend on software, partially offset by 
a £17 million impairment charge against the Group’s UK 
software assets due to curtailments in the scope of the 
implementation and termination of the agreement with 
its implementation partner.
Banking facilities
In December 2015, the Group agreed a new 
£400 million syndicated revolving credit facility, 
refinancing the facilities that had been due to 
expire in 2016. The size of the credit facility was 
reduced, consistent with the Group’s ongoing capital 
requirements and the underlying strength of the 
balance sheet. The new facility extends through 
to 2018, with the option for two additional one-
year extensions through to 2020, subject to bank 
approval. At 31 December 2015, these bank facilities 
were undrawn. 
Net borrowings
The Group’s net cash position at 31 December 
2015, excluding non-recourse net borrowings, was 
£163 million (2014: £219 million), representing a 
strong cash flow performance as working capital 
inflows mitigated the operating losses. Average net 
cash in 2015 was £3 million (2014: £371 million net 
borrowings). Non-recourse net borrowings held in 
wholly-owned infrastructure concessions reduced to 
£365 million (2014: £445 million). The balance sheet 
also includes £98 million for the liability component 
of the preference shares.
Chief Financial Officer’s review continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
20 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Outlook and dividend
Build to Last is a long-term transformation programme 
designed to deliver superior returns for all stakeholders 
from a Group which is lean, expert, trusted and safe. 
The first 24 months are focused on driving consistent 
processes across the Group to provide transparency 
and short interval control. At the same time, key 
investments are being maintained to enhance Balfour 
Beatty’s core strengths. 
The trading environment in the Group’s core UK and 
US markets remains positive. In the UK, Government 
policy is helping to drive a strong pipeline of major 
infrastructure projects in transport and energy. In the 
US, the transportation bill signed in December 2015 
gives visibility over a five-year period that will provide 
further growth opportunities. This positive market 
backdrop allows the Group to be more selective, 
targeting contracts with improved profitability and cash 
flow dynamics. Whilst in the short term this may lead 
to some revenue contraction in certain sectors, such as 
UK regional construction, it will have the corresponding 
effect of gradually improving Group margins as historic 
contracts reach completion, bidding disciplines tighten 
and overhead and procurement savings are delivered.
In its initial year, Build to Last has begun to deliver 
measurable improvements: costs are coming down 
and cash flow has improved substantially, such that 
the Board expects to reinstate the dividend, at an 
appropriate level, at the interim results in August 2016.
By the end of 2016, Balfour Beatty will have achieved 
its Phase One targets. Over the following 24 months, 
the Group expects each of its businesses to reach 
industry-standard margins, with the foundations in 
place to build a Balfour Beatty with market leading 
strengths and performance over the longer term.
Financial risk factors and going concern
The key financial risk factors for the Group remain 
largely unchanged. Some elements of the Group’s 
markets are recovering, and this can lead to increased 
risk of subcontractor failures, due to their cash 
requirements for increased working capital, and also 
the potential for inflationary pressures in some areas. 
On the other hand, this should also reduce pressure on 
bidding margins.
The Group’s US private placement and committed bank 
facilities contain certain financial covenants, such as 
the ratio of the Group’s EBITDA to its net debt which 
needs to be less than 3.0 and the ratio of its EBITA to 
net borrowing costs which needs to be in excess of 
3.0. These covenants are tested on a rolling 12-month 
basis as at the June and December reporting dates. 
At 31 December 2015, both these covenants were 
passed as the Group had net cash and net interest 
income from a covenant test perspective, so the 
Group’s poor trading performance and consequent low 
level of EBIT had no impact on these tests.
The Group is forecasting to remain within its banking 
covenants during 2016. The losses incurred in the 
second half of 2015 will be included in the 12-month 
EBIT for the purpose of the covenant tests at June 
2016, which will reduce headroom against these tests. 
In considering that forecast, account was taken of the 
range of mitigating actions to conserve and generate 
cash and EBIT. While recognising that there can be 
no absolute certainty, the Directors believe that these 
covenant tests will be met.
The Directors have acknowledged the guidance ‘Going 
Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors 
of UK Companies 2009’ published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in October 2009. In reviewing the 
future prospects of the Group, the following factors 
are relevant:
 – the Group has a strong order backlog
 – there continues to be underlying demand in 
infrastructure markets in the countries in which the 
Group operates
 – excluding the non-recourse net borrowings of PPP 
subsidiaries, the Group had net cash balances 
of £163 million at 31 December 2015 and has 
committed bank facilities of £400 million lasting 
until December 2018, which were undrawn at 
31 December 2015.
Based on the above, and having made appropriate 
enquiries and reviewed medium-term cash forecasts, 
the Directors consider it reasonable to assume that the 
Group and the Company have adequate resources to 
continue for the foreseeable future and, for this reason, 
have continued to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
To appreciate the prospects for the Group as a whole, 
the complete Annual Report and Accounts 2015 needs 
to be read.
Philip Harrison
Chief Financial Officer
21 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Operational review
UK
The UK construction business is organised into three 
business units consisting of:
 – Major Projects: focused on complex projects in 
key market sectors such as transportation, heavy 
infrastructure and energy.
 – Regional: private and public, civil engineering and 
building, providing customers with locally delivered, 
flexible and fully integrated civil and building services.
 – Engineering Services: mechanical and 
electrical engineering.
Underlying revenue in the UK fell by 14% to 
£2,024 million, predominantly due to a decline in the 
Regional construction business. The UK business 
continued to be more selective in the work that it bid, 
through increased bid margin thresholds, improved 
risk frameworks and better contract governance. 
Revenues were lower due to the lower levels of order 
intake in 2014 and as the improved bidding disciplines 
resulted in lower levels of contracts in previous problem 
areas. The business areas that saw the greatest 
revenue decline were those that suffered from the 
greatest contract problems, such as Engineering 
Services, London and the South West. As the UK 
business focused on improving the quality of new 
orders, the UK order book declined by 17%.
The underlying loss from the UK construction business 
was £187 million (2014: £229 million), after provisions 
were taken to maintain an adequate level of cover 
against the likely end contract positions on a number 
of historic contracts that suffered schedule slippages 
and operational deterioration. The total loss from the 
UK construction business after including the results of 
the non-underlying Engineering Services contracts was 
£195 million (2014: £317 million).
The business is continuing to manage the historic 
problem contracts through to completion. At the 2015 
half-year 89 historic contracts were identified that have 
had a material negative impact on profitability and 
cash. The Group continued to make good progress 
in completing on these contracts. As at the end of 
December 2015, 60% of these projects were already 
at practical or financial completion, up from 31% as at 
June 2015. By the end of 2016, the number of these 
projects at practical or financial completion is still 
expected to be greater than 90%.
A number of significant changes were made during 
the year to improve the operational and financial 
performance of the business. The senior leadership 
within the UK Regional and Engineering Services 
business has been strengthened by the appointment of 
a new managing director who, along with the managing 
director of Major Projects, now reports directly to 
the Group Chief Executive. The regional business 
was also further streamlined, to focus on profitable 
markets, with a reduction in delivery units from 19 to 
11. The gated risk management framework has been 
introduced to ensure rigour and control during both 
the sale and delivery phases of the contract lifecycle. 
Financial reporting is undergoing a radical overhaul 
with the introduction of Oracle R12, and new, uniform 
reporting dashboards have been introduced across the 
business which are already starting to provide clear, 
regular reporting to senior management.
Financial review
The construction business continued to be more 
selective in the work that it bid, through increased 
bid margin thresholds, improved risk frameworks and 
better contract governance. As a result of these actions 
there was a small decline of 3% (7% decline at CER) 
in underlying revenue from continuing operations to 
£6,388 million (2014: £6,597 million). Revenues in the 
UK fell by 14% due to the lower levels of order intake in 
the prior year and as the improved bidding disciplines 
resulted in lower levels of contracts in previous problem 
areas. This was partially offset by a revenue increase of 
3% in the US (4% decline at CER) and a 16% increase 
in Hong Kong (8% at CER).
Underlying loss from continuing operations was 
£229 million (2014: £209 million). This was largely due 
to historic issues in the UK, US and Middle East that 
resulted in profit write-downs and contract provisions. 
Total loss from continuing operations reduced by 
£111 million to £280 million (2014: £391 million), 
reflecting lower losses arising from Rail Germany and 
the legacy Engineering Services contracts, as they 
largely performed to expectations in 2015.
The improved bidding disciplines also resulted in the 
order book remaining broadly stable during the year 
(4% decline at CER), as strong growth in the US 
and the Middle East offset declines in the UK and 
elsewhere. At the same time, the quality of the UK 
order book improved as bid margin thresholds and the 
focus on larger jobs rose. At the year end there was a 
strong pipeline of projects that were awarded preferred 
bidder status during 2015. These are not yet included 
in the order book, but are expected to reach final award 
in 2016.
Across the construction portfolio there remain a small 
number of long-term and complex projects where 
the Group has incorporated significant judgements 
over contractual entitlements. The range of potential 
outcomes could result in a materially positive or 
negative swing to underlying profitability and cash flow. 
In the UK, the majority of these contracts are within 
Major Projects. Outside of the UK this primarily relates 
to a small number of contracts in Hong Kong, which 
have been recorded at break-even. Several of these 
claims are expected to reach commercial settlement 
in 2016.
The Group has continued to present the results of 
certain external legacy Engineering Services (ES) 
contracts and Rail Germany as non-underlying in the 
year. These ES contracts were classified as non-
underlying items in 2014 as they relate to poor legacy 
management and in regions where ES withdrew from 
tendering for third-party work.
£6,388m
Revenue
1
Order book
1
£7.9bn
(Loss)/profit from 
operations
1,2
£(229)m
1
 From continuing 
operations including 
share of joint ventures 
and associates, before 
non-underlying items.
2
 Total loss from 
continuing operations 
was £280 million 
(2014: £391 million), 
including non-
underlying items.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
22 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
What we’ve been doing in 2015 
Construction Services The Major Projects business had a number of landmark 
successes in 2015, including a £416 million contract 
for the construction of the six-kilometre ‘West’ 
section of London’s new ‘super sewer’, the Thames 
Tideway Tunnel, as part of a joint venture with BAM 
and Morgan Sindall. Construction is expected to last 
until 2022 and is worth approximately £139 million to 
Balfour Beatty. The highways business was awarded a 
£104 million road scheme for Norfolk County Council to 
complete works on the Norwich Northern Distributor 
Road, including the construction of 19.6 kilometres 
of new dual carriageway, nine new roundabouts and 
seven new bridges. The London Olympic Stadium 
transformation successfully reached its planned phase 
completion in time for the stadium to host the Diamond 
League athletics and the Rugby World Cup events.
Included within the projects ‘awarded but not 
contracted’ in Major Projects, the Highways business 
was selected to deliver a smart motorway package 
worth up to £607 million to upgrade sections of 
the M5, M6 and M4, in joint venture with VINCI – 
representing the largest of Highways England’s three 
packages across its £1.5 billion smart motorway 
programme. Highways England also appointed a 
Balfour Beatty Carillion joint venture as preferred 
bidder on the £292 million construction package to 
widen a critical and complex 10-mile stretch of the 
existing A14, as part of the wider A14 Cambridge to 
Huntingdon improvement scheme. Within nuclear, 
the business was appointed preferred bidder for the 
£460 million Hinckley Point C power station electrical 
package for EDF Energy, in joint venture with NG 
Bailey. The work will deliver the critical infrastructure to 
power the station, including cabling totalling over 3,000 
kilometres in length, fire and environmental sealing and 
specialist packages associated with data acquisition 
and plant control. 
The Major Projects business is also continuing 
to pursue a number of major infrastructure 
opportunities across the core transportation and 
energy markets, with the largest being High Speed 2 
(HS2). The proposed rail route will connect London, 
Birmingham, Leeds and Manchester; construction is 
scheduled to start in 2018 and will last 17 years, with 
total estimated costs of over £50 billion. Balfour Beatty 
and VINCI are in joint venture pursuing work on HS2, 
utilising the expertise acquired by both companies 
on High Speed 1, VINCI’s involvement on the €8bn 
Tours-Bordeaux high-speed rail project in France, and 
Balfour Beatty’s extensive work on transport networks 
across the UK and overseas. In December 2015 the 
Balfour Beatty VINCI joint venture was successfully 
shortlisted for the first stage of this iconic project, for 
£900m of preparatory work, and is actively pursuing 
a number of civil engineering and station packages 
that will be awarded under long-term, collaborative 
contracts. In addition the highways market continues to 
provide good growth opportunities following Highways 
England’s commitment to spend £11.4 billion on capital 
projects over the five-year period to 2020.
The Regional business works on a large number 
of smaller projects, located throughout the UK. 
Notable new contract awards in the period included 
an £80 million contract to construct the National 
Automotive Innovation Centre (NAIC) in Coventry 
for the University of Warwick, a £32 million contract 
to build Baltic Triangle, a three-tower residential 
development in Liverpool city centre and a £28 million 
contract for the redevelopment of Dundee rail station 
in Scotland. The business enjoyed continued success 
in the defence sector with the award of a £35 million 
contract at RAF Brize Norton, for the construction 
of a new aircraft maintenance facility, in addition to 
the ongoing construction of the Defence College of 
Technical Training at the former RAF Lyneham airbase.
We’re redeveloping 
and reconfiguring the 
Olympic Stadium into 
a 60,000 seat arena to 
host football, athletics 
and concerts.
23 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Included within the projects ‘awarded but not 
contracted’, the Regional business was appointed 
by the University of Manchester to deliver the 
bulk of its £1 billion capital programme through 
a partnership framework agreement along with 
two other contractors. As part of the framework 
Balfour Beatty has been selected as construction 
partner on the University’s flagship project, the 
£350 million Manchester Engineering Campus 
Development, with a full construction contract award 
expected in spring 2016. In London, the business 
was selected to deliver pre-construction services 
for The Madison; a £150 million scheme for the 
construction of a 187 metre, 53-storey residential 
tower, adjacent to Canary Wharf in London Docklands, 
with full construction award expected in mid-2016. 
The business was also selected to deliver the pre-
construction services contract for a £130 million 
renovation and new-build scheme at No. 1 Palace 
Street, in St James’. Construction of the 72 apartments 
is due to start in early 2016. The Regional business also 
secured a number of significant framework positions, 
including: sole contractor for a £1.5 billion framework 
operated by Scape Group, which is open to all public 
sector bodies in the UK and covers projects ranging 
from road repairs, new bridges and coastal defence 
works to light rail schemes and major road projects; 
and the £800 million southern construction framework 
for public sector work in the South West.
US
Revenues in the US grew by 3% in the period (4% 
decline at CER), whilst the order book increased by 
11% (6% at CER). The business reported a loss from 
operations for the year of £22 million (2014: £29 million 
profit), as losses in the first half outweighed a return to 
profitability in the second half.
Profitability was impacted by write-downs and 
provisions relating to historic issues. A number of multi-
family housing unit projects, bid primarily in 2012 and 
2013 by a now discontinued business unit in the South 
East, suffered subcontractor failures. Two projects in 
the federal healthcare sector, which had been bid pre 
2011, suffered programme overruns and subcontractor 
performance issues. In addition, provisions were 
included against a small number of other contracts, 
primarily awarded in 2013 or earlier.
In the US approximately 85% of revenues are 
generated from the general building market, with the 
infrastructure market accounting for the remaining 15%. 
In the building business, revenues were relatively 
stable with only a 3% decline at CER. The order book 
increased by 8% at CER, as the business continued 
to see strong order intake despite improved bidding 
disciplines. The business remains focused on working 
with repeat customers and where it can deliver value. 
The organisational structure of the US building business 
was simplified to create a leaner structure, as part of 
the Build to Last programme, with the removal of the 
top layer of regional management.
We recently completed the largest healthcare project 
in the US: the New Parkland Hospital in Dallas is a 
1.9 million sq ft 862-bed hospital.
We’ve built The Diamond, a multi-disciplinary teaching and 
research facility in Sheffield with specialised laboratories and 
a clean room to facilitate study and research.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
24 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
What we’ve been doing in 2015 continued 
Construction Services continued Notable awards included a US$268 million contract for 
the construction of a million-square-foot office campus 
in Plano, Texas. The 9.3 acre campus will include 
two 19-storey twin towers connected by a 4,600-car 
parking garage, an on-site medical centre and retail 
space on the lower levels. In Texas, a US$175 million 
contract was awarded for a high-rise residential tower 
in Austin. In Seattle, a US$154 million design and build 
contract was awarded for the King County justice 
facility. In San Francisco, a US$176 million contract 
was awarded for a mixed-use development. In Florida, 
contract wins for a 50-storey luxury residential tower 
in Miami and a new resort hotel featuring 1,000 guest 
rooms, totalled approximately US$300 million.
In the infrastructure business, revenues were flat 
on the prior year but profitability was lower due to 
provisions being taken against ongoing contract 
disputes and favourable contract resolutions that 
benefited the prior year. The order book grew due 
to a number of awards, including a US$582 million 
design-build contract for the Bergstrom Expressway 
in Austin, Texas, awarded in joint venture with 
Fluor Corporation, a US$179 million contract for the 
modernisation of the Rinconada water treatment plant 
in California and a US$140 million contract in Denver for 
the extension of Regional Transport District’s light-rail 
line across Denver’s south-east suburbs. The business 
continued to pursue design-build and alternative 
delivery projects in its key rail, highway and water 
markets to reflect ongoing changes in procurement 
trends in the marketplace. As expected, in 2015 the 
market showed a considerable increase in design-build 
procurement opportunities and a decrease in hard-bid 
project opportunities.
A new US$305 billion transportation bill was signed 
in December 2015, providing guaranteed funding for 
a five-year period. Whilst funding levels were broadly 
held flat it is the first transportation funding bill lasting 
longer than two years since 2005. This will permit 
longer-term project planning horizons in the public 
market and, in due course, lead to improved visibility for 
public funded projects that have been slow to come to 
market. There are good medium-term opportunities for 
the business, but there remain risks that a number of 
new contract awards continue to slip into later years.
International
The Group also operates in South East Asia and the 
Middle East, through joint ventures. Revenue in the 
Group’s Hong Kong and Singapore joint venture, 
Gammon, increased by 16% (8% at CER), due in 
particular to growth in major building projects which 
overtook civils to become the largest division in 2015. 
Revenue benefited from new projects awarded in 2014, 
such as the Tuen Mun Area 54 housing development 
and the Hong Kong Science Park phase 3C. Profits in 
the region increased to £19 million (2014: £12 million). 
The order book was 13% lower at CER as the business 
continued to execute on long-term major infrastructure 
projects, with a number reaching completion during 
the period. At the end of December, the new Midfield 
Concourse at Hong Kong International Airport, under 
construction since 2011, opened to commercial 
flights, providing capacity for an additional 10 million 
passengers every year. New awards during 
the year included: the TW5 Cityside residential property 
development which includes the construction of seven 
residential towers, worth HK$3.2 billion (£270 million); 
the development of 33 Tong Yin Street, including 
residential towers and retail areas; and the conversion 
of the ex-government Murray building into a hotel.
In the Middle East, the order book grew in 2015 with 
significant growth in the construction joint venture 
in Dubai. Wins included a contract with Meeras for a 
mixed-use development on the Dubai Creek waterfront 
and work on phase 1 of the Container Terminal 4 
project at Jebel Ali Port. Reviews of the Middle East 
historic contracts resulted in an increase in project-
specific provisions, predominantly in the mechanical 
and electrical engineering business, for additional cost 
overruns and claim recovery shortfalls. As a result 
losses from operations in the region were £34 million 
(2014: £15 million).
Rail
Revenue and the order book declined, as expected, 
following the disposal of the Group’s 50% stake in 
Signalling Solutions Ltd, the exit from the North-West 
electrification project and a reduction in operations 
outside the UK. Underlying losses in the period were 
£5 million (2014: £6 million) due to lower volumes 
and as the business continued to be impacted by 
poor contract performance on a small number of 
rail projects.
In the first half, phase 2 of the North-West 
electrification project reached practical completion. 
However, following a review of future schemes in 
the North-West, it was concluded that the proposed 
alliance was unlikely to meet its stated objectives of 
delivering the scope of the work on time and to budget. 
In July, it was agreed with Network Rail that Balfour 
Beatty would not continue with the alliance framework 
for phases 3-7.
In December, agreement was reached to sell parts 
of the German Rail business to Tianjin Keyvia Electric 
Co Ltd, and this remains subject to various approvals. 
The results of Rail Germany have been presented as 
non-underlying items within continuing operations, as 
the Group remains committed to exiting the remaining 
parts of the German rail business.
We’re working with 
Heathrow Airport to 
maintain and upgrade 
Terminals 1, 2 and 4, 
with works ranging 
from structural 
upgrades to multiple 
asset replacements 
such as escalators and 
passenger conveyors, 
passenger and goods 
lifts, air conditioning 
systems, retail areas, 
CCTV and access and 
security systems.
25 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 What we’ve been doing in 2015 continued 
Support Services
The utilities business operates across power 
transmission and distribution and the gas and water 
sectors. Revenues in utilities fell due to an expected 
decline in Power revenues whilst revenues in Gas 
& Water remained stable. Profitability fell as a result 
of lower volumes in Power, particularly in overhead 
lines, and due to timing differences as the utilities 
business realised lower lifecycle cost savings in the 
period that are now expected to be realised in future 
years. This was partially offset by positive contract 
performance on completion of AMP5 water contracts 
and following mobilisation of the new AMP6 contracts. 
The order book remained stable as new contract 
awards in Water were offset by declines elsewhere 
as the business continued to execute on long-
term contracts.
Within Power, revenues and profitability declined 
following the completion of the Beauly Denny project 
in Scotland, lower volumes coming from the National 
Grid Alliance projects and the completion of other 
overhead lines projects in Scotland. This was partially 
offset by growth in the offshore transmission (OFTO) 
market, following emergency cable repairs successfully 
completed on both the Thanet and Gwynt y Môr 
sub-sea cables. As a result of this work the business 
was awarded a new 20-year operate and maintain 
(O&M) contract for the Gwynt y Môr sub-sea cables, in 
addition to 20-year contracts already secured for Thanet 
and Greater Gabbard. The business continues to see 
medium-term opportunities within the cabling market, 
as demonstrated by the award of the Nemo sub-sea 
cable interconnector between the UK and Belgium, the 
Group’s first win in an expanding market, and preferred 
bidder status for the construction and maintenance 
of the cable systems for Eleclink, the Channel Tunnel 
interconnector project.
Financial review
Revenue for the division fell by 1% to £1,259 million 
(2014: £1,273 million), as growth in utilities was 
offset by a decline in transport. Revenues in utilities 
grew by 2% as growth in Gas & Water more than 
offset an expected decline in Power. Revenues from 
transport declined by 4%, as a decline from local 
authority work more than offset growth in highways. 
Underlying profit from operations declined to 
£24 million (2014: £50 million). Profits for the year 
were impacted by a weak first half partially offset 
by an improved performance in the second half. 
Profitability in 2015 was lower than the prior year due to 
lower volumes in the power sector, lower lifecycle cost 
benefits being realised and due to tough comparatives 
from the prior year, which included positive contract 
settlements and a strong performance in the 
transportation business.
The Support Services order book decreased by 11% 
to £3.1 billion (2014: £3.5 billion) due to an expected 
decline in transportation whilst utilities remained 
broadly stable. The transportation order book fell 
largely due to the active decision to exit from a 
poor performing local authority contract and as the 
business continued to execute on long-term contracts. 
The utilities order book remained flat as growth in 
water offset expected declines in gas and power.
Operational review
As part of the Build to Last transformation programme, 
the organisational structure of Support Services was 
simplified during the first half; the top management 
layer was disbanded, with the managing directors of 
each business now reporting directly to the Group 
Chief Executive. This brings the Group’s expertise 
closer to strategically important customers, whilst also 
eliminating waste. The leaner structure enables the 
Group to more efficiently identify and focus on growth 
opportunities and deliver value in complex projects, in 
what are increasingly challenging regulated markets.
£1,259m
Revenue
1
Order book
1
£3.1bn
Profit from 
operations
1
£24m
We’re partners in a 
strategic joint venture 
to provide water and 
waste asset solutions 
as part of Thames 
Water’s ‘super-
alliance’.
1
 From continuing 
operations including 
share of joint ventures 
and associates, before 
non-underlying items.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
26 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Gas & Water revenues remained stable. Volumes in 
the gas distribution strategic partnership contracts 
with National Grid returned to more normalised levels 
from the lower comparatives in 2014. However, this 
was largely offset by the expected decline in revenues 
within the Water business as it completed work under 
the AMP5 regulatory cycle and transitioned to the 
new AMP6 regulatory cycle, which controls capital 
expenditure across the network from April 2015 
through to 2020. The Water business was awarded 
a further contract under the AMP6 regulatory period, 
as a one-third partner in a joint venture, which includes 
Skanska and MWH Treatment, providing water 
asset solutions as part of Thames Water’s ‘super-
alliance’. This contract has a value to Balfour Beatty of 
approximately £265 million over the initial five years 
and follows on from a two-year Early Contractor 
Involvement phase that started in March 2013.
The Transportation business operates across rail, 
highways and managed road schemes for local 
authorities. Revenues decreased by 4% due to a 
decline in local authority work whilst revenues in 
highways and rail remained stable. Profitability fell 
slightly as an improved performance in the rail sector 
was offset by an expected decline in highways, whose 
performance was boosted by contract settlements 
in 2014. The order book declined as the business 
continued to execute on long-term contracts and due to 
the exit from a poor performing local authority contract.
Highways revenues remained stable as the business 
continued to deliver on long-term contracts for 
Highways England. New contract awards during the 
period included a 10-year extension to its existing 
contract to deliver O&M activities on a 64-mile section 
of the A30/A35 trunk road across Devon and Dorset. 
Profitability was lower than in 2014, but this was due 
to positive contract settlements recognised in 2014.
Local Authority revenues declined due to reduced 
volumes on highways contracts and following the 
decision to exit one contract which had suffered 
operational and commercial issues. Whilst profitability 
remained relatively stable, the order book declined. 
At the start of 2016, the business was awarded a 
£245 million highways maintenance contract over 
seven years for Coventry City Council, Solihull 
Metropolitan Borough Council and Warwickshire 
County Council. This unique collaborative arrangement 
enables the business to work in partnership with the 
three councils as a single source service provider, and 
will result in better value for money, improved service 
resilience and flexibility in service provision.
The rail business remained stable in the period as rail 
renewal work for London Underground largely offset 
the loss of revenue from exiting the Network Rail 
‘rail renewals’ contract in 2014, and the completion 
of a rail grinding contract. Profitability improved 
in the year due to higher volumes on the London 
Underground contract.
We’re installing high-voltage electricity cables in deep 
underground tunnels, protecting London’s future 
demand for energy.
 www.balfourbeatty.com/showcase
Balfour Beatty carried out a land-to-sea horizontal 
directional drill (HDD) crossing to connect a 220kV cable 
between Hunterston and Kintyre in Scotland.
27 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Operational review
The Investments business continued to grow with 
its appointment as preferred bidder on eight new 
projects where equity will be invested, comprising: 
two university student accommodation projects, 
three private rental housing projects, one OFTO, 
one healthcare project and one energy project. 
The business had reached financial close on four 
of these projects as at 31 December 2015, as well 
as reaching financial close on three of the projects 
which were already preferred bidder at the start of 
2015. Seven projects currently remain at preferred 
bidder, with investment already made into one 
of these projects, located in Glasgow, in order to 
begin construction.
The Investments business was also appointed as 
third-party manager on three fee-based portfolios in 
the residential sector, consisting of seven locations in 
Florida, where no equity will be invested, as well as one 
fee-based student accommodation project that reached 
preferred bidder stage in 2014.
UK new contract wins and financial closes
The business continued to grow its presence within the 
student accommodation sector, with the appointment 
as preferred bidder on two new projects in 2015; this 
brings the total number of student accommodation 
projects in the UK and the US to nine. In January 2015, 
the business was appointed preferred bidder for the 
University of Sussex’s East Slope Residences project, 
for the development of 2,000 new bedrooms and 
other innovative student amenities. Balfour Beatty will 
design, build, finance and operate the project under 
a 50-year contract, in partnership with the university. 
In Glasgow, the business is designing, building and 
financing a 520-bed facility on Kennedy Street, which 
will also include ground floor retail spaces and a 
student hub.
Financial review
The Investments business delivered another strong 
performance, having continued its strategy of 
optimising value through the disposal of mature assets, 
whilst also continuing to invest in new opportunities 
and expanding the breadth of assets.
Underlying profit from operations increased to 
£132 million (2014: £127 million). The pre-disposals 
operating profit increased by £3 million to £37 million 
(2014: £34 million). A strong underlying operational 
performance, as well as lower bidding and overhead 
costs, more than offset lower income from movements 
in the fair value of PPP financial assets and recognition 
of bid costs deferred income. Gains on disposal 
were £95 million (2014: £93 million) as the business 
completed four disposals in the year, one of which 
was a partial disposal; total disposal proceeds 
were £145 million. Net interest income declined to 
£29 million (2014: £35 million) due to the loss of interest 
income from disposed assets. Underlying profit before 
tax remained stable at £161 million (2014: £162 million).
The Directors’ valuation of the Investments portfolio 
decreased to £1,244 million as at December 2015 
(2014: £1,300 million), after realising £145 million of 
disposal proceeds and £82 million of distributions, 
which were partially offset by £102 million of new 
investments. The number of investments within the 
portfolio increased to 71 (2014: 66) as the business 
continued to invest in new opportunities.
£588m
Revenue
1
Directors’ 
valuation
£1.24bn
Pre-tax result
1
£161m
We’re delivering a 
30-year concession for 
the financing, design, 
build and maintenance 
of the Campbell River 
and Comox Valley 
Hospitals on 
Vancouver Island, 
British Columbia.
What we’ve been doing in 2015 continued 
Infrastructure Investments
1
 From continuing 
operations including 
share of joint ventures 
and associates, before 
non-underlying items.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
28 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 The Group has built a strong market position within 
the specialised, but sizeable, offshore transmission 
(OFTO) market for the provision of sub-sea cabling 
and substations that connect offshore wind farms 
to the mainland electricity grid. In February 2015, 
a Balfour Beatty consortium with Equitix completed 
the asset purchase of the £352 million Gwynt y Môr 
offshore transmission project connecting the 576MW 
offshore wind farm to the onshore transmission grid in 
North Wales. In September, the same Balfour Beatty 
consortium was appointed preferred bidder to own 
and operate the offshore transmission link for the 
220MW Humber Gateway wind project over a 20-year 
period. This wind farm, located in the North Sea off 
the coast of East Yorkshire, features 73 wind turbines 
that can meet the energy requirements of around 
170,000 homes.
In March 2015, the business, in partnership with Places 
for People, signed a development agreement with the 
London Legacy Development Corporation to invest and 
construct the new East Wick and Sweetwater housing 
development project. The project at Queen Elizabeth 
Olympic Park in East London will create two new 
neighbourhoods with up to 1,500 homes, including 450 
affordable homes, 530 homes for private sale and 500 
private rented sector homes.
In the energy sector, the £52 million Welland Waste 
Wood power station project reached financial close in 
March 2015. Once complete, the project will convert 
60,000 tonnes of dry waste wood feedstock into 9MW 
of electricity – powering over 17,000 households a year.
Within healthcare, the Investments business, in 
consortium with Prime and InfraRed Capital Partners 
was selected as preferred tenderer for the €140 million 
Irish Primary Care PPP project to deliver 14 primary 
care centres across Ireland, in the first programme of 
its kind in the Republic of Ireland’s primary care market.
North America new contract wins and 
financial closes
In North America, the Investments business reached 
financial close on the acquisition of stakes in three 
private rental housing developments and reached 
financial close on two student accommodation 
projects, one of which is an expansion of an existing 
student accommodation project. Balfour Beatty 
Communities will perform property management 
services for each development, leveraging the existing 
capabilities of the business. These include: a 398-unit 
garden style apartment community in Coppell, Texas; 
a portfolio of five apartment communities in Dallas-Fort 
Worth, Texas; a 392-unit multifamily community in 
Rogers, Arkansas; a 595-bed student accommodation 
project in Dallas, Texas; and a 420-bed student 
accommodation expansion project in Iowa. In addition, 
the Investments business reached financial close on 
one fee-based student accommodation project located 
in Texas.
We delivered mechanical, electrical and process 
services for the leading edge facility that will carry 
out detailed research into Graphene.
We’re delivering an innovative Public Realm contract for 
Herefordshire County Council including highways maintenance 
and improvement works, street lighting, street cleaning, public 
rights of way, parks and open spaces. 
29 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 The Investments business continues to pursue 
opportunities to leverage its existing property 
management, customer services and related real 
estate capabilities from the multifamily, military, and 
student housing markets. This has resulted in winning 
a number of fee-based residential projects, where no 
equity will be invested and the business acts as a third-
party manager; three further portfolios were awarded 
in 2015, consisting of seven locations in Florida. 
The Investments business continues to see significant 
opportunities for future investment in the sector as well 
as third-party management opportunities.
Asset sales and new investment
The business continued its stated strategy of selling 
assets at the optimum time to maximise value for the 
Group. Interests in four assets were sold in 2015, one 
of which was a partial disposal, generating total book 
gains on disposal of £95 million (2014: £93 million 
from three assets). The business sold its 50% interest 
in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary project, 80% of its 
interest in the Thanet OFTO project (where the Group 
retains a 20% interest), its 20% interest in the Aura 
BSF schools project in Newcastle and its 33.3% 
interest in the Greater Gabbard OFTO project. All of 
these sales realised values consistent with the revised 
methodology and Directors’ valuation published in 
January 2015.
The Investments business continued to make 
substantial equity investments in the portfolio, 
with £102 million invested in 2015 (2014: £53 million). 
The bulk of this investment was in eight projects: 
Gwynt y Môr OFTO; Welland Waste Wood biomass; 
student accommodation in Edinburgh, Glasgow and 
the University of Texas at Dallas; and the three private 
rental housing developments in North America that 
reached preferred bidder and financial close in the 
year. A further £15 million was invested into the fund 
managed by Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners.
The Investments business continues to see significant 
opportunities for future investment in its core 
geographic markets in the UK and North America, 
across both its existing market sectors and as it 
continues to grow into new adjacent sectors.
We have delivered capacity improvements and 
ongoing maintenance and upgrades on the M25, 
one of the busiest motorway networks in Europe.
 www.balfourbeatty.com/showcase
What we’ve been doing in 2015 continued 
Infrastructure Investments continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
30 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 The Group continued to make substantial investments into the 
portfolio with £102 million of cash invested into projects in 2015. 
This reflected continued success in targeted sectors with nine new 
projects being included in the Directors’ valuation for the first time, 
as well as further investment in existing projects. The nine new 
projects include a project which achieved preferred bidder in 2014 
but wasn’t included in the Directors’ valuation until financial close 
was achieved in 2015.
The Group continued its strategy of realising value through selling 
mature investments generating £145 million in aggregate at 
pricing consistent with the Directors’ valuation. Cash yield from 
distributions amounted to £82m. For the tenth year in succession 
the portfolio generated cash flow to the Group net of investment.
In overall terms, the Directors’ valuation fell slightly to £1,244 million 
at 31 December 2015 with the number of projects in the portfolio 
increasing from 66 to 71.
The Directors’ valuation has been undertaken using the revised 
methodology introduced in 2014. This produces a valuation that 
more closely reflects market value and which consequently 
changes with movements in the market. For each project, 
cash flows are forecast based on progress to date and market 
expectations of future performance. These cash flows have 
then been discounted using different discount rates depending 
on project risk and maturity, and reflecting secondary market 
transaction experience. As in previous years, the Directors’ 
valuation may differ significantly from the accounting book value 
of investments shown in the accounts, which are produced in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards rather 
than using a discounted cash flow approach.
Portfolio valuation December 2015
Value by sector
Sector
No. projects 
(2014)
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Roads 13  (13) 412  467 
Healthcare 4  (4) 137  225 
Schools 7  (8) 76  102 
Student accommodation 5  (3) 69  28 
OFTOs 3  (3) 40 82
Waste & biomass 4  (3) 40 14
Other  4  (4) 28  25 
UK total 40  (38) 802  943 
US military housing 21  (21) 355  322 
Healthcare 2  (2) 5  4 
Student accommodation 4  (3) 26  9 
Other  4  (2) 18  2 
North America total 31  (28) 404  337 
BBIP fund 38  20 
Total 71  (66) 1,244  1,300 
Portfolio valuation December 2015
Value by phase
Stage
No. projects 
(2014)
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
3+ years post construction 23  (18) 413  405 
0–3 years post construction  23  (26) 539  723 
Construction  20  (19) 218  137 
Preferred bidder 5  (3) 36  15 
BBIP fund  38  20 
Total 71  (66) 1,244  1,300 
Distribution Investment Divestment Directors’ valuation
£m – Directors’ valuation
£m – Investment, divestment and distribution
2006 2007 2008 2009 2011 2010 2013 2012 2014 2015
0
(500)
(1,000)
500
1,000
1,500
200
150
100
50
0
(50)
(150)
(100)
Portfolio investment, divestment and distribution since 2006
31 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Directors’ valuation of the Investments portfolio UK portfolio
In 2015 five new projects in the health, OFTO, student 
accommodation and biomass sectors were included in the 
Directors’ valuation for the first time, increasing the value by 
£28 million. These included preferred bidder status on a student 
accommodation project at Sussex University, the Humber Gateway 
OFTO and a Primary Care PPP project in Ireland, the start of 
construction on an open market student accommodation project 
in Glasgow and financial close on a waste wood biomass project 
in Welland. Significant investment was made in the Gwynt y Môr 
OFTO, the Welland biomass project, the student accommodation 
projects in Edinburgh and Glasgow and into the fund managed 
by Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners (BBIP). Total investment 
amounted to £88 million.
The secondary market remains strong and the Group continued its 
strategy of realising value from mature investments. The business 
sold 80% of its interest in the Thanet OFTO as well as its entire 
interest in the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Newcastle BSF schools 
and Greater Gabbard OFTO projects for an aggregate £145 million. 
The proceeds received from these sales were consistent with the 
Directors’ valuation. The business continues to preserve interests 
in projects with strategic clients and those that offer further value 
to the wider Group through the provision of future lifecycle and 
maintenance work. Strong demand for infrastructure investment 
allied to a shortage of supply in the secondary market is expected 
to underpin pricing for the foreseeable future. With the largest 
primary infrastructure portfolio held by any contractor in the UK, the 
Group remains well placed to benefit from these market dynamics.
Operational performance movements resulted in a £100 million 
reduction in value. The most significant components of this were 
lower inflation (in the year, as well as forecast), lower forecast 
deposit interest rates, higher actual and forecast lifecycle and 
management costs and an increase in the assumed tax burden for 
potential purchasers. The changes to inflation reflect a lowering 
of forecast inflation which now steps up through 2016 and 2017 
before reverting to a long-term assumption of 3% thereafter. 
The long-term interest rate assumption has been lowered from 
3.5% to 2.75% in response to the continuing policy of near zero 
interest rates adopted by the Bank of England and the resulting 
impact on long-term rates forecast by the financial markets. In line 
with government announcements the corporation tax rate has been 
reduced from 20% currently to 19% in April 2017 and to 18% from 
April 2020.
The Group’s investment in the fund managed by BBIP is included in 
the UK portfolio and amounted to £38 million at December 2015.
* Includes value of investment in BBIP at £38m under all discount rates.
December 2015 December 2014
Directors’ valuation £m
Discount rate
+2% +1 .5%
755
840
963
1,080
945
866
+1% +0.5% DV Case -0.5% -1% -1 .5% -2%
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Valuation – The portfolio value at a range of discount rates
UK portfolio
*
Discount rates applied to the UK portfolio range between 7% and 
14% depending on project risk and maturity. The implied weighted 
average discount rate for the UK portfolio (excluding BBIP) is 
8.3% (2014: 7.8%). The increase during 2015 reflects the impact 
of selling mature operational projects with lower discount rates 
whilst investing in new projects where construction has yet to be 
completed and which are valued using higher discount rates. A 1% 
change in the discount rate would change the value of the UK 
portfolio (excluding BBIP) by approximately £95 million.
In 2015, the OECD BEPS project delivered its recommendations 
in relation to the tax deductibility of interest expense, including the 
potential for a ‘public benefit’ exemption. A number of governments 
are currently considering their response to these recommendations. 
The UK Government has consulted extensively in order to 
understand the views of the infrastructure industry. At this stage 
any impact on the Directors’ valuation remains uncertain as is the 
timing of any changes to legislation. Balfour Beatty will continue 
to actively engage with the UK Government and to monitor 
developments in this area.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
32 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Directors’ valuation of the Investments portfolio continued North American portfolio
In North America, the business acquired investments in three 
residential housing developments at Coppell and Dallas-Fort Worth 
(both in Texas) and at Rogers in Arkansas, achieved financial close 
on a student accommodation project for the University of Texas 
at Dallas and commenced a further phase of accommodation 
at the University of Iowa. These projects increased the value of 
the portfolio by £17 million. Overall investment in existing and 
new projects in the portfolio totalled £14 million during the year. 
Operational performance movements increased the valuation by 
£13 million. This increase arose predominantly from the annual 
budget settlement for the military housing portfolio, particularly 
the inflation adjustment for housing rental allowances which 
feeds through to the fee income and equity returns from individual 
projects. The Indianapolis justice facility which was at preferred 
bidder stage was cancelled by the procuring authority just prior to 
financial close and has therefore been removed from the valuation.
Discount rates applied to the North American portfolio range 
between 7.5% and 10%. The implied weighted average discount 
rate for the North American portfolio is 8.2% (2014: 8.1%). A 1% 
change in the discount rate would change the value of the North 
American portfolio by approximately £58 million.
December 2015 December 2014
Directors’ valuation £m
Discount rate
+2% +1 .5%
294
337
404
468
391
353
+1% +0.5% DV Case -0.5% -1% -1 .5% -2%
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
550
600
Valuation – The portfolio value at a range of discount rates
North American portfolio
Movements in value 2014–2015 £m
2014
Equity 
invested
Distributions 
received
Disposal 
proceeds
Unwind of 
discount
New project 
wins
Operational 
performance
FX 
movements
2015
£m
UK 963 88 (56) (145) 64 28 (100) (2) 840
North America 337 14 (26) – 29 17 13 20 404
Total 1,300 102 (82) (145) 93 45 (87) 18 1,244
33 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Creating value through  
innovation, research and 
development
Innovation, research and development 34
Health and safety 37
People and leadership 38
Values and behaviour 39
Environmental performance 39
Community engagement 41 
Taxation 41
Innovation, research and development
Innovation plays an important role in creating additional value for 
the Group and ultimately its customers. Most of Balfour Beatty’s 
innovation emanates from collaboration with its customers, joint 
ventures and supply chain, and internally across the businesses. 
The examples provided below illustrate how the Group has used 
creative solutions on its projects to deliver savings and benefits for 
its customers. 
Building Information Modelling (BIM) and 3D modelling
Using high-density ground penetrating radar technology combined 
with BIM to map and model underground services as a 3D 
design, Balfour Beatty is able to identify potential clashes early 
on. For example, on the Dartford Crossing free-flow project over 
400 clashes between the proposed design and existing services 
were found. This allowed changes to be made in advance of work 
starting, saving time and money. Ground penetrating radar and BIM 
are also used extensively across the US business.
The Rail business developed a new software package known as 
RED (Railway Electrification Designer) in anticipation of the BIM 
Level 2 changes in 2016 for centrally funded railway projects in 
the UK. Railways are more complex than buildings. Unlike the 
building market, there is no national BIM library for Overhead 
Line Electrification (OLE) projects, so all suppliers have to model 
and attach asset information to each component, which takes a 
significant amount of time.
Apart from generating 3D models, RED is able to detect ground 
profile models and understand how these interact with foundations, 
enabling correct geospatial placement of OLE models. RED also 
dynamically attaches information to each 3D component as it 
is modelled. 
The Group uses 3D mapping data across its highways projects in 
the UK to:
 – analyse accident hotspots from RTIs or cone and varioguard 
strikes to keep the workforce safe
 – provide map overlays for engineers to understand road layouts 
for resurfacing lanes and planning traffic management
 – provide land registry and land owner information.
In Hong Kong, Gammon uses drones to survey sites by taking 
photos and superimposing these images onto the 3D model to 
allow stereoscopic photo interpretation and image photogrammetry, 
significantly reducing costs. Other examples from its operations 
in Hong Kong are the use of a curtain wall installation robot and an 
automatic plastering machine.
For the Rossall coastal defence scheme, a drone was used to 
survey the placement of rock armour ensuring that the correct 
grades and placement of rock were in line with the designs. Prior to 
using the drone for these surveys, the engineers would have used 
cherry pickers or walked across the rock armour. A drone can 
undertake a complete survey within 20 minutes.
Building a sustainable business
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
34 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 The Group has also helped local communities and emergency 
services inspect the devastating flood damage caused by the 
storms in the North West of England by utilising one of its drones. 
Collaboration with universities
Innovation is informed by research work at several academic 
partner organisations, including Salford University (BIM), Bristol 
University (systems engineering), Liverpool John Moores University 
(condition monitoring), Sheffield University (smart buildings), 
University College London (future leaders in infrastructure, 3D repo 
and radar), Manchester University (overhead line structures and 
composite crossarms), and Loughborough University (accounting 
for whole-life carbon emissions from highways maintenance 
contracts), Cambridge University (e-luminate, merging art, music 
and light), and Queen’s University Belfast (resource efficiency 
through BIM).
In the US, the Group has taught students and funded research 
at Penn State University, Stanford University, the University of 
Colorado at Boulder, Virginia Tech, and the University of Texas 
at Austin.
Balfour Beatty provides guest lecturers on BIM to the University of 
Middlesex, Abertay University and Ulster University for their BIM 
management courses.
Awards
Balfour Beatty was recognised for its expertise at the 2015 British 
Construction Industry Awards, the annual celebration of building 
and civil engineering achievements. 
Balfour Beatty celebrated success in four categories, including: 
The BIM Project Application Award for construction of the National 
Graphene Institute for the University of Manchester, the Product 
Design Innovation Award for the Crossrail Liverpool Street and 
Whitechapel Station Tunnels project and a Building Project of the 
Year Award for its construction of the Aloft hotel in Liverpool.
Connect Plus Services, a joint venture between Balfour Beatty, 
Atkins and Egis Road Operation also celebrated a win for the 
Queen Elizabeth II Bridge expansion joint replacement scheme 
in the Temporary Works Award category.
Balfour Beatty also won the major category at the Institution of Civil 
Engineers South West Civil Engineering Awards that celebrates 
outstanding civil engineering achievement, innovation and ingenuity 
for the construction of a new sea wall and implementation 
of slope stabilisation measures to the east of Lyme Regis, 
providing protection for houses, infrastructure and other assets 
from landslides.
The Group’s US construction division recently won the 
buildingSMART Hong Kong International BIM award 2015 for the 
campus improvement programme of the University of San Diego 
and its expansion of the Shiley-Marcos School of Engineering. 
The team was able to resolve 261 clashes digitally and used digital 
docs to hyperlink drawings to the workflow in the cloud so that 
all contractors could access these. The BIM model was linked to 
the school asset management system to allow future preventive 
maintenance to be carried out.
The team also won Oracle’s Sustainability Innovation Award for 
2015 for programming JD Edwards software to collect carbon data 
for its US operations.
35 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Innovation, research and development continued
Applications
Other innovations are powered by employee insights which tackle 
mega trends such as urbanisation, resource scarcity and climate 
change. Balfour Beatty is undertaking research on two projects 
funded by Innovate UK. One is in collaboration with Queen’s 
University Belfast and the University of the West of England to 
devise a new BIM tool that designers and contractors can use 
to successfully predict and reduce waste at the design phase. 
The other research project is with technology start-up 3DRepo 
and the Association of Interior Specialists to support the 
development of a new innovative procurement application 
called Bid4Free. The application reduces the cost of bidding by 
digitising transactions.
Elsewhere, other innovations include Gammon’s development of 
a Green Concrete range. It is the only supplier in Hong Kong to offer 
low carbon concrete solutions that are PAS 2050:2011 certified 
and the first to have achieved labels in the Hong Kong Construction 
Industry Council’s Carbon Labelling Scheme, with six products 
achieving Grade A (‘Outstanding’) and four achieving Grade B 
(‘Excellent’).
The Group has developed a new smartphone/tablet app called 
snapfile with its JV partners Skanska on the M25 to asset tag 
over 1,000 motorway assets and capture them on a 3D model. 
Workers were assigned iPads to collect the asset data. As work 
proceeded, issues – structural defects, missing signs, poor 
paint finishes – were photographed and their locations could 
be finetuned using Google Street View, which is incorporated in 
ONtrack’s browser-based system. The software helped close the 
gap between site and office-based project staff through real time 
reporting, saving valuable time. An added benefit of the system 
is that it helps ensure that problems are closed off before traffic 
management measures are lifted. Rectifying these later can be 
very costly.
To improve safety awareness on sites, Gammon has developed 
a new safety training system which uses gaming technology 
and virtual reality to create an interactive, and engaging, first-
person experience.
3D printing
Gammon used 3D printing to develop roof designs at Midfield 
Concourse at Hong Kong International Airport and new visualisation 
software solutions in Singapore. Gammon’s concrete department 
has also been working with the Hong Kong Polytechnic University 
on a study into the manufacture of partition wall blocks from 
cement slurry waste and fine recycled concrete aggregates. 
The research involves carbonation of formed blocks which 
sequester (or capture) CO 2 from industrial applications such 
as flue gases.
Balfour Beatty has produced a scaled 3D printed model for 
a large section of the Wylfa Newydd nuclear power station. 
Each component has been individually printed to allow both the 
customer and the Group’s own team to understand how the power 
station will be constructed. 
Mock-up prints
Balfour Beatty in the US, has been using repositionable textile 
graphics for the majority of items that need to be installed on 
drywalls such as in the redevelopment of BC Children’s and BC 
Women’s Redevelopment Project, where over US$121,000 was 
saved through the use of this system. Mock-ups of items such 
as outlets, air diffusers, fire sprinklers, time clocks, data jacks and 
dialysis boxes were printed and then positioned on the drywalls for 
different types of rooms so that the end users could be consulted 
on how these worked dimensionally within the room. This low 
tech solution ensured that end users received a solution that was 
optimised to their needs, reducing potential rework, unnecessary 
trim outs and time. 
Innovative finance
Together with WattzOn, Balfour Beatty launched a new financial 
energy model called ‘Negawatts’ to allow companies to purchase 
energy savings and effectively fund behaviour change programmes 
for military housing contracts managed by Balfour Beatty. 
Negawatts is a hybrid between a power purchase agreement 
(where energy is purchased at a reduced rate over an agreed 
period of time) and an energy savings performance contract (with 
guaranteed savings shared between the end user and the provider). 
People
Innovation champions across the businesses capture, share and 
promote innovation. The ability to collaborate has been enhanced 
by the growth in communities of practice, internal competitions, 
and the deployment of training in collaborative working practices, 
and through ongoing Group-wide accreditation to the standard 
BS 11000 Collaborative Business Relationships. 2015 also saw the 
introduction of ‘My Contribution’ which is an internal open platform 
for submitting business improvement ideas. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
36 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Building a sustainable business continued Health and safety
The Group’s objective for safety is clear: to achieve Zero Harm 
across the business. 
‘Safe’ is one of the four Build to Last goals and all operations 
were charged with improving performance. Group-wide changes 
included the new Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board 
and the appointment of a new UK-wide Health and Safety director. 
A single health and safety enabling function now supports the 
UK business and facilitates Group learning and sharing. 
The Zero Harm objective remains core with a reinvigorated focus 
supported by risk-based prioritised action plans and proactive 
evidence-based initiatives to increase skills and performance. 
This has included leading in raising awareness and actions to 
combat occupational disease and ill health.
This year saw a Group-wide safety stand down focused on 
the shared commitment to Zero Harm, with over 20,000 direct 
employees and subcontractors taking part in the UK alone. A key 
to delivering Zero Harm is ‘making safety personal’, supporting 
behavioural safety programmes with an aim to ensure direct 
employees and subcontractors feel empowered to make 
safe choices with support from uncompromising leadership. 
Observation and near miss reporting, one of the leading 
indicators, has seen a substantial increase. These events, in other 
circumstances, could have led to injury or ill health and have a key 
part to play in identifying learning opportunities which can then be 
shared and lead to improved processes.
Sadly, despite this, four workers lost their lives across the Group as 
a result of work activities in 2015. The incidents occurred in the UK, 
the Republic of Ireland and Hong Kong. Three of the workers were 
subcontractors and one was a direct employee.
Each fatal accident is subject to a thorough investigation and 
a detailed review by the Group Chief Executive. In addition, the 
Safety and Sustainability Committee, focusing attention on health 
and safety, held an extraordinary meeting to review the findings to 
date and ensured lessons were promulgated across the business 
and wider industry. One of the work-related fatalities involved the 
inadvertent movement of a heavy goods vehicle during a trailer 
coupling operation. As a result of the investigation findings, the 
Group has worked with manufacturers and the road haulage 
industry to lead the way, requiring improved audible alarms and 
physical controls to prevent automatic brake release without direct 
intervention of the driver on all operations. 
In 2015, the Group’s Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) has risen from 
0.27 to 0.32 due to an increased number of injuries that have led 
to lost time in the Group’s international joint ventures. The LTIR 
improved from 0.31 to 0.24, excluding the Group’s international 
joint ventures.
In 2015, the business won a number of awards recognising 
safety excellence. In the UK, the Group has been awarded by key 
customers for outstanding achievements in health and safety, such 
as the Heathrow Airport Health & Safety Awards for driver training, 
as well as receiving the British Construction Industry (BCI) Health & 
Safety Award for the M4 M5 Smart Motorways Project. In the US, 
the Group received the National ABC Diamond Safe Award and has 
been recognised through the North Carolina Department of Labour 
(NCDOL) Safety Awards, among others.
As part of the Zero Harm objective to protect direct employee and 
subcontractors’ health and safety, in 2016 the Group will continue 
its relentless focus on safety to include a stronger focus on 
occupational health and hygiene, striving to eliminate occupational 
disease and ill health within the business and wider industry.
Working safely, ethically  
and responsively for a  
positive legacy
The Group’s Lost Time
Incident Rate (LTIR)
0.32
0.27
0.23
0.26
   2013 2012 2014 2015
Accident Frequency Rate 
(AFR)
0.13
0.15
0.16
0.13
    2013 2012 2014 2015
Major injury rate
0.04
0.05
0.04
0.06
      
2013 2012 2014 2015
37 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 People and leadership
The quality of its people, their commitment and engagement is 
what defines Balfour Beatty.
The Group’s people strategy is about inspiring its people to 
excel. This new strategy forms a key element of the Group’s 
transformation programme – Build to Last. Balfour Beatty continued 
to invest in its people in 2015, through the training and development 
of its existing employees and targeted external recruitment 
as necessary.
These training and development programmes operate within the 
context of a Group-wide talent review process, which ensures 
consistent methodology and visibility of talent, so that succession 
planning, leadership training and development interventions are 
applied in the most effective way possible utilising the Group’s 
scale and scope of activities.
In 2015, the first Group-wide employee engagement survey was 
completed using Best Companies in order to benchmark versus 
other companies. The results will be used to drive co-ordinated 
actions in order to improve employee engagement, which will 
enhance the Group’s business performance.
Emerging talent
Balfour Beatty is a member of The 5% Club, committed to the 
aim of ensuring that, within two years, 5% of the UK workforce 
are apprentices, graduates or sponsored students on structured 
development programmes. The proportion of the UK workforce in 
these categories has increased from 3.1% to 4.6% in 2015.
2014 2015
Apprentices 326 400
Graduates 184 304
Sponsored students 17 17
Total UK workforce 17 ,000 15,687
% of structured trainees 3.1% 4.6%
The Group’s UK businesses are supporting around 180 people 
studying part-time at local colleges and universities (2014: 230). 
In 2015, the Group recruited 216 graduates and 156 apprentices 
across the UK and the US. 
Balfour Beatty has been leading a consortium on behalf of the 
sector to support government reforms on apprenticeships for the 
construction industry gaining approval of 14 new Apprenticeships 
Standards for craft and technical/professional job roles.
In recognition of its work to develop young employees, Balfour 
Beatty’s Academy was shortlisted down to the final three 
organisations for the SEMTA Skills & Innovation Award 2015.
Upskilling the UK’s infrastructure workforce
During 2015, Balfour Beatty worked with the UK Government and 
received a grant to further develop the leadership and technical 
skills of its workforce and to attract people into the industry.
The Balfour Beatty Academy trained over 2,386 people in 2015 in 
a range of areas including programmes to upskill the craft workforce 
with the support of the Skills Funding Agency under the Employer 
Ownership of Skills fund. One of the programmes developed was 
the Construction Ambassador Scheme to promote careers within 
the industry.
The Balfour Beatty Academy will become the delivery vehicle for 
a range of management and leadership development programmes. 
It provides a focus for the Group’s UK activities and aims to ensure 
it is delivering in a co-ordinated and cost-effective way.
As part of the Build to Last transformation programme the Group 
invested significantly in a number of new training initiatives; over 
200 people have attended a High Value Selling programme and 
250 people attended negotiation skills training, both designed to 
help improve the quality of work winning activities.
The Academy is developing a range of programmes to enhance 
technical and leadership skills in project management, commercial 
management, planning and design, and other functions. These will 
be fully rolled out during 2016. 
The Group has invested in its project managers as a community 
to ensure they hold an APMP qualification. The programme was 
launched in June 2015 and to date 56 project managers have 
been trained. 
Balfour Beatty works in partnership with The Prince’s Trust, which 
trains unemployed young people through its Get into Construction 
programme. Over the last five years, 400 young people completed 
this programme, learning while working on Balfour Beatty sites. 
About 70% of these people gained employment with the Group 
directly or with its supply chain.
Diversity and inclusion
Diversity and inclusion remain central to Balfour Beatty’s people 
strategy. The Group values diversity, encouraging and celebrating 
individual differences, believing that its inclusive culture helps 
the business continue to grow as a strong, dynamic and 
innovative organisation. 
Key interventions are in place to enhance diversity and inclusion 
in Balfour Beatty’s core business. For example, the Group is 
supporting the UK Government’s Your Life campaign, which is 
encouraging the study of STEM subjects amongst female students. 
The Group has further demonstrated its commitment to improving 
diversity by becoming a signatory to the WISE Ten Steps.
Further building on the Opportunity Now accreditation, a 
Connecting Women network forum continues to provide valuable 
support. However, the proportion of female employees has 
reduced in recent years with the disposals of Balfour Beatty 
WorkPlace in 2013 and Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2014.
Female employees across the workforce:
2015 16%
2014 17%
2013 22%
2012 23%
An LGBT network was established in 2014 as part of the Stonewall 
Diversity Champion programme. Balfour Beatty was the first 
infrastructure company to become a member of the OUTstanding 
LGBT professional network and is proud to be represented in the 
2015 Financial Times Top 100 LGBT Business Leaders list.
The Group also strives to provide employment, training and 
development opportunities for disabled people wherever possible. 
It is also committed to supporting employees who become 
disabled during employment and to helping disabled employees 
make the best use of their skills and potential, consistent with all 
other employees.
At 31 December 2015 Male Female Total % Male % Female
Board 7 1 8 87 13
Senior management
1
89 20 109 82 18
Directors of subsidiaries 266 32 298 89 11
Group 19,374 3,749 23,123 84 16
1
 Members of Group head office and divisional senior leadership teams.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
38 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Building a sustainable business continued The Group remains committed to investing in industry-leading people 
throughout a period of considerable change. It is this commitment 
and the continued engagement of employees that will provide the 
foundations for Balfour Beatty’s recovery and future growth.
Values and behaviour
Balfour Beatty has a well-developed ethics and compliance 
programme with a focus on presenting a consistent, well supported 
and relevant ethics and compliance message throughout the Group 
to ensure that working environments enable people to make the right 
choices, and support those who challenge where others have not.
The Group continually seeks to embed its programme through 
training programmes and workshops, updated technologies and 
tools to make compliance simple and intuitive, and by investigating 
issues and complaints. 
Whistleblowing
Balfour Beatty encourages its staff and wider community to 
report any concerns about unethical conduct. In early 2015, a new 
whistleblowing hotline service was put in place which improved 
interaction with whistleblowers, enabling the collection of vital 
information, thus providing better case management technology 
to support investigations.
There has been a drop in the total number of reported cases in 2015 
compared with 2014, which reflects the reduction in the number of 
employees following the sale in 2014 of Parsons Brinckerhoff, the 
professional services business. There has also been a drop in the 
number of cases per 1,000 employees. 
Ethics and compliance agenda 2015/2016
To address the drop in the number of reported cases and to ensure 
that the Group continues to maintain a consistent, well supported 
and relevant ethics and compliance programme, it undertook a series 
of activities during 2015, which will continue in 2016. These include 
a relaunch of training modules, Gifts and Hospitality and Conflicts 
of Interest registers, recruiting additional team members and a 
fundamental review of the programme and responsibility for it.
Environmental performance
The Group’s sustainability strategy, the Blueprint, is customer-
focused, embedded in the local community, efficient, innovative 
and responsible. As a result, sustainability is at the heart of all of 
Balfour Beatty’s operations.
Optimising environmental performance is key to driving efficiencies 
and winning work. Balfour Beatty has been taking steps to reduce 
its carbon emissions and mitigate against the business risks of 
climate change. 
The Group has continued to improve the accuracy of measurement 
techniques, specifically around its Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and 
is striving to improve the accuracy of other sustainability metrics in 
the future.
Standards
Sustainability is an integral part of modern infrastructure projects: 
public sector clients require conformance to standards such 
as BREEAM, LEED
®
, BEAM, ESTIDAMA, Green Mark, and 
CEEQUAL and these are important to planning authorities. 
Meeting these standards has resulted in a £1.7 billion turnover 
on green infrastructure projects in 2015. The Group’s certifications 
in this area and its technical knowledge improve the whole life 
performance of customers’ built assets.
Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions
The Group has seen an increase in carbon emissions intensity 
in 2015 compared to 2014 from 40.3 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent 
(CO 2e)/£m revenue to 44.9 tonnes of CO 2e/£m revenue. 
Since establishing the baseline in 2010, tonnes of CO 2e/£m 
revenue have dropped by 4.1% from 46.8 tonnes of CO 2e/£m 
revenue to 44.9 tonnes of CO 2e/£m revenue.
The Group’s total CO 2e figure for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, has 
dropped by 21,919 tonnes of CO 2e (5%) from 436,734 tonnes of 
CO 2e to 415,198 tonnes of CO 2e over the same period. 
Balfour Beatty’s 2020 goal is to achieve a 50% reduction per 
£ million turnover of its Scope 1 and 2 emissions (against a 2010 
baseline). Whilst the business has only five years to achieve this 
target, it has recently appointed a dedicated energy team to reduce 
fuel and energy use which will lead to a reduction in Scope 1 and 
2 carbon emissions. As part of its strategy, Balfour Beatty is also 
implementing ISO 50001 across some of its operations.
These targets will mean reduced operating costs for businesses and 
therefore improved value to customers and shareholders. Additionally, 
a number of customers have expressed an intention to prequalify 
contractors on the basis of their carbon performance in the future. 
Absolute tonnes of CO2e
Base year 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015
Scope 1 320,307 317 ,518 278,241 302,701 288,664
Δ
Scope 2 1 16,427 145,623 129,489 105,122 126,534
Δ
Total Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions 436,734 463,141 407 ,730 407 ,823 415,198
Total Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions per £m revenue 46.8 48.2 37 .3 40.3 44.9
Scope 1 emissions include those resulting from the combustion of fuel and operation of facilities. Scope 2 emissions result from the purchase of electricity,  
heat, steam and cooling for own use. The full description of our definitions can be found in our reporting guidance found at www.balfourbeatty.com/enablon
Ethics Helpline cases
Number
165
270
276
273
2012 2013 2014 2015
Ethics Helpline cases (excluding
HR grievances) Number
142
204
208
221
2012 2013 2014 2015
Cases per 1,000 employees
(Balfour Beatty) Number
7.1
7.6
5.3
4.8
2012 2013 2014 2015
Cases per 1,000 employees
(global benchmark) Number
13
13
12
12
2012 2013 2014 2015
39 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Environmental performance continued
Gammon, the joint venture in Hong Kong, accounts for 
approximately 29% of the Group’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
In 2014, it became the first construction company in Hong Kong to 
be awarded the CarbonCare
®
 Label that covers all of its operations 
in Hong Kong (except joint venture projects). This is in addition to 
the ISO 14064-1 international standard for quantifying and reporting 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions it holds. Its Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions are independently verified by SGS.
 www.balfourbeatty.com/showcase
GHG reporting and assurance
Balfour Beatty’s GHG emissions are reported in accordance with 
the UK Government’s GHG reporting requirements covering all six 
Kyoto gases. 
The Group uses the operational control approach under the GHG 
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard as of 
31 December 2015 to report emissions from its operations around 
the world. However, Balfour Beatty has chosen not to report 
against the market-based approach. Even though Balfour Beatty 
does procure significant amounts of renewable electricity, the 
average DEFRA/DECC conversion factors have been used for 
carbon reporting purposes in order not to detract from reducing 
energy intensive operations. Balfour Beatty has also reported on its 
energy consumption in MWh for the first time to allow readers to 
make more informed comparisons of its energy use.
As illustrated below, although Balfour Beatty’s CO 2e emissions 
went up by approximately 7,000 tonnes from 2014 to 2015, the 
number of MWh over the same period actually dropped from 
1,364,007MWh to 1,302,406MWh. 
This difference can be explained by the fact that different fuels 
have different carbon conversion factors with some fuels attracting 
greater carbon conversion factors than others. Furthermore, the 
MWh table does not include fugitive emissions. 
The table illustrates that despite Balfour Beatty using approximately 
4.5% less energy than it did in 2014, its fuel mix led it to emitting 
more Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
This includes assets that are otherwise not referred to across 
the rest of the financial statements as defined in our reporting 
guidance. The Group also developed reporting guidance for the 
calculation of GHG emissions as well as other sustainability metrics.
The Group has determined and reported the emissions it is 
responsible for within this boundary and does not believe there 
are any material omissions. The Group uses the UK Government’s 
carbon conversion factors that were updated in 2015 to calculate 
its emissions into equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO 2e).
The Group has removed the Scope 1 and 2 data for Parsons 
Brinckerhoff and Rail Austria which were disposed of in 2014 and 2015 
respectively and stripped this data from the original 2010 baseline.
KPMG were engaged to undertake an independent limited 
assurance engagement, reporting to Balfour Beatty plc, using 
the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 over the 
greenhouse gas data that have been highlighted in this report with 
the symbol Δ. Their full statement is available on our website at:
 www.balfourbeatty.com/IIA
The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance 
engagement is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance 
agreement. In order to reach their opinion, KPMG performed 
a range of procedures over the GHG data including:
 – interviewing management responsible for the data
 – examining reporting processes and documentation
 – agreeing a selection of the data to the corresponding source 
documentation at operating company level
 – performing analytical procedures over the aggregated data at 
Balfour Beatty Group level. 
A summary of the work they performed is included within their 
assurance opinion.
Non-financial performance information, GHG quantification in 
particular, is subject to more inherent limitations than financial 
information. It is important to read the GHG data in the context of 
the full limited assurance statement and the reporting criteria as set 
out in the Balfour Beatty reporting guidelines available at:
 www.balfourbeatty.com/enablon
Energy use
MWh
Fuel 2014 2015
Diesel 435,640  648,774 
Gas oil/red diesel 575,51 1  288,688 
Electricity 179,055  213,395 
Motor gasoline (petrol) 121,866  1 12,562 
Natural gas 20,100  18,173 
Boiler fuel 22,253  1 1,409 
LPG 339  3,973 
Propane 7 ,692  2,790 
Heat and steam 1,476  2,603 
Butane 70  38 
CNG 5  1 
Total 1,364,007  1,302,406 
CDP
Over the last four years, Balfour Beatty has steadily increased 
its carbon disclosure score from 78 to 97, increasing its score by 
19 points. The performance score has also improved from C to B.
The disclosure score, measured out of 100, assesses the 
completeness and quality of the Group’s measurement and 
management of carbon footprint, climate change strategy, risk 
management processes and outcomes. The score’s purpose is 
to provide a summary of the extent to which companies have 
answered these questions in a structured format. Balfour Beatty’s 
score of 97 indicates that its team has provided comprehensive 
information in a transparent and open manner.
The performance score, ranked from A-E, assesses the level of 
action, as reported by the Company, on climate change mitigation, 
adaptation and transparency. Its intent is to highlight positive climate 
action. Balfour Beatty’s score of B indicates that Balfour Beatty has 
set carbon reduction targets and is implementing programmes to 
reduce emissions in both its direct operations and supply chain.
Environmental compliance
In 2015, three environmental incidents (2014: 10, 2013: 4, 
2012: 4) resulted in enforcement action and fines totalling £3,959 
(2014: £9,917, 2013: £13,260, 2012: £66,800).
Two of the violations were for allowing mosquitoes to breed 
and one related to vermin. There were corrective actions for 
each violation.
Carbon disclosure score
/100
97
94
89
78
2012 2013 2014 2015
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
40 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Building a sustainable business continued Community engagement
In 2015, Balfour Beatty established Involved (Balfour Beatty’s 
Community Investment Programme) in its UK businesses. 
Involved focuses on three key areas where the Group can add value 
to its customers and the local community: 
 – local employment and skills 
 – community engagement through charitable fundraising, 
volunteering and mentoring 
 – supporting local businesses. 
Wherever the Group operates it seeks to integrate within the 
neighbourhood, supporting the local community, its businesses and 
its workforce. Involved gives Balfour Beatty the opportunity to work 
within a framework whereby the results of its interventions are 
captured and the benefit to society shared with its customers and 
other interested parties.
In many markets the ability to demonstrate the social value of the 
Group’s operations in economic terms is vital. To benefit local areas, 
the Group uses local suppliers, employees and materials wherever 
possible, and invests in future talent through apprenticeship 
schemes and work placement opportunities. 
Community investment through charitable fundraising
Through the Balfour Beatty Building Better Futures Charitable 
Trust, the Group aims to help the most disadvantaged young 
people in society. Three charities are supported by the Group’s 
fundraising and volunteering programme: Barnardo’s, Coram and 
The Prince’s Trust. 
Since 2008, the Group has donated almost £2 million to 
programmes aimed at helping young people, as well as providing 
support in kind, such as through employee volunteering. In 2015, 
employees raised over £10,000 through the Building Better Futures 
fundraising activity programme.
Given the youth unemployment issue affecting communities 
around the UK, and the skills gap opening up in the UK construction 
sector, many of the programmes are focused on improving 
employment and employability.
 – Working together with The Prince’s Trust over the last six years, 
the Group has helped transform the lives of 3,734 young people. 
 – Since 2013, the Group has raised £130,000 to support Barnardo’s 
work with unemployed young people; helping over 1,000 young 
people to gain new skills, qualifications and stable work.
 – Since 2010, the Group has also raised over £400,000 for Coram, 
allowing the charity to support 40,000 vulnerable children.
Balfour Beatty also supports the London Youth Games, facilitating 
another record year of participation for young people in London, 
with 136,427 taking part. Balfour Beatty staff again played a key 
role among 4,483 volunteers that our investment also enabled 
to be trained and supported as they helped to put on the Games 
and bring them to life. Since Balfour Beatty started sponsoring the 
Games, participant numbers have increased fivefold.
This brings multiple benefits, including engaging our employees 
in volunteering, community engagement, helping customer 
relationships and supporting communities in and around London 
where Balfour Beatty operates. For the participants, the Group 
recognises the value that sport brings to the lives of young people 
and is committed to helping raise their aspirations, motivation and 
attainment levels in local communities.
The US construction business contributed over US$900,000 to 
charitable causes in 2015. Some of the organisations receiving 
donations are:
 – American Heart Association
 – Boy Scouts of America
 – Habitat for Humanity
 – Hospitality House
 – Make a Wish
 – Teach for America
 – United Way
 – Wounded Warrior Project. 
Specifically for Make-A-Wish
®
 Georgia’s Walk for Wishes, the 
Georgia Division achieved one of its largest fundraising efforts to 
date raising nearly US$400,000 for the annual Walk for Wishes 
event which grants wishes to children in Georgia who have been 
afflicted with life threatening illnesses.
The Texas Division continued with its Balfour Beatty Construction 
High School Mentoring Program which started in 2009. 
The programme enhances the educational and professional 
development experience of high school students in the Dallas/Fort 
Worth area by raising the awareness of professional opportunities 
within the construction industry. Through one-on-one mentoring 
relationships, Balfour Beatty facilitates sustainable academic 
enrichment, encourages leadership, and provides exposure to the 
construction industry. Since inception, the programme has hosted 
numerous High School interns, awarded several scholarships 
for students pursuing careers in construction management and 
sponsored college interns. Offers are extended to interns with 
successful internships upon graduation.
In 2015, staff from Gammon took part in a total of 43 community 
events across Hong Kong, mainland China and Singapore. 
The highlight event was the Gammon Walkathon 2015 held in 
early December which has raised over HK$1.0m (£87,489) over 
the last five years. In addition, Gammon is involved in planning 
and executing community-based activities and there has been a 
heightened focus on project-driven engagement, often collaborating 
with NGOs to make a positive difference in the communities in 
which Gammon operates. 
Taxation
The Group’s tax strategy, approved by the Board, is to sustainably 
minimise tax cost whilst complying with the law.
In doing so, it ensures it acts in accordance with its ethics, values 
and compliance programme. It always considers the financial and 
reputational risk arising from its management of tax issues, aiming 
to maximise long-term shareholder value.
Balfour Beatty has clear tax policies, procedures and controls in 
place which are monitored and reviewed by internal tax specialists 
and seeks external specialist tax advice where necessary.
The Group has an open, honest and positive working relationship 
with the tax authorities and is committed to prompt disclosure 
and transparency in all tax matters. Where disputes arise with 
tax authorities with regard to the interpretation and application 
of tax law, the Group is committed to addressing the matter 
promptly and resolving it with the tax authority in an open 
and constructive manner.
The Group makes a major contribution to the tax revenues of 
governments from its activities in the many countries in which 
it operated in 2015. For example, the Group’s tax contribution 
extends significantly beyond corporate tax, as the size of its 
workforce means it not only collects very large amounts of income 
tax, but also pays over £100 million in employer social security 
costs in its major territories in a typical year.
41 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015  
Gate 1
Inform Inform
Key business risks and related management strategies
Embedded risk culture and governance
 
 
Initial
‘Go/No Go’
approval
Tender
‘Go/No Go’
approval 
Tender 
submission 
approval
Contract
signing
approval
 Pre- 
commencement
Monitoring 
and control
 Project
completion
 
 
 
End of 
defects
liability
period
Business objectives, agreed risk tolerances and KPIs
 
Tender
Contract
negotiations
Mobilisation Execution
Commissioning
& handover
Defects
liability period
Initial enquiry
Gate 2 Gate 3 Gate 4 Gate 5 Gate 6 Gate 7 Gate 8
Oversight and review
Business level assessment and control
Senior management challenge and external review
Internal audit and committees
Gateway review process
2015 saw strengthening of the risk management culture and 
disciplines embedding the Group’s gateway reviews across project 
lifecycles. This approach forms a fundamental element of the three 
line of defence model in place across the business.
The Group recognises that consistent and effective risk 
management is vital to the delivery of its strategic development and 
business objectives.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management determining 
the nature and extent of the principal risks to be taken and for the 
review and effectiveness of the risk management and internal 
control systems.
Following the review of the Group’s approach to risk management in 
2014, a new framework was designed. This sets common minimum 
standards for commercial and project management and the 
simplification and unification of internal controls across the Group.
The rollout of the framework during the year has raised risk 
consciousness across the organisation and allowed risk management 
to be built into activities from project pursuit, through design, 
delivery and completion. Good risk management is a key enabler 
of the Build to Last transformation programme and the Group 
continues to roll out enhancements to achieve consistency across 
its operations. The Group is also improving its audit and assurance 
processes to both support and ensure the application of the 
improvements made.
Risks are owned and managed within the business and inform 
the focus of audit and assurance activities around the Group.
Central to the risk management and control framework are the eight 
approval and review gates, spanning initial project pursuit through to 
delivery and completion. These mandatory reviews require Group, 
divisional or business unit level approval depending upon the nature 
and complexity of the project. At each gate an assessment of risk 
and risk appetite is made.
Additionally, a number of initiatives are underway within operational 
delivery to increase understanding and embed a culture of risk 
management. These measures include project manager training 
delivered through the Balfour Beatty Academy, increased cascade 
and promotion of minimal commercial expectations and continued 
adherence to Group commercial policies and process.
Risk management framework
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
42 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Risk management framework Strategic priority – Build to Last value Risk attitude
Lean
Deliver value to our customers by 
improving operational efficiency 
and eliminating waste right through 
the supply chain.
We will manage our operational activities and exposures to avoid material adverse 
impacts on annual profit and cash flow.
Expert
Ensure we have the best 
engineering and project 
management capabilities.
We are prepared to develop our engineering and project management talent from 
within through investment in training and development programmes. We will take 
risk in attracting external talent when it is appropriate to do so.
Trusted
Be the construction partner of 
choice for our customers and 
supply chain by delivering on 
our promises.
We will not compromise new or existing customer relationships by poor bid and 
mobilisation practices.
Our risk tolerance for procuring materials and products that do not meet the Group’s 
quality and sourcing requirements is zero.
Safe
We must ensure the health and 
safety of everyone who comes into 
contact with our activities.
Our aim is to ensure safety for every employee, subcontractor, customer 
and community and we will not trade this objective for the achievement of 
other objectives.
We have zero tolerance for breaches of the legal and/or regulatory framework within 
which we operate or for behaviours not in accordance with our policies and code 
of ethics.
Risk attitude
Balfour Beatty’s approach to risk management is guided by its core 
values, strategic priorities and related objectives. It regards its risk 
attitude as the amount of risk that it is willing to accept in order to 
deliver its strategic priorities. The tolerances used vary from zero to 
high and reflect the level of risk and related control. Tolerance levels 
are based on the Group’s risk management framework which 
analyses risk using a combination of agreed impact and 
probability criteria.
43 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 The Board has made a robust assessment of the principal risks which the Group faces, the controls in place to remove or mitigate these 
risks and also whether these risks represent new, increased or decreased threats. The assessment of these risks and controls is part of 
the ongoing management of the business.
The principal risks that could adversely impact the Group’s profitability and ability to achieve its strategic objectives are set out below. 
In addition, the Chief Financial Officer’s review starting on page 18 includes discussion on financial risk factors and going concern.
Health and safety
No change to risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Safe
Owner: Safety and 
Sustainability Committee
Risk description
The Group works on significant, complex and potentially 
hazardous projects which require continuous monitoring and 
management of health and safety risks.
Causes
Some common themes where health and safety risks have arisen 
are recognised and communicated, including:
 – poor risk identification/assessment
 – having processes that fail to promote risk elimination 
or mitigation
 – failure to deliver management leadership
 – management of subcontractors
 – not briefing people properly before setting them to work
 – failure to follow procedures
 – debarment for safety failures
 – ongoing change programme and performance pressures, 
which may have an effect on people and their ability to remain 
focused on health and safety risks.
What impact it might have
Failure to manage these risks could result in harm to, or even 
the death of, employees, subcontractor staff and members of 
the public, as well as potential criminal prosecutions, debarment 
and reputational damage.
How it is mitigated
Balfour Beatty has detailed health and safety policies and procedures 
to minimise such risks. These are reviewed and monitored by 
management and external verification bodies.
Each division has experienced health and safety professionals who 
provide advice and support and undertake regular reviews.
The Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board, as well as 
business-level Safety and Health executive leadership teams, meet 
regularly throughout the year to develop a consistent approach to 
health and safety best practice.
During 2015, business units continued their work on implementing 
Zero Harm action plans.
Economic environment
No change to risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Expert
Owner:  
The Board
Risk description
The effects of national or market trends, political change or new 
developments in infrastructure expenditure or procurement may 
cause customers to postpone, reduce or change existing or 
future projects, which may impact the Group’s strategy, business 
model, revenue or profitability in the short or medium term.
Causes
The business may fail to anticipate or assess national or market 
events and developments, their potential negative impact, or 
the opportunities they present. Such events or developments, 
whether or not anticipated or correctly assessed, could lead to:
 – cash pressures for customers and suppliers
 – wider than expected fluctuations in inflation
 – increased competition (eg in the UK from other EU countries)
 – supply chain failure risk
 – reduced revenue or pressure on margins.
These risks may also be triggered or exacerbated by the need, 
actual or perceived, to pursue work in a declining market.
What impact it might have
Any significant changes in the level or timing of customer spending 
or investment plans could adversely impact the future order book. 
Such changes could arise from changes in government policy or 
customers’ failure to secure financing for future projects or for future 
stages of existing projects.
Financial failure of a customer, including any government or public 
sector body, could result in not collecting amounts owed.
How it is mitigated
The Group’s strategy to focus on the more resilient and stable 
infrastructure markets and geographies will help mitigate this risk. 
The effect of spending changes in any one market is mitigated by the 
Group’s broad exposure to infrastructure markets across the globe 
and the continued need for infrastructure spending. Balfour Beatty 
also mitigates the effects of such market conditions by continuing to 
adapt its business model.
It is essential that the financial solvency and strength of 
counterparties is always considered before contracts are signed and 
this is a specific focus in the current economic climate. During the 
life of a contract such assessments are updated and reviewed 
whenever possible. The business also seeks to ensure that it is 
not over-reliant on any one counterparty.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
44 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Principal risks Bidding
Decreased risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Trusted
Owner: Group Tender and 
Investment Committee
Risk description
Through its different businesses, Balfour Beatty seeks to win 
profitable work through a large number of bids. In some cases it 
bids in joint venture with carefully selected partners, often to help 
manage or spread risks, especially where the Group wants to 
augment its expertise or knowledge of the relevant market.
The Group also invests in infrastructure assets, where success 
depends on a number of assumptions made, at the time of 
investment, on financial modelling, future revenues and costs.
Balfour Beatty’s success depends on its ability to identify, price 
and execute the right volume and quality of bids to maintain a 
profitable, sustainable order book. This in turn requires that it has 
a competitive business model and overheads.
Causes
 – Unrealistic programme
 – Unrealistic assumptions on cost savings
 – Overambitious budgets
 – Work scope not understood or realistically costed
 – Poor partner selection
 – Customer credit and late payment risks
 – Partner and subcontractor performance and credit risks
 – Inability to make profit from infrastructure assets
 – Failure to ensure the Group’s overhead structure remains 
competitive and realistic.
What impact it might have
Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs versus scope, time to 
complete, impact of inflation and contractual terms and how best to 
manage them could cause financial losses.
In the event of disagreement with, failure of, or poor delivery 
performance by a joint venture partner, the Group could face financial 
and reputational risks.
If any of the assumptions behind investment decisions prove 
incorrect, the profitability of those investments could be reduced.
How it is mitigated
The Group operates to consistent and shared policies and 
minimum commercial expectations including acceptable margins. 
Alongside targeted recruitments a wide and ongoing range of 
initiatives has been undertaken across all disciplines within the 
Group including Cash is our Compass and High Value Selling to 
drive increased commercial awareness and an understanding of 
expectations on margins and cost.
All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering 
processes as part of the gateway review process within the risk 
management framework.
The Group has defined delegated authority levels for approving all 
tenders and infrastructure investments.
Reviews are conducted following all tenders to ensure lessons are 
learnt and applied to future tenders.
Before entering into a joint venture agreement, the Group reviews 
the relevant skills, experience, resources and values of joint venture 
partners to understand how they complement its own.
Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed by experienced 
professionals. The Group analyses the risks associated with 
revenues and costs and, where appropriate, establishes contractual 
and other risk mitigations.
45 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Project execution
No change to risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Trusted
Owner:  
Group management
Risk description
The Group works on complex design, engineering, construction 
and asset management projects. 
Successful delivery of many of these projects is dependent 
on the effective implementation and maintenance of a range of 
operational and commercial procedures and controls, backed up 
by appropriate training, operational systems, clear accountabilities 
and oversight, accurate, realistic and timely reporting, and 
regular review. 
It is also dependent on the combined availability and effective 
management of subcontractors and other service providers. 
Finally, it relies upon many complex, technical and commercial 
judgements and estimates regarding cost, value, progress and 
likely or practicable outcomes. 
Causes
 – Unrealistic progress assessments and cost to 
complete judgements
 – Overestimating the Group’s ability to recover claims within 
the timeframe or in the amounts estimated
 – Incomplete visibility and appreciation of scale of 
commercial judgements
 – Inaccurate and/or incomplete cost and value data or failure 
to analyse and report correctly, which could arise due to poor 
training, lack of supervision, lack of accountability or fear of 
reporting bad news
 – Inadequate experience, independent challenge from support 
functions such as audit, risk, quality, commercial, operations 
and finance.
What impact it might have
Failure to manage or deliver against contracted customer 
requirements on time, budget and to an appropriate quality 
could result in issues such as contract disputes, rejected claims, 
design issues, liquidated damages, cost overruns or failure to 
achieve customer savings – which in turn harm Balfour Beatty’s 
profitability and reputation.
The Group may also be exposed to long-term obligations 
including litigation and costs to rectify defective work.
Execution failure on a high-profile project could result in 
significant reputational damage and costs.
How it is mitigated
It is essential that each business area has defined operating 
procedures to address the risks inherent in project delivery. 
The revision of the Group risk management framework and the 
reinforcing of Group policy and principles encourage prudent and 
realistic financial planning.
The Group has instigated an increased focus on identifying, 
understanding and reporting risks inherent in projects such as the 
accuracy and timeliness of cost and cash forecasting supported 
by consistent application of strong commercial management and 
contract administration processes.
Alongside these measures, targeted recruitment of key staff within 
project delivery teams and senior management, together with 
ongoing and focused training of staff, has strengthened the ability 
of the Group to successfully manage and deliver projects.
Projects are subject to greater and more direct senior management 
oversight and challenge. Allied with this, integrated reviews of 
projects across audit, risk, quality, commercial, operations and 
finance disciplines are now in place. 
The My Contribution initiative has delivered a significant number 
of local level improvements in project delivery including efficiencies 
in service level agreements, greater use of BIM technology and 
resource allocation. A strong pipeline of ideas will be assessed 
across 2016 to drive further improvements.
The Group also has professional indemnity cover to provide 
further safeguards.
Balfour Beatty monitors the performance of joint ventures, joint 
venture partners, subcontractors and suppliers throughout the 
lifecycle of a project.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
46 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Principal risks continued Supply chain
No change to risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Lean
Owner:  
Group management
Risk description
The Group is heavily reliant on its supply chain partners for 
successful operational delivery, which means it is also exposed to 
a variety of risks in the supply chain including availability, financial 
stability, technical ability, quality, safety, environmental, social 
and ethical.
Causes
 – Supply chain failure risk, exacerbated during, and when 
emerging from, tough economic conditions
 – Retention of subcontracted parties in buoyant markets
 – A subcontractor’s failure to perform to an appropriate standard 
and quality, which could cause project delays, reducing Balfour 
Beatty’s ability to meet contractual commitments and harming 
its reputation
 – Supply chain operating to lower standards (safety, ethics, 
quality, material stewardship, child labour, forced labour)
 – Failure to deliver targeted procurement savings
 – Failure to comply with Group supply agreements
 – Unethical treatment of the supply chain.
What impact it might have
Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in the Group 
having to find a replacement or undertaking the task itself. This  
could result in delays, additional costs or a reduction in quality 
owing to lack of expertise.
The Group retains commercial as well as reputational 
responsibility for performance shortcomings by suppliers 
and subcontractors, whether in terms of quality, safety, 
environmental, social, technical or ethical standards.
Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors and their staff, or poor 
ethical standards in the supply chain, could lead to significant 
reputational harm for Balfour Beatty.
How it is mitigated
The Group aims to develop long-term relationships with key 
subcontractors, working closely with them to understand their 
operations. It develops contingency plans to address subcontractor 
failure, and also obtains project retentions, bonds and/or letters of 
credit from subcontractors, where appropriate to mitigate the impact 
of any insolvency.
Staff are encouraged through the My Contribution programme 
to generate ideas for more effective procurement and resourcing 
efficiencies have already been made in material and plant costs. 
This initiative will be further developed in 2016.
Rigorous adherence to the Group’s risk management framework 
and the gateway review process allows for early and ongoing 
assessment of the appropriateness of resource allocation, including 
third-party dependencies.
The Group undertakes audits of key suppliers within projects 
to ensure they are in a position to consistently deliver 
against requirements.
Balfour Beatty aims to work as much as possible with preferred 
suppliers and subcontractors who undergo rigorous, risk-based 
prequalification processes and share its values. It also aims to avoid 
becoming over-reliant on any one supplier or subcontractor.
Transformation programme
Increased risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
All
Owner:  
The Board
Risk description
The Build to Last transformation programme is being delivered 
throughout the business in order to improve operating efficiency. 
There is a risk that deploying such a wide range of initiatives 
required to meet the objectives of Build to Last creates a high 
level of disruption to the delivery of day-to-day operations and 
the Build to Last programme itself.
Causes
Ineffective change management during the implementation 
of the Build to Last programme could cause the risk to be 
realised via:
 – excessive drive to deliver anticipated outcomes
 – resource (financial, physical and people) being diverted from 
the day-to-day operational priorities towards realising new 
initiatives and addressing legacy problems
 – employee fatigue with change programme and loss of 
focus owing to a perceived high number and frequency 
of new initiatives
 – loss of key people and intellectual resource through 
dissatisfaction with the programme
 – new systems and processes being used without appropriate 
controls being in place and/or tested.
What impact it might have
Failure to meet the target of £100 million cost out and £200 million 
cash in.
Failure to win new and retain existing business.
Failure to attract and retain the best talent in the industry.
There is also the risk of management losing focus on existing key 
deliverables and market opportunities.
How it is mitigated
The implications and required controls associated with the Build to 
Last programme have been well considered. A suite of mitigations 
are in place to ensure successful delivery including:
 – Build to Last champions are embedded within each business for 
constant dialogue and direction
 – senior leadership communication across the businesses is clear 
and frequent
 – employee surveys form a key part of the programme
 – the Build to Last delivery programme is phased over several years 
rather than a one-off delivery
 – leaders throughout the business frequently monitor the delivery 
and impacts of the programme
 – senior leadership are well experienced in delivering business 
transformation successfully.
47 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 People
Increased risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Expert
Owner:  
The Board
Risk description
Inability to recruit and retain the best people may weaken the 
Group’s ability to meet its strategic objectives.
Causes
 – Failure to attract and retain skilled staff
 – Distraction and impact on morale due to transformation 
programmes and continued operational issues
 – Inability to successfully promote the right people through 
succession planning
 – Commercial and project management quality/performance
 – New staff unfamiliar with culture and procedures
 – Lack of a diverse workforce
 – Loss of former staff with traditional bidding and execution skills
 – Deterioration of client relationships.
What impact it might have
Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people could 
harm the Group’s ability to win or perform specific contracts and 
grow its business.
A high level of staff turnover can result in a drop in confidence in 
the business within the market, client relationships being lost and 
an inability to focus on business improvements.
How it is mitigated
Change management initiatives are well embedded within the 
business and aligned to the Build to Last transformation programme.
All potential recruits for key roles in the organisation are measured 
against a leadership framework. Businesses within the Group 
undertake organisation and people reviews to review the roles, 
competencies, performance and potential of personnel. 
Recruitment and retention is measured and regularly reviewed 
across all parts of the business.
A Group-wide employee engagement survey was conducted in 
2015 to measure engagement and appropriate actions are being 
developed and communicated. 
The Group’s succession planning process to identify and develop 
high-potential personnel is reviewed regularly within the organisation 
and by the Board. 
Balfour Beatty regularly reviews its remuneration arrangements to 
ensure they are appropriate to help it attract, motivate and retain 
key employees.
Business conduct/compliance
No change to risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Trusted
Owner:  
The Board
Risk description
The Group operates in various markets that present business  
conduct-related risks involving fraud, bribery or corruption, 
whether by its own staff or via third parties such as agents, 
partners or subcontractors. Those risks are higher in some 
countries and sectors. Overall, the construction industry has 
a higher risk profile than other industries.
Causes
 – Corruption
 – Bribery
 – Fraud/false claims
 – Unfair competition
 – Human rights abuses, such as child and other labour standards 
generally, illegal workers, human trafficking and modern slavery
 – Unethical treatment of and by the supply chain
 – Other emerging ethical risks
 – Risk of ethics and values being compromised when times are 
tough, not just in high-risk markets.
What impact it might have
Failure by the Group, or employees and third parties acting on its 
behalf or in partnership, to observe the highest standards of integrity 
and conduct could result in civil and/or criminal penalties, debarment 
and reputational damage.
How it is mitigated
Balfour Beatty has a proactive approach to assessing and addressing 
corruption risks. It promotes compliance with its Code of Conduct 
and in areas such as competition and false claims fraud. The Ethics 
and Compliance function, together with compliance officers in 
the business, are responsible for embedding and monitoring the 
compliance programme and investigating any alleged breaches of it.
The risk of business conduct/compliance breaches by third parties is 
harder to control, but the Group has a range of risk assessment, due 
diligence and procurement controls that are designed to identify and 
minimise such risks. Balfour Beatty works with very few agents, all 
of whom undergo a rigorous due diligence and approval process.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
48 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Principal risks continued Legal and regulatory
No change to risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Trusted
Owner:  
The Board
Risk description
The Group operates in diverse territories and its businesses are 
subject to a variety of complex, demanding and evolving legal, 
tax and regulatory requirements.
Causes
 – Data protection and privacy
 – Information security lapse
 – Cybercrime
 – Government/regulatory enquiry and enforcement actions
 – Adverse changes of law, including changes to tax law
 – Local procurement laws
 – Debarment or blacklisting.
What impact it might have
Changes to local laws and regulations could lead to legal 
proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in business 
disruption ranging from additional project costs to potential 
debarment and reputational damage. Such action could also impact 
upon the valuation of assets within that territory. Increasingly, 
businesses are the target of cybercrime, which can result in loss of 
confidential, personal or commercial data, disruption to operations 
and associated costs. Sometimes Balfour Beatty may be the 
target of state-sponsored cyber activities purely because of its 
customer base.
How it is mitigated
The Group monitors and responds to tax, legal and regulatory 
developments and requirements in the territories in which it 
operates. Local legal and regulatory frameworks are further 
considered as part of any Group decision to conduct business in a 
new country. Data protection and information security programmes 
are in place across the Group, and cybercrime and other information 
security risks are assessed on a regular basis.
Environment and sustainability
No change to risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Expert
Owner: Safety and  
Sustainability Committee
Risk description
The Group’s activities can have a positive or negative impact 
on the natural environment and the communities it operates in. 
The Group’s activities and their location mean that environmental 
and sustainability risks need to be identified, monitored 
and managed.
Causes
Environmental risk may arise leading to a breach of compliance 
and incident due to: 
 – failure to deliver leadership
 – ineffective management of subcontractors
 – poor risk identification/assessment
 – having processes that fail to promote risk elimination 
or mitigation
 – failure to follow procedures
 – not briefing people properly before setting them to work
 – failure to identify emerging regulatory requirements.
The reporting of inaccurate greenhouse gas (GHG) data and 
other data needed for sustainability performance reporting may 
mean the Group is unaware of its actual impact and expose it to 
reputational damage and fines.
Unethical/unsustainable sourcing (eg timber, forced labour, child 
labour) could lead to reputational damage and impact Balfour 
Beatty’s ability to tender for work.
Insufficient management support and resourcing to achieve the 
Group’s environment and sustainability goals.
What impact it might have
Failure to address these risks and to execute projects to meet 
the Group’s environmental and sustainability goals could result 
in significant potential liabilities, reputational damage, an inability 
to win future work and in some operational regions potential 
criminal prosecutions.
How it is mitigated
The Group’s Blueprint strategy provides a framework for its 
operating businesses to accommodate and embed environment 
and sustainability into operations. Issues such as climate change 
and resource use are considered in risk management activities at 
the business unit as well as project level.
Balfour Beatty’s business processes are used to identify potential 
risks and opportunities for the business. Management systems are 
in place to control some of the aforementioned risks and in addition 
the Group is subject to external audits undertaken by third parties. 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are also externally assured (see page 
40) to ensure that the data is correct.
49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Legacy pension liabilities
No change to risk 
Build to Last pillar:  
Lean
Owner:  
The Board
Risk description
The Group remains exposed to significant defined benefit 
pension risks.
Causes
The size of historic pension obligations is largely related to the 
investment performance of the assets held in the pension funds, 
net of the change in the value of the funds’ liabilities. The latter 
are typically related to changes in the long-term outlook for 
interest rates, inflation and life expectancy.
The size of the obligations could also be adversely influenced by 
intervention from regulators or legislators.
What impact it might have
Failure to manage these risks adequately could lead to the Group 
being exposed to significant additional liabilities.
How it is mitigated
The Group constructively engages with the trustees of the pension 
funds to ensure that the the funds’ assets and liabilities are managed 
in a way which reduces the likelihood of an unexpected cost to the 
Company. The Group’s main UK fund has hedged over 65% of its 
exposure to interest rate and inflation movements.
Balfour Beatty also faces significant risks and uncertainties that 
are common to many companies – including financial and treasury, 
communications and marketing, wider information security, 
business continuity and crisis management, and hazard risks.
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group 
over a three-year period to 31 December 2018. The Directors 
consider this period to be appropriate because this is the period 
aligned to the current order book or for which there is a good 
pipeline of potential new projects. This period also allows greater 
certainty over the forecasting assumptions used in labour and 
material pricing, skills and availability. Consequently, the Group 
performs its medium-term planning over three years.
In its assessment of the viability of the Group, the Directors have 
considered the need to be successful in implementing the Group’s 
Build to Last programme and focus on strategic priorities of Lean, 
Expert, Trusted and Safe detailed on pages 14 to 17, as well as each 
of the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 44 
to 50. In particular the impact of a reduction in revenue, a reduction 
in margin, an increase in operating costs, the inability to access 
financing and a slowdown in the Group’s PPP disposal programme. 
The Directors have also considered the Group’s income and 
expenditure projections, the Group’s projected cash position, 
bank facilities, its maturity profile and covenants, the borrowing 
powers allowed under the Company’s Articles of Association 
and the fact that the Company’s PPP investments comprise 
reasonably realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding 
requirements if necessary.
Based on the Group’s processes for monitoring operating costs, 
managing Group performance, asset allocation, the portfolio risk 
profile, gearing, counterparty exposure, liquidity risk and financial 
controls, the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and 
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period until 
31 December 2018.
Our 2015 Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 50, 
was approved by the Board on 14 March 2016.
 
Philip Harrison
Chief Financial Officer
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
50 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Principal risks continued Compliance with the Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 (the Code) is the 
standard applying to good corporate governance practice in the 
UK and the Listing Rules require listed companies to disclose 
whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code 
(www.frc.org.uk).
The Company has complied with the requirements of the Code 
from 10 August 2015 to the end of the accounting period. 
From 1 January 2015 to 10 August 2015, the effectiveness of 
the Group’s whistleblowing procedure was kept under review by 
the Business Practices Committee, but otherwise the Company 
complied with the requirements of the Code.
51 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Chairman’s introduction
Diversity
In seeking to recruit new Directors with relevant experience, we 
specifically ask search firms to identify suitable female candidates. 
We do not however believe in gender quotas, preferring to appoint 
individuals based on merit. Details of our diversity and inclusion 
policy can be found on the website balfourbeatty.com.
Accountability
We believe that Balfour Beatty’s processes and procedures have 
been strengthened during the year as the gated approval process 
has been embedded into the organisation, enabling the Board to 
present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s trading position and its prospects. We continue to keep 
under review the matters reserved to the Board and the terms of 
reference of the Board and its Committees. Copies can be found 
on the website.
Remuneration
The remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 
AGM and can be found on the website. We do not currently intend 
to revert to shareholders with any proposed changes until our AGM 
in 2017. Details of how we will operate that policy in 2016 can be 
found in the Remuneration report on pages 68 to 84.
Relations with shareholders
Our investor relations programme is of critical importance to the 
Board, particularly as we progress through this period of change. 
The Board routinely receives, at each meeting, a comprehensive 
report from our investor relations team as well as periodic reports 
from analysts and feedback from any meetings which the Directors 
have with institutional investors. We recognise the AGM as an 
important opportunity for private investors to engage with the 
Board. All resolutions will, however, be put to a poll rather than 
a show of hands. This reflects best practice and will ensure that 
shareholders who are not able to attend the meeting have their 
votes fully taken into account.
 
Philip Aiken AM
Chairman
As described in my predecessor’s report last year there has been a 
significant change in the composition of the Company’s leadership 
both at Board and executive level during 2015. Details of the 
changes at Board level are set out on page 54. The arrival of Leo 
Quinn, as Group Chief Executive, at the start of the year signalled 
the start of a period of detailed self-analysis and self-help built 
around our Build to Last programme. The appointment of Philip 
Harrison as Chief Financial Officer has, as predicted, brought 
a wealth of relevant experience.
Leadership
Following my own appointment, I have sought to re-balance the 
background experience of the non-executive members of the 
Board, by increasing relevant construction/contracting sector skills 
and experience through the appointments of Stuart Doughty 
and Stephen Billingham. Each of the Directors brings skills and 
experiences which enhance the quality of debate in the boardroom 
and in the case of the non-executive Directors provides additionally, 
guidance and challenge to the executive Directors. The Directors 
believe that the Board provides effective leadership.
“  A new executive team 
and a refreshed Board 
have the privilege of taking 
Balfour Beatty forward 
to its next chapter.” Philip Aiken AM (67)
Non-executive Chairman
(from 26 March 2015)
Joined the Board as non-executive 
Chairman in March 2015. He is non-
executive chairman of Aveva Group plc 
and a non-executive director of Newcrest 
Mining Limited. He was a non-executive 
director of National Grid plc, chairman of 
Robert Walters plc and a non-executive 
(and senior independent) director of 
Kazakhmys plc and Essar Energy plc, 
and a senior adviser at Macquarie Bank 
Ltd. Prior to that, he was group president 
Energy BHP Billiton and president BHP 
Petroleum, chief executive of BTR Nylex, 
and held senior roles in BOC Group.
2 3 4
Leo Quinn (58)
Group Chief Executive
(from 1 January 2015)
Appointed as Group Chief Executive in 
January 2015, after five years as group 
chief executive of QinetiQ Group plc 
and before that five years as CEO of De 
La Rue plc. Prior to these senior roles, 
he spent almost four years as COO of 
Invensys plc’s production management 
business, headquartered in the US, 
and 16 years with Honeywell Inc in 
senior management roles across the 
UK, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, 
including global president of H&BC 
Enterprise Solutions. He was formerly 
a non-executive director of Betfair 
Group plc and Tomkins plc. He is a civil 
engineer, and began his career at Balfour 
Beatty. He is the founder of The 5% Club 
which encourages industry to increase 
graduate training and apprenticeships.
6 3 3 5
Philip Harrison (55)
Chief Financial Officer
(from 1 June 2015)
Appointed as Chief Financial Officer in 
June 2015. He was previously group 
finance director at Hogg Robinson 
Group plc, and before that he was 
group finance director at VT Group 
plc. Prior to that, he served as VP 
Finance at Hewlett-Packard Europe, 
Middle East and Africa region and 
was a member of the EMEA board. 
His earlier career included senior 
international finance roles at Compaq, 
Rank Xerox and Texas Instruments. He is 
a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
6 5
Other Directors who held office 
during the year were:
Robert Amen
Non-executive Director until 
31 December 2015
Duncan Magrath
Chief Financial Officer until 8 May 2015
Steve Marshall
Chairman until 26 March 2015
Peter Zinkin
Planning and Development Director 
until 26 March 2015
From 14 January 2016, as 
part of an agreed review of 
Committee memberships:
Iain Ferguson rejoined the Audit and 
Risk Committee
Leo Quinn joined the Safety and 
Sustainability Committee
Maureen Kempston Darkes left the 
Nomination Committee
Stuart Doughty left the 
Remuneration Committee
Board Committees code:
1 Audit and Risk
2 Safety and Sustainability
3 Nomination
4 Remuneration
5 Group Tender and Investment
6 Finance and General Purposes
 Chair
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
52 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Board of Directors Maureen Kempston Darkes (67)
Non-executive Director
Appointed a Director in 2012. She joined 
General Motors Corporation in 1975 and 
held a number of progressively senior 
roles during her time with the business, 
culminating in her appointment as group 
vice-president for General Motors’ 
Latin America, Africa and Middle East 
operations. She retired from General 
Motors in 2009. She has a portfolio of 
non-executive directorships including 
Brookfield Asset Management, 
Canadian National Railways, 
Enbridge Inc, Irving Oil Company and 
Schlumberger. She is a member of 
the Canadian Government’s Science, 
Technology and Innovation Council.
2 3 4
Graham Roberts (57)
Non-executive Director
Appointed a Director in 2009. He is chief 
executive of Assura plc, a UK primary 
healthcare property company and 
was formerly finance director of 
The British Land Company between 
2002 and 2011. Prior to that, he spent 
eight years at Andersen, latterly as a 
partner specialising in the real estate 
and government services sectors. 
He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants.
1 3 4
Stuart Doughty CMG (72)
Non-executive Director
(from 8 April 2015)
Appointed a Director in April 2015. He  
has over 45 years’ experience in the civil 
engineering, construction and infrastructure 
sectors, and was chief executive of Costain 
Group PLC between 2001 and 2005. 
This followed executive positions in Welsh 
multi-utility Hyder plc, Alfred McAlpine 
plc and Tarmac Construction, where he 
represented the company on the Channel 
Tunnel board, following 20 years with John 
Laing Construction. He has also served as 
a senior non-executive director of Scott 
Wilson Group plc, and as chairman of 
Silverdell Plc, Somero Plc and Beck and 
Pollitzer Limited.
2 3 1 4
Iain Ferguson CBE (60)
Senior Independent Director
Appointed a Director in 2010. Until 2009, 
he was chief executive of Tate & Lyle. 
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, he 
spent 26 years at Unilever in a succession 
of roles culminating in his appointment 
as senior vice-president, corporate 
development. He is non-executive 
chairman of Berendsen plc and Stobart 
Group Limited. He is also chairman 
of Wilton Park, an independent and 
non-profit making Executive Agency of 
the British Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office and lead independent director at 
the Department for Environment, Food 
and Rural Affairs. He was formerly a non-
executive director of Sygen International 
and of Greggs plc.
4 2 3 3
Dr Stephen Billingham (57)
Non-executive Director
(from 1 June 2015)
Appointed a Director in June 2015. 
He is chairman of Anglian Water Group 
Ltd, chairman of Punch Taverns plc 
and chairman of Urenco Ltd. He has 
over three decades of business and 
management experience, including 
11 years with the Company under its 
former name, BICC plc. He was group 
finance director (CFO) of British Energy 
Group plc and of WS Atkins plc.
1
53 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Directors’ independence
At its meeting on 10 March 2016, the Board considered the 
independence of the non-executive Directors against the criteria 
specified in the Code and determined that each of them continues 
to be independent.
The Board and its composition
The Board comprises eight Directors, of whom six, including 
the Chairman, are non-executive. The names of the Directors 
serving throughout the year and at the year end are shown on 
pages 52 and 53.
As previously reported, Leo Quinn was appointed Group Chief 
Executive with effect from 1 January 2015. Steve Marshall 
stepped down from the role of Chairman on 26 March 2015 to be 
succeeded by Philip Aiken. Peter Zinkin ceased to be a Director 
on 26 March 2015. Stuart Doughty and Stephen Billingham were 
appointed non-executive Directors on 8 April 2015 and 1 June 2015 
respectively. Duncan Magrath ceased to be a Director with effect 
from 8 May 2015. Philip Harrison was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer with effect from 1 June 2015. Robert Amen retired as 
a non-executive Director on 31 December 2015.
All of the Directors in office on 14 March 2016 will seek election or  
re-election at the AGM in accordance with the Code. Brief biographical 
details are shown on pages 52 and 53 and a non-exhaustive list of the 
key strengths of the Directors is set out in the table above. Details of 
their service agreements, emoluments and share incentives are 
shown in the Remuneration report starting on page 68.
Following the performance evaluations of each of the non-executive 
Directors, it is confirmed that the performance of each continues 
to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role. 
Board balance Board tenure Board geography Board balance
Chairman 1
Executive Directors 2
Non-executive Directors 5
0–2 years 5
2–4 years 1
4–6 years 0
6+ years 2
UK  7
Americas  1
Male 7
Female 1
Non-executive Directors – significant strengths
 
 
Strategic 
development
Operating 
performance
and  
delivery
 
Mergers 
and 
acquisitions
 
 
Business 
integration
Financial
management
and  
planning
 
 
Sector- 
specific
 
Experience of
international
markets
 
Health
and 
safety
Risk 
management 
and  
assurance
 
 
HR 
management
 
 
Stakeholder 
engagement
Ethics,  
values  
and 
culture
Philip 
Aiken
Stephen 
Billingham
Stuart 
Doughty
Iain 
Ferguson
Philip 
Harrison
Maureen 
Kempston 
Darkes
         
Leo Quinn
Graham 
Roberts
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
54 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Governance report Roles 
Summaries of the roles of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive 
and the Senior Independent Director are as follows:
Chairman – Philip Aiken
 – Ensuring effective strategic planning is undertaken by the 
executive Directors
 – Ensuring corporate governance is properly maintained
 – Formally appraising the performance of the Group Chief 
Executive and reviewing with the Group Chief Executive his 
views on the performance of the other executive Directors
 – Providing leadership to the Board
 – Acting as senior ambassador for the Company
 – Considering Board balance, composition and succession
 – Ensuring the smooth operation of the Board and 
its Committees
 – Providing effective communication between the Board and 
its shareholders.
Group Chief Executive – Leo Quinn
 – Strategy development and the stewardship of physical,  
financial and human resources
 – Group operational and financial performance
 – Executive leadership
 – Health, safety and environmental performance
 – Corporate values and ethics
 – Objective setting for the senior management team
 – Organisational structure, succession and talent management
 – Major capital expenditure prioritisation and allocation 
of resources
 – Consideration of acquisitions, disposals and financing
 – Stakeholder management.
Senior Independent Director – Iain Ferguson
 – Acting as chairman of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted
 – Acting as a conduit to the Board for the communication of 
shareholders’ concerns if other channels are not appropriate
 – Ensuring that the Chairman is provided with effective 
feedback on his performance. 
Board and Committee meetings
Procedures for Board meetings remain largely unchanged from 
previous years. The Company Secretary is responsible for advising 
the Board on appropriate governance matters and for ensuring 
a good information flow and that Board procedures are properly 
followed. He is available to individual Directors for advice on 
Board procedures.
Details of the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees 
held during the year and attendance of Directors thereat are set 
out on page 56. Outside the formal schedule of meetings, the  
non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors 
present on a number of occasions. Meetings were normally held 
at the Company’s head office.
All non-executive Directors receive papers for every Committee 
meeting and where not a member, have an open invitation to 
attend any Committee meeting. A number of the Directors took 
this opportunity during the year.
Board and Committee meetings typically take place over two 
consecutive days with the first day allocated to Committee 
meetings and ending with a ‘Focus’ presentation by a member of 
the leadership team. The agenda for the Board meetings will often 
include a ‘deep dive’ presentation from one of the business units as 
well as focusing on key priorities for the Group, including:
 – progress with the ‘Build to Last’ programme
 – strategy and budgets
 – operating structures, processes and costs
 – the Group’s financial performance
 – legacy contract out-turns
 – annual and interim financial statements
 – health and safety performance
 – significant human resources issues, including succession 
planning and diversity
 – consideration of issues relating to major disputes, proceedings 
or other matters of potentially adverse affect on the 
Group’s reputation.
Responsibility and delegation
The Board is responsible for the success of the Company and has a 
formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes 
the matters summarised below:
 – determining the Group’s strategic direction
 – approving annual budgets and financial reporting, including the 
annual and half-year results and interim management statements
 – approving interim, and recommending final, dividends
 – approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure
 – ensuring the necessary financial and human resources 
are in place to achieve objectives and review 
management performance
 – setting the Company’s values and ethical standards
 – approving policies and systems for risk management 
and assurance.
The Board reviewed its list of reserved matters, most recently, at its 
meeting in January 2016. The full list and the terms of reference of 
the Board Committees are available on the Company’s website: 
 www.balfourbeatty.com/investors
The day-to-day management of the business is delegated to 
executive Directors and the Group’s senior management.
55 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Board and Committee meetings attendance
Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board meetings and meetings of the Audit and Risk, Safety and Sustainability 
(formerly Business Practices), Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the table below.
Director
Board
(11)
Audit and Risk
(6)
Safety and 
Sustainability
(3)
Nomination
(4)
Remuneration
(4)
Philip Aiken (from 26 March 2015) 8(8) 3(3) 2(2) 2(2)
Robert Amen 7(1 1) 4(6) 2(3) 4(4)
Stephen Billingham (from 1 June 2015) 6(6) 2(2)
Stuart Doughty (from 8 April 2015) 7(7) 3(3) 3(3) 1(1)
Iain Ferguson 10(1 1) 4(4) 2(3) 4(4) 4(4)
Philip Harrison (from 1 June 2015) 6(6)
Maureen Kempston Darkes 1 1(1 1) 3(3) 4(4) 4(4)
Duncan Magrath (to 8 May 2015) 4(4)
Steve Marshall (to 26 March 2015) 3(3) 2(2) 2(2)
Leo Quinn 1 1(1 1) 3(4)
Graham Roberts 10(1 1) 6(6) 3(4) 3(4)
Peter Zinkin (to 26 March 2015) 3(3)
The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year (including as a result of changes to Committee memberships). Non-attendance 
at meetings was due to compelling business commitments or exceptionally illness. In each case, where the Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, 
they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chair, as appropriate. Iain Ferguson left the Audit 
and Risk Committee in July 2015 and rejoined it in January 2016.
Further information about the work of each of the Board’s 
Committees may be found on pages 59 to 63 and pages 68 to 84.
Board development
Induction
Directors undertake a thorough induction programme and receive 
a range of information about the Company when they join the 
Board, including access to a portal on which all Board papers are 
stored, and which includes Balfour Beatty’s Code of Conduct 
and processes for dealing in Balfour Beatty shares and Board 
procedures. In addition, they take part in a series of one-to-one 
meetings with other members of the Board, senior executives in 
the businesses and the Company’s external advisers, which include 
briefings on the Company’s business strategy, financial procedures, 
business development, legal and other key issues.
The Directors’ induction programme also provides the foundation 
for continuing professional development. This takes place 
throughout the year by way of a series of internal and external 
updates, including visits to operating companies to meet local 
management and visits to Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK 
and overseas.
Professional development
In discussion with the Directors and Company Secretary, each year 
the Chairman determines whether there are any specific training 
needs identified by the Directors, which can be addressed either 
by the topic being included at a future Board meeting or on a one-
to-one basis. Directors are also enrolled in the Deloitte Academy, 
a seminar-led programme for directors of UK listed companies, 
which provides regular updates throughout the year on the principal 
governance and other matters of which directors of a listed 
company should be fully aware.
Board evaluation
Introduction
In keeping with the Code, the Board undertakes external 
evaluations, typically every three years, with internal evaluations in 
the intervening two years. The most recent external evaluation was 
carried out in early 2016, and considered the performance of the 
Board and its Committees, as well as the Chairman and individual 
Directors, during 2015.
2015 evaluation
All Board members were requested to complete an online 
survey, which was prepared by Lintstock, an external facilitator. 
Lintstock also facilitated Balfour Beatty’s 2014 evaluation and has 
no other connection with the Company.
The survey was tailored to the specific circumstances of Balfour 
Beatty and covered the composition, expertise and dynamics of 
the Board, the Board’s management of time, the support afforded 
to the Board, the Board’s oversight of strategy, risk and human 
resources, and priorities for change. The anonymity of responses 
was guaranteed to ensure open and honest input.
Lintstock subsequently delivered a report to the Board, which 
formed the basis for one-to-one interviews between the Chairman 
and each Director, the outcomes of which were discussed by the 
Board at the March 2016 meeting. The Committee reviews were 
discussed individually at each Committee meeting.
Key conclusions from the evaluation
Given that over 60% of the current Board, including the Chairman, 
joined during 2015, comparisons to the 2014 review are of limited 
value; however, overall ratings across most areas showed an 
improvement year-on-year. The importance of the new non-
executive Directors continuing to enhance their understanding of 
the business was seen to be a key priority for the coming year.
Following the review, among other things the Board agreed to 
spend more time discussing the Company’s future strategy, 
including the implementation of ‘Build to Last’; increase its 
exposure to, and engagement with, management; and continue its 
focus on overseeing risk management, including Health and Safety.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
56 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Governance report continued Risk management
Effective risk management underpins the delivery of the Group’s objectives. It is essential to protecting its reputation and generating 
sustainable shareholder value. Balfour Beatty identifies key risks and applies controls at an early stage and develops action plans to 
eliminate them or mitigate their impact and likelihood to an acceptable level. For more information, refer to pages 42 to 50.
The Board has applied principle C2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code by embedding continuous risk management processes 
throughout the Group at all levels which form an integral part of day-to-day business activity. They are designed to help management 
to identify and understand the risks they face in delivering business objectives and the status of the key controls in place for managing 
those risks.
Roles and responsibilities
The Board is responsible for Balfour Beatty’s system of risk management and internal control. It sets the Group’s appetite for risk in pursuit 
of its strategic objectives, and the level of risk that can be taken by Group, divisional and business unit management without specific Board 
approval. Group policies, procedures and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed and 
escalated to the appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration and approval.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, and divisional and business unit management during the year are set out below.
Responsibilities Actions undertaken
1. Board – Responsible for the Group’s systems of 
risk management and internal control
 – Determines Group appetite for risk in 
achieving its strategic objectives.
 – Issues and reviews Group risk 
management policy
 – Annually reviews effectiveness of 
Group risk management and internal 
control systems
 – Reviews the Group’s key risks and 
risk responses.
Audit and Risk Committee – Regularly reviews the effectiveness 
of Group internal controls, including 
systems to identify, assess, manage and 
monitor risks.
 – Receives regular reports on internal 
and external audit and other 
assurance activities
 – Annually assesses Group risk 
management and internal 
control systems
 – Reviews effectiveness of the 
Group’s helpline and other channels 
for raising concerns about Code of 
Conduct breaches.
Group Tender and Investment Committee – Reviews and approves tenders and 
investments, triggered by certain 
financial thresholds or other risk factors.
 – Critically appraises significant tender 
proposals and investment/divestment 
opportunities, with a specific focus 
on risk.
Safety and Sustainability Committee – Reviews Group management of non-
financial risks such as health and safety, 
and sustainability.
 – Receives regular reports on 
implementation of Group policies and 
procedures on non-financial risks.
2. Group management – Strategic leadership
 – Responsible for ensuring that the 
Group’s risk management policy is 
implemented and embedded
 – Ensures appropriate actions are taken 
to manage strategic risks and other 
key risks.
 – Strategic plan and annual budget process
 – Reviews risk management and 
assurance activities and processes
 – Monthly/quarterly finance and 
performance reviews.
3. Divisional management – Responsible for risk management 
and internal control systems within 
its division
 – Ensures that business units’ 
responsibilities are discharged.
 – Reviews key risks and mitigation 
plans monthly
 – Reviews and challenges business unit 
assurance plans
 – Reviews results of assurance activities
 – Escalates key risks to Group 
management and the Board.
4. Business unit management – Maintains an effective system of risk 
management and internal control within 
its business unit and projects.
 – Maintains and regularly reviews project, 
functional and strategic risk registers
 – Reviews mitigation plans
 – Plans, executes and reports on 
assurance activities.
57 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Risk management and internal control  Risk management process
Balfour Beatty’s risk management policy requires that all divisions 
and those business units within them identify and assess the risks 
to which they are exposed and which could impact on the ability to 
deliver their, and the Group’s, objectives.
Identified risk events, their causes and possible consequences are 
recorded in risk registers, with details of the likelihood and potential 
business impact and the control systems in place to manage them 
analysed and, if required, additional actions developed and put in 
place to mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposures; and individuals 
allocated responsibility for evaluating and managing these risks to 
an agreed timescale.
The Group sets delegated authorities which are the trigger for 
matters requiring Group senior management or Board approval. 
In relation to bidding, this means that projects above a certain value, 
with certain features that import certain risks or involve a move into 
new markets or work types, require approval by the Group Tender 
and Investment Committee, with divisions having a delegated level 
of authority as well as their own approval and risk management 
committees and triggers.
Reporting structures ensure that risks are monitored continually, 
mitigation plans are reviewed and significant exposures are 
escalated – from project level to business unit management to 
divisional and Group senior management.
A range of procedures is used to monitor the effectiveness 
of internal controls, including management assurance, risk 
management processes and independent assurance provided 
by internal audit and other specialist third parties.
Improvements to the risk management framework were 
made throughout 2015 as outlined on pages 42 and 43. Continuing  
co-ordination of commercial and more general business risk and 
assurance reporting is ongoing with financial and general business 
risk being subject to regular review. Further strengthening of 
the risk management and review framework is to be deployed 
in 2016 to increase risk oversight and scrutiny. These processes 
are detailed further at pages 44 to 50 but in principle will improve 
the approach taken to risk management using a transparent and 
common approach.
Internal control
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s risk 
management systems and internal control, and regularly reviews 
their effectiveness.
The Group’s systems and controls are designed to ensure that the 
Group’s exposure to significant risk is managed properly, but the 
Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. In addition, not 
all the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are 
treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group. Where they are 
not, systems of internal control and risk management are applied 
as agreed between the partners to the joint venture.
Central to the Group’s systems of internal control are its processes 
and framework for risk management. These align with Guidance 
on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and 
Business Reporting and were in place throughout 2015 and up to 
the date of signing this report.
The Group’s systems of internal control operate through a 
number of different processes, some of which are interlinked. 
These include:
 – a clear system of delegated authorities from the Board to 
management with certain matters reserved by the Board
 – the annual review of the strategy and plans of each division 
and of the Group as a whole in order to identify the risks to 
the Group’s achievement of its overall objectives and, where 
appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions
 – monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of 
results and forecasts by executive Directors and management, 
including particular areas of business or project risk. This is used 
to update management’s understanding of the environment in 
which the Group operates and the methods used to mitigate and 
control the risks identified
 – gateway reviews requiring risk, uncertainty and control 
assessment at all stages of project development and at all levels 
of the business from business unit level to Board Committee if 
value, or perceived exposure, exceeds certain thresholds
 – regular reporting, monitoring and review of the effectiveness of 
health, safety and environmental processes. These processes are 
subject to independent audit and certification to internationally 
recognised standards
 – the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment 
and capital expenditure through the Board’s Committees and the 
Board itself
 – specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual covering 
the financial management of the Group, including arrangements 
with the Group’s bankers and bond providers, controls on foreign 
exchange dealings and management of currency and interest rate 
exposures, insurance, capital expenditure procedures, application 
of accounting policies and financial controls
 – legal compliance risks which are addressed through specific 
policies and training on such matters as ethics, competition and 
data protection laws
 – Group-wide risk management standards which are embedded 
throughout the Group
 – reviews and tests by the internal audit function of critical business 
financial processes and controls and specific reviews in areas of 
perceived high business risk
 – the Group’s ethics helpline and other channels by which staff 
are encouraged to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible 
breaches of the Code of Conduct, improprieties on matters of 
financial reporting and other issues.
These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as 
appropriate, to all businesses joining the Group.
The divisional CEOs are responsible for ensuring that a 
comprehensive framework of assurance (including internal 
audit) exists within their division and business units which is in 
accordance with Group requirements.
The Board continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk 
management processes and internal controls during 2015 and to 
the date of this report. Such assessment is based on reports made 
to the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Safety and 
Sustainability Committee, including:
 – the results of internal audit’s reviews of internal financial controls
 – a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had 
been maintained or, where any significant non-compliance or 
breakdown had occurred with or without loss, that appropriate 
remedial action has been or is being taken
 – a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent 
and mitigation of significant risks and on the systems of 
internal controls.
Principal risks
The principal risks that could adversely impact on the Group’s 
profitability and ability to achieve its strategic objectives are set 
out on pages 44 to 50.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
58 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Risk management and internal control continued “ The Audit and Risk Committee plays a key role in overseeing 
the Group’s financial reporting and risk management 
processes. We are committed to ensuring that the Group’s 
financial reporting is accurate, high-quality and clear, to allow 
shareholders to properly understand the Group’s performance 
and financial position.”
Main responsibilities
The terms of reference for the Committee are based on 
the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council. The main responsibilities of the Audit and 
Risk Committee are summarised below:
 – review the integrity of the financial statements of the Group 
and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s 
financial performance
 – review the Group’s internal controls established to identify, 
assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from 
management on the effectiveness of the systems it has 
established and the conclusions of any testing carried out 
by the internal audit function and external auditor
 – monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function including its work programme
 – make recommendations to the Board in relation to 
the appointment of the external auditor and approve 
the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 
external auditor
 – assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of 
the external auditor and develop and implement policy on 
the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-
audit services
 – review the integrity of the statement in the Annual Report 
on being fair, balanced and understandable, as required 
under the Companies Act 2006
 – review the procedures for the Group’s helplines and 
other mechanisms used by employees to raise concerns 
confidentially (including any whistleblowing facilities) and 
their effectiveness.
Graham Roberts, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants, a former partner at Andersen and former 
finance director of The British Land Company, has been 
identified by the Board as having recent and relevant 
financial experience.
Partners from the external auditor, the Group Risk and Audit 
director, the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial 
Officer regularly attend meetings. The Committee also 
invites divisional leaders and specialists relevant to the 
Committee’s agenda.
Graham 
Roberts 
Chairman  
of the Audit  
and Risk 
Committee
Summary of activities in 2015
In 2015, the Committee’s work programme focused on a number 
of significant issues and other accounting judgements where 
the Committee believed the highest level of judgement was 
required and with the highest potential impact on the Group’s 
financial statements. Further information is set out on page 60. 
The Committee’s standing agenda items comprised reports on:
 – accounting, financial and regulatory issues
 – review of non-audit work carried out by the external auditors, 
and their fees
 – risk management activities and compliance
 – implementation of and progress against the Group 
assurance plan.
The Committee is able to question management at both Group and 
divisional levels to gain any further insight into the issues addressed 
in these reports. 
As reported more fully on page 61, the Committee led the process 
of retendering the external audit, resulting in the recommendation 
to approve KPMG’s appointment for the year ended 31 December 
2016. It also oversaw the recruitment of the Group Risk and 
Audit director and the subsequent reorganisation of the activities 
reporting to him.
Risk management and assurance
The Committee oversaw the development of more robust 
processes to embed operational risk in core reporting processes. 
This work is ongoing with the intention of developing a unified 
and common approach to risk management and assurance across 
the Group.
Fair, balanced and understandable
Following the introduction of the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, the Board has 
been mindful of the continuing need to provide a balanced and 
comprehensive analysis of the Company’s development and 
performance during the year and the position at the year end. 
The Audit and Risk Committee has assisted in achieving this 
objective by reviewing proposals for the internal procedures to 
be applied in preparing the Annual Report.
Viability statement
Following the revision to the UK Corporate Governance Code 
published in September 2014, the Audit and Risk Committee has 
assisted in reviewing the viability of the Group over the longer term 
as part of its assessment of the Group’s risks.
  See page 50 for further details
Areas of focus in 2016
In 2016, the Committee will continue to address the topics on its 
standing agenda as well as continuing to undertake reviews of the 
risk management and assurance practices across the Group on 
a rolling programme. The Committee will also continue to receive 
any necessary training in order to broaden and refresh the skills 
and knowledge of its members.
59 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Audit and Risk Committee Significant issues and other accounting judgements
Revenue and margin recognition Given the nature of the Group’s operations, these elements are central to how it values 
its work. Having reviewed detailed reports and met with management, the Committee 
considered contract and commercial issues with exposure to both revenue and margin 
recognition risks. As a key area of audit focus, the Committee also received a detailed 
written report from the external auditor setting out the results of its work in relation to 
key contract judgements. 
Carrying value of goodwill and 
other intangibles
The judgement largely relates to the assumptions underlying the value in use of the 
cash-generating units, primarily the achievement of the three-year strategic plan and the 
macroeconomic assumptions (such as discount rates) underpinning the valuation process. 
The Committee received reports from management outlining the impairment model and 
the assumptions used; in addition, the external auditor provided detailed written reports in 
this area. 
Accounting for acquisitions 
and disposals
The Committee judges whether a business should be treated as held for sale and classified 
as a discontinued operation. In doing so, it reviews management’s position and Group 
strategy and evaluates the likelihood that the business will be disposed of within a 12-month 
period and if it constitutes a separate major line of business.
Going concern and viability statement In order to satisfy itself that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation 
for the foreseeable future and that there are no material uncertainties that could lead to 
significant doubt as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, the Committee 
considered the Group’s viability statement, cash position (both existing and projected), 
bank facilities and covenants (including bonding lines) and the borrowing powers allowed 
under the Company’s Articles of Association. The Committee subsequently recommended 
to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement and the viability statement for 
inclusion in the Annual Report. More details on going concern and the viability statement 
are contained on pages 21 and 50.
Non-underlying items The key judgement is whether items relate to underlying trading or not and whether they 
have been presented in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. The Committee 
conducted a review of each of the non-underlying items, receiving written reports from 
management and the external auditor as to their quantum and nature. 
Provisions The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to provisions, including litigation 
and other risks. The Committee received detailed reports, including relevant legal advice.
Retirement benefits The key judgement relates to the assumptions underlying the valuation of the retirement 
benefit obligations. The Committee received reports from management outlining the 
assumptions used, including input from the Group’s actuaries, in particular in relation to 
discount rates, inflation and mortality which were evaluated against external benchmarks 
and, in relation to which, the external auditor also provided reports.
Deferred tax assets The Committee reviewed the Group’s considerations on future profitability to evaluate the 
judgement that it is probable the deferred tax assets are recoverable.
Directors’ valuation of the 
Investments portfolio
The Committee assessed the methodology used to value the assets in terms of the discount 
rates applied. It also critically appraised the output of the Directors’ valuation exercise.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
60 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Audit and Risk Committee continued Risk management and internal control
The risk management and internal control framework was reviewed 
and strengthened in February 2015 and now comprises a number 
of approval and review gates that cover the business lifecycle 
from initial project pursuit through to delivery and completion. 
These processes are underpinned by common minimum standards 
in project and commercial management and are under constant 
review to ensure their effectiveness and compliance.
Internal auditor effectiveness
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal audit on 
an ongoing basis. This is achieved, in part, by reviewing and 
discussing the reports presented to it at each meeting, setting 
out the department’s work and findings, but also through a formal 
annual assessment. An independent periodic review of internal 
audit, as well as a thorough self-assessment scorecard drawn up 
in accordance with best practice guidelines, also helps contribute 
to the Committee’s evaluation.
External auditor independence and effectiveness
The Committee carries out a formal review each year to assess 
the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, 
Deloitte LLP . The Committee has satisfied itself as to Deloitte’s 
independence. In reaching its conclusion, the Committee took into 
consideration the following matters:
Non-audit work
The objective set out in the Company’s policy is to ensure that the 
external auditor is not placed in a position where its independence 
is, or might be seen to be, compromised. Under no circumstances 
will any assignment be given to the external auditor, when the 
result is that:
 – as part of the statutory audit, it is required to report directly on 
non-audit work
 – it makes management decisions on behalf of the Group
 – it acts as advocate for the Group
 – the level of non-audit fees is such, relative to audit fees, as to 
raise concerns about its ability to form objective judgements.
The Company’s policy identifies the various types of non-audit 
services and determines the analysis to be undertaken and level of 
authority required before the external auditor can be considered to 
undertake such services.
There is no inconsistency between the Financial Reporting 
Council’s ethical standards and the Company’s policy.
In 2015, the external auditor was appointed to carry out various 
non-audit related work, including corporate finance services for 
reasons of commercial confidentiality and efficiency as well as tax 
advisory services in Germany and the UK.
The Committee considers that the Company receives particular 
benefits, including those relating to cost, quality and consistency, 
from the advice provided by its external auditor, given its wide and 
detailed knowledge of the Group and its international operations. 
There can also be savings in management time and accelerated 
delivery of work in situations where rapid turnaround is required.
The majority of non-audit related work provided by all the major 
international accounting firms (85% by value) was carried out by 
firms other than Deloitte.
Annual assessment of the audit process
In addition to receiving written reports from the auditors (both 
internal and external) and management, the Committee also 
conducted separate private meetings with the external auditors 
and with management. These provide the opportunity for open 
dialogue and feedback on the audit process, the responsiveness 
of management and the effectiveness of individual internal and 
external audit teams.
A detailed assessment of the external audit process and the 
effectiveness of the external auditor, together with any identified 
improvement recommendations, is prepared each year. 
Each division and operating company within the Group is required 
to evaluate the performance of the assigned external audit team 
and to compare that performance against the previous year. 
This assessment has taken into account the issues which have 
been raised during 2015.
The external auditor’s annual transparency report for the year ended 
31 May 2015 was reviewed. This was prepared in accordance with 
the provisions of the Statutory Auditors (Transparency) Instrument 
2008 made by the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial 
Reporting Council.
External auditor rotation
As indicated last year, in light of the requirements of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and other recent changes to the 
EU regulatory framework, the Committee undertook a competitive 
tender for the external audit, Deloitte having been the Company’s 
auditor since August 2002. This process involved: 
 – presentations to the Committee by four firms, including Deloitte, 
addressing key business risks and their proposed audit approach 
 – individual meetings of the tendering firms with all of the divisional 
management teams, executive management and members of 
the Committee 
 – the presentation of formal tender submissions 
 – a final presentation to a selection committee chaired by the 
chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and comprising 
executive and non-executive Directors of the Group. 
The result of the comprehensive tender process was that on the 
recommendation of the committee, the Board selected KPMG 
as auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016. Accordingly, 
shareholder approval will be sought to confirm the appointment 
of KPMG as auditor of the Company at the AGM to be held on 
19 May 2016.
The disclosures provided above constitute the Company’s 
statement of compliance with the requirements of The Statutory 
Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014.
61 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 “ The role of the Committee is to monitor the structure 
and composition of the Board, including responsibility for 
recommending Board appointments, and to consider the 
strategy, processes and plans for senior executive recruitment, 
the Group’s succession planning and talent management.”
Summary of activities in 2015
In 2015, the Committee’s work programme entailed the 
selection of and recommendations to the Board for the 
appointment of two new non-executive Directors.
All appointments to the Board are based on merit, 
against objective criteria, having due regard for diversity, 
including gender.
In seeking suitable candidates for the positions, The Zygos 
Partnership, an external executive search agency was 
engaged. The Committee identified the competencies 
sought and the required experience, and the agency 
prepared shortlists of potential candidates who were 
interviewed by members of the Committee and by the 
executive Directors.
Key determinants in the selection of the non-executive 
Directors were a background in organisations that share 
key dynamics with Balfour Beatty, including contracting, 
customer service, major capital projects, infrastructure and 
B2B services.
The search agency appointed was reminded to approach 
a diverse talent pool of candidates, and has no other 
connections with Balfour Beatty.
Areas of focus in 2016
In January 2016, the Committee received a comprehensive 
presentation on the succession and development plans 
for the Group’s senior leadership team and discussed 
successions plans for the Board. It will continue to 
monitor the appropriateness of the composition of the 
Board and if appropriate, make recommendations to the 
Board concerning the need for the introduction of new 
non-executive Directors. The implications of the business 
strategy for senior executive recruitment and the impact on 
the Group’s succession planning are also areas which the 
Committee will consider during the year.
“ The principal role of the Committee is to drive greater focus 
on the development of the safety culture within the business 
through the Zero Harm programme and to review the 
environmental performance of the Group.” 
Summary of activities in 2015
The Committee met for the first time in July 2015, having 
assumed the safety and environmental responsibilities of the 
former Business Practices Committee, with the objective of 
providing greater emphasis on these areas. Oversight of the 
whistleblowing policies and procedures is now provided by 
the Audit and Risk Committee, whilst ethics and compliance 
reports are reviewed by the Board.
The principal role of the Committee is to drive greater focus 
on the development of the safety culture within the business 
through the Zero Harm programme and to review the 
environmental performance of the Group.
In addition to the standard agenda items designed to provide 
the Committee with objective reporting of absolute and 
relative performance against agreed KPIs, during the year 
the Committee has overseen the simplification of the UK 
health and safety function by creating a UK-wide centre of 
expertise under one leadership team. This has facilitated 
the development of a more proactive, risk-based approach 
focused on end-to-end risk elimination, improved learning and 
communication. The UK function also performs a Group-wide 
data collection and reporting role.
In the US, safety issues will be dealt with separately because 
of different statistical measurement of performance, although 
every opportunity will be taken to share and promote best 
practice across the Group.
The Committee considered certain significant health and 
safety-related incidents, including fatalities, discussing in 
detail the themes around supervision, communications and 
remote working.
Areas of focus in 2016
In 2016, the Committee will continue to focus on the key 
reputational risk areas of health and safety and sustainability 
and will monitor progress against the various action plans. 
Philip Aiken
Chairman of 
the Nomination 
Committee
Maureen 
Kempston 
Darkes
Chairman of 
the Safety and 
Sustainability 
Committee
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
62 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Nomination Committee Safety and Sustainability Committee Summary of role
The Committee has been chaired by the Group Chief 
Executive, or in his absence by the Chief Financial Officer, or 
in his absence by the Chief Executive of Investments (other 
than for Infrastructure Investments tenders). In November 
2015, three more members of the Committee were 
approved by the Board to chair meetings. Similar restrictions 
apply to each of them in relation to review of proposals 
from those areas of the business for which each has 
executive responsibility.
The main purpose of the Committee is to review all major 
proposed tenders with projected values above specified 
levels, with a specific focus on risk. The Committee also has 
authority to approve capital expenditure applications and any 
proposed acquisitions or disposals up to certain specified 
limits determined by the Board. For example, currently 
the Committee’s terms of reference require contracts for 
construction or services in the UK of a value exceeding 
£100 million to be submitted for review, whilst other limits 
vary according to geography and nature of the contract.
Any member may convene a meeting of the Committee to 
discuss any of the tender reviews in more detail. In addition 
to those members of the Committee most relevant for 
the consideration of each proposed tender, meetings are 
attended by key members of the bid team concerned and 
their divisional, operational and financial leaders. Minutes of 
all meetings are made available to all Directors.
Summary of role
The Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive or, 
in his absence, by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its principal purpose is to approve various routine banking 
and treasury matters, grants and exercises of employee 
share options and other matters relating to share capital.
A summary of the business conducted at the meetings is 
provided to all Directors.
63 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Group Tender and Investment 
Committee
Finance and General 
Purposes Committee Business and financial review
The Chairman’s introduction on pages 2 and 3, the Group Chief 
Executive’s review on pages 4 and 5, the market and strategic 
reviews on pages 10 to 17, the Chief Financial Officer’s review on 
pages 18 to 21, the performance review on pages 22 to 33 and the 
section titled Building a sustainable business on pages 34 to 41 are 
incorporated by reference into the Directors’ report.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are shown in the audited financial 
statements presented on pages 90 to 177 and are explained 
more fully in the Chairman’s introduction, the Chief Financial 
Officer’s review and the performance review. No ordinary 
dividends were paid in 2015 (2014: 5.6p (net) per ordinary share). 
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p (gross) per preference share 
were paid in 2015 (2014: 10.75p (gross)).
The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan, 
which allows holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their cash 
dividends in the Company’s shares through a specially arranged 
share dealing service.
Innovation, research and development 
Information concerning innovation, research and development 
is set out on pages 34 to 36 and forms part of the Directors’ 
report disclosures.
Branches
As the Group is a global business, there are activities operated 
through branches in certain jurisdictions.
Share capital and shareholders
Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 
2015, including the rights attaching to each class of share, are 
set out in Note 29 on pages 145 and 146. During the year ended 
31 December 2015, no ordinary or preference shares were 
repurchased for cancellation. 210,214 ordinary shares were issued 
following the exercise of options held under the Company’s 
savings-related share option scheme.
At 31 December 2015, the Directors had authority under 
shareholders’ resolutions approved at the AGM and at the 
Class Meeting of preference shareholders held in May 2015 to 
purchase through the market 68,950,577 ordinary shares and 
16,775,968 preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions. 
This authority expires at the earlier of the conclusion of the Class 
Meeting of preference shareholders which will follow the 2016 
AGM or on 1 July 2016.
Throughout the year, all the Company’s issued share capital was 
publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so 
as at the date of this report. There are no specific restrictions on 
the size of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are 
both governed by the Articles of Association and the prevailing law. 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of 
the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of shares or on voting rights.
No person has special rights of control over the Company’s share 
capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified in 
accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority of the following interests in its ordinary 
share capital.
Number  
of ordinary  
shares held
Percentage  
of ordinary  
shares held
Causeway Capital Management LLC 55,778,133 8.08
Prudential plc 40,072,886 5.81
Norges Bank 34,534,864 5.01
Newton Investment Management 
Limited 31,347 ,697 4.55
Invesco Limited 29,102,945 4.21
Auditor
As explained on page 61, during 2015, the Board completed a 
competitive tender process for the appointment of the external 
auditor, as a result of which KPMG LLP was selected as the 
Company’s auditor for the year ending 31 December 2016. 
A resolution for their appointment will be proposed at the 
2016 AGM.
Articles of Association
The Company has not adopted any special rules regarding the 
appointment and replacement of Directors or the amendment 
of the Articles of Association, other than as provided under 
UK company law.
Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good 
relationships with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders 
are kept informed of significant Company developments.
The Company continued its programme of communication with 
institutional investors and sell-side analysts throughout 2015. 
Presentations of the half-year and full-year results were made in 
accordance with the practice of previous years, and teleconferences 
have been held for Interim Management Statements.
Through the year, approximately 102 one-on-one and group 
meetings were held at regular intervals with institutional 
shareholders (2014: approximately 207). Current and prospective 
shareholders, brokers and analysts were also given the opportunity 
to engage with Balfour Beatty during hosted roadshows in London, 
Scotland and North America.
This communication programme will be maintained and expanded 
where appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and 
practice. The 2016 investor relations programme will focus on 
ensuring investors and the analyst community understand the 
Group, its operations and strategy, and that international institutions 
continue to be given the opportunity to meet with management.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
64 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Directors’ report – other disclosures Care is exercised to ensure that any price sensitive information is 
released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with 
UK Listing Authority requirements.
Executive Directors report regularly to the Board on meetings or 
other contact with shareholders or their representatives. The non-
executive Directors continue to believe that, through their direct 
and ready access to, and contact with, the Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director and through the regular reports to the Board, 
they are kept fully aware of the views of the larger shareholders in 
the Company and the investment community generally.
The Board continues to retain the services of independent 
external corporate and investor relations consultants who 
provide advice on the relationship between the Company and its 
institutional investors.
Further information on our investor relations programme can be 
found at:
 www.balfourbeatty.com/investors
The Board regards the Company’s general meetings as an 
opportunity to communicate directly with private investors and 
actively encourages participative dialogue with all the Company’s 
shareholders. The chairs of the Board Committees attend the AGM 
each year along with the other Directors and are available to answer 
questions from shareholders. The circular setting out the Notice of 
the 2016 AGM provides a detailed explanation of the business to be 
transacted and includes contact details which shareholders can use 
to make any comments or ask any questions concerning the AGM.
The website is regarded by the Company as an important 
source of information on the Group, including financial press 
releases, shareholder documentation, annual and half-year results 
presentations and the terms of reference of the principal Board 
Committees. The Company’s website continues to be developed to 
ensure it remains a principal source of information on the Group and 
its activities.
Political donations
At the AGM held in May 2015, shareholders gave authority for the 
Company and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political 
organisations up to a maximum aggregate amount of £25,000 in 
the European Union. This approval is a precautionary measure in 
view of the broad definition of these terms in the Companies Act. 
No such expenditure or donations were made during the year and 
shareholder authority will be sought again at the 2016 AGM.
In the US and Canada, corporate political contributions 
totalling £35,000 were made by business units during 2015 
(2014: £282,000). Any political contributions or donations are tightly 
controlled and must be approved in advance in accordance with the 
Company’s internal procedures and must also adhere strictly to the 
Company’s policies on probity set out in its Code of Conduct.
Corporate responsibility
A full description of the Group’s approach to sustainability, including 
information on its community engagement programme, appears on 
pages 34 to 41.
The Group’s published policies on health and safety, the environment, 
business conduct and ethics remain in place and are subject to 
regular reviews.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of emissions during the year and the actions which the 
Group is taking to reduce them are set out on pages 39 and 40 and 
form part of the Directors’ report disclosures.
Employment
The Balfour Beatty Group operates across multiple territories and 
end markets. However, there are key principles in the design and 
practice of employment policy that are applicable across the Group. 
These are to:
 – provide a safe, open, inclusive and challenging environment that 
attracts and retains the best people
 – enable all employees to perform at their best and realise 
their full potential, assisted by appropriate training and 
career development
 – communicate the strategy of the Group, the objectives of 
each respective business and the role and objectives of each 
employee within that business
 – actively consult with all employees and engage in a participating 
environment that fosters the exchange of best practice 
and collaboration
 – provide market competitive pay and benefits that reward both 
individual and collective performance
 – ensure that all job applicants receive fair treatment, regardless 
of age, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, 
religion or belief
 – ensure that all employees similarly receive fair treatment 
throughout their career
 – provide a working environment of respect and free 
from harassment.
Information concerning employee diversity is set out on page 38 
and forms part of the Directors’ report disclosures.
Balfour Beatty strives to provide employment, training and 
development opportunities for disabled people wherever possible. 
The Group is committed to supporting employees who become 
disabled during employment and helping disabled employees 
make the best use of their skills and potential, consistent with 
all other employees.
65 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Employment continued
The Company also operates an all employee Share Incentive 
Plan (SIP) which enables UK-based employees to acquire the 
Company’s ordinary shares on a potentially tax-favourable basis, 
in order to encourage employee share ownership and provide 
additional alignment between the interests of employees and 
shareholders. Participants in the SIP are the beneficial owners of 
shares but not the registered owners, and the voting rights to such 
shares are exercised by the trustee of the SIP at the discretion of 
the participants.
Information concerning the performance of the Group and the 
Company’s share price is provided to all employees via the Group 
intranet, 360, and through the Company’s website.
Events after the reporting date 
As at 14 March 2016, there were no material events after the 
reporting date.
Change of control provisions
The Group’s bank facility agreements contain provisions that, on 
30 days’ notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise 
its discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of 
control of the Company and cancel all commitments under the 
agreement concerned.
A number of significant joint venture and contract bond agreements 
include provisions which become exercisable by a counterparty 
on a change of control of the Company. These include the right 
of a counterparty to request additional security and to terminate 
an agreement.
The Group’s US private placement arrangements require the 
Company, promptly upon becoming aware that a change of control 
of the Company has occurred (and in any event within 10 business 
days), to give written notice of such fact to all holders of the notes 
and make an offer to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of 
the notes, together with accrued interest.
The Group’s convertible bond arrangements provide that the holder 
of bonds can require the Company to redeem its bonds following 
a change of control of the Company at their principal amount, 
together with accrued interest. The Company is required to notify 
the bond holder within 14 days of a change of control.
Some other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal 
course of business, include change of control provisions.
The Group’s share and incentive plans include usual provisions 
relating to change of control, as do the terms of the Company’s 
cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for the 
Directors or employees on a change of control.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies and 
its exposure to the following risks – foreign exchange, interest rate, 
price and credit – are detailed in Note 38 on pages 155 to 162.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union (EU) and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and 
they have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial 
statements under IFRS as adopted by the EU. Under company law, 
the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for 
that period. In preparing these financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 – properly select and apply accounting policies
 – present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information
 – provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the Company’s and the Group’s financial 
position and financial performance
 – make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and for taking reasonable steps for preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
66 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Directors’ report – other disclosures continued The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole
 – the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties they face.
In light of the work undertaken by the Audit and Risk Committee 
reported in greater detail on pages 59 to 61 and the internal 
verification and approval process which has been followed this year, 
the Directors are able to state that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position, performance, business model and strategy.
Statements of Directors as to disclosure of information 
to auditors 
Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
 – so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware
 – the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have 
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board
 
Andrew Astin
Company Secretary 
14 March 2016
Registered Office: 
5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf  
London E14 5HU
Registered in England Number 395826
67 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Iain Ferguson
Chairman of the 
Remuneration 
Committee
While a below Board initiative, an innovative approach approved 
by the Committee in 2015 was the introduction of the CEO Share 
Awards under the Restricted Share Plan as a clear commitment 
to building a talent pipeline to secure the future of the Company. 
In 2015, modest awards of three-year restricted stock were made 
to 344 colleagues identified as key future talent. Each individual 
award was sponsored by the Group Chief Executive and provides 
a clear retention and reward tool as we look to deliver further 
performance improvements.
Areas of focus in 2016
In 2016, the Committee will undertake a formal review of the 
remuneration policy and the appropriateness of the short-term 
and long-term incentive arrangements to meet the current and 
future needs of the Company, as it implements the next phase of 
its business strategy. If changes are considered necessary, the 
Committee will consult with shareholders at the appropriate time, 
prior to proposing any resolution at the 2017 AGM. 
Remuneration policy for 2016
We remain committed to the principles of our existing remuneration 
policy and its strong alignment to performance and shareholder 
value. A summary of how the Committee intends to operate the 
policy for 2016 is set out below:
 – Reflecting the ongoing transformation of the Group through 
Build to Last, the AIP for 2016 will be measured using stretching 
profit and cash targets and strategic objectives. Cash generation 
remains critical as the Group looks to build on progress made in 
2015 and return to profitability.
 – The Committee will adopt a combination of TSR, EPS and cash 
performance measures for the 2016 PSP awards. This provides 
consistency with the measures used for the 2015 PSP award and 
reflects the continued strategic priorities of the Company.
Conclusion
The Committee will continue to engage with the Company’s major 
shareholders to ensure that its executive remuneration remains 
appropriate and that, if changes are proposed, they remain true to 
the Committee’s principles of rewarding strong performance and 
enhanced value to shareholders.
The Committee noted the significant number of votes cast against 
the advisory vote on the Directors’ Remuneration report at the 
2015 AGM (68% ‘For’ and 32% ‘Against’). As shareholders are 
aware, 2014 was a challenging period for the Company and the 
Committee had to deal with a number of critical issues, including 
the recruitment terms of the Group Chief Executive, which resulted 
in many of the votes against the Directors’ Remuneration Report at 
the 2015 AGM. 
The Board takes its responsibility to engage with investors seriously 
and the Committee believes that the remuneration actions taken in 
2014, including those related to the appointment of the Group Chief 
Executive, and those taken in 2015, were necessary and in the best 
interest of the Company and its shareholders. 
I hope you will be supportive of the resolution to approve the 
Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2016 AGM.
Iain Ferguson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
“ 2015 was a year of strong cash performance where the recently 
appointed executive Directors had a positive impact on Company 
performance despite having to deal with significant legacy 
issues. It was a busy year for the Committee which will continue 
through 2016 as we undertake a full review of our reward tools 
and practices, to ensure that they fully support the next stage 
of the Company’s transformation,. We intend to present a new 
Remuneration Policy for approval by shareholders at the 2017 AGM. 
  The Committee is responsible for remuneration strategy and 
policies, incentive plans and individual remuneration packages.”
I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration report 
for 2015.
This report is divided into two sections, the Policy Report and the 
Annual Report, the latter being subject to an advisory vote at the 
2016 AGM.
Link to strategy
The primary objectives of our remuneration policy are to ensure 
we are able to attract, retain and motivate key executives to 
deliver strong sustainable business performance aligned to the 
strategic plan and to the interests of shareholders. Balfour Beatty 
executive remuneration comprises base salary, benefits and 
incentive plans that are designed to reward both short-term 
and long-term performance. The incentive plans are subject to 
clawback provisions. 
Summary of activities in 2015
Impact of Board changes
This year, the Committee has dealt with a number of Board 
changes, including the departure of Duncan Magrath as 
Chief Financial Officer in May 2015 and the recruitment of his 
replacement, Philip Harrison, who joined Balfour Beatty in June 
2015. Peter Zinkin, the Planning and Development Director, 
retired in August 2015 after a 34-year career with the Company.
Steve Marshall stepped down from the Board as Chairman in 
March 2015 on the appointment of his successor, Philip Aiken.
Leo Quinn joined the Board in January 2015 as Group Chief 
Executive and his appointment terms were detailed in the 2014 
Remuneration report.
Reward for 2015
In respect of 2015, the annual bonus payments for the executive 
Directors reflect the mixed performance of the Company – cash 
performance was strong, as was the personal performance of 
both executive Directors; however, profit performance continued 
to disappoint as the Company dealt with legacy issues.
The TSR performance conditions relating to the 2013 PSP which 
measured performance over the three years ended 31 December 
2015 were not achieved and so those awards lapsed in full in 
March 2016. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
68 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Remuneration report 
Chairman of Remuneration Committee introduction The policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 15 May 2014. Although there is no requirement to include the Policy Report this 
year, it has been included for ease of reference.
Policy overview
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines the Company’s remuneration policy and the remuneration packages of the executive 
Directors of the Company and the Chairman. In setting the remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account a number of factors, 
including:
 – general trends in pay and conditions throughout the Group
 – the positioning of remuneration levels against the external market
 – the balance between fixed and variable pay – more specifically, variable pay should form a significant but not disproportionately high level 
of potential remuneration
 – the strategy of the business.
In setting the overall remuneration policy, general trends and average increases throughout the Group are taken into account when setting 
executive Directors’ reward packages. A key feature for the executive Directors is that a higher proportion of their remuneration package 
is delivered through performance-related pay, which has a greater linkage to the results of the Group. The areas covered in this Policy 
Report comprise:
Consideration of shareholders’ views 69
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group 69
Summary of executive Directors’ remuneration policy  70
Remuneration scenarios for executive Directors  72
Recruitment and promotion policy for executive Directors 72
Service agreements and payments for loss of office for executive Directors 73 
External appointments of executive Directors 73
Appointment of non-executive Directors  73
Consideration of shareholders’ views
The Committee considers feedback from shareholders received at each AGM, and any feedback from additional meetings, as part of any 
review of executive remuneration. In addition, the Committee engages proactively with shareholders and will ensure that shareholders are 
consulted in advance, where any material changes to the remuneration policy are proposed.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
In determining the remuneration of the Company’s Directors, the Committee takes into account the general trends in pay and conditions 
across the Group as a whole. Whilst employees have not been consulted formally on executive pay, due in part to the diverse geographic 
disposition of the Group, the Committee seeks to ensure that the underlying principles which form the basis for decisions on Directors’ pay 
are consistent with those on which pay decisions for the rest of the workforce are taken. These are focused for the most part on market 
competitiveness, business performance and personal performance.
In practice, the remuneration policy for executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees, so 
that a significant proportion of their remuneration is dependent on Company performance. For employees below Board level, variable pay 
represents a lower proportion of their total remuneration, which is driven by market comparators and general performance.
69 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
 
Directors’ remuneration policy report Summary of executive Directors’ remuneration policy
The following table sets out a summary of each element of the executive Directors’ remuneration packages, their link to the Company’s 
strategy, the policy for how these are operated, the maximum opportunity and a description of any relevant performance metrics.
Element of pay Purpose and link to Company’s strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary To attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
To provide a competitive salary relative to comparable 
companies in terms of size and complexity.
Salaries are reviewed and set annually in July. 
The Committee considers remuneration levels in 
companies of comparable market capitalisation, 
revenue and industry sector.
In addition, a key reference point for salary increases 
is the average increase across the general workforce 
(with the exception of promotions or significant 
changes in responsibility).
Salaries are paid monthly in cash.
There is no prescribed maximum annual increase. The Committee 
is guided by the general increase for the broader employee 
population but on occasion may need to recognise, for example, 
an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role.
Current salary levels are disclosed on page 75.
A number of factors are considered, notably market 
competitiveness, business and personal performance.
Benefits To aid retention and to remain competitive in the 
marketplace. In addition, medical benefits are provided 
to minimise disruption due to absence.
Private medical and life assurance may be provided. 
A car and fuel card or car allowance are offered. 
Other benefits may be provided as appropriate.
The maximum opportunity for medical benefits is cover for the 
executive Director and his or her family. Life assurance cover and 
any car or car allowance are based on market norms.
None
Pension To remain competitive in the marketplace. Executive Directors can elect either to:
 – participate in the defined contribution (DC) section 
of the Group’s pension fund. Executive Directors 
must make contributions of 5% of base salary  
(up to an earnings cap), with the Company 
contributing 20% of base salary (up to the cap). 
On earnings above the cap, executive Directors 
receive a salary supplement; or
 – receive a salary supplement in lieu of a pension.
Executive Directors who participate in the Group’s pension fund 
benefit from a pension contribution of 20% of base salary up to 
the earnings cap and a salary supplement of 20% of base salary in 
excess of the cap.
If a salary supplement is taken in lieu of a pension contribution, this 
is equivalent to 20% of base salary.
None
Annual Incentive 
Plan (AIP) and 
Deferred Bonus 
Plan (DBP)
To motivate executive Directors and incentivise the 
achievement of key business performance targets 
over the financial year without encouraging excessive 
risk taking. Managing risk is critical, particularly given 
the nature of the Company’s business.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
50% of any payment is normally deferred into shares 
for three years.
Clawback may apply in the event of material 
misconduct and/or material misstatement or error  
of financial results.
Participants may also receive an award of cash 
or shares in lieu of the value of dividends on 
vested shares.
Maximum annual incentive opportunity is 120% of base salary. A majority of the bonus will be based on profit and a minority 
of the bonus may be based on other performance metrics 
linked to the business strategy, measured over a one-year 
performance period.
Measures are reviewed each year and varied as appropriate 
to reflect the strategy.
Performance 
Share Plan (PSP)
To incentivise and reward delivery of long-term 
performance linked to the business strategy.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
To aid retention.
PSP awards are granted annually so that no undue 
emphasis is placed on performance in any one 
particular financial year.
Awards normally vest on the third anniversary, subject 
to performance.
Participants also receive an award of cash or shares 
in lieu of the value of dividends on vested shares.
Clawback may apply in the event of material 
misconduct and/or material misstatement or error 
of financial results.
The limit in the rules of the PSP is 200% of base salary. Other than 
in exceptional circumstances, the normal limit will be 175% of 
base salary.
Performance measures will normally be based on relative 
total shareholder return (TSR) and/or earnings per share (EPS)
metrics, although strategic measures may be used in exceptional 
circumstances. Targets will normally be measured over a  
three-year performance period.
There is 25% vesting for threshold performance, rising to 100% 
vesting for maximum performance.
Shareholding 
guidelines
To align the interests of executive Directors with those 
of shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to accumulate a 
shareholding in the Company’s shares to the value 
of 100% of their base salary. Executive Directors are 
expected to retain at least 50% of shares (net of tax) 
which vest from awards made under the PSP and 
DBP until the target shareholding is attained.
– None
Executive Directors may also participate in the all-employee share schemes up to prevailing HMRC limits.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
70 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Remuneration report continued 
Directors’ remuneration policy report continued Summary of executive Directors’ remuneration policy
The following table sets out a summary of each element of the executive Directors’ remuneration packages, their link to the Company’s 
strategy, the policy for how these are operated, the maximum opportunity and a description of any relevant performance metrics.
Element of pay Purpose and link to Company’s strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary To attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
To provide a competitive salary relative to comparable 
companies in terms of size and complexity.
Salaries are reviewed and set annually in July. 
The Committee considers remuneration levels in 
companies of comparable market capitalisation, 
revenue and industry sector.
In addition, a key reference point for salary increases 
is the average increase across the general workforce 
(with the exception of promotions or significant 
changes in responsibility).
Salaries are paid monthly in cash.
There is no prescribed maximum annual increase. The Committee 
is guided by the general increase for the broader employee 
population but on occasion may need to recognise, for example, 
an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role.
Current salary levels are disclosed on page 75.
A number of factors are considered, notably market 
competitiveness, business and personal performance.
Benefits To aid retention and to remain competitive in the 
marketplace. In addition, medical benefits are provided 
to minimise disruption due to absence.
Private medical and life assurance may be provided. 
A car and fuel card or car allowance are offered. 
Other benefits may be provided as appropriate.
The maximum opportunity for medical benefits is cover for the 
executive Director and his or her family. Life assurance cover and 
any car or car allowance are based on market norms.
None
Pension To remain competitive in the marketplace. Executive Directors can elect either to:
 – participate in the defined contribution (DC) section 
of the Group’s pension fund. Executive Directors 
must make contributions of 5% of base salary  
(up to an earnings cap), with the Company 
contributing 20% of base salary (up to the cap). 
On earnings above the cap, executive Directors 
receive a salary supplement; or
 – receive a salary supplement in lieu of a pension.
Executive Directors who participate in the Group’s pension fund 
benefit from a pension contribution of 20% of base salary up to 
the earnings cap and a salary supplement of 20% of base salary in 
excess of the cap.
If a salary supplement is taken in lieu of a pension contribution, this 
is equivalent to 20% of base salary.
None
Annual Incentive 
Plan (AIP) and 
Deferred Bonus 
Plan (DBP)
To motivate executive Directors and incentivise the 
achievement of key business performance targets 
over the financial year without encouraging excessive 
risk taking. Managing risk is critical, particularly given 
the nature of the Company’s business.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
50% of any payment is normally deferred into shares 
for three years.
Clawback may apply in the event of material 
misconduct and/or material misstatement or error  
of financial results.
Participants may also receive an award of cash 
or shares in lieu of the value of dividends on 
vested shares.
Maximum annual incentive opportunity is 120% of base salary. A majority of the bonus will be based on profit and a minority 
of the bonus may be based on other performance metrics 
linked to the business strategy, measured over a one-year 
performance period.
Measures are reviewed each year and varied as appropriate 
to reflect the strategy.
Performance 
Share Plan (PSP)
To incentivise and reward delivery of long-term 
performance linked to the business strategy.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
To aid retention.
PSP awards are granted annually so that no undue 
emphasis is placed on performance in any one 
particular financial year.
Awards normally vest on the third anniversary, subject 
to performance.
Participants also receive an award of cash or shares 
in lieu of the value of dividends on vested shares.
Clawback may apply in the event of material 
misconduct and/or material misstatement or error 
of financial results.
The limit in the rules of the PSP is 200% of base salary. Other than 
in exceptional circumstances, the normal limit will be 175% of 
base salary.
Performance measures will normally be based on relative 
total shareholder return (TSR) and/or earnings per share (EPS)
metrics, although strategic measures may be used in exceptional 
circumstances. Targets will normally be measured over a  
three-year performance period.
There is 25% vesting for threshold performance, rising to 100% 
vesting for maximum performance.
Shareholding 
guidelines
To align the interests of executive Directors with those 
of shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to accumulate a 
shareholding in the Company’s shares to the value 
of 100% of their base salary. Executive Directors are 
expected to retain at least 50% of shares (net of tax) 
which vest from awards made under the PSP and 
DBP until the target shareholding is attained.
– None
Executive Directors may also participate in the all-employee share schemes up to prevailing HMRC limits.
71 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Remuneration scenarios for executive Directors
The charts below provide estimates for the potential future remuneration based on the current remuneration policy for the two executive 
Directors. Potential outcomes are based on three performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum.
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Leo Quinn,
Group Chief Executive
100% £985
46% 22% 32% £2,165
29% 29% 42% £3,345
100% £496
48% 23% 29% £1,036
31% 31% 38% £1,576
0 500 1,000 1,500
£000’s
2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500
Base salary, beneﬁts 
and pensions
Annual Incentive Plan 
(cash and deferred)
Performance 
Share Plan
Philip Harrison,
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Notes
1
 Salary levels are based on those applying from 1 January 2016. These salaries will be reviewed in July 2016.
2
 The value of benefits receivable for 2016 has been estimated.
3
 The on-target level of AIP is taken to be 50% of the maximum AIP opportunity (120% of salary for executive Directors), of which 50% is paid in cash and 50% is deferred in shares 
under the DBP.
4
 The on-target level of vesting under the PSP is taken to be 50% of the face value of the award at grant (175% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the 
Chief Financial Officer). The executive Directors’ buyout awards, as agreed as part of their joining arrangements, are not reflected in the above charts as these are not part of the 
ongoing remuneration policy.
5
 The maximum level of AIP and vesting under the PSP is taken to be 100% of the AIP opportunity and 100% of the face value of the PSP awards at grant.
6
 No share price appreciation or dividend awards have been assumed for the DBP shares and PSP awards.
Recruitment and promotion policy for executive Directors
To ensure the ongoing leadership continuity of the Group, the appointment of high-calibre executives may be necessary, either by external 
appointment or internal promotion. The remuneration package for a new executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of 
the Company’s remuneration policy at the time of appointment and take into account the scope and complexity of the role, the experience 
of the individual, the prevailing market rate for that experience and the importance and immediacy of securing that candidate.
The salary would be provided at such a level as required to attract the most appropriate candidate. The AIP potential would be limited 
to 120% of salary, and grants under the PSP may be up to the plan maximum of 200% of salary. In addition, the Committee may offer 
additional cash and/or share-based elements to replace deferred or incentive pay forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer. 
It would seek to ensure, where possible, that these awards were consistent with awards forfeited in terms of vesting periods, expected 
value and performance conditions.
For an internal executive Director appointment, any remuneration awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according 
to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior 
to appointment may continue.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and/or incidental expenses 
as appropriate.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
72 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Remuneration report continued 
Directors’ remuneration policy report continued Service agreements and payments for loss of office for executive Directors
It is the Company’s policy that executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term, which are subject to one year’s notice 
by the Company and six months’ notice by the executive Director. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all executive 
Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM. In the event of early termination, the executive Directors’ contracts provide for 
compensation in line with their contractual notice period. In summary, the contractual provisions are to provide the following:
Provision Detailed terms
Notice period 12 months by the Company, six months by the executive Director.
There are no contractual compensation provisions for termination of employment. However, other non-contractual considerations are 
as follows:
Notice payments If any existing contract was breached by the Company, it would 
be liable to pay an amount approximating to the net loss of salary 
and contractual benefits for the unexpired notice period, subject to 
mitigation and phased payments where appropriate.
Remuneration entitlements Pro-rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active 
service along with vesting for outstanding share awards  
(in certain circumstances – see below).
In all cases, performance targets would apply.
Change of control No executive Director’s contract contains additional provisions in 
respect of change of control.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive Director under the Company’s share plans will be determined based on the relevant 
plan rules. The default treatment under the PSP is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment. However, in certain 
prescribed circumstances, such as death, ill-health, disability, retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, good 
leaver status may be applied. For good leavers, awards will not be forfeited on cessation of employment and, subject to the satisfaction 
of the relevant performance conditions, will vest under the normal vesting schedule, being reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion of 
the performance period actually served. However, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to determine that PSP awards vest at 
cessation and/or to amend time pro rating. Outstanding DBP awards will lapse on cessation of employment. However, in certain good 
leaver circumstances, DBP awards will vest in full on the date of cessation.
External appointments of executive Directors
The Committee recognises that benefits can arise from allowing executive Directors to take a non-executive directorship elsewhere. 
Executive Directors are permitted to have one external appointment, from which fees may be retained with the approval of the Board.
Appointment of non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are appointed by the full Board following recommendations from the Nomination Committee. All non-executive 
Directors are appointed for a term of three years. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all non-executive Directors submit 
themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Element of pay
Purpose and link to  
Company’s strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity
Non-executive  
Director fees
To attract and retain high-
quality and experienced 
non-executive Directors.
The Chairman is paid an annual fee and the 
non-executive Directors are paid an annual 
base fee and additional responsibility fees 
for the role of Senior Independent Director 
or for chairing a Board Committee.
Non-executive Directors based outside 
Europe receive a travel allowance for each 
visit made on Company business to the 
UK, or to any other country (excluding their 
home country).
Fee levels are normally reviewed annually 
in July.
The non-executive Directors are not 
eligible to join any pension scheme 
operated by the Company and cannot 
participate in any of the Company’s share 
plans or annual incentive schemes.
As per executive Directors, there 
is no prescribed maximum annual 
increase. The Committee is guided 
by the general increase in the non-
executive director market and for 
the broader employee population, 
but on occasions may need to 
recognise, for example, an increase 
in the scale, scope or responsibility 
of the role.
None of the appointment letters for non-executive Directors contain provision for specific payment in the event of termination for whatever 
cause and may be terminated at will by either party.
73 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 This part of the Remuneration report sets out how the remuneration policy will be applied over the year ending 31 December 2016 and how 
it was implemented over the year ended 31 December 2015. Details of the remuneration earned by Directors and the outcomes of incentive 
schemes, including details of relevant links to Company performance, are also provided in this part.
The areas covered in this annual report on Remuneration comprise: 
Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2016  75 
Remuneration received by Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015  76
AIP awards for the year ended 31 December 2015 77
Vesting of PSP awards for the year under review  77
Outstanding share awards  78
PSP awards granted during the year  79
Leo Quinn recruitment terms 79
Executive Director changes and payments for loss of office  80
Payments to past Directors  81
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests  81
Performance graph  82
Group Chief Executive’s remuneration table  82
Percentage change in Group Chief Executive’s remuneration compared with all UK employees  82
Relative importance of spend on pay, dividends and underlying pre-tax profit  83
Directors’ pensions and pension allowances  83
External appointments of executive Directors  84
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration  84
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM  84
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
74 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Remuneration report continued 
Annual report on remuneration Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2016
The detailed information about the Directors’ remuneration, set out on pages 75 to 84 (excluding the performance graph on page 82), has 
been audited by the Company’s independent auditor, Deloitte LLP .
Base salaries
The annual base salary review date is 1 July for executive Directors. Current base salaries for the executive Directors are as follows:
Base salary
On appointment
£
1 July 2015
£ % increase
Leo Quinn 800,000 800,000 0.0%
Philip Harrison 400,000 400,000 0.0%
The annual base salary for Leo Quinn was set at £800,000 from appointment to the Board on 1 January 2015. Philip Harrison joined the 
Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 June 2015 on an annual base salary of £400,000. The normal review date for executive Directors’ 
base salaries is 1 July, but it was agreed on appointment that neither would receive an increase in 2015. The next salary review date is 
1 July 2016.
Performance targets for the AIP in 2016
For 2016, the AIP for the executive Directors will be a maximum bonus of 120% of base salary subject to three performance measures:
 – profit before tax (51%)
 – cash (25%)
 – strategic business and personal objectives (24%).
The three elements are measured and calculated independently of each other and 50% of any bonus earned will be deferred for three years 
in the form of Balfour Beatty shares.
While the Committee has chosen not to disclose in advance the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include items which 
the Committee considers commercially sensitive, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be presented in 
next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance targets for PSP awards granted in 2016
Consistent with the approach adopted in 2015, the PSP awards to be granted in 2016 will be subject to the following targets:
 – relative TSR (33.3%) – the Company’s TSR measured against a comparator group of UK listed companies ranked 51–150 by market 
capitalisation in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding investment trusts) as at 1 January 2016, the start of the performance period. There is 
no vesting below median, with 25% of this part of an award vesting at median ranking, rising to 100% vesting of this part of an award at 
upper quartile or higher
 – EPS (33.3%) – the growth in the Company’s EPS over the three-year performance period
 – Cash (33.3%) – cash remains critical as a long-term performance measure during the Company’s transformation. 
As at the date of publication of this Remuneration report, the Committee had not finalised the EPS and cash performance targets for the 
PSP award to be granted in 2016. These EPS and cash targets will be set at an appropriate level of stretch and will be fully disclosed in the 
RNS announcement issued immediately following the PSP award and in the Remuneration report for 2016.
Non-executive Directors
As detailed in the Policy Report, the Company’s approach to setting non-executive Directors’ fees is by reference to fees paid at similar 
companies and reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of each role. A summary of current fees is as follows:
1 July 2014
£
1 July 2015
£ % increase
Chairman
1
265,750 270,000 1 .6%
Base fee 56,000 56,000 0%
Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 10,000 0%
Committee chair fee 10,000 10,000 0%
1
 The Chairman’s fees shown at 1 July 2014 are those paid to Steve Marshall who stepped down from the Board on 26 March 2015, and was replaced by Philip Aiken whose fees 
are shown at 1 July 2015. As disclosed last year, Steve Marshall received a temporary increase in his annual fee from £265,750 to £531,500 from 3 May 2014 to 31 December 
2014 to reflect his additional responsibilities and time commitment as Executive Chairman. 
For non-executive Directors based outside Europe, the travel allowance for each overseas visit made on Company business remains 
at £2,500.
Where the Chairman or Senior Independent Director is also the chair of a Committee, he or she receives no committee chair fee.
75 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Remuneration received by Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015
The table below sets out the Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 (or for performance periods ended in that year 
in respect of long-term incentives) together with comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Year
Base salary
and fees
1,2
£
Taxable
benefits
3,4
£
Pension
5
£
Annual
 incentive 
cash
£
Annual 
incentive 
deferred 
shares
£
Long-term 
incentives
£
Other
£
Total
£
Executive Directors
Philip Harrison 2015 233,333 8,506 46,667 65,800 65,800 – – 420,106
2014 – – – – – – – –
Leo Quinn
6
2015 800,000 30,870 160,000 225,600 225,600 – 2,052,902 3,494,972
2014 – – – – – – – –
Former executive Directors
Duncan Magrath
7
2015 177 ,195 5,513 31,079 43,600 – – 373,351 630,738
2014 487 ,395 15,568 86,100 – – 166,803 4.128 759,994
Andrew McNaughton
8
2015 – – – – – – 265,852 265,852
2014 224,167 6,041 44,833 – – – – 275,041
Peter Zinkin
9
2015 106,179 2,697 21,236 34,050 – – – 164,162
2014 448,500 10,385 89,700 – – – – 548,585
Non-executive Directors
Philip Aiken 2015 206,654 – – – – – – 206,654
2014 – – – – – – – –
Stephen Billingham
10
2015 37 ,333 – – – – – – 37 ,333
2014 – – – – – – – –
Stuart Doughty 2015 42,000 – – – – – – 42,000
2014 – – – – – – – –
Iain Ferguson 2015 66,000 774 – – – – – 66,774
2014 66,000 1,877 – – – – – 67 ,877
Maureen Kempston Darkes
11
2015 76,000 3,309 – – – – – 79,309
2014 86,000 5,496 – – – – – 91,496
Graham Roberts 2015 66,000 – – – – – – 66,000
2014 66,000 – – – – – – 66,000
Former non-executive Directors
Robert Amen
12
2015 68,500 3,839 – – – – – 72,339
 2014 76,000 7 ,31 1 – – – – – 83,31 1
Steve Marshall
13
2015 62,690 1,706 – – – – – 64,396
2014 441,488 5,878 – – – – – 447 ,366
Belinda Richards 2015 – – – – – – – –
2014 49,397 – – – – – – 49,397
Bill Thomas 2015 – – – – – – – –
2014 49,397 2,168 – – – – – 51,565
1
 Base salary and fees were those paid in respect of the period of the year during which the individuals were Directors. 
2
  In practice, the base salaries paid to Leo Quinn and Peter Zinkin were reduced due to their participation in the Company’s Share Incentive Plan. These salary reductions in 
2015 were £3,150 for Leo Quinn and £375 for Peter Zinkin. The base salary for Peter Zinkin has also been reduced by £24,000 per annum in 2015 (2014: £24,000) to meet 
additional travelling costs incurred by him in order to fulfil his role. The base salary paid to Peter Zinkin in 2014 was reduced by £588 which corresponds to his contributions 
to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund for the month of January 2014 which were met directly by the Company due to his participation in the Group’s SMART Pensions salary 
sacrifice arrangement.
3
  Taxable benefits are calculated in terms of UK taxable values. Leo Quinn and Duncan Magrath received private medical insurance for the Director and his immediate family. 
Peter Zinkin received private medical insurance for the Director and his spouse. Philip Harrison received private medical insurance for the Director only. Leo Quinn received 
a car allowance of £20,000 per annum, Philip Harrison received a car allowance of £14,000 per annum and Duncan Magrath received a car allowance of £14,000 per annum. 
Peter Zinkin received a fully expensed car with taxable benefit value of £9,624 per annum.
4 
 Robert Amen, Iain Ferguson, Maureen Kempston Darkes and Steve Marshall received taxable travel expenses which are shown in the taxable benefits column.
5 
 For periods of membership of the DC section of the Group’s pension fund, this comprises the amount of employer contributions plus any salary supplements in lieu of pension on 
earnings that are above the earnings cap. For any periods of non-membership of the Group’s pension fund, this comprises any salary supplements in lieu of pension contributions. 
Further details are set out in the section on Directors’ pensions on page 83.
6
  For Leo Quinn, other payments relate to recruitment arrangements to compensate him for loss of earnings with his former employer. The payments were delivered part in shares 
and part in cash. Further details of these awards are set out on page 79.
7
  Duncan Magrath ceased to be a Director on 8 May 2015. Other payments in 2015 were contractual in relation to loss of office as detailed on page 80.
8
 Andrew McNaughton ceased to be a Director on 3 May 2014. Payments in 2015 were contractual in relation to loss of office as detailed in the Remuneration report 2014.
9
  Peter Zinkin ceased to be a Director on 26 March 2015. In addition to the amount disclosed above, Peter Zinkin earned £235,785 in base salary and pension allowance in the period 
he was an employee but not an executive Director (26 March 2015 to 31 August 2015).
10
  Due to an administrative error by the Company, Stephen Billingham was overpaid in 2015 by £4,666. He should have received £32,667. The overpayment has been repaid.
11  
Maureen Kempston Darkes’ fees shown for 2015 include £10,000 in respect of travel allowances for meetings attended in 2015 (2014: £20,000). 
12
  Robert Amen stepped down from the Board effective 31 December 2015. His fees shown for 2015 include £12,500 in respect of travel allowances for meetings attended in 2015 
(2014: £20,000).
13
  Steve Marshall’s fees shown for 2014 include the additional annual fee agreed when he became Executive Chairman, pro rated for the period 3 May 2014 to 31 December 2014.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
76 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Remuneration report continued 
Annual report on remuneration continued AIP awards for the year ended 31 December 2015
For 2015, the AIP for the current executive Directors was a maximum bonus of 120% of base salary subject to three performance measures:
 – profit before tax (51%)
 – cash (25%)
 – strategic business and personal objectives (24%).
The three elements are measured and calculated independently of each other and 50% of the bonus earned is deferred for three years in the 
form of Balfour Beatty shares.
AIP objective Actual
Maximum 
(% of salary)
Actual 
(% of salary)
Payable in cash 
(% of salary)
Payable in shares 
(% of salary)
Profit before tax and  
non-underlying items 
Threshold 
Target 
Maximum
£45m
£65m
£75m
£(123)m 61 .2% 0% 0% 0% 
Improvement in operating  
cash flow (Q4 average 2015 
on 2014) 
Threshold
Target
Maximum
£150m 
£175m 
£200m
£221m 30.0% 30.0% 15.0% 15.0% 
Strategic business and  
personal objectives as 
agreed by the Remuneration 
Committee
Remuneration Committee 
assessment of  
achievement
91 .7%  
achieved 
 
28.8% 
 
 
26.4% 
 
 
13.2% 
 
 
13.2% 
 
 
T otal 120% 56.4% 28.2% 28.2%
Performance against the 2015 AIP targets as it relates to the current executive Directors was:
 – the threshold level of performance against the profit before tax target was not achieved and no bonus is payable against this element
 – strong cash performance by the Company resulted in the maximum level of performance being achieved against this element. 
Therefore a full payment of the 25.0% weighting for this element is payable, ie 30.0% of salary as the AIP maximum payment is 120.0% 
 – following detailed consideration by the Committee of performance against strategic business and personal objectives, the executive 
Directors were both awarded a payment of 22.0% of the 24.0% weighting payable for this element, ie 26.4% of salary as the AIP 
maximum payment is 120.0%. The factors the Committee considered in agreeing this assessment included the success of the Build to 
Last transformation programme and the delivery of other key strategic objectives including the review of the Investments portfolio and 
the refinancing.
The Committee considered carefully the AIP performance out-turn for the executive Directors against the background of disappointing 
profit performance and determined that the above payments are appropriate. The performance issues relate to legacy contracts and the 
recently appointed executive Directors have, in the opinion of the Committee, dealt with these challenges to create the foundations for 
a sustainable business.
Vesting of PSP awards for the year under review
The PSP awards granted on 16 April 2013 were based on a performance period for the three years ended 31 December 2015. 
As disclosed in previous Remuneration reports, the performance conditions were comparative Total Shareholder Return against two 
different comparator groups. 25% of each part of the award would vest for median performance increasing to 100% of the award vesting 
for upper quartile performance or above.
Metric Performance condition Measure Threshold target
Maximum 
target Actual Vesting
T otal Shareholder 
Return 
(50% of the award)
TSR against a group of construction 
and professional services companies 
– AECOM, Atkins, Bilfinger and 
Berger, Carillion, Costain, Hochtief,  
Morgan Sindall, T utor Perini, Skanska 
and URS. 
TSR ranking 5 
or above
2.5 
or above
9 0%
Total Shareholder 
Return 
(50% of the award)
TSR against the 89 remaining 
companies ranked 51–150 in the 
FTSE All Share Index (excluding 
investment trusts) as at the start of 
the performance period and still listed 
at the end of the performance period.
TSR ranking 45 
or above
22.5 
or above
61 0%
 T otal vesting 0%
Details of the PSP awards vesting for the year under review for the executive Directors who received the April 2013 award and served during 
2015 are therefore as follows:
Executive Type of award
Number of shares  
at grant
Number of shares  
to vest
Number of  
shares to lapse
Value of 
vesting shares
£
Duncan Magrath 2013 conditional 255,818 – 255,818 –
Peter Zinkin 2013 conditional 266,653 – 266,653 –
77 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 The 2013 PSP awards for Duncan Magrath and Peter Zinkin were scheduled to formally lapse on 16 April 2016. However, as the 
performance conditions were measured to 31 December 2015, the Committee was able to consider performance and lapse the awards 
effective 10 March 2016. The number of shares shown as to lapse represents the original shares awarded. Had the 2013 PSP award vested 
based on the achievement of the performance conditions, the number of shares available to both of them would have been reduced pro-rata 
to reflect the time served with the Company to cessation of their employment.
Outstanding share awards
Maximum number of shares subject to award
Name of Director Share award Date granted
At 
1 January 
2015
Awarded 
during the 
year
Vested  
during the 
year
Lapsed 
during the 
year
At 
31 December 
2015
Exercisable and/or 
vesting from
Philip PSP
4,5,7 ,8
26 June 2015 – 295,857 – – 295,857 26 June 2018
Harrison Share buyout
14
1 1 June 2015 – 30,831 – – 30,831 31 December 2016
Share buyout
14
1 1 June 2015 – 61,662 – – 61,662 31 December 2017
Duncan PSP
1,5,6
16 April 2012 219,076 – – 219,076 – 16 April 2015
Magrath
18
PSP
2,5,6
16 April 2013 255,818 – – 56,848 198,970 16 April 2016
PSP
3,5,6
31 March 2014 21 1,162 – – 1 17 ,312 93,850 31 March 2017
DBP
9,1 1,12
30 March 2012 65,954 – 65,954 – – 30 March 2015
DBP
9,10,12
31 March 2013 49,133 – 49,133 – – 31 March 2016
DBP
9,10,12
31 March 2014 37 ,823 – 37 ,823 – – 31 March 2017
SRSOS
15,16,17
1 1 May 2010 1,291 – – 1,291 – 1 July 2015
Leo Quinn PSP
4,5,7 ,8,
26 June 2015 – 788,954 – – 788,954 26 June 2018
DBP
9,10,12,13
26 June 2015 – 193,280 – – 193,280 26 June 2018
Share buyout
14
2 January 2015 – 141,791 141,791 – – 26 May 2015
Share buyout
14
2 January 2015 – 308,010 – 308,010 – 29 June 2015
Share buyout
14
2 January 2015 – 504,151 267 ,365 236,786 – 9 August 2015
Share buyout
14
2 January 2015 – 604,256 – – 604,256 2 January 2017
Share buyout
14
2 January 2015 – 1,208,51 1 – – 1,208,511 2 January 2018
Peter Zinkin
18
PSP
1,5,6
16 April 2012 232,600 – – 232,600 – 16 April 2015
PSP
2,5,6
16 April 2013 266,653 – – 29,628 237 ,025 16 April 2016
PSP
3,5,6
31 March 2014 220,105 – – 97 ,824 122,281 31 March 2017
DBP
9,1 1,12
30 March 2012 70,025 – 70,025 – – 30 March 2015
DBP
9,10,12
31 March 2013 51,215 – 51,215 – – 31 March 2016
DBP
9,10,12
31 March 2014 39,424 – 39,424 – – 31 March 2017
1
 2012 PSP award: The award formally lapsed on 16 April 2015. Details of the Company’s performance against the performance conditions were set out in the 2014 
Remuneration report.
2
 2013 PSP award: The award formally lapsed on 10 March 2016 as detailed on page 77 and above.
3
 2014 PSP award: The award is subject to two TSR performance targets over a three-year performance period commencing 1 January 2014. Relative TSR (50% weighting) – 
measured against a comparator group of companies ranked 51–150 by market capitalisation in the FTSE All Share Index. Relative TSR (50% weighting) – measured against a 
comparator group of construction and professional services companies. No vesting below median ranking, 25% at median rising to 100% vesting at upper quartile performance 
or better.
4
 2015 PSP award: Details of this award are set out on page 79.
5
 All PSP awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be satisfied by 
shares purchased in the market.
6
 The average middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company for the three dealing dates before the PSP award dates, which was used for calculating the number of awards 
granted, was 277.3p for the 2012 award, 249.2p for the 2013 award and 301.9p for the 2014 awards. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares on the date of the awards 
was 271.9p, 244.9p and 299.6p respectively.
7
 The 2015 PSP award used a share price of 202.8p to calculate the number of shares awarded, being the average middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company for the 
10 dealing dates before Leo Quinn joined the Company on 2 January 2015. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares on the date of the award was 243.0p.
8  
On 26 June 2015, for all participants in the PSP, a maximum of 3,969,923 conditional shares were awarded which are exercisable on 26 June 2018.
9
 All DBP awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be satisfied 
by shares purchased in the market.
10
 The initial DBP awards made in 2013, 2014, March 2015 and June 2015 will vest on 31 March 2016, 31 March 2017, 31 March 2018 and 26 June 2018 respectively, providing 
the participant is still employed by the Group at the vesting date (unless specified leaver conditions are met, in which case early vesting may be permitted).
11
 The initial DBP awards made in 2012 vested on 30 March 2015. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company on the vesting date was 241.6p.
12
 The DBP awards made on 30 March 2012, 31 March 2013, 31 March 2014, 31 March 2015 and 26 June 2015 were purchased at average prices of 286.99p, 234.85p, 301.9p, 
241.0p and 245.0p respectively.
13
 On 31 March 2015, for all participants in the DBP, a maximum of 506,807 conditional shares were awarded which will normally be released on 31 March 2018. On 26 June 2015, 
193,280 conditional shares were awarded to Leo Quinn in relation to the annual bonus payable by his previous employer and these will normally be released on 26 June 2018.
14 
The share buyout awards were granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. The awards compensate each of Leo Quinn and Philip 
Harrison for incentive awards which were forfeited on leaving their previous employers. Further details of these awards are set out on pages 79 and 81. The closing middle market 
price of ordinary shares in the Company on the date of the awards was 212.4p and 253.1p respectively. 
15
 All savings-related share option scheme (SRSOS) options are granted for nil consideration on grant and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc.
16
 The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 December 2015 was 270.2p. During the year, the highest and lowest closing market prices were 272.5p and 
198.8p respectively.
17
 The SRSOS options granted to Duncan Magrath in May 2010, exercisable at 236.0p, lapsed unexercised on 8 May 2015.
18
 Duncan Magrath stepped down from the Board on 8 May 2015 and Peter Zinkin retired from employment on 31 August 2015. At these dates, a proportion of their 2013 and 2014 
PSP awards lapsed reflecting the proportion of the performance period for each award which had not been completed at the date of leaving. The remainder of their 2013 PSP and 
2014 PSP awards were preserved to be tested as per the original performance tests at the time of grant. The DBP awards made to Duncan Magrath and Peter Zinkin made in 2013 
and 2014 vested on 8 May 2015 and 31 August 2015 respectively.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
78 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Remuneration report continued 
Annual report on remuneration continued PSP awards granted during the year
On 26 June 2015, the following PSP awards were granted to executive Directors:
Executive Type of award 
Basis of award 
granted
Share price 
applied at  
date of grant
Number of 
shares over 
which award  
was granted
Face value  
of award
% of face  
value that 
would vest  
at threshold 
performance
Vesting  
determined by 
performance over 
three years to Vesting date
Leo Quinn Conditional 200% of salary  
of £800,000
202.8p 788,954 £1,599,999 25% 14 October 2017 26 June 2018 
Philip Harrison Conditional 150% of salary  
of £400,000
202.8p 295,857 £599,998 25% 31 December 2017 26 June 2018 
The performance condition for 33% of the award (the TSR Part) will measure the Company’s Total Shareholder Return performance over 
a three-year period relative to the TSR performance of a comparator group of companies comprising the constituents of the FTSE 51–150 
(excluding investment trusts) as at the start of the measurement period. The measurement period for the TSR Part is the three financial 
years to 31 December 2017, except for Leo Quinn’s award for which the measurement period is the three years to 14 October 2017.
No portion of the TSR Part will vest unless the Company’s TSR performance ranks at least equal to median TSR performance of the 
comparator group, at which point 25% of the TSR Part will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for the Company’s TSR 
performance ranking at upper quartile or better.
The performance condition applying to a separate 33% of the award (the Net Debt Part) will measure improvement in the Company’s net 
debt over a measurement period comprising the three financial years to 31 December 2017. 
No portion of the Net Debt Part will vest unless the Company’s net debt at the 2017 financial year end is less than £(150)m. Were net debt 
to be £(150)m or less but more than £(50m), 25% to 50% of the Net Debt Part would vest on a straight-line between such levels. Were net 
debt to be £(50)m or less, between 50% and 100% of the Net Debt Part would vest on a straight-line basis for net debt between £(50)m 
and £nil.
The performance condition applying to a separate 33% of each award (the “EPS Part”) will measure the Company’s underlying earnings per 
share (EPS) performance over a measurement period comprising the three financial years to 31 December 2017.
No portion of the EPS Part will vest unless the Company’s EPS for the 2017 financial year is 14p, at which point 25% of the EPS Part will 
vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for the Company’s EPS being 21p or more.
Leo Quinn recruitment terms
As part of his recruitment arrangements and as fully disclosed in the 2014 Remuneration report, the Company agreed to compensate 
Leo Quinn for incentive awards which were forfeited upon leaving his previous employer. During 2015 the following awards have been made 
in relation to these recruitment terms:
 – compensation for loss of annual bonus payable by the previous employer, based on actual performance achieved in respect of its financial 
year ending 31 March 2015, resulting in a cash payment of £473,537 in July 2015 and £473,537 invested in 193,280 Balfour Beatty plc 
shares (at a share price of 245p), deferred for three years with vesting subject to continued employment
 – a cash payment of £360,801 in July 2015 in respect of a conditional share award over 141,791 Balfour Beatty plc shares released in 
May 2015 which were not performance based as vesting was solely based on continued employment with the previous employer.  
A cash payment of £15,537 was also made in relation to dividend shares on this award
 – in relation to a conditional award of 308,010 Balfour Beatty plc shares which were available to vest in June 2015, this award lapsed in full 
as it mirrored the performance-based treatment of a share award at Leo Quinn’s previous employer
 – in relation to a conditional award of 504,151 Balfour Beatty plc shares which were available to vest in August 2015, 267,365 of these 
shares vested on 12 August 2015 based on the treatment of a performance-based share award at Leo Quinn’s previous employer. 
After statutory withholdings, 141,451 shares have been retained by Leo Quinn at a cost of 263.75p per share. A cash payment of 
£24,314 was also made in relation to dividend shares on this award.
Outstanding at year end is a conditional share award over 1,812,767 Balfour Beatty plc shares granted on 2 January 2015 which will vest 
in two tranches:
 – 604,256 shares (one-third of the award) will vest on the second anniversary of grant subject to share price targets tested at the end of the 
two-year period based on a 60-day average and as adjusted for dividends. 25% of this part of the award will vest for an end average share 
price of 222p increasing pro-rata for full vesting of this part of the award for an end average share price of 309p. No vesting for this part of 
the award will take place for an average share price of less than 222p
 – 1,208,511 shares (two-thirds of the award) will vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to share price targets tested at the end of 
the three-year period based on a 60-day average and as adjusted for dividends. 25% of this part of the award will vest for an end average 
share price of 250p increasing pro-rata for full vesting of this part of the award for an end average share price of 380p. No vesting for this 
part of the award will take place for an average share price of less than 250p
 – in addition to the dividend adjusted share price targets, an underpin will apply to the vesting whereby the Committee must be satisfied 
with the underlying performance of the business for this award to vest.
The above share-based buyout award lapses in the event of voluntary resignation or termination for cause prior to the respective vesting 
dates. In the event of good leaver departure, the awards will vest at employment cessation, subject to performance conditions and pro rating 
at the time of cessation. 
79 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Executive Director changes and payments for loss of office
Departure of Duncan Magrath
Duncan Magrath stepped down from the Board on 8 May 2015. In line with his contractual entitlements, it was agreed that he 
should receive:
 – an amount of £414,606 in lieu of nine months’ unworked contractual notice period (since notice was served on 13 February 2015), 
comprising £336,497 for salary, £67,300 for pension allowance and £10,809 for car allowance. Half of the payment in lieu of notice was 
paid as a lump sum at cessation (£207,303) with the balance payable in monthly instalments and subject to mitigation until the expiry 
of the notice period on 12 February 2016. The monthly instalments would have been reduced, on a pound for pound basis, had Duncan 
Magrath secured alternative employment before the expiry of the notice period, which was not the case. Of the £414,606 payment in lieu 
of unworked contractual notice period, £348,197 was paid in the year to 31 December 2015 
 – a payment of £25,154 in lieu of accrued but not taken holiday entitlement.
In respect of Duncan Magrath’s incentives, it was determined that:
 – there would be an entitlement under the 2015 AIP for the four months of the year during which he served on the Board. A payment of 
£43,600 will be made in March 2016
 – the 2013 and 2014 PSP awards should vest on their original vesting date, subject to performance conditions being satisfied at that point 
and pro rated for the proportion of the performance period served. As a result of the performance conditions not being met in respect of 
the 2013 award, this PSP award lapsed
 – awards held under the DBP (86,956 shares in respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial years ended 31 December 2012 and 
2013) should vest at cessation. These shares were released on cessation of his employment at a value of £210,781, subject to tax and 
national insurance deductions.
Departure of Andrew McNaughton
Andrew McNaughton stepped down from the Board on 3 May 2014. As fully disclosed in the 2014 Remuneration report, in line with his 
contractual entitlements, it was agreed that he should continue to receive his base salary, car allowance, pension allowance and medical 
benefits, paid monthly, in respect of his 12-month notice period (he therefore received monthly payments of £66,463 for each of the four 
months from January 2015 to April 2015. The agreement with Andrew McNaughton included a duty to mitigate by reducing payments to 
him in the event of his finding new employment which was not invoked.
Retirement of Peter Zinkin
Peter Zinkin stepped down from the Board on 26 March 2015 and retired from the Company on 31 August 2015. In respect of Peter Zinkin’s 
incentives, it was determined that:
 – there would be an entitlement under the 2015 AIP for the three months of the year during which he served on the Board. A payment of 
£34,050 will be made in March 2016
 – the 2013 and 2014 PSP awards should vest on their original vesting date, subject to performance conditions being satisfied at that point 
and pro rated for the proportion of the performance period served. As a result of the performance conditions not being met in respect of 
the 2013 award, this PSP award lapsed
 – awards held under the DBP (90,639 shares in respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial years ended 31 December 2012 and 
2013) should vest at retirement. These shares were released on his retirement at a value of £234,528, subject to tax and national 
insurance deductions.
With effect from 1 September 2015, Peter Zinkin entered a consultancy agreement with the Company whereby he provides specialist 
advice to the Company, initially for a period of six months, which was subsequently extended to 14 July 2016. The fee payable under this 
agreement is anticipated to be £3,750 per month, although this can vary up or down based on actual time spent. £15,000 was paid to 
Peter Zinkin during the period from 1 September 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
80 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Remuneration report continued 
Annual report on remuneration continued Appointment of Philip Harrison
Philip Harrison joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 June 2015. The key elements of his remuneration package, which are 
consistent with the Company’s approved remuneration policy, are as follows:
 – a base salary of £400,000 and a salary supplement at 20% of base salary in lieu of pension contributions
 – a maximum annual bonus of 120% of base salary, with 50% of any payment in Balfour Beatty shares deferred for three years
 – an annual PSP award of 150% of base salary.
As part of his recruitment arrangements, the Company agreed to compensate Philip Harrison for share awards which were forfeited upon 
leaving his previous employer. The performance targets are consistent with the awards granted to Leo Quinn at the start of 2015.
The Company granted a conditional share award over 92,493 Balfour Beatty plc shares on 11 June 2015 which will vest in two tranches:
 – 30,831 shares (one-third of the award) will vest on 31 December 2016 subject to share price targets tested at the end of the period 
based on a 60-day average and as adjusted for dividends. 25% of this part of the award will vest for an end average share price of 222p 
increasing pro-rata for full vesting of this part of the award for an end average share price of 309p. No vesting for this part of the award will 
take place for an average share price of less than 222p
 – 61,662 shares (two-thirds of the award) will vest on 31 December 2017 subject to share price targets tested at the end of the period 
based on a 60-day average and as adjusted for dividends. 25% of this part of the award will vest for an end average share price of 250p 
increasing pro-rata for full vesting of this part of the award for an end average share price of 380p. No vesting for this part of the award will 
take place for an average share price of less than 250p
 – in addition to the dividend adjusted share price targets, an underpin will apply to the vesting whereby the Committee must be satisfied 
with the underlying performance of the business for this award to vest.
The share buyout award lapses in the event of voluntary resignation or termination for cause prior to the respective vesting dates. In the 
event of good leaver departure, the awards will vest at employment cessation, subject to performance conditions and pro rating at the time 
of cessation. 
Payments to past Directors
There were no payments to past executive Directors other than the payments disclosed on pages 76 and 80 in respect of Duncan Magrath, 
Andrew McNaughton and Peter Zinkin.
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
The interests of the Directors and connected persons (including, amongst others, members of the Director’s immediate family) in the share 
capital of Balfour Beatty plc and its subsidiary undertakings during the year are set out below:
Directors
Beneficially
owned at 
1 January 2015
1,2
Beneficially
owned at 
31 December 
2015
2 3 4
Outstanding  
PSP awards
Outstanding  
DBP awards
Outstanding  
share buyout 
awards
Beneficially
owned at 
31 December
2015 as a % 
of base salary at 
31 December
2015 Guideline met
5
Philip Harrison 1,685 6,349 295,857 92,493 4.3% No
Duncan Magrath 191,890 226,905
Leo Quinn 20,000 162,675 788,954 193,280 1,812,767 54.9% No
Peter Zinkin
6
315,694 315,863
Philip Aiken – 10,000
Robert Amen 10,139 10,139
Stephen Billingham
7
1 1,291 1 1,350
Stuart Doughty – –
Iain Ferguson 55,000 55,000
Maureen Kempston Darkes 7 ,000 7 ,000
Steve Marshall 17 ,142 17 ,142
Graham Roberts 15,000 15,000
1
 Or date of appointment, if later.
2
  Includes any shares held in the Company’s all-employee Share Incentive Plan.
3
  Or date of stepping down from the Board, if earlier.
4
  As at 14 March 2016, there have been no changes to the above other than in respect of ordinary shares held in the Share Incentive Plan which increased the shares for Leo Quinn 
by 182.
5
  The executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company worth 100% of base salary and must retain no fewer than 50% of the shares, net of taxes, vesting under the 
DBP and PSP until the required shareholding is met.
6
 Peter Zinkin was also interested at 1 January 2015 and 26 March 2015 in 325 cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each in Balfour Beatty plc.
7
 Stephen Billingham was also interested in 33,272 and 34,612 cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each in Balfour Beatty plc on appointment and at 
31 December 2015, respectively. As at 14 March 2016, Stephen Billingham had acquired a further 1,458 preference shares as a result of reinvestment of dividends.
81 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Performance graph
As in previous reports, the Remuneration Committee has chosen to compare the TSR on the Company’s ordinary shares against the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) principally because this is a broad index of which the Company is a constituent member. 
The values indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends from a £100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares 
in Balfour Beatty plc and in the index, and have been calculated using 30 trading day average values.
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Value (£)
Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Index Balfour Beatty plc Source: Thomson Reuters
Group Chief Executive’s remuneration table
The total remuneration figures for the Group Chief Executive during each of the last seven financial years are shown in the table below. 
The total remuneration figure includes the AIP award based on that year’s performance and the PSP award based on the three-year 
performance period ending in the relevant year. The AIP payout and PSP vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also 
shown for each of these years.
Year ended 31 December
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total remuneration
1
£1,617 ,233 £1,451,016 £1,514,007 £1,189,287 £961,350 £797 ,568 £1,442,070
AIP (%)
2
60.4% 69.6% 65.3% 40.2% 21 .0% 0% 47 .0%
PSP (%) 50% 18.4% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
1
 The figures for 2009 to 2012 relate to Ian Tyler who retired from the Board on 31 March 2013. The figures for 2013 and 2014 are annualised figures for Andrew McNaughton who 
was appointed on 31 March 2013 and stepped down on 3 May 2014. The figures for 2015 relate to Leo Quinn.
2
 Andrew McNaughton did not qualify for any 2014 AIP.
Percentage change in Group Chief Executive’s remuneration compared with all UK employees
The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief Executive’s salary, benefits and annual bonus between the financial years 
ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, compared with the percentage increase in the same years for all UK employees of the 
Group where UK employees have been selected as the most appropriate comparator.
2014 2015 % change
Salary for year ended 31 December 
Group Chief Executive (£000)
1
650 800 29
All UK employees (£m)
2
832 650 (22)
Benefits for year ended 31 December
Group Chief Executive (£000)
1
148 191 29
All UK employees (£m) 31 34 10
Annual bonus earned in year ended 31 December
Group Chief Executive (£000)
3
– 451 100
All UK employees (£m) 18 26 44
Total remuneration for year ended 31 December
Group Chief Executive (£000) 798 1,442 81
All UK employees (£m) 881 710 (19)
1
  For 2014, salary, benefits, annual bonus and total remuneration received by Andrew McNaughton, annualised to reflect amounts receivable for a full year’s service in role.
2
  Reflects reduction in UK headcount year-on-year following the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff in October 2014.
3
  Andrew McNaughton did not qualify for a 2014 AIP award.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
82 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Remuneration report continued 
Annual report on remuneration continued Relative importance of spend on pay, dividends and underlying pre-tax profit
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay for all Group employees relative to dividends and underlying pre-tax profit:
2014 2015 % change
Staff costs (£m)
1
1,896 1,124 (41)%
Dividends (£m) 96 0 (100)%
Underlying pre-tax profit/(loss) (£m)
2
(41) (124) (202)%
1
  Staff costs include base salary, benefits and bonuses for all Group employees in continuing and discontinued operations (excluding joint ventures and associates).
2
 Underlying pre-tax profit/(loss) is from continuing and discontinued operations.
Directors’ pensions and pension allowances 
No Directors were contributing members of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund during 2015.
Peter Zinkin was the only Director to participate in the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (the Fund) as a contributing member during 2014. 
Peter Zinkin participated in the defined contribution (DC) section up to 31 January 2014. He opted out of the DC section of the Fund on 
31 January 2014 and became a deferred pensioner of the DC section of the Fund at this date.
The DC section of the Fund is a money purchase scheme with a normal retirement age of 65. The Fund operates a Fund-specific earnings 
cap for pension purposes. Peter Zinkin’s pensionable earnings were subject to the Fund-specific earnings cap. Peter Zinkin paid an 
annual contribution equal to 5% of contributory salary for the period to 31 January 2014 via the Group’s SMART Pensions salary sacrifice 
arrangement as outlined in Note 2 in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 76. A salary supplement was paid to Peter Zinkin in lieu 
of pension contributions on earnings above the Fund-specific earnings cap for the period to 31 January 2014 and this is included in the 
Directors’ remuneration table on page 76. A salary supplement was paid to Peter Zinkin in lieu of Fund membership from 1 February 2014 
and this is included in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 76.
Duncan Magrath and Peter Zinkin both previously participated in the defined benefit (DB) section of the Fund. The DB section of the Fund 
provides for a pension at a normal retirement age of 62, although the majority of benefits can be taken unreduced from age 60.
Duncan Magrath opted out of the DB section of the Fund on 5 April 2012 and became a deferred pensioner. In accordance with the 
Fund rules, his deferred pension was revalued in the year in line with price inflation (measured by the Retail Prices Index). He chose not to 
participate in the DC section of the Fund. Duncan Magrath was paid a salary supplement in lieu of Fund membership which is included in 
the Directors’ remuneration table on page 76.
Peter Zinkin opted out of the DB section of the Fund on 31 December 2010 and has been receiving his DB pension from 1 January 2011. 
He has not accrued any further DB pension in the Fund since 31 December 2010.
The pension table below sets out the accrued DB deferred pension based on each executive Director’s service to his date of becoming a 
deferred pensioner of the Fund. The pension amount for Duncan Magrath is the value of the increase in his DB deferred pension, in excess 
of price inflation (measured by the Consumer Prices Index), over the year ended 31 December 2015. The pension amount for Peter Zinkin 
is the amount of the employer contributions paid to the DC section of the Fund excluding any SMART Pensions salary sacrifice amounts. 
Figures for 2014 are included for comparative purposes. The pension amounts are included in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 76.
Name of Director
Age at 
31 December 
2015 
Years
Accrued DB 
deferred 
pension at 
31 December
2014
1
£ pa
Accrued DB 
deferred 
pension at 
31 December
2015
1
£ pa
Pension 
amount
2014
2
£
Pension 
amount
2015
2
£
Duncan Magrath
3
51 39,979 40,399 – –
Peter Zinkin
4
62 n/a n/a 2,350 –
1
  These amounts represent each Director’s accrued DB deferred pension at the relevant date. In accordance with the Fund Rules, accrued DB deferred pension in excess of 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension has been increased in line with the Retail Prices Index between each Director’s date of becoming a deferred pensioner of the Fund and the 
relevant date.
2 
 The amounts for Duncan Magrath represent the value of the increase in excess of inflation (where inflation is measured as the annual increase in the Consumer Prices Index to 
the September before the relevant date) of the accrued DB deferred pension over the period. The increase in benefits has been calculated using HMRC methodology and then 
multiplied by a factor of 20. The figures for Peter Zinkin represent the contributions paid over the period by the Company into the DC section of the Fund excluding any SMART 
Pensions salary sacrifice amounts.
3
  The accrued DB deferred pension figures shown for Duncan Magrath include his DB benefits in the Fund purchased with Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs). In May 2013, 
the Fund paid an Annual Allowance tax charge of £27,249 to HMRC on Duncan Magrath’s behalf in a Scheme Pays arrangement. The value of this tax charge has been recorded 
as a negative DC contribution in respect of Duncan Magrath and will be rolled up to the Director’s retirement date, at which point it will be used to reduce the level of DB pension to 
which he is entitled from the Fund. The pensions table above makes no allowance for Duncan Magrath’s Scheme Pays arrangement. The accrued DB deferred pension figures for 
Duncan Magrath are at 31 December 2014 and 8 May 2015.
4
  Peter Zinkin has not accrued any DB benefits in the Fund since 31 December 2010. Peter Zinkin participated in the DC section from 1 January 2011 to 31 January 2014, and the 
Company paid £2,350 into this arrangement during 2014, in addition to his SMART Pensions salary sacrifice of £588.
83 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 External appointments of executive Directors
During 2015, Duncan Magrath acted as a non-executive director of Brammer plc and received and retained fees of £16,786 to 8 May 2015; 
Peter Zinkin served as a local authority councillor and received and retained fees of £2,649 to 26 March 2015; and Leo Quinn acted as 
a non-executive director of Betfair Group plc until 2 February 2016 and received and retained fees of £60,000 during 2015.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
The members of the Remuneration Committee are independent non-executive Directors, as defined under the Corporate Governance 
Code. No member of the Committee has conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no member is involved in the day-to-day 
executive management of the Group. During the year under review, the members of the Committee were as follows:
 – Iain Ferguson (Committee chair)
 – Philip Aiken
 – Stuart Doughty
 – Maureen Kempston Darkes
 – Steve Marshall
 – Graham Roberts.
Philip Aiken and Stuart Doughty joined the Committee on appointment to the Board (26 March 2015 and 8 April 2015 respectively). 
Stuart Doughty stepped down from the Committee on 14 January 2016 as part of a general review of committee membership by the Board. 
Steve Marshall was a member of the Committee to 26 March 2015.
The Committee also receives advice from several sources, namely:
 – the Group Chief Executive and the Group HR director, who are invited to attend meetings of the Committee but are not present when 
matters relating directly to their own remuneration are discussed
 – New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon plc) (NBS).
NBS has been appointed as external independent executive remuneration advisers by the Committee and has provided a range of advice 
to the Committee during the year, including:
 – annual update for the Committee on developments in best practice, market experience and regulatory requirements for all 
remuneration elements
 – assistance with the drafting of the Remuneration report
 – valuation of share-based payments for IFRS 2 purposes
 – calculation of vesting levels under the TSR element of the PSP awards
 – advice in connection with certain Board changes during the year.
Neither NBS nor any part of Aon plc provided any other services to the Company during the year under review. Total fees paid to NBS in 
respect of its services to the Committee were £45,871 (2014: £85,922).
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct. The Committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives from NBS 
is objective and independent.
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM
At the AGM on 14 May 2015, the resolution to approve the Remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 326,935,338 68.03%
Against 153,641,260 31 .97%
Total votes cast 480,576,598 100%
Abstentions 19,764,175
The Committee noted the significant number of votes cast against the advisory vote on the Directors’ Remuneration report at the 2015 
AGM. While 2014 was a challenging period for the Company, requiring some difficult decisions in respect of remuneration, the Committee 
has noted the feedback received both before and after the AGM.
 
By order of the Board
 
Iain Ferguson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
14 March 2016
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
84 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Remuneration report continued 
Annual report on remuneration continued Opinion on financial 
statements of 
Balfour Beatty plc
In our opinion the financial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2015 and of the Group’s loss and Parent Company’s profit for the year then ended;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group and Parent Company Income Statements, Statements of 
Comprehensive Income, Balance Sheets, Cash Flow Statements, Statements of Changes in Equity and 
the related Notes 1 to 41. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern and the 
Directors’ assessment of the 
principal risks that would 
threaten the solvency or 
liquidity of the company
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement regarding the 
appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 to the financial 
statements and the Directors’ statement on the longer-term viability of the Company contained on 
page 50. 
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
 – the Directors’ confirmation on page 44 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity;
 – the disclosures on pages 44 to 50 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated;
 – the Directors’ statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification 
of any material uncertainties to the Company’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 
12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements;
 – the Directors’ explanation on page 50 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, 
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their 
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors’ adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify 
any such material uncertainties. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Independence We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and we 
confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with those standards. We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit 
services referred to in those standards.
Our assessment of risks of 
material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest 
effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team.
85 Strategic Report Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Financial Statements Governance
Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Balfour Beatty plc Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Recognition of contract revenue, margin and related 
receivables and liabilities 
(Notes 2.4, 2.5, 2.26a and 2.26f)
The construction industry is characterised by contract risk with 
significant judgements involved in the assessment of both current 
and future contract financial performance.
Revenue and margin are recognised based on the stage of 
completion of individual contracts, calculated on the proportion of 
total costs at the reporting date compared to the estimated total 
costs of the contract. 
The status of contracts is updated on a regular basis. In doing so, 
management are required to exercise significant judgement in 
their assessment of the valuation of contract variations, claims and 
liquidated damages (revenue items); the completeness and accuracy 
of forecast costs to complete; and the ability to deliver contracts 
within forecast timescales. 
The potential final contract outcomes can cover a wide range. 
Dependent on the level of judgement in each, the range on each 
contract can be individually material. In addition, changes in these 
judgements, and the related estimates, as contracts progress can 
result in material adjustments to revenue and margin, which can be 
both positive and negative.
We note that management has highlighted several contracts that 
have a wide range of possible outcomes, both positive and negative, 
within Note 2.26a. 
Our work on the recognition of contract revenue, margin and related 
receivables and liabilities included:
 – we assessed the key controls over the recognition of contract 
revenue and margin and, for continuing operations subject to 
full scope audit procedures, tested to determine whether these 
controls were operating effectively throughout the year;
 – we attended and inspected minutes from certain meetings, 
forming a key part of the Group’s risk process to fully challenge at 
a lower executive level, both new tenders and contract bids, and 
ongoing performance on existing contracts;
 – we selected a sample of contracts in order to challenge both 
current and future financial performance. Samples were selected 
based on a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, as well 
as other randomly selected contracts;
 – for sampled contracts, we challenged management’s key 
judgements inherent in the forecast costs to complete that drive 
the accounting under the percentage of completion method, 
including the following procedures:
 – a review of the contract terms and conditions by reference to 
contract documentation; 
 – tested the existence and valuation of claims and variations both 
within contract revenue and contract costs via inspection of 
correspondence with customers and the supply chain;
 – a review of legal and experts’ reports received on 
contentious matters;
 – an assessment of the forecasts through discussion with Group, 
finance, commercial and operational management; 
 – an assessment of the ability to deliver contracts within 
budgeted timescales and any exposures to liquidated damages 
for late delivery of contract works; and
 – a review of post-balance sheet contract performance to support 
year end judgements.
 – we attended multiple site visits across the business;
 – we integrated construction experts into the audit team to support 
our audit challenge on a selection of contracts we determined to 
be most judgemental and of greatest risk;
 – we assessed the recoverability of related receivables, including 
testing of post year end cash receipts, and completeness 
of any contract loss provisions through completion of the 
above procedures.
Trading performance within UK Construction Services
(Notes 5 and 10)
The contract risks described above are applicable across the Group, 
including UK Construction Services. However, given the historical 
incidence of losses incurred by the UK Construction Services 
business, most notably within Engineering Services and the 
London region of Regional Construction, there is a greater risk of 
misstatement associated with contract judgements in this division, 
particularly in respect of under-performing contracts.
Management provide commentary on these issues within the 
Strategic Report, both in the Construction Services section on pages 
22 to 25, which includes detailed discussion of the performance 
in UK Construction Services, and within the Risk Management 
Framework section on page 42 on management’s conclusions and 
response to failings in controls within the business during 2015.
In addition to the procedures described above and due to continued 
significant losses incurred by UK Construction Services during 
the year, we have maintained the following amendments to our 
audit approach:
 – we have maintained the component materiality used to scope our 
audit of the UK Construction Services operations at £3.4 million 
(2014: £3.4 million). This, in combination with our not placing 
reliance on internal controls in certain parts of the UK Construction 
Services business, led to an increase in the number of contracts 
tested substantively by us and a greater level of substantive audit 
procedures performed on the forecast costs to complete.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
86 Strategic Report Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Financial Statements Governance
Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Balfour Beatty plc continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Assessment of whether losses incurred in 2015 should have 
been recognised in prior periods 
(Note 2.26a)
Given the £195 million of losses incurred in UK Construction 
Services in 2015 (including the £8 million disclosed as non-
underlying), management have undertaken an assessment to 
determine whether any of the losses should have been recognised 
in prior periods. 
This exercise was inherently judgemental as it required the 
reassessment of contract positions as at the prior period balance 
sheet date using information which was available or should 
reasonably have been available at that point in time without using the 
benefit of hindsight and in accordance with the requirements of IAS 
8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. 
Management concluded from this exercise that the impact of any 
errors relating to prior periods was not material in the context of the 
Group accounts and accordingly the 2014 financial statements have 
not been restated. 
Management performed an exercise looking at material contract 
write-downs. We reviewed this analysis and challenged the 
conclusions reached. In addition to reviewing management’s own 
analysis, we also considered the following sources of information as 
part of our audit:
 – historical UK Construction Services and Group contract and 
commercial issues papers;
 – findings included in contract specific internal audit reports; 
 – observations and findings from site visits performed and other 
discussions held with management during 2015;
 – subsequent events reviews performed at each balance sheet 
date; and
 – prior period audit working papers. 
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
(Notes 2.12, 2.26d, 15 and 16)
Under accounting standards, management is required to carry out 
an annual impairment test which incorporates judgements based 
on assumptions about future profitability for the related businesses 
against which appropriate long-term growth rates and discount rates 
must be applied.
This exercise is highly judgemental and is used to support the 
carrying value of £844 million of goodwill as at 31 December 2015 
(31 December 2014: £826 million).
We assessed the key controls around the assessment of the 
recoverability of goodwill balances. As part of this process, we 
obtained copies of the valuation models used to determine the 
recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit and tested the 
arithmetical accuracy of the models.
We challenged the assumptions underpinning the models, including 
the discount rates used, long-term growth rates and cash flow 
forecasts. This was achieved through: consultation with Deloitte 
valuation specialists to critically assess the discount rate and long-
term growth rates applied; assessment of the reasonableness of 
forecast future cash flows by comparison to historical performance 
and future outlook; and through discussions with management. 
We performed further sensitivities taking into account the 
historical forecasting accuracy of the Group, recognising its recent 
performance in this area and after considering the magnitude of the 
losses in 2014 and 2015.
We have considered the adequacy of management’s disclosures in 
respect of reasonable possible changes to assumptions as set out 
in Note 15 as well as management’s disclosure in respect to the 
aggregation level in which management has performed their tests.
With respect to the Group’s UK construction business, we highlight 
that the recoverability of the goodwill within that cash-generating 
unit is predicated on returning the business to more normal levels of 
performance in the future.
We also assessed whether assumptions have been determined and 
applied consistently across the Group.
Last year our report included one other risk which is not included in 
our report this year: accounting for assets held for sale, discontinued 
operations, and disposal accounting. Given that there have been 
no significant disposals during the year, it has not had a significant 
impact on the strategy of our audit. 
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with 
the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee 
discussed on page 60.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
87 Strategic Report Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Financial Statements Governance Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it 
probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or 
influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results 
of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £8.5 million (2014: £8.5 million). Historically, we have 
used a current year profit metric to determine our materiality. However, due to the significant losses 
in the current and prior year, we have been unable to use the same approach. Instead, we have used 
professional judgement and maintained our materiality at the prior year level after reflecting the size and 
scale of the business being consistent with the prior year.
Use of alternative benchmarks, such as net assets or revenue, could have resulted in much higher 
materiality levels. Materiality as a percentage of revenue and net assets in the current year is 0.1% 
(2014: 0.1%) and 1.0% (2014: 0.7%), respectively.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit 
differences in excess of £170,000 (2014: £170,000), as well as differences below that threshold 
that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit and Risk 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
An overview of the scope of 
our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including 
Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on 
that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the most significant 
operating companies, including joint ventures. Full audit procedures were performed on those 
companies within our audit scope. 
Operating companies representing the principal business units within the Group’s reportable segments 
and accounting for 95% (2014: 85%) of the Group’s total revenue, including discontinued operations, 
are subject to full audit procedures, with others accounting for 0% (2014: 7%) of the Group’s revenue 
subject to specified audit procedures. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for 
undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work 
at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity, which 
were lower than Group materiality and ranged from £3.4 million to £5.1 million (2014: £3.4 million to 
£5.1 million).
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures 
to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the 
aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified 
account balances.
The Group audit team follow a programme of planned visits to the significant operating companies. 
The Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visited operating 
companies covering 91% (2014: 72%) of Group revenue in the year. The Senior Statutory Auditor 
or another senior member of the Group audit team also discussed the risk assessment, reviewed 
documentation of key findings and participated in the close meetings for all operating companies subject 
to full scope.
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which 
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
88 Strategic Report Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Financial Statements Governance
Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Balfour Beatty plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations 
received and accounting 
records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for 
our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records 
and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006, we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of 
Directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be 
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report arising 
from these matters.
Corporate Governance 
Statement
Under the Listing Rules, we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement 
relating to the Company’s compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other 
information in the Annual 
Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between 
our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the annual 
report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements. 
Respective responsibilities of 
Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement on pages 66 and 67, the Directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). We also comply with 
International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to 
ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and 
systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to 
the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
 – whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
 – the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and 
 – the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Simon Letts 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom 
14 March 2016
89 Strategic Report Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Financial Statements Governance 2015 2014 
Notes
Underlying
 items
1
£m
Non-
underlying 
 items  
(Note 10) 
 £m
Total  
£m
Underlying
 items
1
 £m
Non- 
underlying 
 items  
(Note 10) 
 £m
Total  
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 8,235 209 8,444 8,440 353 8,793
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 18.2 (1,471) (18) (1,489) (1,490) (39) (1,529)
Group revenue 4 6,764 191 6,955 6,950 314 7 ,264
Cost of sales (6,609) (189) (6,798) (6,723) (410) (7 ,133)
Gross profit/(loss) 155 2 157 227 (96) 131
Gain on disposals of interests in investments 32.2/32.3 95 – 95 93 – 93
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 16 – (10) (10) – (1 1) (1 1)
Other net operating expenses (403) (65) (468) (433) (1 14) (547)
Group operating loss (153) (73) (226) (1 13) (221) (334)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 18.2 47 (3) 44 55 (2) 53
Loss from operations 6 (106) (76) (182) (58) (223) (281)
Investment income 8 52 – 52 64 – 64
Finance costs 9 (69) – (69) (86) (1) (87)
Loss before taxation (123) (76) (199) (80) (224) (304)
Taxation 11 (11) 4 (7) 2 1 3
Loss for the year from continuing operations (134) (72) (206) (78) (223) (301)
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations 12 (1) 1 – 24 218 242
Loss for the year (135) (71) (206) (54) (5) (59)
Attributable to
Equity holders (135) (71) (206) (55) (5) (60)
Non-controlling interests – – – 1 – 1
Loss for the year (135) (71) (206) (54) (5) (59)
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
Notes
2015 
Pence
2014
Pence
Basic (loss)/ear nings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 13 (30.2) (43.9)
– discontinued operations 13 0.1 35.3
13 (30.1) (8.6)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 13 (30.2) (43.9)
– discontinued operations 13 0.1 35.3
13 (30.1) (8.6)
Dividends per ordinary share proposed for the year 14 – 5.6
Commentary on the Group Income Statement
*
Total pre-tax loss from continuing operations for 2015 was £199m, 
which is inclusive of a non-underlying loss of £76m. The total loss 
after tax including discontinued operations was £206m.
Background
The Group Income Statement includes the majority of the 
Group’s income and expenses for the year with the remainder 
being recorded within the statement of comprehensive income. 
The Group’s income statement is presented showing the Group’s 
underlying and non-underlying results separately on the face of 
the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying 
financial performance achieved by the Group.
The income statement shows the revenue and results of continuing 
operations. The post-tax results shown within discontinued 
operations primarily represent the residual gain on the disposal of 
Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB). Included within this are also the results 
of, and loss on the disposal of Rail Italy, which was classified as 
a discontinued operation in 2014 and was subsequently sold in 
March 2015. 
Non-underlying items within continuing operations include the 
trading results of Rail Germany. The Group has continued to 
present the remaining parts of Rail Germany outside of underlying 
items as it remains committed to exiting its Mainland European 
rail businesses as soon as possible and does not consider its 
operations part of the Group’s underlying activity. Refer to Note 5 
for further details. 
In addition to this, the performance of external Engineering 
Services (ES) contracts linked to poor legacy management and 
in regions that ES has withdrawn from tendering for third-party 
work has also continued to be included in non-underlying items as 
the size and nature of the losses due to the problematic delivery 
of these contracts are exceptional and distort the underlying 
performance of the Group. Separate disclosure of these contracts 
aids the reader’s understanding of the underlying performance 
of the remainder of the Group. Performance on these contracts 
including any claims recovery will be presented in non-underlying 
items through to their completion. 
* The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 18 to 21.
Group Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
90 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Commentary on the Group Income Statement continued
*
Revenue
Revenue from continuing operations including non-underlying 
items, joint ventures and associates decreased by 4% to £8,444m 
from £8,793m in 2014. Revenue was broadly flat across all 
segments albeit there was a slight change in the geographical mix.
Gain on disposal of investments 
The Group continued its programme of realising accumulated value 
in the Investments portfolio and generated income by disposing 
of interests in Thanet OFTO HoldCo Ltd (the Group continues 
to hold a 20% stake), Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Aura Holdings 
(Newcastle) Ltd and Greater Gabbard OFTO Holdings Ltd resulting 
in a net underlying gain of £95m after recycling gains of £23m from 
reserves to the income statement.
Share of results of joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures and associates are those entities over which the 
Group exercises joint control or has significant influence and whose 
results are generally incorporated using the equity method whereby 
the Group’s share of the post-tax results of joint ventures and 
associates is included in the Group’s operating profit.
This share reduced by £8m to £47m before non-underlying 
items, largely due to disposals from the Investments portfolio and 
increased losses in the Middle East. 
Underlying loss from operations 
Underlying loss from continuing operations increased to a loss 
of £106m from a £58m loss in 2014. Support Services and 
Infrastructure Investments continued to deliver excellent operating 
results, including the benefit of £95m of gains from investment 
disposals. This was offset with increased losses in the UK and 
US construction businesses. Following the construction business 
contract reviews carried out in the year, risk-based provisions were 
recognised on specific contracts. The risk-based provisions are 
recognised to reflect an increased level of prudence in estimating 
specific contract completion costs. In 2014, the risk-based 
provisions were recognised across the broader UK construction 
portfolio, and generally covered the smaller contracts. 
Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which 
the Group believes should be separately identified on the face of 
the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying 
financial performance achieved by the Group.
Non-underlying items from continuing operations of £76m before 
tax were charged to the income statement. These comprised 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £10m, the trading 
loss from Rail Germany of £3m, losses resulting from legacy 
ES contracts of £8m and other loss items of £55m.
Significant other non-underlying items included £23m of costs 
incurred relating to the Group’s Build to Last transformation 
programme which was launched in early 2015. The Group also 
incurred other restructuring costs of £9m, of which £4m represents 
costs associated with restructuring the continuing operations of 
Heery Inc. which was previously reliant on PB for its back office 
functions and the remaining £5m relates to restructuring cost 
incurred for Rail Germany. 
Rail Germany also recognised further impairment in its underlying 
assets of £11m, including £4m relating to joint ventures and 
associates. This is as a result of an impairment assessment 
following an agreement to sell parts of Rail Germany to 
Tianjin Keyvia Electric Co Ltd. This agreement remains subject to 
various approvals at the year end and therefore these parts which 
are subject to sale have not been classified as held for sale at the 
year end. 
Non-underlying items continued 
The Group continued its plan to transition other business units to 
its UK shared service centre in Newcastle-upon-Tyne incurring 
further cost in the year of £8m. In addition, the Group impaired 
£17m of cost capitalised in relation to the transformation of the 
UK IT estate from a federated to a more centralised model due to 
curtailments in scope and termination of the agreement with its 
implementation partner. 
The non-underlying charges recognised in 2015 were partially offset 
by a £16m gain recognised on the disposal of Signalling Solutions 
Ltd in May 2015. 
Net finance costs
Net finance cost of £17m in the year represents a decrease of 26% 
from £23m in 2014 mainly due to a decrease in net interest cost on 
the Group’s pension schemes of £13m. This was partially offset by 
a £5m reduction in interest earned on subordinated debt.
Taxation
The Group’s underlying loss before tax from continuing operations 
for subsidiaries of £170m (2014: £135m) resulted in an underlying 
tax charge of £11m (2014: £2m credit). The tax charge principally 
arises due to significant non-recognition of deferred tax assets on 
losses incurred in the year. 
Profit from discontinued operations
Profit from discontinued operations primarily reflects an additional 
gain on disposal of £5m from the sale of PB, which completed in 
2014. Refer to Note 32.2.9. 
Profit from discontinued operations also included an underlying 
post-tax loss of £1m relating to Rail Italy which was disposed in 
March 2015 resulting in a loss on disposal of £4m.
Earnings per share
Basic loss per share from continuing operations was 30.2p 
(2014: 43.9p), as a result of increased losses as discussed above. 
Underlying loss per share from continuing operations was 19.7p 
(2014: 11.5p).
* The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 18 to 21.
91 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 2015 2014
+
Notes
Group
£m
Share of 
joint 
ventures 
and 
associates 
£m
Total
£m
Group 
£m
Share of 
joint 
ventures 
and 
associates 
£m
Total 
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year (250) 44 (206) (1 12) 53 (59)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year
Items which will not subsequently be reclassified to the 
income statement
 Actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement benefit liabilities 30.1 (86) (4) (90) 237 (5) 232
 Tax on above 30.1 15 – 15 (48) – (48)
(71) (4) (75) 189 (5) 184
Items which will subsequently be reclassified to the income 
statement
 Currency translation differences 30.1 29 3 32 30 2 32
 Fair value revaluations – PPP financial assets 30.1 (13) (170) (183) 79 224 303
  – cash flow hedges 30.1 8 21 29 (54) (102) (156)
  –  available-for-sale investments in 
mutual funds 30.1 – – – 2 – 2
  Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income 
statement on disposal
*
32.2/32.3 (15) (5) (20) 18 (7) 11
 Tax on above 30.1 1 33 34 (6) (23) (29)
10 (118) (108) 69 94 163
Total other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (61) (122) (183) 258 89 347
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year 30.1 (311) (78) (389) 146 142 288
Attributable to
Equity holders (389) 287
Non-controlling interests – 1
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year 30.1 (389) 288
+
 Re-presented to show the share of comprehensive (loss)/income relating to the Group’s joint ventures and associates separately from the rest of the Group. 
* Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect.
Commentary on Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
*
Total comprehensive loss for 2015 was £389m comprising a total 
loss after tax including discontinued operations of £206m and other 
comprehensive income after tax of £183m.
Background
The Group Statement of Comprehensive Income is presented on a 
total Group basis combining continuing and discontinued operations. 
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) is categorised into items which 
will affect the profit and loss of the Group in subsequent periods 
when the gain or loss is realised and those which will not be recycled 
into the income statement.
Items which will not subsequently be reclassified to the 
income statement 
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities are increases 
or decreases in the present value of the pension liability because of:
 – differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and 
what has actually occurred; or
 – changes in actuarial assumptions used to value the obligations.
Actuarial gains for the Group including joint ventures and associates 
decreased from £232m gain in 2014 to £90m loss in 2015. Refer to 
Note 28.
Items which will subsequently be reclassified to the 
income statement 
Currency translation differences
The Group operates in a number of countries with different local 
currencies. Currency translation differences arise on translation of 
the balance sheet and results from the local functional currency into 
the Group’s presentational currency, sterling.
Fair value revaluations – PPP financial assets
Assets constructed by PPP concession companies are classified 
principally as available-for-sale financial assets. In the operational 
phase fair value is determined by discounting the future cash 
flows allocated to the financial asset using discount rates based 
on long-term gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels associated with 
the assets, with market-related fair value movements recognised 
in OCI and other fair value movements recognised in the income 
statement. During the year there was an increase in gilt rates 
resulting in a fair value loss including joint ventures and associates 
of £183m being taken through OCI (2014: £303m gain).
Fair value revaluations – cash flow hedges
Cash flow hedges are principally interest rate swaps, to manage 
the interest rate and inflation rate risks in the Group’s Infrastructure 
Investments’ subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies 
which are exposed by their long-term contractual agreements. 
The fair value of derivatives changes in response to prevailing market 
conditions. During the year LIBOR increased resulting in a fair value 
gain on the interest rate swaps including joint ventures and associates 
of £29m being recognised in OCI in 2015 (2014: £156m loss).
Recycling of reserves to the income statement on disposal
Fair value gains and losses and currency translation differences 
recognised in OCI are transferred to the income statement upon 
disposal of the asset and therefore on disposal of Infrastructure 
Investments’ concessions and rail businesses, £20m profit 
including joint ventures and associates was recycled to the income 
statement through OCI and is included in the gain on disposal.
There is no associated tax on the amounts recycled to the 
income statement.
* The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 18 to 21.
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
92 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Commentary on Group Statement of Changes in Equity
*
Total equity holders’ funds of £830m at 31 December 2015 
decreased by 33% primarily due to further losses incurred in the 
year as well as movements in other comprehensive income.
Background
The Group Statement of Changes in Equity includes the total 
comprehensive income attributable to equity holders of the 
Company and non-controlling interests and also discloses 
transactions which have been recognised directly in equity 
and not through the income statement.
Dividends
The Board has not recommended a final dividend in respect of 
2015, resulting in a full-year dividend of nil (2014: 5.6p). The full-year 
dividend paid during 2015 was £nil.
Joint ventures’ and associates’ dividends 
Dividends of £69m were received in the year from joint ventures 
and associates (JVA) resulting in a transfer of this amount between 
JVA reserves and Group retained profits.
Share issues
During the year 210,214 ordinary shares were issued for £1m.
Special reserve
A special reserve of £185m was created in 2004 as a result of 
cancelling £181m of share premium and cancelling the £4m capital 
redemption reserve in Balfour Beatty plc. This was approved by the 
court and becomes distributable to the extent of future increases 
in share capital and share premium, of which £1m occurred in 2015 
(2014: £1m).
Other reserves
Other reserves comprise: the equity components of the preference 
shares of £18m (2014: £18m) and convertible bonds £26m 
(2014: £26m); the hedging reserves £(58)m (2014: £(74)m); PPP 
financial asset revaluation reserve £58m (2014: £101m); currency 
translation reserve £87m (2014: £55m) and other reserves £13m 
(2014: £14m). 
Other reserve transfers relating to joint venture and associate 
disposals 
On disposal of JVAs, retained profits relating to these 
businesses are transferred from the JVA reserves to the Group’s 
retained profits.
Notes
Called-up 
share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Special 
reserve 
£m
Share  
of joint  
ventures’  
and  
associates’  
reserves 
(Note 18.7)
£m
Other  
reserves 
(Note 30.1)
£m
Retained 
profits 
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 344 64 24 278 323 – 2 1,035
Total comprehensive income for the year 30.1 – – – 142 69 76 1 288
Ordinary dividends 14 – – – – – (96) – (96)
Joint ventures’ and associates’ dividends 18.1 – – – (56) – 56 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 29.1 1 – – – – – – 1
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – (3) 5 – 2
Reserve transfers relating to joint venture and 
associate disposals 18.7 – – – (24) – 24 – –
Other transfers – – (1) – (249) 250 – –
At 31 December 2014 345 64 23 340 140 315 3 1,230
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year 30.1 – – – (78) 5 (316) – (389)
Joint ventures’ and associates’ dividends 18.1 – – – (69) – 69 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 29.1 – 1 – – – – – 1
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – (1) (12) – (13)
Minority interest 30.1 – – – – – – 1 1
Reserve transfers relating to joint venture and 
associate disposals 18.7 – – – (13) – 13 – –
Other transfers – – (1) 16 – (15) – –
At 31 December 2015 345 65 22 196 144 54 4 830
* The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 18 to 21.
Group Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
93 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 2015 2014
 Notes 
Underlying
 items
1
 
£m
 Non- 
underlying 
items  
(Note 10)
£m
Total  
£m
Underlying
 items
1
£m
Non- 
underlying 
items  
(Note 10)
£m
 Total  
£m
Revenue 4 25 – 25 168 – 168
Gain on disposal of interests in investments
+
32.2/32.3 54 – 54 49 – 49
Net operating expense (13) (4) (17) (17) (15) (32)
Profit/(loss) from operations 66 (4) 62 200 (15) 185
Investment income 8 7 – 7 8 – 8
Finance costs 9 (46) – (46) (49) – (49)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 27 (4) 23 159 (15) 144
Taxation 11 11 – 11 12 – 12
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders 38 (4) 34 171 (15) 156
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
+
 The gain relates to the disposal of the Company’s 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Holdings Ltd (2014: 50% interest in  
Consort Healthcare (Durham) Holdings Ltd). Refer to Note 32.2.5.
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Notes
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Profit for the year 34 156
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Items which will subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
 Currency translation differences 30.2 2 –
Total other comprehensive income for the year 2 –
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders 30.2 36 156
Company Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
94 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Notes
Called-up 
share  
capital  
£m
Share 
premium 
account  
£m
Special 
reserve  
£m
Other 
reserves  
(Note 30.2) 
£m
Retained 
profits  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 January 2014 344 64 24 362 271 1,065
Total comprehensive income for the year 30.2 – – – – 156 156
Ordinary dividends 14 – – – – (96) (96)
Issue of ordinary shares 29.1 1 – – – – 1
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – 5 – 5
Other transfers – – (1) (249) 250 –
At 31 December 2014 345 64 23 118 581 1,131
Total comprehensive income for the year 30.2 – – – – 36 36
Issue of ordinary shares 29.1 – 1 – – – 1
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – (2) (14) (16)
Other transfers – – (1) – 1 –
At 31 December 2015 345 65 22 116 604 1,152
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2015
95 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Group Company
 Notes 
2015 
£m
2014  
£m
2015 
£m
 2014  
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 15 844 826 – –
 – other 16 222 216 – –
Property, plant and equipment 17 167 171 – –
Investments in joint ventures and associates 18 671 759 – –
Investments 19 44 51 1,671 1,571
PPP financial assets 20 402 559 – –
Trade and other receivables 23 114 111 4 11
Deferred tax assets 27 58 52 – –
Derivative financial instruments 38 – – – 1
2,522 2,7 45 1,675 1,583
Current assets
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 21 144 170 – –
Due from construction contract customers 22 379 562 – –
Trade and other receivables 23 885 966 1,645 1,381
Cash and cash equivalents – infrastructure concessions 26 20 40 – –
  – other 26 646 691 50 249
Current tax assets 4 8 12 –
Derivative financial instruments 38 1 2 1 2
2,079 2,439 1,708 1,632
Assets held for sale 12 – 60 – –
2,079 2,499 1,708 1,632
Total assets 4,601 5,244 3,383 3,215
Current liabilities
Due to construction contract customers 22 (472) (350) – –
Trade and other payables 24 (1,700) (1,959) (1,724) (1,591)
Provisions 25 (126) (120) – –
Borrowings  – non-recourse loans 26 (22) (14) – –
  – other 26 (13) (4) (160) (142)
Current tax liabilities (20) (5) – –
Derivative financial instruments 38 (11) (14) (1) (2)
(2,364) (2,466) (1,885) (1,735)
Liabilities held for sale 12 – (47) – –
(2,364) (2,513) (1,885) (1,735)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 (130) (134) (8) (25)
Provisions 25 (80) (77) (2) (2)
Borrowings  – non-recourse loans 26 (363) (471) – –
  – other 26 (470) (468) (236) (224)
Liability component of preference shares 29 (98) (96) (98) (96)
Retirement benefit liabilities 28 (146) (128) – –
Deferred tax liabilities 27 (53) (49) (2) (2)
Derivative financial instruments 38 (67) (78) – –
(1,407) (1,501) (346) (349)
Total liabilities (3,771) (4,014) (2,231) (2,084)
Net assets 830 1,230 1,152 1,131
Equity
Called-up share capital 29 345 345 345 345
Share premium account 30 65 64 65 64
Special reserve 30 22 23 22 23
Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves 30 196 340 – –
Other reserves 30 144 140 116 118
Retained profits 30 54 315 604 581
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 826 1,227 1,152 1,131
Non-controlling interests 30 4 3 – –
Total equity 830 1,230 1,152 1,131
On behalf of the Board
 
Leo Quinn Philip Harrison
Director Director 
14 March 2016
Balance Sheets
At 31 December 2015
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
96 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Commentary on  the Group Balance Sheet
*
Total assets of £4.6bn were 12% less than last year. Total liabilities 
of £3.8bn decreased by 6%, resulting in an overall decrease in net 
assets of 33%. The decrease is primarily driven by further losses 
recognised in Construction Services. 
Background
The Group’s Balance Sheet shows the Group’s assets and liabilities 
as at 31 December 2015. In accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of 
Financial Statements and IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations, the Group does not re-present the 
prior year balance sheet for assets held for sale or disposals. 
Goodwill
The goodwill on the Group’s balance sheet at 31 December 2015 
increased to £844m (2014: £826m). The increase was primarily 
relating to currency translation differences, partially offset by a £4m 
impairment on the goodwill held on Blackpool Airport. The Group 
has conducted impairment reviews on the remainder of its goodwill 
balance and has concluded that it was fully recoverable at the 
year end. 
Investments in joint ventures and associates
Investments in joint ventures and associates decreased during the 
year from £759m to £671m, primarily due to fair value losses on 
revaluations of their PPP financial assets.
PPP financial assets
The £157m decrease in PPP financial assets is principally driven by 
the sale of 80% of the Group’s interest in Thanet. As a result, the 
Group no longer consolidates Thanet as a subsidiary, and the Group 
has accounted for its remaining 20% interest in Thanet as a joint 
venture. The Group recognised an underlying gain of £29m as a 
result of this sale. 
Working capital
Net movements in working capital are discussed in the statement 
of cash flows commentary on page 99.
Provisions are discussed in the working capital commentary and in 
detail in Note 25.
Borrowings
Borrowings excluding non-recourse loans
The Group’s committed facility totals £400m. The Group completed 
its refinancing in December 2015. This new facility extends through 
to 2018, with the option for two additional one-year extensions 
through to 2020, subject to bank approval.
The purpose of this facility, and some other smaller facilities, is to 
provide liquidity from a group of core relationship banks to support 
Balfour Beatty in its activities.
The Group’s borrowings include recourse borrowings to the Group 
arising from its Infrastructure Investment projects in North America 
amounting to £10m (2014: £16m).
Non-recourse loans
In addition, the Group has non-recourse facilities in 
companies engaged in certain construction and infrastructure 
concessions projects.
At 31 December 2015, the Group’s share of non-recourse net 
borrowings amounted to £2,014m (2014: £1,965m), comprising 
£1,649m (2014: £1,520m) in relation to joint ventures and 
associates as disclosed in Note 18.2 and £365m (2014: £445m) 
on the Group balance sheet in relation to subsidiaries as disclosed 
in Note 26.
Retirement benefit liabilities
The Group’s balance sheet includes aggregate liabilities of £146m 
(2014: £128m) representing deficits in the Group’s pension 
schemes. The retirement liabilities increased primarily due to 
actuarial losses on pension scheme assets. Refer to Note 28 for 
further details.
Any surplus of deficit contributions would be recoverable by way 
of a reduction in future contributions as the Group has the ability 
to use surplus funds in the defined benefit section of the Balfour 
Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF) to pay its contributions due under the 
defined benefit and defined contribution sections of the BBPF.
Assets and liabilities held for sale 
At 31 December 2015, the Group does not have any discontinued 
operations or any assets and liabilities held for sale. 
Other
In addition to the liabilities on the balance sheet, in the normal 
course of its business, the Group arranges for financial institutions 
to provide customers with guarantees in connection with its 
contracting activities, commonly referred to as bonds. These bonds 
provide a customer with a level of financial protection in the event 
that a contractor fails to meet its commitments under the terms of a 
contract. They are customary or mandatory in many of the markets 
in which the Group operates. In return for issuing the bonds, the 
financial institutions receive a fee and a counter-indemnity from 
the Company. As at 31 December 2015, contract bonds in issue by 
financial institutions under uncommitted facilities covered £3.4bn 
(2014: £3.0bn) of the contract commitments of the Group.
Equity commitments
During 2015 the Group invested £102m (2014: £53m) in a 
combination of equity and shareholder loans to Infrastructure 
Investments’ project companies and at the end of the year had 
committed to provide a further £176m from 2016 onwards, 
inclusive of £76m expected for projects at preferred bidder stage. 
£44m of this is expected to be invested in 2016, as disclosed in 
Note 39(f).
* The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 18 to 21.
97 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Group Company
 Notes 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
2015 
£m
 2014
^
£m
Cash flows used in operating activities
Cash used in:
– continuing operations – underlying
1
31 .1 (84) (192) (157) 293
  – non-underlying 31 .1 (54) (1 14) (4) (15)
– discontinued operations 31 .1 3 (46) – –
Income taxes received/(paid) 6 (20) – –
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (129) (372) (161) 278
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates:
– infrastructure concessions
2
18.6 45 29 25 6
– other
2
18.6 24 28 – –
Interest received – infrastructure concessions 18.6 16 23 – 1
Interest received – other 5 5 6 5
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 32.1 (3) (3) – –
Purchases of:
– intangible assets – infrastructure concessions 16 (23) (28) – –
– intangible assets – other 16 (20) (35) – –
– property, plant and equipment – infrastructure concessions 17 (13) (23) – –
– property, plant and equipment – other 17 (27) (43) – –
– other investments 19 (2) (8) – –
Investments in and long-term loans to joint ventures and associates 18.6 (79) (41) – –
Investments in subsidiaries 19.2 – – (100) –
Capital repayment from infrastructure concession joint venture 18.6 7 – – –
Short-term loans to joint ventures and associates
^
18.6 (11) (4) (11) (4)
Loans repaid from joint ventures and associates 18.6 2 2 – –
PPP financial assets cash expenditure 20 (75) (232) – –
PPP financial assets cash receipts 20 30 37 – –
Disposals of:
– investments in joint ventures – infrastructure concessions
2
18.6/32 104 117 54 55
– investments in joint ventures – other
2
18.6/32 21 – – –
–  subsidiaries net of cash disposed, separation and transaction costs – 
infrastructure concessions
2
32.2.10 23 34 – –
– subsidiaries net of cash disposed, separation and transaction costs – other
2
32.2.10 16 701 – –
– property, plant and equipment 7 16 – –
– other investments 19 10 12 – –
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 57 587 (26) 63
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of ordinary shares 30.3 (17) (2) – –
Proceeds from:
– issue of ordinary shares 29.1 1 1 1 1
– other new loans – infrastructure concessions 31 .3 79 236 – –
– other new loans – other 31 .3 – 11 – –
– finance leases 31 .3 – 1 – –
Repayments of:
– loans – infrastructure concessions 31 .3 (11) (7) – –
– loans – other 31 .3 (1) (83) – –
– finance leases 31 .3 – (3) – –
Ordinary dividends paid 14 – (96) – (96)
Interest paid – infrastructure concessions (19) (21) – –
Interest paid – other (32) (29) (20) (22)
Preference dividends paid (11) (1 1) (11) (1 1)
Net cash used in financing activities (11) (3) (30) (128)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents 31 .3 (83) 212 (217) 213
Effects of exchange rate changes 1 (12) – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 727 526 107 (106)
Net decrease in cash within assets held for sale 12 18 1 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 31 .2 663 727 (110) 107
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
2
 Re-presented to separately identify cash flows from infrastructure concessions and other.
^
 Re-presented to show short-term loans made to joint venture and associates separately from cash used in operations in the Company cash flow.
Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
98 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Commentary on the Group Statement of Cash Flows
*
Cash and cash equivalents decreased by 9% during the year 
to £663m. Cash used in operating activities improved by 65% 
to £129m.
Background
The statement of cash flows shows the cash flows from operating, 
investing and financing activities during the year.
Working capital
Working capital includes: inventories and non-construction work 
in progress; amounts due to and from construction contract 
customers; operating trade and other receivables; operating trade 
and other payables; and operating provisions. Where the net 
working capital balance is in an asset position, ie the inventory and 
receivables balances are greater than the payables and provisions, 
this is referred to as “unfavourable/positive working capital”. 
Where this is not the case, this is referred to as “favourable/
negative working capital”.
Working capital movements
The movement of the individual working capital balances on the 
balance sheet will not be reflective of the underlying movement of 
working capital in the year because the December 2015 balances 
exclude amounts relating to disposals whereas the prior year 
balances include these balances. The amounts on the balance 
sheet are also affected by foreign currency movements. 
Working capital movements are disclosed in Note 31.1.
Inventories and non-construction work in progress
During 2015 underlying inventories and non-construction work in 
progress decreased by £21m for continuing operations primarily 
relating to a decrease in development land held in the UK.
Amounts due from/to construction contract customers and 
operating provisions
Movements in the Group’s due from/to construction contract 
customers balances, which reflect the net unbilled contract position 
and traded profit and loss for each individual construction contract, 
and movements in provision balances generated an underlying 
working capital inflow of £287 million (2014: outflow of £18m). 
A portion of this inflow is a result of risk contingencies recognised 
on specific construction contracts. 
Operating trade and other receivables
During 2015 there was a £52m decrease in underlying operating 
trade and other receivables for continuing operations primarily 
due to the Group’s focus on working capital improvements 
which resulted in trade receivables being converted into cash 
at a quicker rate. 
Operating trade and other payables 
During 2015 there was a £181m decrease in underlying operating 
trade and other payables for continuing operations primarily as 
a result of creditors being settled within a quicker timeframe 
compared to the previous year.
Cash used in operations 
Underlying cash used in continuing operations of £84m 
(2014: £192m) was impacted by a loss from operations of £106m 
(2014: £58m) and a working capital inflow of £179m (2014: £26m), 
after adjusting for the following items: share of results of joint 
ventures and associates £47m (2014: £55m), depreciation 
charges of £33m (2014: £33m), pension deficit payments of 
£66m (2014: £49m) and gain on disposals of investments in 
infrastructure concessions of £95m (2014: £93m).
Non-underlying cash used in continuing operations of £54m 
(2014: £114m) was impacted by a loss from operations of £76m 
(2014: £223m) and a working capital outflow of £5m (2014: £38m 
inflow), after adjusting for the following non-cash items: a £17m 
(2014: £21m) impairment of the Group’s capitalised IT intangible 
asset, a £7m (2014: £30m) impairment of assets within Rail 
Germany, a depreciation charge of £2m (2014: £10m) relating 
to Rail Germany, a £4m (2014: £nil) goodwill impairment charge 
and an amortisation charge of £10m (2014: £11m) on acquired 
intangible assets.
Cash flows from investing activities 
The Group received dividends of £69m (2014: £56m) from joint 
ventures and associates during the year.
During the year the Group incurred additional spend on intangible 
assets of £43m (2014: £63m) of which £23m (2014: £28m) related 
to the Edinburgh student accommodation and £20m (2014: £35m) 
related to software and other intangible assets. The £40m 
(2014: £66m) property, plant and equipment purchased during the 
year comprised: capitalisation of the cost relating to Phase 2 of 
constructing student accommodation in Iowa of £9m (2014: £23m 
(Iowa Phase 1 and Reno)); the purchase of land of £4m (2014: £nil); 
the purchase of plant and equipment of £21m (2014: £28m); and 
capitalisation of leasehold improvements of £6m (2014: £15m).
The Group disposed of interests in three infrastructure concession 
joint ventures during the year for £104m (2014: £117m). In addition 
the Group disposed of 80% of its interest in one infrastructure 
concession subsidiary for £23m, net of cash disposed (2014: £34m 
(100% disposal of subsidiary)). The Group disposed of two 
investments in other joint ventures during the year for £21m 
(2014: £nil). The Group also received £16m (2014: £701m) on the 
disposal of other subsidiaries comprising of: £25m in relation to 
the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff, an outflow of £10m on the 
disposal of Rail Germany and an inflow of £1m on the disposal of 
Rail Italy.
During the year the Group incurred cash expenditure of £75m 
(2014: £232m) and received cash receipts of £30m (2014: £37m) 
relating to PPP financial assets.
Cash flows from financing activities
The Group made further drawdowns on its non-recourse 
borrowings of £79m (2014: £236m) mainly to finance the 
construction of assets within its infrastructure portfolio. 
Preference dividends of £11m (2014: £11m) were paid in the year.
Total interest payments amounted to £51m (2014: £50m) during 
the year of which £19m (2014: £21m) related to infrastructure 
concessions and £32m (2014: £29m) related to the US private 
placement, convertible bonds and recourse borrowings drawn 
down by the Group.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents decreased from £727m to £663m. 
* The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 18 to 21.
99 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 1 Basis of accounting
The annual financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis as discussed on page 21 and in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS 
Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that 
are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The Group has 
applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and International 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee as adopted by the 
European Union and effective for accounting periods beginning on 
1 January 2015.
The financial statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, except as described under Note 2.26. 
The functional and presentational currency of the Company and 
the presentational currency of the Group is sterling.
2 Principal accounting policies
2.1 Accounting standards 
Adoption of new and revised standards
The following accounting standards, interpretations and 
amendments have been adopted by the Group in the 
current period:
 – Amendments to the following standards:
 – IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Defined Benefit Plans: 
Employee Contributions
 – Improvements to IFRSs (2010–2012)
 – Improvements to IFRSs (2011–2013).
The above new and amended standards do not have a material 
effect on the Group. 
Accounting standards not yet adopted by the Group
The following accounting standards, interpretations and 
amendments have been issued by the IASB but had either not 
been adopted by the European Union or were not yet effective 
in the European Union at 31 December 2015:
 – IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
 – IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts
 – IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
 – IFRS 16 Leases
 – Amendments to the following standards:
 – IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between 
an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
 – IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities: Applying 
the Consolidation Exemption
 – IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in 
Joint Operations
 – IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative
 – IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of 
Depreciation and Amortisation
 – IAS 16 and IAS 41: Agricultural: Bearer Plants
 – IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements
 – Improvements to IFRSs (2012–2014).
The Directors continue to assess the impact of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 
and IFRS 16 but do not expect the other standards above to have 
a material quantitative effect. 
In anticipation of IFRS 15, the Group will carry out a systematic 
review of all existing major contracts to ensure that the impact and 
effect of the new standard is fully understood and changes to the 
current accounting procedures are highlighted and acted upon in 
advance of the effective date.
The requirements of IFRS 9 in issue as at 31 December 2015 are 
being assessed and might result in the Group’s PPP financial assets 
being reclassified from ‘available-for-sale’, which is a category that 
no longer exists under the new standard, to a debt instrument 
measured either at amortised cost or at fair value through profit 
or loss. Assuming the Group adopts the fair value through profit 
or loss option, movements in the fair value of PPP financial assets 
will no longer be recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Retrospective application of this requirement would result in the 
closing balance of fair value movements recognised in PPP financial 
asset reserves being transferred to retained earnings. The effect 
within the Group’s reserves would be a transfer of £58m from PPP 
financial asset reserves to retained earnings. The effect within the 
share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves would be a transfer 
of £282m from PPP financial asset reserves to retained earnings. 
The Group has chosen not to adopt any of the above standards and 
interpretations earlier than required.
2.2 Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements include the results of the Company 
and its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the results 
of joint ventures and associates, drawn up to 31 December 
each year.
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group 
controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to 
affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that 
control commences until the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. On acquisition, the assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at 
their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the fair 
value of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable 
net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of 
the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net 
assets acquired (discount on acquisition) is credited to the income 
statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of non-controlling equity holders is stated at the non-
controlling equity holders’ proportion of the fair value of the assets 
and liabilities recognised.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
100 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Notes to the Financial Statements 2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.2 Basis of consolidation continued
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on 
disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate 
of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value 
of any retained interest less direct costs of the transaction and 
(ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), 
less liabilities of the subsidiary. The fair value of any investment 
retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost 
is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent 
accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition 
of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity. 
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income 
in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for in the same manner 
as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were 
disposed of (ie reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly 
to retained earnings).
Any acquisition or disposal which does not result in a change in 
control is accounted for as a transaction between equity holders. 
The carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling 
interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative 
interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the fair value 
of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which the 
non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity 
and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where necessary 
to ensure consistency with those used by the Group. All intra-
Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated 
on consolidation.
b) Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group 
has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of 
the entity, rather than rights to its individual assets and obligations 
for its individual liabilities.
Associates are those entities over whose financial and operating 
policies the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint 
control. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group 
holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are 
incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method 
of accounting except when classified as held for sale. The Group 
may elect to measure some of its investments in associates at fair 
value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 where the 
investment is held by a Group entity which meets the classification 
of a venture capital organisation, in which case the investment will 
be marked to market with movements being recognised in the 
income statement. The equity return from the military housing 
joint ventures of the Group is contractually limited to a maximum 
level of return, beyond which the Group does not share in any 
further return. Therefore the Group’s investment in these projects is 
recognised at initial equity investment plus the value of the Group’s 
accrued preferred return from the underlying projects.
Any excess of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over the 
Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of 
the joint venture or associate entity at the date of acquisition is 
recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the fair value of the cost 
of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets of the joint venture or associate at the date 
of acquisition (discount on acquisition) is credited to the income 
statement in the period of acquisition.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are initially carried in 
the balance sheet at cost (including goodwill arising on acquisition) 
and adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of 
net assets of the joint venture or associate, less any impairment in 
the value of individual investments. Losses of joint ventures and 
associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those joint ventures 
and associates are only recognised to the extent that the Group is 
contractually liable for, or has a constructive obligation to meet, the 
obligations of the joint ventures and associates.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with joint ventures and 
associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the 
relevant joint venture or associate.
c) Joint operations
The Group’s share of the results, assets and liabilities of contracts 
carried out in conjunction with another party are included under 
each relevant heading in the income statement and balance sheet.
2.3 Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of 
exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the 
rates of exchange at the reporting date. Significant exchange rates 
used in the preparation of these financial statements are shown in 
Note 3.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, 
the results of foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint venture 
entities are translated at average rates of exchange for the year, 
unless the exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, 
in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are 
used. Assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange 
prevailing at the reporting date. Goodwill and fair value adjustments 
arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets 
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rates of 
exchange at the reporting date. Currency translation differences 
arising are transferred to the Group’s foreign currency translation 
reserve and are recognised in the income statement on disposal of 
the underlying investment.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the 
Group may enter into forward foreign exchange contracts. Refer to 
Note 2.25c for details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect 
of such derivative financial instruments.
2.4 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable for goods and services provided, net of 
trade discounts, value added and similar sales based taxes, after 
eliminating revenue within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows:
 – revenue from construction and service activities represents the 
value of work carried out during the year, including amounts 
not invoiced
 – revenue from manufacturing activities is recognised when title 
has passed
 – interest income is accrued on a time basis using the effective 
interest method by reference to the principal outstanding and the 
effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the 
financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount
 – dividend income is recognised when the equity holder’s right to 
receive payment is established.
101 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.5 Construction and service contracts 
When the outcome of individual contracts can be estimated reliably, 
contract revenue and contract costs are recognised as revenue and 
expenses respectively by reference to the stage of completion at 
the reporting date.
Costs are recognised as incurred and revenue is recognised on the 
basis of the proportion of total costs at the reporting date to the 
estimated total costs of the contract.
No margin is recognised until the outcome of the contract can be 
estimated with reasonable certainty.
Provision is made for all known or expected losses on individual 
contracts once such losses are foreseen.
Revenue in respect of variations to contracts and incentive 
payments is recognised when it is probable it will be agreed by 
the customer. Revenue in respect of claims is recognised when 
negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is 
probable that the customer will accept the claim and the probable 
amount can be measured reliably.
Profit for the year includes the benefit of claims settled in the year 
on contracts completed in previous years.
2.6 Segmental reporting
The Group considers its Board of Directors to be the chief operating 
decision maker and therefore the segmental disclosures provided 
in Note 5 are aligned with the monthly reports provided to the 
Board of Directors. The Group’s reporting segments are based 
on the types of services provided. Operating segments with 
similar economic characteristics have been aggregated into three 
reportable segments. A description of each reportable segment is 
provided in Note 5. Further information on the business activities of 
each reportable segment is set out on pages 22 to 30.
Working capital is the balance sheet measure reported to the chief 
operating decision maker. The profitability measure used to assess 
the performance of the Group is underlying profit from operations.
Segment results represent the contribution of the different 
segments after the allocation of attributable corporate overheads. 
Transactions between segments are conducted at arm’s-length 
market prices. Segment assets and liabilities comprise those assets 
and liabilities directly attributable to the segments. Corporate assets 
and liabilities include cash balances, bank borrowings, tax balances 
and dividends payable. Non-recourse net borrowings are directly 
attributable to Infrastructure Investments and therefore not included 
within Corporate activities.
Major customers are defined as customers contributing more than 
10% of the Group’s external revenue.
2.7 Pre-contract bid costs and recoveries
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until it is virtually 
certain that a contract will be awarded, from which time further 
pre-contract costs are recognised as an asset and charged as 
an expense over the period of the contract. Amounts recovered 
in respect of pre-contract costs that have been written off are 
deferred and amortised over the life of the contract.
For construction and services projects, the relevant contract is 
the construction or services contract respectively. With respect 
to PPP projects, an assessment is made as to which contractual 
element the pre-contract costs relate to, in order to determine 
the relevant period for amortisation. The relevant contract is that 
which gives rise to a financial or intangible asset, which is either the 
construction contract or the contract which transferred the asset to 
the project.
2.8 Profit from operations
Profit from operations is stated after the Group’s share of the post-
tax results of equity accounted joint venture entities and associates, 
but before investment income and finance costs.
2.9 Finance costs
Finance costs of debt, including premiums payable on settlement 
and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement on an 
accruals basis over the term of the instrument, using the effective 
interest method.
2.10 Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which 
the Group believes should be separately identified on the face of 
the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying 
financial performance achieved by the Group. Such items will 
not affect the absolute amount of the results for the period and 
the trend of results. Underlying items are items before non-
underlying items.
Non-underlying items include:
 – gains and losses on the disposal of businesses and investments, 
unless this is part of a programme of releasing value from 
the disposal of similar businesses or investments such as 
infrastructure concessions
 – costs of restructuring and reorganisation of existing businesses
 – costs of integrating newly acquired businesses
 – acquisition and similar costs related to business combinations 
such as transaction costs
 – impairment and amortisation charges on intangible assets 
arising on business combinations (amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets)
 – impairment of goodwill.
These are examples, however, from time to time it may be 
appropriate to disclose further items as non-underlying items in 
order to highlight the underlying performance of the Group.
The results of Rail Germany and certain legacy ES contracts have 
been included as non-underlying. Refer to Note 5. 
2.11 Taxation
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax, calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the reporting date. Current tax and deferred tax are charged or 
credited to the income statement, except when they relate to items 
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the relevant tax 
is also accounted for within equity. Current tax is based on the profit 
for the year.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
Deferred tax on such assets and liabilities is not recognised if the 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill 
or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the 
taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of 
deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can 
be controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
102 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.11 Taxation continued
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
2.12 Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and other 
businesses, joint ventures and associates and represents the 
excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill on acquisitions 
of subsidiaries and other businesses is included in non-current 
assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates 
is included in investments in joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and is carried at 
cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is included 
when determining the profit or loss on subsequent disposal of 
the business to which it relates.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to 
IFRS (1 January 2004) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP 
amounts subject to being tested for impairment. Goodwill written 
off or discount arising on acquisition credited to reserves under UK 
GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in 
determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
b) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation charges in 
respect of software and Infrastructure Investments intangibles 
are included in underlying items.
c) Research and development
Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group are 
recognised only if all the following conditions are met:
 – an asset is created that can be identified
 – it is probable that the asset created will generate future 
economic benefits
 – the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Other research expenditure is written off in the period in which it 
is incurred.
2.13 Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure 
associated with bringing the asset to its operating location 
and condition.
2.14 Leasing
Leases which transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee are classified as finance leases. All other 
leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the 
Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, determined at the inception of the 
lease, and depreciation is provided accordingly. The liability to the 
lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and 
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant 
effective rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an 
operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
2.15 Impairment of assets
Goodwill arising on acquisitions are not subject to amortisation are 
reviewed at least annually for impairment. Other intangible assets 
and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment 
whenever there is any indication that the carrying amount of the 
asset may not be recoverable.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying 
amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell 
and value in use. Value in use is assessed by discounting the 
estimated future cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. 
For this purpose assets, including goodwill, are grouped into cash-
generating units representing the level at which they are monitored 
by the Board of Directors for internal management purposes. 
Goodwill impairment losses are not reversed in subsequent 
periods. Reversals of other impairment losses are recognised 
in income when they arise.
2.16 Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date 
where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract 
whose terms require delivery of the investment within the 
timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially 
measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-
for-sale investments are recognised in equity, until the investment 
is disposed or is determined to be impaired, at which time 
the cumulative gain or loss is included in the net profit or loss 
for the period. Held to maturity investments are measured at 
amortised cost.
2.17 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets and groups of assets to be disposed of are 
classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered 
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. 
Held for sale assets are measured at the lower of their carrying 
amount on classification as held for sale or fair value less costs 
to sell.
A component of the Group is presented as a discontinued operation 
if it has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and 
it is a separate major line of business or geographic operation or 
the proposed sale is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of 
a single separate major line of business or geographical operation. 
When classified as a discontinued operation, income statement 
performance is reported in summary form outside continuing 
operations and comparative figures are restated.
103 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.18 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes an appropriate proportion of manufacturing 
overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their present location 
and condition and is determined using the first-in first-out method. 
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less 
all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in 
marketing, selling and distribution.
2.19 Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recorded at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost as reduced by 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
2.20 Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at cost.
2.21 Provisions
Provisions for insurance liabilities retained in the Group’s captive 
insurance companies, legal claims, defects and warranties, 
environmental restoration, onerous leases, and other onerous 
commitments are recognised at the best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability.
Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and 
the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
2.22 Borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Premiums payable on 
settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are included in the 
carrying amount of the instrument and are charged to the income 
statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest method 
together with the interest payable.
2.23 Retirement benefit costs
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined benefit 
and defined contribution retirement and other long-term employee 
benefit schemes, the majority of which are of the defined benefit 
type and are funded. Defined benefit contributions are determined 
in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of 
providing benefits recognised in the income statement and the 
defined benefit obligations are determined at the reporting date 
by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet comprises the present 
value of the defined benefit pension obligation, determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash flows using the market yield 
on a high-quality corporate bond, less the fair value of the scheme 
assets. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period in 
which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged 
to the income statement as they fall due.
Any surplus of deficit contributions to the Balfour Beatty Pension 
Fund (BBPF) would be recoverable by way of a reduction in future 
contributions as the Group has the ability to use surplus funds in 
the defined benefit section of the BBPF to pay its contributions 
due under the defined benefit and defined contribution sections 
of the BBPF.
2.24 Share-based payments 
Employee services received in exchange for the grant of share 
options, performance share plan awards and deferred bonus 
plan awards are charged to the income statement on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period, based on the fair values of the 
options or awards at the date of grant and the numbers expected 
to become exercisable.
The credits in respect of the amounts charged are included within 
separate reserves in equity until such time as the options or awards 
are exercised, when the proceeds received in respect of share 
options are credited to share capital and share premium or the 
shares held by the employee trust are transferred to employees 
in respect of performance share plan awards and deferred bonus 
plan awards.
2.25 Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s 
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
a) Classification of financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest 
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
b) Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares and 
convertible bonds
The Company’s cumulative convertible redeemable preference 
shares and the Group’s convertible bonds are compound 
instruments, comprising a liability component and an equity 
component. The fair value of the liability components was 
estimated using the prevailing market interest rates at the dates 
of issue for similar non-convertible instruments. The difference 
between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and 
convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the respective 
liability components, representing the embedded option to convert 
the liability components into the Company’s ordinary shares, 
is included in equity.
The interest expense on the liability components is calculated by 
applying applicable market interest rates for similar non-convertible 
debt prevailing at the dates of issue to the liability components 
of the instruments. The difference between this amount and the 
dividend/interest payable is included in the carrying amount of the 
liability component and is charged to the income statement on an 
accrual basis together with the dividend/interest payable.
c) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage 
interest rate risk and to hedge exposures to fluctuations in 
foreign currencies in accordance with its risk management policy. 
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes. A description of the Group’s objectives, 
policies and strategies with regard to derivatives and other financial 
instruments is set out in Note 38.
Derivatives are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair 
value on the date the derivative transaction is entered into and 
are subsequently re-measured at their fair values.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and 
qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement 
together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that 
are attributable to the hedged risk.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
104 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.25 Financial instruments continued
Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of derivatives that 
are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised 
in other comprehensive income (OCI). Changes in the fair value 
of the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised 
in the income statement. Amounts originally recognised in OCI 
are transferred to the income statement when the underlying 
transaction occurs or, if the transaction results in a non-financial 
asset or liability, are included in the initial cost of that asset 
or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on 
the hedging instrument recognised in OCI is retained in equity until 
the hedged transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
OCI is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives and recorded in the 
balance sheet at fair value when their risks and characteristics are 
not closely related to those of the host contract. Changes in the 
fair value of those embedded derivatives recognised in the balance 
sheet are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
d) PPP concession companies
Assets constructed by PPP concession companies are classified 
principally as available-for-sale financial assets.
In the construction phase, income is recognised by applying an 
attributable profit margin to the construction costs representing the 
fair value of construction services. In the operational phase, income 
is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash received 
over the life of the project to service costs by means of a deemed 
constant rate of return on those costs. The residual element of 
projected cash is allocated to the financial asset using the effective 
interest rate method, giving rise to interest income.
Due to the nature of the contractual arrangements, the projected 
cash flows can be estimated with a high degree of certainty.
In the construction phase the fair value of the Group’s PPP 
financial assets is determined by applying an attributable profit 
margin on the construction costs representing the fair value of 
construction services performed. In the operational phase fair 
value is determined by discounting the future cash flows allocated 
to the financial asset using discount rates based on long-term 
gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets, 
with market-related movements in fair value recognised in OCI 
and other movements recognised in the income statement. 
Amounts originally recognised in OCI are transferred to the 
income statement upon disposal of the asset.
2.26 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under 
IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect amounts recognised for assets and 
liabilities at the reporting date and the amounts of revenue and 
expenses incurred during the reporting period. Actual outcomes 
may differ from these judgements, estimates and assumptions.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have the most 
significant effect on the carrying value of assets and liabilities of the 
Group as at 31 December 2015 are discussed below.
All of the below are both judgements and estimates made by the 
Group apart from the classification of non-underlying items which 
is an item that requires judgement only.
a) Revenue and margin recognition
The Group’s revenue recognition and margin recognition policies, 
which are set out in Notes 2.4 and 2.5, are central to how the 
Group values the work it has carried out in each financial year.
These policies require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of 
long-term construction services and support services contracts, 
which require assessments and judgements to be made on 
recovery of pre-contract costs, changes in the scope of work, 
contract programmes, maintenance and defects liabilities and 
changes in costs.
Following the construction business contract reviews carried out 
in the year, risk-based provisions were recognised on specific 
contracts. The risk-based provisions are recognised to reflect 
an increased level of prudence in estimating specific contract 
completion costs. In 2014, the risk-based provisions were 
recognised across the broader UK construction portfolio, and 
generally covered the smaller contracts. 
Given the scale of the construction business losses incurred 
in 2015, consideration has also been given as to whether any 
of the losses incurred in 2015 should have been identified and 
accounted for in previous periods in accordance with IAS 8 
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. 
The results of the exercise showed that for the accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2014, the aggregate impact of any errors 
was not material and accordingly the 2014 accounts have not 
been restated.
Across Construction Services there are several long-term and 
complex projects where the Group has incorporated significant 
judgements over contractual entitlements. The range of potential 
outcomes could result in a materially positive or negative change 
to underlying profitability and cash flow. In the UK, the majority 
of these contracts are within Major Projects. Outside the UK, 
this primarily relates to a small number of contracts in Hong Kong 
which have been recorded at break-even. Several of these claims 
are expected to reach commercial settlement in 2016.
105 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.26 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
continued
b) Taxation
The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions and 
judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for 
income taxes. The Group provides for future liabilities in respect of 
uncertain tax positions where additional tax may become payable 
in future periods and such provisions are based on management’s 
assessment of exposures.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally provided for in full and deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is judged probable 
that future taxable profit will arise against which the temporary 
differences will be utilised.
c) Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which 
the Group believes should be separately identified on the face of 
the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying 
financial performance achieved by the Group. Determining whether 
an item is part of underlying items or non-underlying items 
requires judgement. A total non-underlying loss after tax of £71m 
(2014: £5m) was charged to the income statement for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. Refer to Note 10.
d) Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of 
the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill 
has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an 
estimate to be made of the timing and amount of future cash flows 
expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and the application 
of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. 
A nominal growth rate, based on real GDP growth plus CPI inflation, 
is used to calculate a terminal growth multiple in accordance with 
the Gordon Growth Model. The discount rates used are based on 
the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted to reflect 
the specific economic environment of the relevant cash-generating 
unit. The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2015 was 
£844m (2014: £826m).
e) Available-for-sale financial assets
At 31 December 2015, £2,638m (2014: £2,918m) of PPP financial 
assets constructed by the Group’s subsidiary, joint venture and 
associate companies were classified as available-for-sale financial 
assets. In the operational phase the fair value of these financial 
assets is measured at each reporting date by discounting the future 
value of the cash flows allocated to the financial asset. A range 
of discount rates, is used from 3.61% to 5.10% (2014: 4.23% to 
7.23%), which reflects the prevailing risk-free interest rates and the 
different risk profiles of the various concessions. Movements in the 
fair value of PPP financial assets attributable to non-market-related 
changes in future cash flow assumptions are recognised in the 
income statement. At December 2015 this has given rise to a fair 
value gain of £7m (2014: £15m) which has been recognised within 
underlying profit from operations.
A £183m loss was taken to other comprehensive income in 2015 
(2014: £303m gain) and a cumulative fair value gain of £467m 
had arisen on these financial assets as a result of movements 
in the fair value of these financial assets at 31 December 2015 
(2014: £683m gain).
f) Recoverable value of recognised receivables
The Group has recognised trade receivables with a carrying value 
of £495m (2014: £557m). The recoverability of trade receivables is 
regularly reviewed in the light of the available economic information 
specific to each receivable and specific provisions are recognised 
for balances considered to be irrecoverable.
g) Provisions
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and therefore 
in making a reliable estimate of the quantum and timing of liabilities 
judgement is applied and re-evaluated at each reporting date. 
The Group recognised provisions at 31 December 2015 of £206m 
(2014: £197m).
h) Retirement benefit obligations 
Details of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are set out 
in Note 28, including tables showing the sensitivity of the pension 
scheme obligations and assets to different actuarial assumptions.
At 31 December 2015, the retirement benefit liability recognised 
on the Group’s balance sheet was £146m (2014: £128m). 
The effects of changes in the actuarial assumptions underlying the 
benefit obligation and discount rates and the differences between 
expected and actual returns on the schemes’ assets are classified 
as actuarial gains and losses. During 2015 the Group recognised 
net actuarial losses of £90m in equity (2014: £232m gain), including 
its share of the actuarial gains and losses arising in joint ventures 
and associates.
i) Held for sale and discontinued operations
When it is highly probable that businesses will be sold within one 
year and they are being actively marketed they meet the criteria 
to be classified as held for sale. Discontinued operations are 
businesses or a group of businesses which meet the criteria to be 
classified as held for sale, have been sold or abandoned and form a 
separate major line of business of the Group. Details of the Group’s 
discontinued operations are set out in Note 12.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
106 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 3 Exchange rates
The following key exchange rates were applied in these financial statements.
Average rates
£1 buys 2015 2014 Change
US$ 1.53 1 .65 (7 .3)%
HK$ 11.84 12.76 (7 .2)%
Euro 1.37 1 .24 10.5%
Closing rates
£1 buys 2015 2014 Change
US$ 1.48 1 .56 (5.1)%
HK$ 11.43 12.09 (5.5)%
Euro 1.36 1 .28 6.3%
4 Revenue
Continuing operations
Group  
2015 
£m
Group  
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company 
2014 
£m
Revenue from the provision of services
*
6,920 7 ,195 – –
Revenue from manufacturing activities 14 22 – –
Proceeds from sale of development land 21 47 – –
Dividends from subsidiaries – – – 162
Dividends from joint ventures and associates – – 25 6
Total revenue 6,955 7 ,264 25 168
Investment income (Note 8) 52 64 7 8
Total revenue and investment income 7 ,007 7 ,328 32 176
* Includes IAS 11 construction contract revenue of £5,870m (2014: £6,195m).
5 Segment analysis
Reportable segments of the Group:
 – Construction Services – activities resulting in the physical construction of an asset
 – Support Services – activities which support existing assets or functions such as asset maintenance and refurbishment
 – Infrastructure Investments – acquisition, operation and disposal of infrastructure assets such as roads, hospitals, schools, student 
accommodation, military housing, offshore transmission networks, waste and biomass and other concessions. This segment now also 
includes the Group’s housing development division which has moved from Construction Services.
Rail Germany was reclassified from discontinued operations in 2014 and its performance was included within non-underlying items as part 
of continuing operations. The Group has continued to present Rail Germany outside of underlying items as it remains committed to exiting 
its Mainland European rail businesses as soon as possible and does not consider its operations part of the Group’s underlying activity. 
When initially classified as a discontinued operation on 28 June 2013 the German business was being marketed to be sold as an entire unit. 
Subsequently it became apparent that this would not be possible and disposal of part of the business was agreed in November 2014. As a 
result, Rail Germany did not satisfy the criteria under IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations for it to remain 
as a discontinued operation in 2014.
In 2014, the performance of external Engineering Services (ES) contracts linked to poor legacy management and in regions that ES has 
withdrawn from tendering for third-party work was also included in non-underlying items as the size and nature of the losses due to the 
problematic delivery of these contracts are exceptional and distort the underlying performance of the Group. ES has stopped bidding 
external work in London, South East and the South West. At 31 December 2015, two of these contracts were still active and currently 
scheduled to complete in May 2016. Separate disclosure of these contracts aids the reader’s understanding of the underlying performance 
of the remainder of the Group. Performance on these contracts including any claims recovery will continue to be presented in non-underlying 
items through to their completion. 
107 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 5 Segment analysis continued
5.1 Total Group
Income statement – performance by 
activity from continuing operations
Construction
Services
Support 
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
Corporate 
activities Total
Rail 
Germany
Certain 
legacy ES 
contracts Total
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures 
and associates 6,388 1,259 588 – 8,235 179 30 8,444
Share of revenue of joint ventures 
and associates (1,168) (25) (278) – (1,471) (18) – (1,489)
Group revenue 5,220 1,234 310 – 6,764 161 30 6,955
Group operating (loss)/profit
^
(234) 23 91 (33) (153) (3) (8)
Share of results of joint ventures 
and associates 5 1 41 – 47 1 –
(Loss)/profit from operations
^
(229) 24 132 (33) (106) (2) (8)
Non-underlying items
– include results from certain legacy ES 
contracts within Construction Services (8) – – – (8)
– include results from Rail Germany 
within Construction Services (2) – – – (2)
– amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets (4) – (6) – (10)
– other non-underlying items (37) (13) (4) (2) (56)
(51) (13) (10) (2) (76)
(Loss)/profit from operations (280) 11 122 (35) (182)
Investment income 52
Finance costs (69)
Loss before taxation (199)
^
 Presented before non-underlying items for underlying operations (Notes 2.10 and 10).
Income statement – performance by 
activity from continuing operations
Construction
Services
+
Support 
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
+
Corporate 
activities Total
Rail 
Germany
Certain 
legacy ES 
contracts Total
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures 
and associates 6,597 1,273 570 – 8,440 291 62 8,793
Share of revenue of joint ventures 
and associates (1,168) (26) (296) – (1,490) (39) – (1,529)
Group revenue 5,429 1,247 274 – 6,950 252 62 7 ,264
Group operating (loss)/profit
^
(217) 49 81 (26) (1 13) (22) (88)
Share of results of joint ventures 
and associates 8 1 46 – 55 (1) –
(Loss)/profit from operations
^
(209) 50 127 (26) (58) (23) (88)
Non-underlying items
– include results from certain legacy ES 
contracts within Construction Services (88) – – – (88)
– include results from Rail Germany 
within Construction Services (23) – – – (23)
– amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets (5) – (6) – (1 1)
– other non-underlying items (66) (27) (3) (5) (101)
(182) (27) (9) (5) (223)
(Loss)/profit from operations (391) 23 118 (31) (281)
Investment income 64
Finance costs (87)
Loss before taxation (304)
^
 Presented before non-underlying items for underlying operations (Notes 2.10 and 10).
+
  £10m of costs relating to the acceleration of the completion of construction works were included within Infrastructure Investments. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
108 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 5 Segment analysis continued
5.1 Total Group continued
Assets and liabilities by activity
Construction 
Services
Support 
Services
Infrastructure 
Investments
Corporate 
activities Total
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
Due from construction contract customers 234 145 – – 379
Due to construction contract customers (426) (46) – – (472)
Inventories and non-construction work in progress
#
51 67 26 – 144
Trade and other receivables – current 687 104 59 35 885
Trade and other payables – current (1,343) (240) (59) (58) (1,700)
Provisions – current (92) (7) (7) (20) (126)
Working capital from continuing operations
*
(889) 23 19 (43) (890)
* Includes non-operating items and current working capital.
Total assets
#
1,983 524 1,339 755 4,601
Total liabilities (2,141) (326) (586) (718) (3,771)
Net (liabilities)/assets (158) 198 753 37 830
# 
 Inventory relating to development and housing land and work in progress amounting to £26m (2014: £37m) was previously included in Construction Services. This is now 
presented within Infrastructure Investments.
Assets and liabilities by activity
Construction 
Services
Support 
Services
Infrastructure 
Investments
Corporate 
activities Total
2014
+ 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
Due from construction contract customers 406 156 – – 562
Due to construction contract customers (317) (33) – – (350)
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 82 84 – 4 170
Trade and other receivables – current 807 104 55 – 966
Trade and other payables – current (1,596) (278) (75) (10) (1,959)
Provisions – current (89) (15) – (16) (120)
Working capital from continuing operations
*
(707) 18 (20) (22) (731)
Classified as net assets held for sale (Note 12) (2) – – – (2)
Adjusted working capital (709) 18 (20) (22) (733)
* Includes non-operating items and current working capital.
Total assets 2,419 491 1,530 804 5,244
Total liabilities (2,27 4) (365) (701) (67 4) (4,014)
Net assets 145 126 829 130 1,230 
+ 
 Includes net assets held for sale of £13m relating to the Rail disposal group (Note 12).
Other information – continuing operations
Construction 
Services
Support 
Services
Infrastructure 
Investments
Corporate 
activities Total
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (Note 17) 14 12 14 – 40
Depreciation (Note 17) 16 16 2 1 35
Gain on disposals of interests in investments (Note 32.2) – – 95 – 95
Other information – continuing operations
Construction 
Services
Support 
Services
Infrastructure 
Investments
Corporate 
activities Total
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (Note 17) 15 11 23 – 49
Depreciation (Note 17) 25 15 2 1 43
Gain on disposals of interests in investments (Note 32.3) – – 93 – 93 
109 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 5 Segment analysis continued
5.1 Total Group continued
Performance by geographic destination – continuing operations
United 
Kingdom
United 
States
Rest of  
world Total
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
2015 
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 3,843 3,238 1,363 8,444
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (185) (170) (1,134) (1,489)
Group revenue 3,658 3,068 229 6,955
Non-current assets excluding financial assets and deferred tax assets 1,051 764 80 1,895
Performance by geographic destination – continuing operations
United 
Kingdom
United  
States
Rest of  
world Total
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
2014 
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 4,271 3,123 1,399 8,793
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (329) (180) (1,020) (1,529)
Group revenue 3,942 2,943 379 7 , 264
Non-current assets excluding financial assets and deferred tax assets 1,135 709 128 1,972
Major customers
Included in Group revenue are revenues from continuing operations of £1,305m (2014: £1,201m) from the US Government and £1,426m 
(2014: £1,597m) from the UK Government, which are the Group’s two largest customers. These revenues are included in the results across 
all three reported segments.
5.2 Infrastructure Investments
Underlying profit from operations
1
Group 
2015 
£m
Share of joint 
ventures and 
associates
(Note 18.2)
+
2015 
£m
Total 
2015 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Share of joint 
ventures and 
associates
(Note 18.2)
+ 
2014 
£m
Total 
2014 
£m
UK
^
3 30 33 2 40 42
North America 17 8 25 15 6 21
Infrastructure Fund – 3 3 – – –
Infrastructure – – – (2) – (2)
Gain on disposals of interests in investments 95 – 95 93 – 93
115 41 156 108 46 154
Bidding costs and overheads (24) – (24) (27) – (27)
91 41 132 81 46 127
Net assets/(liabilities)
UK
^
410 405 815 475 522 997
North America 146 112 258 158 92 250
Infrastructure Fund – 38 38 (2) 20 18
Infrastructure 9 – 9 14 – 14
565 555 1,120 645 634 1,279
Infrastructure Investments central functions (2) – (2) (5) – (5)
Non-recourse borrowings net of associated cash and cash 
equivalents (Note 26) (365) – (365) (445) – (445)
Total Infrastructure Investments net assets 198 555 753 195 634 829
+
 The Group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates is disclosed net of investment income, finance costs and taxation.
^
 Including Singapore and Australia.
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
110 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 6 Loss from operations
6.1 Loss from continuing operations is stated after charging/(crediting)
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Research and development costs 2 3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 35 43
Amortisation of intangible assets 25 17
Net (release)/charge of trade receivables impairment provision (3) 5
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 6 1
Impairment of inventory 4 1
Impairment of IT intangible assets 17 21
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1) (7)
Cost of inventory recognised as an expense 176 168
Exchange gains and losses 1 –
Auditor’s remuneration 4 5
Short-term hire charges for plant and equipment 83 117
Other operating lease rentals 51 64
6.2 Analysis of auditor’s remuneration – continuing and discontinued operations
 
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Services as auditor to the Company 1.1 0.9 
Services as auditor to Group subsidiaries 2.8 3.8
Total audit fees 3.9 4.7
Audit-related assurance fees 0.3 1.6
Taxation advisory fees 0.2 –
Corporate finance fees 0.2 1.0
Other assurance fees – 1.0
Other services – 0.1
Total non-audit fees 0.7 3.7
Total fees in relation to audit and other services 4.6 8.4
111 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 7 Employee costs
7.1 Group – continuing and discontinued operations
Employee costs during the year
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Wages and salaries 1,124 1,896
Underlying redundancy costs 4 8
Non-underlying redundancy costs (Note 10) 13 14
Social security costs 127 176
Pension costs (Note 28) 50 77
Share-based payments (Note 33) 5 5
1,323 2,176
Of the above employee costs, £1,323m (2014: £1,421m) relates to continuing operations.
Average number of Group employees
2015 
Number
2014 
Number
Construction Services 14,368 15,833
Support Services 7 ,311 8,936
Infrastructure Investments 1,509 1,512
Corporate 128 149
Continuing operations 23,316 26,430
Discontinued operations – 13,321
23,316 39,751
At 31 December 2015 the total number of Group employees was 23,123 (2014: 25,818, of which 125 related to discontinued operations).
7.2 Company
The Company did not have any employees and did not incur any employee costs in the year (2014: £nil). Balfour Beatty Group Employment 
Ltd was established in February 2013 as the employing entity for the Balfour Beatty Group’s UK employees.
8 Investment income
Continuing operations
Group 
2015 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company 
2014 
£m
Subordinated debt interest receivable 24 29 1 1
Interest receivable on PPP financial assets 24 26 – –
Interest receivable from subsidiaries – – 2 2
Other interest receivable and similar income 4 9 4 5
52 64 7 8
9 Finance costs
Continuing operations
Group 
2015 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company 
2014 
£m
Non-recourse borrowings – bank loans and overdrafts 19 20 – –
Preference shares – finance cost 11 11 11 11
 – accretion 2 2 2 2
Convertible bonds – finance cost 5 5 – –
 – accretion 6 6 – –
US private placement – finance cost 11 10 11 10
Other interest payable – loans under committed facilities – 6 – 6
 – other bank loans and overdrafts 1 – 2 1
 – commitment fees 6 5 6 5
 – other finance charges 5 6 1 –
Net finance cost on pension scheme assets and liabilities (Note 28.2) 3 16 – –
Interest payable to subsidiaries – – 13 14
69 87 46 49
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
112 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 10 Non-underlying items
Group 
2015  
£m
Group 
2014  
£m
Company 
2015  
£m
Company 
2014  
£m
Items (charged against)/credited to profit
10.1 Continuing operations
10.1.1  Trading results of Rail Germany (including £13m (2014: £15m) of other net operating 
expenses and £nil (2014: £1m) of finance cost) (3) (23) – –
10.1.2 Results of certain legacy ES contracts (8) (88) – –
10.1.3 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (10) (1 1) – –
10.1.4 Other non-underlying items:
 – Build to Last transformation costs (2014: restructuring and reorganisation costs) (23) (23) (4) –
 – restructuring costs relating to Heery and Rail Germany (9) – – –
 – cost of implementing the shared service centre in the UK (8) (14) – –
 – impairment of assets within Rail Germany (7) (30) – –
 – gain on disposal of Signalling Solutions Ltd 16 – – –
 – impairment of IT intangible asset (2014: Oracle R12 intangible asset) (17) (21) – –
 – loss on disposal of parts of Rail Germany (3) – – –
 – pension fund settlement gain 3 2 – –
 – impairment of goodwilll and other costs relating to Blackpool Airport (4) (1) – –
 – Rail Germany regulatory matters – (6) – –
 – cost incurred in relation to the aborted merger discussions with Carillion plc – (7) – (7)
 – cost incurred on disposal of businesses – – – (10)
 – release of provision against partial loan repayment from subsidiary – – – 2
Total other non-underlying items from continuing operations (52) (100) (4) (15)
(73) (222) (4) (15)
10.1.5  Share of results of joint ventures and associates – trading gain of £1m and impairment 
of assets of £4m in respect of Rail Germany (3) (1) – –
10.1.6  Share of results of joint ventures and associates – goodwill impairment in respect 
of Middle East – (1) – –
Charged against loss before taxation from continuing operations (76) (224) (4) (15)
10.1.7 Tax on items above 4 1 – –
Non-underlying items charged against loss for the year from continuing operations (72) (223) (4) (15)
10.2 Discontinued operations
10.2.1 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – (8) – –
10.2.2 Other non-underlying items:
 – gain on disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff 5 234 – –
 – loss on disposal of Rail Italy (4) – – –
 – goodwill impairment in respect of Rail Italy – (24) – –
 – other – (3) – –
Total other non-underlying items from discontinued operations 1 207 – –
Credited to (loss)/profit before taxation from discontinued operations 1 199 – –
10.2.3 Tax on items above – 19 – –
Non-underlying items credited to (loss)/profit for the year from discontinued 
operations 1 218 – –
Charged against (loss)/profit for the year (71) (5) (4) (15)
Continuing operations
10.1.1 Rail Germany was reclassified from discontinued operations in 2014 and has continued to be presented as part of the Group’s  
non-underlying items within continuing operations. Refer to Note 5. In 2015, Rail Germany generated a loss before tax excluding share of 
joint ventures and associates of £3m (2014: £23m). 
10.1.2 The Group has continued to present the results of certain external legacy Engineering Services (ES) contracts in non-underlying 
items. These contracts were classified as non-underlying items in 2014 as the performance of these contracts was linked to poor legacy 
management and in regions where ES has withdrawn from tendering for third-party work. Refer to Note 5. These contracts resulted in 
a loss before tax for the Group of £8m in 2015 (2014: £88m). No tax credit has been recognised on this loss. Refer to Note 27.
10.1.3 The amortisation of acquired intangible assets from continuing operations comprises: customer contracts £6m (2014: £6m); customer 
relationships £3m (2014: £4m); and brand names £1m (2014: £1m).
113 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 10 Non-underlying items continued
Continuing operations continued
10.1.4.1 The Group launched its Build to Last transformation programme in February 2015. The transformation programme is aimed to drive 
continual improvement across all of the Group’s businesses and realise operational efficiencies. As a result of this programme, restructuring 
costs of £23m were incurred in 2015 relating to: Construction Services UK £11m; Support Services UK £6m; other UK entities £3m; and 
other non-UK entities £3m. These restructuring costs comprise: redundancy costs £12m; external advisers £4m; property-related costs 
£5m; and other restructuring costs £2m.
In 2014, the Group incurred restructuring costs relating to legacy transformation programmes of £23m relating to: Construction Services 
UK £11m; other UK entities £3m; and other non-UK entities £9m. These restructuring costs comprise: redundancy costs £13m; external 
advisers £5m; property-related costs £1m; and other restructuring costs £4m.
The Company incurred restructuring costs of £4m (2014: £nil) during the year.
10.1.4.2 In 2015, following the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) on 31 October 2014, the Group incurred £4m of costs relating to 
restructuring the continuing operations of Heery Inc. which was previously reliant on PB for its back office functions.
In 2015, additional restructuring costs of £5m were incurred in Rail Germany relating to the restructuring of overheads post completion of 
disposal of parts of the business. These restructuring costs comprise redundancy costs of £1m and other restructuring costs of £4m.
Both Heery and Rail Germany are included within the Construction Services segment. 
10.1.4.3 In 2015, transitioning other operating companies to the UK shared service centre in Newcastle-upon-Tyne and increasing the scope 
led to incremental costs of £8m (2014: £14m).
10.1.4.4 An assessment of the carrying value of assets within Rail Germany was carried out in 2015 following an agreement to sell parts 
of Rail Germany to Tianjin Keyvia Electric Co Ltd. This agreement remains subject to various approvals at the year end. The assessment 
resulted in an impairment charge of £11m, of which £4m was recognised at the joint venture level. In 2014, an impairment charge of £30m 
was recognised on the parts of Rail Germany which were sold to Rhomberg Sersa Rail Group in January 2015. Refer to Note 32.2.1.
10.1.4.5 On 27 May 2015, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Signalling Solutions Ltd for a cash consideration of £18m, resulting in 
a £16m gain in 2015. Refer to Note 32.2.6. 
10.1.4.6 In 2015, an impairment charge of £17m was recorded to write-down intangible assets in relation to costs capitalised in the 
transformation of the Group’s UK IT estate from a federated to a more centralised model. Refer to Note 16. In 2014, an impairment charge 
of £27m was recorded to write-down the cost capitalised in relation to the Oracle R12 software within intangible assets, £21m of which was 
recorded within continuing operations.
The charge was recognised in the following segments: Construction Services £9m; Support Services £7m; and Corporate £1m. 
10.1.4.7 On 31 January 2015, the Group disposed of parts of its Rail Germany business for a cash consideration of £5m resulting in a £5m 
loss in 2015. Refer to Note 32.2.1. 
On 12 March 2015, the Group also disposed of its 25% interest in Baoji BaoDeLi Electrification Equipment Ltd for a cash consideration of 
£4m resulting in a £2m gain in 2015. Refer to Note 32.2.4.
10.1.4.8 A settlement gain of £3m (2014: £2m) was recognised in relation to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund following a commutation 
exercise commenced in 2014. Refer to Note 28.
10.1.4.9 In 2015, an impairment charge of £4m was recorded to write-down the entire goodwill relating to Blackpool Airport. 
Blackpool Airport Ltd went into creditors’ voluntary liquidation on 16 October 2014 which resulted in costs of £1m in 2014. Blackpool Airport 
is reported within Infrastructure Investments. Refer to Note 15. 
10.1.4.10 During 2014, Rail Germany booked costs of £6m in relation to allegations of historical anti-competitive behaviour occurring in 
Schreck-Mieves GmbH, a company acquired by Balfour Beatty in 2008.
10.1.4.11 In 2014, costs of £7m were incurred in relation to the aborted merger discussions with Carillion plc.
10.1.4.12 In 2014, the Company incurred costs of £10m relating to the PB disposal. These costs were included as part of the gain on disposal 
of PB at Group level. Refer to Note 32.3.5.
10.1.4.13 In 2014, the Company released £2m of provision against a loan due from a subsidiary following a partial repayment.
10.1.5 In 2015, the joint venture within Rail Germany generated a trading gain of £1m for the Group (2014: loss of £1m). In addition to this, 
a £4m impairment charge was recognised on the joint venture following an agreement to sell parts of Rail Germany to Tianjin Keyvia Electric 
Co Ltd. Refer to Note 10.1.4.4. 
10.1.6 In 2014, a goodwill impairment charge of £1m was recognised in relation to the Group’s investment in one of its joint ventures in 
the Middle East.
10.1.7 The non-underlying items charged against Group operating profit from continuing operations gave rise to a tax credit of £4m 
comprising: £2m charge on the results of Rail Germany and £nil on certain legacy Engineering Services contracts; £4m credit on 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets; and £2m credit on other non-underlying items (2014: £1m credit comprising: £4m charge on 
the results of Rail Germany; £4m credit on amortisation of acquired intangible assets; and £1m credit on other non-underlying items).
The non-underlying items charged against Company operating profit gave rise to a tax charge of £nil (2014: £nil).
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
114 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 10 Non-underlying items continued
Discontinued operations
10.2.1 There were no amortisation charges on acquired intangible assets from discontinued operations in 2015. In 2014, £8m of amortisation 
was charged comprising of: customer contracts £1m; customer relationships £2m; and brand names £5m.
10.2.2.1 On 31 October 2014, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in its professional services business, PB, resulting in a gain on 
disposal of £234m. In 2015, the Group finalised the cash consideration due on this disposal amounting to additional consideration for 
the Group of £16m of which £7m was recognised as a receivable at the date of disposal in the prior period. In accordance with the stock 
purchase agreement, the Group received cash of £20m relating to historic tax matters (£16m of which was recognised as a current tax 
receivable in the prior period) and the Group also released an indemnity provision relating to an historic legal claim of £3m which was 
successfully settled during the period. Offsetting this additional non-underlying gain on disposal are separation costs incurred during the 
period of £4m, of which £2m were paid during the period, and the write-off of a deferred tax asset of £7m resulting in an overall net gain 
of £5m. Transaction costs of £9m, which were accrued in the prior period, were paid in the year. Refer to Note 32.2.9.
10.2.2.2 On 11 March 2015, as part of the ongoing process to exit the Mainland European rail businesses, the Group disposed of Rail Italy for 
a cash consideration of £5m, resulting in a £4m loss being recognised in the year. Refer to Note 32.2.3. 
10.2.2.3 Rail Italy met the criteria to be classified as held for sale at 27 June 2014. Rail Italy was carried at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value which resulted in a goodwill impairment of £24m in 2014, of which £4m arose after its transfer to assets held for sale. Refer to 
Note 15.
10.2.3 The non-underlying items charged against profit from discontinued operations gave rise to a tax credit of £nil comprising: £nil on 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets; and £nil on other non-underlying items (2014: £19m comprising: £2m on amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets; and £17m on other non-underlying items).
11 Taxation
11.1 Taxation charge
Group
Continuing operations
x
Underlying
 items
1
2015 
£m
Non-
underlying 
 items  
(Note 10) 
2015 
 £m
Total  
2015 
£m
Total  
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company 
2014 
£m
Total UK tax 15 – 15 (15) (11) (12)
Total non-UK tax (4) (4) (8) 12 – –
Total tax charge/(credit) 11 (4) 7 (3) (11) (12)
Continuing operations
x
UK current tax
– corporation tax for the year at 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 3 – 3 1 (8) (9)
– adjustments in respect of previous periods (5) – (5) (14) (3) (2)
(2) – (2) (13) (11) (1 1)
Non-UK current tax
– non-UK tax on profits for the year 3 1 4 6 – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods (5) – (5) (20) – –
(2) 1 (1) (14) – –
Total current tax (4) 1 (3) (27) (11) (1 1)
UK deferred tax
– current year charge/(credit) 8 – 8 (7) – (1)
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 4 – 4 3 – –
– UK corporation tax rate change 5 – 5 2 – –
17 – 17 (2) – (1)
Non-UK deferred tax
– current year (credit)/charge (7) (5) (12) 9 – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 5 – 5 17 – –
(2) (5) (7) 26 – –
Total deferred tax 15 (5) 10 24 – (1)
Total tax charge/(credit) from continuing operations 11 (4) 7 (3) (11) (12)
x
 Excluding joint ventures and associates.
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
The Group tax charge excludes amounts for joint ventures and associates (refer to Note 18.2), except where tax is levied at the Group level.
115 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 11 Taxation continued
11.1 Taxation charge continued
In addition to the Group tax charge, tax of £49m is credited (2014: £77m charged) directly to other comprehensive income, comprising: 
a deferred tax credit of £16m (2014: £54m charge); and a deferred tax credit in respect of joint ventures and associates of £33m 
(2014: £23m charge). Refer to Note 30.1. 
11.2 Taxation reconciliation
Continuing operations
Group 
2015 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company 
2014 
£m
(Loss)/profit before taxation (199) (304) 23 144
Less: share of results of joint ventures and associates (44) (53) – –
(Loss)/profit before taxation (243) (357) 23 144
Add: non-underlying items charged excluding share of joint ventures and associates 73 222 4 15
Underlying (loss)/profit before taxation and the results of joint ventures and associates
1
(170) (135) 27 159
Tax on (loss)/profit before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) (34) (29) 5 34
Effects of
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5 1 1 –
Dividend income not taxable – – (5) (36)
Non-taxable disposals (19) (21) (11) (10)
Tax levied at Group level on share of joint ventures’ and associates’ profits 9 7 – –
Preference share dividends not deductible 2 2 2 2
Deferred tax assets not recognised 50 47 – –
Recognition of losses not previously recognised – (1) – –
Effect of tax rates in non-UK jurisdictions (6) 4 – –
UK corporation tax rate change 5 2 – –
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (1) (14) (3) (2)
Total tax charge/(credit) on underlying (loss)/profit 11 (2) (11) (12)
Less: tax credit on non-underlying items (4) (1) – –
Total tax charge/(credit) on (loss)/profit from continuing operations 7 (3) (11) (12)
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
12 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale
Rail disposal group
In 2013, following a strategic review in light of low activity levels and the commoditisation of work, the Group decided to divest all of its 
Mainland European rail businesses over time. The Group had been actively marketing its Mainland European rail businesses and accordingly, 
when it was probable that these businesses would be sold within a year, or were sold or abandoned, they met the criteria to be classified as 
an asset held for sale.
To also be classified as discontinued, an operation must represent a separate major line of business. Other than the Mainland European rail 
businesses there were no significant Group operations in Mainland Europe and therefore by exiting these businesses, the Group was exiting 
from a separate major geographical operation and they met the criteria to be classified as discontinued operations.
On 8 January 2014 the Group disposed of its Rail business in Scandinavia for a cash consideration of £2m. The disposal resulted in a £nil 
gain being recognised as a non-underlying item, comprising a £nil gain/loss in respect of the fair value of net assets disposed, including 
cash disposed of £9m, a £1m gain on recycling currency translation reserves to the income statement, and costs incurred and indemnity 
provisions of £1m. Refer to Note 32.3.1.
On 27 June 2014, following progression of talks with potential purchasers, it became highly probable that Rail Italy would be disposed within 
a year and met the criteria to be classified as an asset held for sale. Accordingly a £24m goodwill impairment charge was recognised in the 
year as a non-underlying item. Refer to Note 10.2.2.3. On 11 March 2015, the Group completed the sale of Rail Italy for a net consideration 
of £3m. Refer to Note 32.2.3.
In 2014, Rail Germany was reclassified from discontinued operations and its performance was included within non-underlying items as part 
of continuing operations. The Group has presented Rail Germany outside of underlying items as it remains committed to exiting its Mainland 
European rail businesses as soon as possible and does not consider its operations part of the Group’s underlying activity. When initially 
classified as a discontinued operation on 28 June 2013 the German business was being marketed to be sold as an entire unit.
Subsequently it became apparent that this would not be possible and disposal of part of the business was agreed in November 2014. 
As a result, Rail Germany did not satisfy the criteria under IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations for it to 
remain as a discontinued operation in 2014. However, the parts of Rail Germany which were subject to sale to Rhomberg Sersa Rail Group 
at December 2014 were classified as assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2014. The sale subsequently completed in January 
2015. Refer to Note 32.2.1.
There are no remaining operations within the Rail disposal group classified as discontinued operations or held for sale at 31 December 2015 
following completion of the sales of parts of Rail Germany on 31 January 2015 and of Rail Italy on 11 March 2015. 
The Rail disposal group was part of the Construction Services segment.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
116 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 12 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale continued
Parsons Brinckerhoff
On 28 October 2014, shareholder approval was granted for the disposal of the Group’s 100% interest in Parsons Brinckerhoff. The deal 
subsequently completed on 31 October 2014 for an agreed cash consideration of £812m. The disposal resulted in a net non-underlying 
gain of £234m being recognised within discontinued operations in 2014. 
In 2015, the Group finalised the cash consideration due on this disposal amounting to additional consideration for the Group of £16m of 
which £7m was recognised as a receivable at the date of disposal in the prior period. In accordance with the stock purchase agreement, 
the Group received cash of £20m relating to historic tax matters (£16m of which was recognised as a current tax receivable in the prior 
period) and the Group also released an indemnity provision relating to an historic legal claim of £3m which was successfully settled during 
the period. Offsetting this additional non-underlying gain on disposal are separation costs incurred during the period of £4m, of which £2m 
were paid during the period, and the write-off of a deferred tax asset of £7m resulting in an overall net gain of £5m. Transaction costs of 
£9m, which were accrued in the prior period, were paid in the year. Refer to Note 32.2.9.
Results of the discontinued operations included within the Group Income Statement
Rail 
disposal 
group 
2015  
£m
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
2014  
£m
Rail 
disposal 
group 
2014  
£m
Total 
discontinued 
operations 
2014  
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 1 1,266 23 1,289 
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates – (13) – (13)
Group revenue 1 1,253 23 1,276 
Underlying group operating (loss)/profit (1) 38 1 39 
Share of results of joint ventures and associates – – – –
Underlying (loss)/profit from operations and before tax (1) 38 1 39 
Taxation on underlying loss – (14) (1) (15)
Underlying (loss)/profit after tax (1) 24 – 24 
Non-underlying items:
– gain on disposal
+
1 234 – 234
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets – (8) – (8)
– other non-underlying items – – (27) (27)
1 226 (27) 199 
Taxation on non-underlying items – 13 6 19 
Non-underlying profit/(loss) after tax 1 239 (21) 218 
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations – 263 (21) 242 
+
 Includes £5m gain in 2015 relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff. Refer to Note 32.2.9. 
117 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 12 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale continued
Major classes of assets and liabilities included within net assets held for sale
There are no remaining assets or liabilities held for sale within the Rail disposal group as at 31 December 2015. At 31 December 2014,  
assets and liabilities held for sale include Rail Italy and parts of Rail Germany which were sold in January 2015. Refer to Notes 32.2.1 
and 32.2.3.
Rail disposal 
group
2014
£m
Non-current assets
Deferred tax asset 1 
1 
Current assets
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 2 
Due from construction contract customers 14 
Trade and other receivables 24 
Current tax asset 1 
Cash 18 
59 
Total assets classified as held for sale 60 
Current liabilities
Due to construction contract customers (1)
Trade and other payables (39)
Provisions (2)
Borrowings (3)
(45)
Non-current liabilities
Retirement benefit liabilities (2)
(2)
Total liabilities classified as held for sale (47)
Net assets of disposal group 13
Reconciliation of net assets classified as held for sale
Rail disposal 
group
2015
£m
At 1 January 2015 13
Movement in the year within net assets held for sale (2)
Net assets disposed – Rail Italy (Note 32.2.3) (6)
– parts of Rail Germany (Note 32.2.1) (5)
At 31 December 2015 –
Included within the Group’s cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2015 are: net £nil operating cash outflows (2014: £1m); and net 
£1m investing cash inflows (2014: £9m outflows) relating to the Rail disposal group.
Included within the Group’s cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2015 are: net £3m operating cash inflows (2014: £43m outflows); 
net £25m investing cash inflows (2014: £703m); and net £nil financing cash outflows (2014: £1m) relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
118 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 13 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings
Basic 
2015 
£m
Diluted 
2015 
£m
Basic 
2014 
£m
Diluted 
2014 
£m
Continuing operations
Loss (206) (206) (302) (302)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £4m (2014: £4m) 6 6 7 7
Other non-underlying items – net of tax charge of £nil (2014: £3m) 66 66 216 216
Underlying loss (134) (134) (79) (79)
Discontinued operations
Earnings – – 242 242
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £nil (2014: £2m) – – 6 6
Other non-underlying items – net of tax credit of £nil (2014: £17m) (1) (1) (224) (224)
Underlying (loss)/earnings (1) (1) 24 24
Total operations
Loss (206) (206) (60) (60)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £4m (2014: £6m) 6 6 13 13
Other non-underlying items – net of tax credit of £nil (2014: £14m) 65 65 (8) (8)
Underlying loss (135) (135) (55) (55)
Basic 
2015 
m
Diluted 
2015 
m
Basic 
2014 
m
Diluted 
2014 
m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 685 685 686 686
Earnings per share
Basic 
2015 
Pence
Diluted 
2015 
Pence
Basic 
2014 
Pence
Diluted 
2014 
Pence
Continuing operations
Loss per ordinary share (30.2) (30.2) (43.9) (43.9)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.8 0.8 1.1 1.1
Other non-underlying items 9.7 9.7 31 .3 31 .3
Underlying loss per ordinary share (19.7) (19.7) (1 1 .5) (1 1 .5)
Discontinued operations
Earnings per ordinary share 0.1 0.1 35.3 35.3
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – – 0.8 0.8
Other non-underlying items (0.2) (0.2) (32.6) (32.6)
Underlying (loss)/earnings per ordinary share (0.1) (0.1) 3.5 3.5
Total operations
Loss per ordinary share (30.1) (30.1) (8.6) (8.6)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.8 0.8 1.9 1.9
Other non-underlying items 9.5 9.5 (1 .3) (1 .3)
Underlying loss per ordinary share (19.8) (19.8) (8.0) (8.0)
14 Dividends on ordinary shares
Per share 
2015 
Pence
Amount 
2015 
£m
Per share 
2014 
Pence
Amount 
2014 
£m
Proposed dividends for the year
Interim – current year – – 5.6 38
Final – current year – – – –
– – 5.6 38
Recognised dividends for the year
Final – prior year – 58
Interim – current year – 38
– 96
Whilst the Board continues to recognise the importance of the dividend to its shareholders, in order to ensure balance sheet strength 
is maintained during the transformation programme it will not be recommending a final dividend payable for 2015. This results in a total 
dividend for the year of £nil (2014: 5.6p). The Board expects to reinstate the dividend payments, at an appropriate level, at the interim results 
in August 2016.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Dividends on ordinary shares of the Company – 96
Other dividends to non-controlling interests – –
Total recognised dividends for the year – 96
119 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 15 Intangible assets – goodwill
Cost  
£m
Accumulated 
impairment 
losses  
£m
Carrying 
amount  
£m
At 1 January 2014 1,091 (43) 1,048
Currency translation differences 24 5 29
Impairment charges in respect of Mainland European rail businesses (Note 10.2.2.3) – (20) (20)
Reclassified from assets held for sale relating to Rail Germany 113 (1 13) –
Reclassified to assets held for sale relating to Rail Italy (24) 20 (4)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (227) – (227)
At 31 December 2014 977 (151) 826
Currency translation differences 20 2 22
Impairment charges in respect of Blackpool Airport (Note 10.1.4.9) – (4) (4)
At 31 December 2015 997 (153) 844
Carrying amounts of goodwill by segment
2015 2014
United 
Kingdom 
£m
United 
States 
£m
Total 
£m
United 
Kingdom 
£m
United 
States 
£m
Total 
£m
Construction Services 260 410 670 260 391 651
Support Services 129 – 129 129 – 129
Infrastructure Investments – 45 45 4 42 46
Group 389 455 844 393 433 826
2015 2014
+
Carrying amounts of goodwill by cash-generating unit
 
£m
Pre-tax 
discount rate 
% £m
Pre-tax 
discount rate
%
UK Regional and Engineering Services 248 10.2 248 10.4
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc. 377 12.6 356 12.6
Rail UK 66 10.4 66 8.7
Gas & Water 58 10.3 58 8.7
Balfour Beatty Communities US 45 12.6 43 8.7
Other 50 10.3–12.7 55 8.7–12.8
Group total 844 826
+
 Re-presented to align 2014’s carrying amount of goodwill to 2015’s CGU allocation as a result of changes in management reporting structure within Construction Services UK and 
Support Services. Construction Services UK has now been split into UK Regional and Engineering Services and Major Projects, the latter being included in Other. Support Services 
has also been split into Rail UK, Gas & Water and Power, the latter being included in Other. Balfour Beatty Communities US is now being shown separately from Other. 
The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value-in-use, a key input of which is forecast cash flows. The Group’s cash flow forecasts 
are based on the expected workload of each cash-generating unit (CGU), giving consideration to the current level of confirmed and 
anticipated orders. Cash flow forecasts for the next three years are based on the Group’s Three Year Plan, which covers the period from 
2016 to 2018 and includes a stabilisation of performance in the Construction Services UK business. The cash flow forecasts for each CGU 
were compiled from each of its constituent business units as part of the Group’s annual financial planning process.
It is anticipated that the UK construction market will grow modestly over the forecast period, with improvements in tender margins. 
It is anticipated that the US construction market will continue to improve, as will tender margins. In the Support Services segment, market 
conditions are anticipated to be stable in the UK. The Support Services business has a portfolio of long-term contracts and has secured the 
majority of its workload for the forecast period.
The other key inputs in assessing each CGU are its long-term growth rate and discount rate. The discount rates have been calculated 
using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) method, which takes account of the Group’s capital structure (financial risk) as well 
as the nature of each CGU’s business (operational risk). Long-term growth rates are assumed to be the estimated future GDP growth rates 
based on published independent forecasts for the country or countries in which each CGU operates, less 1.0% to reflect current economic 
uncertainties and their consequent estimated effect on public sector spending on infrastructure.
In the derivation of each CGU’s value-in-use, a terminal value is assumed based on a multiple of earnings before interest and tax. 
The multiple is applied to a terminal cash flow, which is the normalised cash flow in the last year of the forecast period. The EBIT multiple 
is calculated using the Gordon Growth Model and is a factor of the discount rate and growth rate for each CGU. The nominal terminal value 
is discounted to present value.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
120 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 15 Intangible assets – goodwill continued
2015 2014
+
Inflation rate
%
Real growth 
rate
%
Nominal 
long-term 
growth rate 
applied 
%
Inflation rate
%
Real growth 
rate
%
Nominal 
long-term 
growth rate 
applied 
%
UK Regional and Engineering Services 1.6 1.2 2.8 1.9 1.3 3.2
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc 1.6 1.7 3.3 1.9 1.7 3.6
Rail UK 1.6 1.2 2.8 1.9 1.3 3.2
Gas & Water 1.6 1.2 2.8 1.9 1.3 3.2
Balfour Beatty Communities US 1.6 1.7 3.3 1.9 1.7 3.6
Other 1.6 1.7 3.3 1.9 1.7 3.6
+
 Re-presented to align 2014’s carrying amount of goodwill to 2015’s CGU allocation as a result of changes in management reporting structure within Construction Services UK and 
Support Services. Construction Services UK has now been split into UK Regional and Engineering Services and Major Projects, the latter being included in Other. Support Services 
has also been split into Rail UK, Gas & Water and Power, the latter being included in Other. Balfour Beatty Communities US is now being shown separately from Other. 
Sensitivities
The Group’s impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used. The major assumptions that result in significant 
sensitivities are the discount rate and the long-term growth rate.
In light of the significant losses incurred within the UK construction business in 2015 the Group has considered whether a reasonable 
possible change in assumptions would lead to an impairment of the goodwill in the related CGUs and concluded that it is not the case. 
The stabilisation and recovery of the Group’s UK construction business to more normal levels of performance is however a key assumption 
underpinning the cash flow forecasts used to assess the recoverable amount of the related goodwill.
Except as noted below, a reasonable possible change in a single assumption will not give rise to an impairment in any of the Group’s CGUs.
Using a pre-tax discount rate of 10.3% and nominal long-term growth rate of 2.8% the recoverable amount of the remaining goodwill in 
Gas & Water is £67m based on value-in-use, with consequent headroom of £9m. A 1.0% increase in the discount rate and a 1.0% reduction 
in the growth rate would lead to an impairment of £22m.
121 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 16 Intangible assets – other
Customer
contracts
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
Brand
names
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
intangible
£m
Software
and other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 220 123 55 21 71 490
Currency translation differences 11 4 2 – – 17
Additions – – – 28 35 63
Reclassified from property plant and equipment (Note 17) – – – – 4 4
Reclassified from assets held for sale – – – – 3 3
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (30) (70) (34) – (3) (137)
At 31 December 2014 201 57 23 49 110 440
Currency translation differences 10 2 – – – 12
Additions – – – 23 20 43
Disposals (4) – (2) – – (6)
At 31 December 2015 207 59 21 72 130 489
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 (138) (93) (46) – (9) (286)
Currency translation differences (6) (4) (1) – – (1 1)
Charge for the year – continuing operations (6) (4) (1) – (6) (17)
Charge for the year – discontinued operations (1) (2) (5) – – (8)
Impairment charge – continuing operations – – – – (21) (21)
Impairment charge – discontinued operations – – – – (8) (8)
Reclassified from assets held for sale – – – – (3) (3)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) 29 65 33 – 3 130
At 31 December 2014 (122) (38) (20) – (44) (224)
Currency translation differences (6) (1) – – – (7)
Charge for the year (6) (3) (1) (1) (14) (25)
Disposals 4 – 2 – – 6
Impairment charge – – – – (17) (17)
At 31 December 2015 (130) (42) (19) (1) (75) (267)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 77 17 2 71 55 222
At 31 December 2014 79 19 3 49 66 216
In 2013, the Group reached financial close on a student accommodation project in which the Group has demand risk and therefore, 
under IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, recognises an intangible asset as Infrastructure Investments intangible. The project to 
design, build and maintain postgraduate accommodation at the University of Edinburgh is nearing completion of the construction phase, with 
the first rooms occupied by students from September 2015. Additional spend of £23m (2014: £28m) was incurred in the year in respect of 
this project. 
Software and other primarily comprises software of the UK shared service centre and operating companies with a cost of £116m 
(2014: £100m) and accumulated amortisation and impairment of £67m (2014: £43m), including internally generated software with a cost 
of £77m (2014: £75m) and accumulated amortisation and impairment of £42m (2014: £34m).
In 2015, an impairment charge of £17m was recognised against software intangible assets relating to costs capitalised in the transformation 
of the Group’s UK IT estate from a federated to a more centralised model. Due to curtailments in the scope of the implementation and the 
Group’s termination of its agreement with its implementation partner, future benefits expected to be generated from this asset are reduced. 
The impairment was recognised as a non-underlying charge. An impairment charge of £27m was recognised in 2014 relating to the 
impairment of the Oracle R12 asset. This charge was recognised within non-underlying items. Refer to Note 10.1.4.6.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, which are one to four years for customer contracts, 
three to 10 years for customer relationships, three to seven years for software, and up to five years for brand names, except for customer 
contracts and relationships relating to Balfour Beatty Investments North America which are amortised on a basis matching the returns earned 
over the life of the underlying contracts and relationships. These contracts have a duration of up to 50 years for customer contracts relating to 
Balfour Beatty Investments North America.
The Infrastructure Investments intangible is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the project which is 50 years. 
The software for the UK shared service centre and operating companies is amortised on a basis matching its usage profile over its seven-
year life. The Group’s remaining knowledge sharing and collaboration software is amortised on a basis matching its usage profile over its 
five-year life. Other intangible assets are amortised over periods up to 10 years.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
122 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 17 Property, plant and equipment
17.1 Movements
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Infrastructure
leasehold
improvements
£m
Assets in
the course of
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2014 108 412 – 12 532
Currency translation differences 3 3 – 1 7
Additions 15 28 – 23 66
Disposals (4) (49) – – (53)
Reclassified to software (Note 16) – (4) – – (4)
Reclassified to inventories (3) – – – (3)
Transfers – – 34 (34) –
Reclassified from assets held for sale 3 26 – – 29
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (53) (54) – – (107)
At 31 December 2014 69 362 34 2 467
Currency translation differences 1 2 1 – 4
Transfers – 2 – (2) –
Additions 6 21 – 13 40
Disposals (3) (28) – – (31)
At 31 December 2015 73 359 35 13 480
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 (48) (276) – – (324)
Currency translation differences (1) – – – (1)
Charge for the year – continuing operations (5) (38) – – (43)
Charge for the year – discontinued operations (4) (7) – – (1 1)
Impairment (2) (1) – – (3)
Disposals 2 41 – – 43
Reclassified from assets held for sale – (1 1) – – (1 1)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) 24 30 – – 54
At 31 December 2014 (34) (262) – – (296)
Currency translation differences – (1) – – (1)
Charge for the year (5) (29) (1) – (35)
Impairment (2) (4) – – (6)
Disposals 2 23 – – 25
At 31 December 2015 (39) (273) (1) – (313)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2015 34 86 34 13 167
At 31 December 2014 35 100 34 2 171
In 2014, the Group completed construction on two student accommodation projects in Iowa and Reno. Upon completion, these buildings 
were transferred out of assets in the course of construction to be classified within infrastructure leasehold improvements. Both buildings are 
held under short leaseholds and are depreciated over 40 years. 
In 2015, phase 2 commenced on the student accommodation project in Iowa resulting in capital expenditure of £9m. Construction is still in 
progress on this development and therefore it has been classified as assets in the course of construction. Additional land purchase of £4m 
also occurred in 2015. Construction on this land will take place in 2016. 
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and equipment held under finance leases was £1m (2014: £1m). The Company has no property, 
plant and equipment held under finance leases.
Except for land and assets in the course of construction, the costs of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over their expected useful lives. Buildings are depreciated at 2.5% per annum or over the term of the lease, and plant and equipment is 
depreciated at 4% to 33% per annum.
17.2 Analysis of carrying amount of land and buildings
Group 
2015  
£m
Group 
2014  
£m
Freehold 15 16
Long leasehold – over 50 years unexpired 1 2
Short leasehold 18 17
34 35
123 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates
18.1 Movements
Net assets
^
£m
Loans
^
£m
Infrastructure
Fund
^
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 446 209 11 666
Currency translation differences
^
10 – 1 11
Income recognised – continuing operations 53 – – 53
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets (Note 30.1) 224 – – 224
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges (Note 30.1) (102) – – (102)
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit obligations (Note 30.1) (5) – – (5)
Tax on items taken directly to equity (Note 30.1) (23) – – (23)
Dividends
^
(56) – (1) (57)
Additions 25 – – 25
Disposals (33) (20) – (53)
Loans advanced
^
– 7 – 7
Loans repaid
^
– (2) – (2)
Capital calls
^
 – – 9 9
Goodwill impairment (1) – – (1)
Reclassified from assets held for sale 8 – – 8
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (1) – – (1)
At 31 December 2014 545 194 20 759
Currency translation differences 8 – 2 10
Income recognised
+
 41 – 3 44
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets (Note 30.1) (170) – – (170)
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges (Note 30.1) 21 – – 21
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit obligations (Note 30.1) (4) – – (4)
Tax on items taken directly to equity (Note 30.1) 33 – – 33
Dividends (67) – (2) (69)
Capital repayment during the period (7) – – (7)
Additions 19 – – 19
Disposals (20) (26) – (46)
Fair value of retained interest in Thanet 10 4 – 14
Loans advanced – 45 – 45
Loans repaid – (2) – (2)
Capital calls – – 15 15
Reclassify negative investment in Dutco
#
 to provisions (Note 25) 9 – – 9
At 31 December 2015 418 215 38 671
^
 Re-presented to show the Group’s investment in the Infrastructure Fund separately.
+
 Represents gain on fair value movements for the Infrastructure Fund.
#
 Represents the combined results of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
The principal joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 39. The original cost of the Group’s investments in joint ventures and 
associates was £80m (2014: £123m).
The Group’s share of borrowings of joint ventures and associates is shown in Note 18.2. The amount which was supported by the Group 
and the Company was £20m (2014: £10m), relating to the Group’s share of guaranteed borrowings. 
The non-recourse borrowings of joint venture and associate entities relating to infrastructure concessions projects are repayable over periods 
extending up to 2046. The non-recourse borrowings arise under facilities taken out by project specific joint venture and associate concession 
companies. The borrowings of each concession company are secured by a combination of fixed and floating charges over that concession 
company’s interests in its project’s assets and revenues and the shares in the concession company held by its immediate Parent Company. 
A significant part of these loans has been swapped into fixed rate debt by the use of interest rate swaps.
As disclosed in Note 39f, the Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding of joint ventures and associates in 
Infrastructure Investments’ projects and military housing concessions. Further, in respect of a number of these investments the Group has 
committed not to dispose of its equity interest until construction is complete. As is customary in such projects, banking covenants restrict 
the payment of dividends and other distributions.
The Group has recognised losses in relation to Dutco
#
 in excess of its carrying value of its investment as the Group has constructive 
obligations to provide further funding to make good these losses. At 31 December 2015, these losses amounted to £9m and have been 
classified as other provisions. Refer to Notes 18.4 and 25. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
124 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
18.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates
Infrastructure Investments
Income statement – continuing operations
Construction 
Services 
2015 
£m
Support 
Services 
2015 
£m
UK
^
2015  
£m
North 
America 
2015  
£m
Infrastructure
Fund 
2015  
£m
Total 
2015  
£m
Total 
2015  
£m
Revenue
1
1,168 25 187 91 – 278 1,471
Underlying operating profit
1
8 1 8 11 3 22 31
Investment income 2 – 160 4 – 164 166
Finance costs (2) – (129) (7) – (136) (138)
Profit before taxation
1
8 1 39 8 3 50 59
Taxation (3) – (9) – – (9) (12)
Profit after taxation before non-underlying items 5 1 30 8 3 41 47
Share of results within non-underlying items (3) – – – – – (3)
Profit after taxation 2 1 30 8 3 41 44
Balance sheet
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 30 – – – – – 30
  – Infrastructure Investments intangible – – 25 – – 25 25
  – other – – 11 – – 11 11
Property, plant and equipment 38 – 26 39 – 65 103
Investments in joint ventures and associates 5 – – – – – 5
PPP financial assets – – 2,159 77 – 2,236 2,236
Military housing projects – – – 101 – 101 101
Infrastructure Fund investment – – – – 38 38 38
Other non-current assets 38 – 25 – – 25 63
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 296 – 204 59 – 263 559
Other current assets 464 5 62 – – 62 531
Total assets 871 5 2,512 276 38 2,826 3,702
Current liabilities
Borrowings – recourse (20) – – – – – (20)
Borrowings – non-recourse (19) – (60) – – (60) (79)
Other current liabilities (642) – (123) (18) – (141) (783)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings – non-recourse (23) – (1,669) (141) – (1,810) (1,833)
Other non-current liabilities (64) (1) (255) (5) – (260) (325)
Total liabilities (768) (1) (2,107) (164) – (2,271) (3,040)
Net assets 103 4 405 112 38 555 662
Reclassify net liabilities relating to Dutco
#
 to provisions  
(Note 25) 9 – – – – – 9
Adjusted net assets 112 4 405 112 38 555 671
^
 Including Singapore and Australia.
#
 Represents the combined results of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
The Group’s investment in military housing joint ventures’ and associates’ projects is recognised at its remaining equity investment plus the 
value of the Group’s accrued returns from the underlying projects. The military housing joint ventures and associates have total non-recourse 
net borrowings of £2,249m (2014: £2,099m). Note 39(e) details the Group’s military housing projects.
The Group has elected to recognise its investment in Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners LP (Infrastructure Fund) at fair value with 
movements in fair value being recognised through the income statement. The Infrastructure Fund holds multiple assets which are valued 
by third parties.
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted which has not been provided for in the financial statements of the joint ventures and 
associates amounted to £nil (2014: £1m).
On certain Infrastructure Investments concessions where net fair value revaluations of PPP financial assets and cash flow hedges resulted 
in the Group’s carrying value of these investments being negative, the Group has not recognised losses beyond the carrying value of its 
investments. This is because the Group has not committed to provide any further funding to these investments and the borrowings within 
these concessions are non-recourse to the Group. At 31 December 2015, the unrecognised cumulative net fair value charges to other 
comprehensive income amounted to £24m (2014: £15m). 
125 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
18.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates continued
Infrastructure Investments
Income statement – continuing operations
Construction 
Services 
2014 
£m
Support 
Services 
2014 
£m
UK
^
2014  
£m
North 
America 
2014  
£m
Infrastructure
Fund 
2014  
£m
Total 
2014  
£m
Total 
2014  
£m
Revenue
1
1,168 26 249 47 – 296 1,490
Underlying operating profit
1
10 1 11 8 – 19 30
Investment income 1 – 176 2 – 178 179
Finance costs – – (135) (4) – (139) (139)
Profit before taxation
1
11 1 52 6 – 58 70
Taxation (3) – (12) – – (12) (15)
Profit after taxation before non-underlying items 8 1 40 6 – 46 55
Share of results within non-underlying items (2) – – – – – (2)
Profit after taxation 6 1 40 6 – 46 53
Balance sheet
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 29 – – – – – 29
  –  Infrastructure Investments intangible – – 24 – – 24 24
  – other – – 6 – – 6 6
Property, plant and equipment 41 – 16 4 – 20 61
Investments in joint ventures and associates 5 – – – – – 5
PPP financial assets – – 2,326 33 – 2,359 2,359
Military housing projects – – – 91 – 91 91
Infrastructure Fund investment – – – – 20 20 20
Other non-current assets 52 – 34 – – 34 86
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 258 2 161 107 – 268 528
Other current assets 447 7 49 – – 49 503
Total assets 832 9 2,616 235 20 2,871 3,712
Current liabilities
Borrowings – recourse (10) – – – – – (10)
Borrowings – non-recourse – – (51) – – (51) (51)
Other current liabilities (608) (7) (137) (7) – (144) (759)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings – non-recourse (40) – (1,566) (131) – (1,697) (1,737)
Other non-current liabilities (51) – (340) (5) – (345) (396)
Total liabilities (709) (7) (2,094) (143) – (2,237) (2,953)
Net assets 123 2 522 92 20 634 759
^
 Including Singapore and Australia.
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
18.3 Aggregate information of joint ventures and associates 
Joint 
ventures 
2015 
£m
Associates 
2015  
£m
Total 
2015  
£m
The Group’s share of profit from continuing operations 33 11 44
Aggregate carrying amount of the Group’s interest 530 141 671
Joint 
ventures 
2014 
£m
Associates 
2014  
£m
Total 
2014 
£m
The Group’s share of profit from continuing operations 45 8 53
Aggregate carrying amount of the Group’s interest 652 107 759
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
126 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
18.4 Details of material joint ventures
Dutco
^
Gammon
@
Connect  
Plus (M25)
Ltd
2015 
£m
2014
+
£m
2015 
£m
2014
#
£m
2015 
£m
2014
+
£m
Proportion of the Group’s ownership interest in the joint venture 49% 49% 50% 50% 40% 40%
Income statement – continuing operations
Revenue 372 361 1,597 1,377 121 249
Underlying operating (loss)/profit (62) (30) 38 38 5 5
Investment income – – 11 3 153 139
Finance costs (3) – (7) – (100) (105)
Income tax charge – – (3) (7) (10) (8)
(Loss)/profit and total comprehensive (loss)/income (100%) (65) (30) 39 34 48 31
Group’s share of (loss)/profit and total comprehensive (loss)/income (32) (15) 20 17 19 12
Dividends received by the Group during the year – – 9 8 11 9
Balance sheet
Non-current assets 18 39 261 277 2,019 2,127
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents – – 489 415 152 130
Other current assets 447 404 420 368 65 32
447 404 909 783 217 162
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (412) (369) (563) (495) (41) (28)
Provisions (14) – (40) (33) – –
Borrowings  – recourse (41) (20) – – – –
Borrowings  – non-recourse – – (94) – (22) (6)
Other current liabilities (18) – (111) (1 18) (42) (43)
(485) (389) (808) (646) (105) (77)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables – (10) (63) (54) – –
Provisions – – (22) (15) – –
Borrowings  – non-recourse – – (111) (200) (1,075) (1,07 4)
Other non-current liabilities – – (37) (29) (348) (408)
– (10) (233) (298) (1,423) (1,482)
Net assets (100%) (20) 44 129 116 708 730
Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the above joint ventures 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements:
Net assets of joint venture (100%) (20) 44 129 116 708 730
Group’s share of net assets (10) 22 65 58 283 292
Goodwill 1 1 27 26 – –
Carrying amount of the Group’s interest in the joint venture (9)
&
23 92 84 283 292
^
 Represents the combined results of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure. 
@
 Represents the combined results of Gammon China Ltd and Gammon Capital (West) Pte. Ltd as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same 
management structure. 
+
 Re-presented to align 2014’s classification of balance sheet items to 2015.
#
 Re-presented to include Gammon’s infrastructure concession project held within Gammon Capital (West) Pte. Ltd. This project is included within the Infrastructure 
Investments segment. 
&
 The negative carrying amount of the Group’s interest in Dutco has been presented within provisions. Refer to Notes 18.1 and 25.
18.5 Infrastructure Investments’ investments
Net 
investment 
2015  
£m
Reserves 
2015  
£m
Total  
2015  
£m
Net  
investment 
2014  
£m
Reserves 
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Roads 149 190 339 127 250 377
Healthcare 32 (23) 9 40 25 65
Schools 29 14 43 40 21 61
Other concessions 18 (4) 14 16 3 19
UK
^
228 177 405 223 299 522
North America 86 26 112 70 22 92
Infrastructure Fund 34 4 38 19 1 20
Total investments 348 207 555 312 322 634
^
 Including Singapore and Australia.
127 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
18.6 Cash flow from/(to) joint ventures and associates
Infrastructure Investments Infrastructure Investments
Cash flows from investing 
activities
UK
^
2015
£m
North
America
2015
£m
Infra-
structure
Fund
2015
£m
Other
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
UK
^
2014
£m
North
America
2014
£m
Infra-
structure
Fund
2014
+
£m
Other
2014
#
£m
Total
2014
#
£m
Dividends from joint ventures and 
associates 34 9 2 24 69 20 8 1 28 57
Subordinated debt interest received 16 – – – 16 24 – – – 24
Investments in and loans to joint 
ventures and associates (46) (16) (15) – (77) (24) (6) (9) – (39)
Equity (3) (16) – – (19) (19) (6) – – (25)
Subordinated debt invested (45) – – – (45) (7) – – – (7)
Subordinated debt repaid 2 – – – 2 2 – – – 2
Other investments and loans – – (15) – (15) – – (9) – (9)
Short-term loans to joint ventures 
and associates – – – (11) (11) – – – (4) (4)
Capital repayment received 7 – – – 7 – – – – –
Disposal of investments in joint 
ventures 104 – – 21 125 117 – – – 117
Net cash flow from/(to) joint ventures 
and associates 115 (7) (13) 34 129 137 2 (8) 24 155
^
 Including Singapore and Australia.
+
 Re-presented to show dividends received separately from investments made to the Infrastructure Fund.
#
 Re-presented to include short-term loans to joint ventures and associates.
18.7 Share of reserves of joint ventures and associates
Accumulated 
profit/(loss) 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
PPP  
financial 
assets 
£m
Currency 
translation 
reserve
£m
Total  
(Note 30.1) 
£m
At 1 January 2014 166 (157) 251 18 278
Currency translation differences – – – 2 2
Income recognised – continuing operations 53 – – – 53
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets – – 224 – 224
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges – (102) – – (102)
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities (5) – – – (5)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 21 (45) – (23)
Dividends (56) – – – (56)
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal – 1 (8) – (7)
Reserves disposed (24) – – – (24)
At 31 December 2014 135 (237) 422 20 340
Currency translation differences – – – 3 3
Income recognised 44 – – – 44
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets – – (170) – (170)
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges – 21 – – 21
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities (4) – – – (4)
Tax on items taken directly to equity (1) (7) 41 – 33
Dividends (69) – – – (69)
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal – 26 (31) – (5)
Transfer of reserves to retained earnings relating to businesses disposed – (4) 20 – 16
Reserves disposed (13) – – – (13)
At 31 December 2015 92 (201) 282 23 196
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
128 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 19 Investments
19.1 Group
Held to 
maturity 
bonds  
£m
Available-  
for-sale 
investments 
in mutual 
funds  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 January 2014 35 60 95
Currency translation differences – 2 2
Fair value movements – continuing operations – 1 1
  – discontinued operations – 2 2
Additions  – continuing operations – 1 1
  – discontinued operations – 7 7
Maturities/disposals  – continuing operations (4) (6) (10)
  – discontinued operations – (2) (2)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) – (45) (45)
At 31 December 2014 31 20 51
Currency translation differences – 1 1
Additions  – 2 2
Maturities/disposals  (7) (3) (10)
At 31 December 2015 24 20 44
The held to maturity bonds are held by the Group’s captive insurance company, Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, and comprise fixed rate 
bonds or treasury stock with an average yield to maturity of 1.06% (2014: 1.10%) and weighted average life of 1.4 years (2014: 2.1 years). 
The fair value of the bonds is £26m (2014: £33m), determined by the market price of the bonds at the reporting date. The maximum 
exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2015 is the carrying amount. These bonds have been pledged as security for letters of credit issued 
in respect of Delphian Insurance Company Ltd.
The available-for-sale investments in mutual funds comprise holdings in a number of funds, based on employees’ investment elections, 
in respect of the deferred compensation obligations of the Group as disclosed in Note 28. The fair value of the available-for-sale investments 
is £20m (2014: £20m), determined by the market price of the funds at the reporting date.
19.2 Company
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Investment in subsidiaries
^
1,771 1,671
Investment in joint ventures and associates 32.2.5 2 2
Provisions (102) (102)
1,671 1,571
^
  The movement in investment in subsidiaries of £100m in 2015 represents additional equity contributions made from the Company to its subsidiaries.
20 PPP financial assets
Schools
£m
Roads
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 196 193 66 455
Income recognised in the income statement:
– construction contract margin – 1 – 1
– interest income (Note 8) 5 16 5 26
Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
– fair value movements 4 32 43 79
Other movements:
– cash expenditure – 39 193 232
– cash received (8) (21) (8) (37)
– disposal of interest in Knowsley (Note 32.3.7) (197) – – (197)
At 31 December 2014 – 260 299 559
Income recognised in the income statement:
– construction contract margin – 1 – 1
– interest income (Note 8) – 17 7 24
Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
– fair value movements – (8) (5) (13)
Other movements:
– cash expenditure – 37 38 75
– cash received – (24) (6) (30)
– disposal of interest in Thanet (Note 32.2.10) – – (214) (214)
At 31 December 2015 – 283 119 402
129 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 20 PPP financial assets continued
Assets constructed by PPP subsidiary concession companies are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and are denominated 
in sterling. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the PPP financial assets.
In 2015, the Group disposed of an 80% interest in Thanet OFTO HoldCo Ltd (Thanet). Refer to Note 32.2.2. In 2014, the Group disposed 
of its 100% interest in Transform Schools (Knowsley) Holdings Ltd (Knowsley). Refer to Note 32.3.3.
There were no impairment provisions in 2015 or 2014.
21 Inventories
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Unbilled non-construction work in progress 54 61
Raw materials and consumables 48 44
Development and housing land and work in progress 35 53
Manufacturing work in progress – 5
Finished goods and goods for resale 7 7
144 170
22 Construction contracts
Contracts in progress at reporting date
2015  
£m 
2014  
£m
Due from construction contract customers 379 562
Due to construction contract customers (472) (350)
(93) 212
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses for all contracts in progress that had not reached 
practical completion at the reporting date was £12,840m from total operations (2014: £10,720m).
23 Trade and other receivables
Group  
2015  
£m
Group  
2014  
£m
Company 
2015  
£m
Company 
2014  
£m
Current 
Trade receivables 506 583 – – 
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (11) (26) – – 
495 557 – – 
Other receivables 45 56 3 26 
Due from subsidiaries – – 1,626 1,354 
Due from joint ventures and associates 55 33 15 – 
Due from joint operations 10 29 – – 
Contract retentions receivable
#
 202 210 – – 
Accrued income 24 39 – – 
Prepayments 54 42 1 1 
885 966 1,645 1,381 
Non-current
Other receivables 2 7 – – 
Due from joint ventures and associates 12 16 4 11 
Due from joint operations – 4 – – 
Contract retentions receivable
#
 100 84 – – 
114 111 4 11 
Total trade and other receivables 999 1,077 1,649 1,392 
Comprising
Financial assets (Note 38) 945 1,035 1,648 1,391 
Non-financial assets – prepayments 54 42 1 1 
999 1,077 1,649 1,392 
#
 Including £298m (2014: £291m) construction contract retentions receivable.
Based on prior experience, an assessment of the current economic environment and a review of the financial circumstances of individual 
customers, the Directors believe no further credit risk provision is required in respect of trade receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current and non-current trade and other receivables approximate their fair values. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
130 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 23 Trade and other receivables continued
Movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables
Group  
2015  
£m
Group  
2014  
£m
At 1 January (26) (32)
Currency translation differences – (1)
(Charged)/credited to the income statement:
– additional provisions (3) (14)
– unused amounts reversed 6 6
Utilised during the year 12 5
Reclassified from assets held for sale – (1)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold – 11
At 31 December (11) (26)
Maturity profile of impaired trade receivables and trade receivables past due but not impaired
Impaired 
Past due but not 
impaired
Group  
2015  
£m
Group  
2014  
£m
Group  
2015  
£m
Group  
2014  
£m
Up to three months 1 7 42 44
Three to six months – – 12 20
Six to nine months – – 8 7
Nine to 12 months – 4 5 6
More than 12 months 10 15 21 6
11 26 88 83
At 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £88m (2014: £83m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of individual 
customers where there is no reason to believe that the receivable is not recoverable.
The Company had no provision for impairment of trade receivables and no trade receivables that were past due but not impaired 
in either year.
131 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 24 Trade and other payables
Group
2015 
£m
Group
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company
2014 
£m
Current
Trade and other payables 838 905 6 16
Accruals 755 961 16 17
Deferred income 7 5 – –
Advance payments on contracts – 1 – –
VAT, payroll taxes and social security 67 79 2 11
Due to subsidiaries – – 1,695 1,542
Due to joint ventures and associates 25 – – –
Dividends on preference shares 5 5 5 5
Due on acquisitions 3 3 – –
1,700 1,959 1,724 1,591
Non-current
Trade and other payables 86 65 – –
Accruals 18 24 – –
Deferred income 1 3 – –
Due to joint ventures and associates 11 27 8 25
Due on acquisitions 14 15 – –
130 134 8 25
Total trade and other payables 1,830 2,093 1,732 1,616
Comprising
Financial liabilities (Note 38) 1,732 1,972 1,730 1,605
Non-financial liabilities:
– accruals not at amortised cost 23 33 – –
– deferred income 8 8 – –
– advance payments on contracts – 1 – –
– VAT, payroll taxes and social security 67 79 2 11
1,830 2,093 1,732 1,616
Maturity profile of the Group’s non-current financial liabilities at 31 December
Trade  
and other 
payables 
2015  
£m
Accruals 
2015  
£m
 Due to  
joint  
ventures  
and 
associates 
2015  
£m
Due on 
acquisitions 
2015  
£m
Total  
2015  
£m
Due within one to two years 69 4 – 3 76
Due within two to five years 5 6 – 7 18
Due after more than five years 12 8 11 4 35
86 18 11 14 129
Trade  
and other 
payables 
2014  
£m
Accruals 
2014  
£m
 Due to  
joint  
ventures  
and 
associates 
2014  
£m
Due on 
acquisitions 
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Due within one to two years 43 11 1 2 57
Due within two to five years 7 7 5 7 26
Due after more than five years 15 6 21 6 48
65 24 27 15 131
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current and non-current trade and other payables approximate their fair values. The fair 
value of non-current trade and other payables has been determined by discounting future cash flows using yield curves and exchange rates 
prevailing at the reporting date.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
132 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 25 Provisions
Group Company
Contract 
provisions 
£m
Employee 
provisions 
£m
Other 
provisions 
£m
Total  
£m
Other 
provisions 
£m
At 1 January 2014 102 42 49 193 1
Currency translation differences 3 – – 3 –
Transfers – (3) 3 – –
Reclassified to accruals (1) – (1) (2) –
Charged/(credited) to the income statement – continuing operations:
– additional provisions 78 28 10 116 1
– unused amounts reversed (27) (7) (12) (46) –
Utilised during the year (54) (1 1) (10) (75) –
Charged to the income statement – discontinued operations 1 – 10 11 –
Reclassified from assets held for sale 7 2 – 9 –
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (12) – – (12) –
At 31 December 2014 97 51 49 197 2
Currency translation differences 1 – – 1 –
Reclassified from accruals 3 – 1 4 –
Reclassified from investments in joint ventures and associates in relation to Dutco
^
 
(Note 18) – – 9 9 –
Charged/(credited) to the income statement:
– additional provisions 79 27 19 125 –
– unused amounts reversed (26) (12) (10) (48) –
Utilised during the year (62) (12) (8) (82) –
At 31 December 2015 92 54 60 206 2
 Group Group Company Company
Contract 
provisions 
2015  
£m
Employee  
provisions 
2015  
£m
Other 
 provisions 
2015  
£m
 Total  
2015  
£m
Contract  
provisions 
2014  
£m
Employee 
 provisions 
2014  
£m
Other  
provisions  
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Other  
provisions  
2015  
£m
Other 
provisions 
2014  
£m
Due within one year 66 26 34 126 67 25 28 120 – –
Due within one to  
two years 8 9 7 24 13 11 6 30 – –
Due within two to  
five years 12 13 18 43 12 12 12 36 2 2
Due after more than  
five years 6 6 1 13 5 3 3 11 – –
92 54 60 206 97 51 49 197 2 2
^
 Represents the combined results of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
Contract provisions include construction insurance liabilities, principally in the Group’s captive insurance companies, and defect and warranty 
provisions on contracts, primarily construction contracts, that have reached practical completion.
Employee provisions are principally liabilities relating to employers’ liability insurance retained in the Group’s captive insurance companies 
and provisions for employee termination liabilities arising from the Group’s restructuring programmes.
Other provisions principally comprise: motor and other insurance liabilities in the Group’s captive insurance companies; legal claims 
and costs, where provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress; 
property-related provisions, mainly onerous lease commitments, some of which arise from the Group’s restructuring programmes; and 
environmental provisions.
The Group takes actuarial advice when establishing the level of provisions in the Group’s captive insurance companies and certain other 
categories of provision.
Insurance-related provisions within these categories were £76m (2014: £76m) as follows: Contract provisions £37m (2014: £39m); 
Employee provisions £35m (2014: £32m); and Other, mainly motor provisions £4m (2014: £5m).
Restructuring provisions within these categories were £12m (2014: £15m) as follows: Employee provisions £9m (2014: £8m); and Other, 
mainly property-related, provisions £3m (2014: £7m).
The Group has recognised losses in relation to Dutco
^
 in excess of its carrying value of its investment as the Group has constructive 
obligations to provide further funding to make good these losses. At 31 December 2015, these losses amounted to £9m and have been 
classified as other provisions. Refer to Note 18.
133 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 26 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings
26.1 Group
Current  
2015  
£m
Non-current 
2015  
£m
Total  
2015  
£m
Current  
2014  
£m
Non-current 
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
– bank overdrafts (3) – (3) (4) – (4) 
– US private placement (Note 26.2) – (236) (236) – (224) (224) 
– liability component of convertible bonds (Note 26.3) – (233) (233) – (227) (227) 
– other loans (9) (1) (10) – (16) (16) 
Secured borrowings at amortised cost
– finance leases (1) – (1) – (1) (1) 
(13) (470) (483) (4) (468) (472) 
Cash and deposits at amortised cost 562 – 562 653 – 653 
Term deposits at amortised cost 84 – 84 38 – 38 
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding infrastructure concessions) 646 – 646 691 – 691 
633 (470) 163 687 (468) 219 
Non-recourse infrastructure concessions project finance loans at 
amortised cost with final maturity between 2027 and 2037 (22) (363) (385) (14) (471) (485) 
Infrastructure concessions cash and cash equivalents 20 – 20 40 – 40 
(2) (363) (365) 26 (471) (445) 
Net cash/(borrowings) 631 (833) (202) 713 (939) (226) 
The loans relating to infrastructure concession projects finance arise under non-recourse facilities taken out by project-specific subsidiary 
concession companies. The loans of each concession company are secured by a combination of fixed and floating charges over that 
concession company’s interests in its project’s assets and revenues and the shares in the concession company held by its immediate parent 
company. A significant part of these loans has been swapped into fixed rate debt by the use of interest rate swaps. 
Included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted cash of: £25m (2014: £23m) held by the Group’s captive insurance company, Delphian 
Insurance Company Ltd, which is subject to Isle of Man insurance solvency regulations; £58m (2014: £17m) held within construction 
project bank accounts; £7m (2014: £nil) relating to cash collateral held against an issued letter of credit; £20m (2014: £40m) relating to 
the maintenance and other reserve accounts in the Infrastructure Investments subsidiaries and £nil (2014: £2m) not readily remittable 
from Argentina.
Cash, deposits and term deposits include the Group’s share of amounts held by joint operations of £251m (2014: £212m).
Maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December
Infrastructure 
concessions 
non-recourse 
project 
finance  
2015  
£m
Finance  
leases  
2015  
£m
Other  
borrowings  
2015  
£m
Total  
2015  
£m
Infrastructure 
concessions 
non-recourse 
project 
finance  
2014  
£m
Finance  
leases  
2014  
£m
Other  
borrowings  
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Due on demand or within one year (22) (1) (12) (35) (14) – (4) (18) 
Due within one to two years (35) – (2) (37) (31) (1) (19) (51) 
Due within two to five years (34) – (293) (327) (33) – (256) (289) 
Due after more than five years (294) – (175) (469) (407) – (192) (599) 
(385) (1) (482) (868) (485) (1) (471) (957) 
The carrying values of the Group’s borrowings are equal to the fair values at the reporting date. The fair values are determined by discounting 
future cash flows using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Undrawn Group committed borrowing facilities at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent were satisfied
Infrastructure 
concessions 
non-recourse 
project 
finance  
2015  
£m
Other  
borrowings  
2015  
£m
Total  
2015  
£m
Infrastructure 
concessions 
non-recourse 
project 
finance  
2014  
£m
Other  
borrowings  
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Expiring in one year or less 18 26 44 69 – 69
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years – – – 32 791 823
Expiring in more than two years – 400 400 – – –
18 426 444 101 791 892
The Group completed its refinancing in December 2015 resulting in a new facility arrangement of £400m. This new facility extends through 
to 2018, with the option for two additional one-year extensions through to 2020, subject to bank approval.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
134 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 26 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings continued
26.2 US private placement
In March 2013, the Group raised US$350m (£231m) of borrowings through a US private placement of a series of notes with an average 
coupon of 4.94% per annum and an average maturity of 9.3 years. At 31 December 2015, as a result of movements in exchange rates, 
the balance outstanding was £236m (2014: £224m).
26.3 Convertible bonds
On 3 December 2013, the Group issued convertible bonds of £100,000 each maturing on 3 December 2018 at a total issue price of 
£252.7m and incurred transaction costs of £6.7m resulting in net proceeds of £246m. The bonds have a coupon of 1.875% per annum 
payable semi-annually in arrears and the initial conversion price has been set at £3.6692 per share. On 23 April 2014, the conversion price 
was revised to £3.6212.
From 14 January 2014 until 14 days prior to final maturity, one bond is convertible at the option of the holder into one preference share 
in Balfour Beatty Finance No 2 Ltd which is immediately transferred to the Company in exchange for the issue of ordinary shares in the 
Company. The Group has the option to redeem the bonds from December 2015 under certain circumstances.
The bonds are compound instruments, comprising equity and liability components. The fair value of the liability component at the date of 
issue, included under non-current liabilities, was £220m estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 4.29% per annum for a similar 
non-convertible instrument. The difference between the net proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds after the transaction costs and 
the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the value of the equity conversion component, is included in equity holders’ 
funds. Refer to Note 29.3.
Liability component recognised in the Balance Sheet
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 227 221 
Accretion 6 6 
Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 233 227 
The fair value of the liability component of the convertible bonds at 31 December 2015 was £236m (2014: £231m).
The finance cost of the convertible bonds is calculated using the effective interest method.
26.4 Company
Current  
2015  
£m
Non-
current 
2015  
£m
Total  
2015  
£m
Current  
2014  
£m
Non-
current 
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Cash and deposits 50 – 50 249 – 249 
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
– bank loans and overdrafts (160) – (160) (142) – (142) 
– US private placement (Note 26.2) – (236) (236) – (224) (224) 
Net borrowings (110) (236) (346) 107 (224) (1 17) 
The bank loans and overdrafts are sterling denominated, variable rate instruments and repayable on demand.
135 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 27 Deferred tax
27.1 Group
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to 
settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Net deferred tax position at 31 December
Group 
 2015  
£m
Group  
2014  
£m
Company 
2015  
£m
Company 
2014  
£m
Deferred tax assets 58 52 – –
Deferred tax liabilities (53) (49) (2) (2)
5 3 (2) (2)
Movement for the year in the net deferred tax position
Group  
£m
Company 
£m
At 1 January 2014 104 (3)
Currency translation differences 1 –
(Charged)/credited to income statement – continuing operations
#
(24) 1
Credited to income statement – discontinued operations
#
23 –
Charged to equity
#
(54) –
Reclassified from liabilities held for sale (2) –
Reclassified to assets held for sale (1) –
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (44) –
At 31 December 2014 3 (2)
Currency translation differences (3) –
Charged to income statement
#
(10) –
Credited to equity
#
16 –
Release of deferred tax assets relating to businesses disposed (Note 32.2.9) (7) –
Disposals (Note 32.2.10) 6 –
At 31 December 2015 5 (2)
#
 Group includes £5m charged (2014: £2m) to the income statement and £2m charged (2014: £nil) to equity in relation to reductions in the UK corporation tax rate.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
136 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 27 Deferred tax continued
27.1 Group continued
The table below shows the deferred tax assets and liabilities before being offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
tax authority.
Deferred tax assets
Depreciation
in excess 
of capital
allowances
£m
Retirement
benefit
liabilities
£m
Unrelieved
trading
losses
£m
Share-based
payments
£m
Provisions
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 15 94 17 3 16 145
Currency translation differences – 1 1 – 1 3
Transfers to deferred tax liabilities 2 1 – – 14 17
Credited/(charged) to income statement – continuing operations 6 (8) 2 – (1) (1)
Credited/(charged) to income statement – discontinued operations – 1 (1) – 18 18
Credited/(charged) to equity – (47) – (1) – (48)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (5) (16) (5) – (18) (44)
At 31 December 2014 18 26 14 2 30 90
Currency translation differences (1) 1 – – 2 2
Transfers to deferred tax liabilities – – 2 – – 2
(Charged)/credited to income statement (3) (16) 35 – 3 19
Credited to equity – 15 – – – 15
Release of deferred tax assets relating to businesses disposed 
(Note 32.2.9) – – (5) – (2) (7)
At 31 December 2015 14 26 46 2 33 121
Deferred tax liabilities
Preference
shares
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Derivatives
£m
Other GAAP
differences
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 (4) (29) – – (8) (41)
Currency translation differences – (3) – 1 – (2)
Transfers from deferred tax assets – – – (17) – (17)
Credited/(charged) to income statement – continuing operations 1 (1 1) – (14) 1 (23)
Credited/(charged) to income statement – discontinued operations – (2) – – 7 5
Credited/(charged) to equity – – (6) – – (6)
Reclassified from liabilities held for sale – – – (2) – (2)
Reclassified to assets held for sale – – – – (1) (1)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold 
(Note 32.3.7) – 3 (2) (1) – –
At 31 December 2014 (3) (42) (8) (33) (1) (87)
Currency translation differences – (2) 1 (4) – (5)
Transfers from deferred tax assets – – – (2) – (2)
Charged to income statement – (6) – (23) – (29)
Credited to equity – – 1 – – 1
Disposals (Note 32.2.10) – – 6 – – 6
At 31 December 2015 (3) (50) – (62) (1) (116)
Total net deferred tax asset 5
At the reporting date the Group had unrecognised tax losses from operations (excluding capital losses) that arose over a numbers of years 
of approximately £964m (2014: £708m) which are available for offset against future profits. £11m (2014: £7m) will expire between five and 
20 years after the year in which they arose, using losses incurred in earlier years before those incurred in later years, with the first expiry in 
2016. The remaining losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets for UK corporation tax trading losses of £14m (2014: £55m). Given the losses recorded in 
the period, the Group has reassessed the period used in its assessment of future taxable profits to support the recoverability of both the 
temporary differences and these tax losses. The impact of this reassessment was a reduction in the deferred tax asset of £32m. The Group 
has UK corporation tax trading losses of £709m (2014: £376m) which are not recognised as deferred tax assets.
At the reporting date the undistributed reserves for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised were £1m (2014: £7m) in 
respect of subsidiaries and £nil (2014: £2m) in respect of joint ventures and associates. No liability has been recognised in respect of these 
differences because either no temporary difference arises or the timing of any distribution is under the Group’s control and no distribution 
which gives rise to taxation is contemplated.
137 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 27 Deferred tax continued 
27.2 Company
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax
liabilities
Deferred tax
assets
Net deferred
tax assets/
(liability)
£m
Preference
shares
£m
Provisions
£m
At 1 January 2014 (4) 1 (3)
Credited to income statement 1 – 1
At 31 December 2014 (3) 1 (2)
Credited to equity – – –
At 31 December 2015 (3) 1 (2)
28 Retirement benefit liabilities
28.1 Introduction
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are those where the Group’s obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme and the 
scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks.
Defined benefit schemes are schemes other than defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligation is to provide specified 
benefits on retirement.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (IAS 19) prescribes the accounting for defined benefit schemes in the Group’s financial statements. 
Obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method and discounted to a net present value using the market yield on high-quality 
corporate bonds. The pension expense relating to current service cost is charged to contracts or overheads based on the function of scheme 
members and is included in cost of sales and net operating expenses. The net finance cost arising from the expected interest income on 
plan assets and interest cost on scheme obligations is included in finance costs. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the Statement 
of Comprehensive Income. The IAS 19 accounting valuations are set out in Note 28.2.
A different calculation is used for the formal triennial funding valuations undertaken by the scheme trustees to determine the future company 
contribution level necessary so that over time the scheme assets will meet the scheme obligations. The principal difference between the 
two methods is that under the funding basis the obligations are discounted using a rate of return reflecting the composition of the assets in 
the scheme, rather than the rate of return on high-quality corporate bonds as required by IAS 19 for the financial statements. Details of the 
latest formal triennial funding valuations are set out in Note 28.3.
The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Group’s financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other 
assets of, the Group.
Principal schemes
The Group’s principal schemes are the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF), which includes defined contribution and defined benefit 
sections, and the Balfour Beatty Shared Cost Section of the Railways Pension Scheme (RPS). The defined benefit sections of both schemes 
are funded and closed to new members with the exception of employees where employment has transferred to the Group under certain 
agreed arrangements. Pension benefits are based on employees’ pensionable service and their pensionable salary.
The schemes operate under trust law and are managed and administered by trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the 
terms of the trust deed and rules and relevant legislation. Defined benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, 
after taking actuarial advice. The trustees are responsible for establishing the investment strategy and ensuring that there are sufficient 
assets to meet the cost of current and future benefits.
These schemes expose the Group to investment and actuarial risks where additional contributions may be required if assets are not 
sufficient to pay future pension benefits:
 – investment risk: Equity returns are a key determinant of investment return but the investment portfolio is also subject to a range of other 
risks typical of the investments held, for example, credit risk on corporate bond holdings.
 – actuarial risk: The ultimate cost of providing pension benefits is affected by inflation rates and members’ life expectancy. The net present 
value of the obligations is affected by the market yield on high-quality corporate bonds used to discount the obligations.
Changes in the principal actuarial assumptions based on market data, such as inflation and the discount rate, and experience, such as life 
expectancy, expose the Group to fluctuations in the net IAS 19 liability and the net finance cost.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
138 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 28 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
28.1 Introduction continued
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund
The investment strategy of the BBPF is to hold assets of appropriate liquidity and marketability to generate income and capital growth. 
The BBPF invests partly in a diversified range of assets including equities and hedge funds in anticipation that, over the longer term, they 
will grow in value faster than the obligations. The equities are in the form of pooled funds and are a combination of UK, other developed 
market and emerging market equities. The remaining BBPF assets are principally fixed and index-linked bonds and swaps in order to match 
the duration and inflation exposure of the obligations and enhance the resilience of the funding level of the scheme. The performance of the 
assets is measured against market indices.
A formal triennial funding valuation of the BBPF was carried out as at 31 March 2013. As a result, the Group agreed with effect from April 
2013, to make ongoing deficit payments of £50m per annum, increasing to: £55m per annum from April 2016; £60m per annum from April 
2017; and £65m per annum from April 2018 to May 2020, increasing each year by CPI (minimum 0% and capped at 5%) plus (in the period 
before the next actuarial valuation is agreed) 200% of any increase in the Company’s dividend in excess of capped CPI. If the Company 
makes any one-off return of value to shareholders in excess of £200m such as a special dividend, share buy-back, capital payment or similar 
before the next actuarial valuation is agreed, there will be an additional increase in the deficit payment for the following year only, calculated 
as the regular deficit payment for that year multiplied by 75%, multiplied by the value of the one-off return of value, divided by the total of 
the regular dividends for the year prior to the year in which the one-off return was made. This agreement constitutes a minimum funding 
requirement under IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction. Under the 
terms of the trust deed and subject to the agreement of the trustees (who would need to balance their responsibility to set contribution 
rates in accordance with the trust rules together with the interests of the beneficiaries at the time), the Group has the ability to use surplus 
funds, should they arise, in the defined benefit section of the BBPF to pay its contributions towards further service benefits in the defined 
benefit and defined contribution sections of the scheme. The Directors consider that, as the Group is permitted to assume that it would 
not be required to make contributions to maintain a surplus, should one arise, these further service benefits will exceed the minimum 
funding requirement.
In 2014, the Group commenced a commutation exercise for pensioner members and dependants with benefits with a value of less than 
£30,000 and £18,000, respectively. This gave those members the option to extinguish their benefits within the BBPF in exchange for a 
cash lump sum. The acceptance of this offer by certain members and dependants gave rise to a settlement event resulting in a decrease 
in liabilities of £3m (2014: £2m), which was recognised in other non-underlying items. Refer to Note 10.1.4.8.
In anticipation of the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff and the then proposed £200m return of capital to shareholders, and following 
the scheme apportionment arrangement made in relation to the disposal of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace, agreement was reached on 
24 September 2014 with the trustees of the BBPF for additional deficit payments of £100m in 2015, of which £15m was in respect 
of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace and £85m was in respect of Parsons Brinckerhoff. The £15m was paid to the BBPF in 2015 in agreed 
monthly instalments. 
On 1 July 2015, the Group established a Scottish Limited Partnership (SLP) structure into which its investment in Consort Healthcare 
(Birmingham) Holdings Ltd (Consort Birmingham), which owns the Group’s 40% interest in the Birmingham Hospital PFI investment, was 
transferred. The BBPF is a partner in the SLP and is entitled to a share of the income of the SLP . In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated 
Financial Statements, the SLP is deemed to be controlled by the Group, which retains the ability to substitute the investment in Consort 
Birmingham for other investments from time to time. Alongside the establishment of the SLP , agreement was reached to defer the payment 
of £85m which had been due to be paid to the BBPF in 2015 over the period to 2023, with the first payment of £4m due in 2016. Under IAS 
19, the investment held by the BBPF in the SLP does not constitute a plan asset and therefore the pension deficit presented in these 
financial statements does not reflect the BBPF’s interest in the SLP . Distributions from the SLP to the BBPF will be reflected in the Group’s 
financial statements as pension contributions on a cash basis. The first distribution was received in December 2015 and amounted to £1m. 
The next formal triennial valuation of the BBPF will be as at 31 March 2016. The Company and the trustees are in the early stages of 
preparing for this valuation. 
139 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 28 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
28.1 Introduction continued
Railways Pension Scheme
The RPS is a shared cost scheme. The legal responsibility of the Group in the RPS is approximately 60% of the scheme’s assets and 
liabilities based on the relevant provisions of the trust deed and rules and trustee guidelines regarding future surplus apportionments and 
deficit financing.
In 2013 and previous years, the assumed cost of providing benefits was split between the Group and the members in the ratio 60:40. 
This had been a reasonable assumption to make of how costs might have been shared over the long term.
In 2014, because of a declining population of active members, it became less likely that the costs of providing benefits borne by the Group 
would be capped in line with its economic interest of 60%. Based on discussions arising from the 2013 valuation process, it was expected 
that members might only be able to afford to fund 5% of the scheme deficit. In the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014, the 
long-term cost of providing benefits was assumed to be split between the Group and the members in the ratio 95:5. This assumption 
remains valid for the year ended 31 December 2015. The balance sheet asset and liability disclosed, therefore, are equal to 95% of the 
total scheme asset and liability. Any future surplus or deficit is assumed to be split in this manner. 
The RPS invests in a range of pooled investment funds intended to generate a combination of capital growth and income and as determined 
by the trustee, taking account of the characteristics of the obligations and the trustee’s attitude to risk. The majority of the RPS’ assets 
that are intended to generate additional returns, over the rate at which the obligations are expected to grow, are invested in a single pooled 
growth fund. This fund is invested in a wide range of asset classes and the fund manager RPMI has the discretion to vary the asset 
allocation to reflect its views on the relative attractiveness of different asset classes at any time. The remaining assets in the RPS are 
principally fixed and index-linked bonds.
Following the formal triennial funding valuation carried out as at 31 December 2010, the Group agreed to make ongoing fixed deficit 
contributions of £1.3m per annum plus an additional 1% of the active members’ payroll costs. The triennial funding valuation as at 
31 December 2013 continues to progress. The valuation has been subject to delays as the deficit is likely to have increased substantially and 
the shared cost nature of the scheme means that the impact of any of the trustees’ funding decisions on members needs to be considered 
very carefully.
Other schemes
Other schemes comprise unfunded post-retirement benefit obligations in Europe and North America, the majority of which are closed to 
new entrants, and deferred compensation schemes in the US, where an element of employees’ compensation is deferred and invested 
in available-for-sale assets (as disclosed in Note 19.1) in a trust, the assets of which are for the ultimate benefit of the employees but are 
available to the Group’s creditors in the event of insolvency.
Membership of the principal schemes
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
2015
Railways
Pension Scheme
2015
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
2014
Railways
Pension Scheme
2014
Number
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
duration
Years
Number
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
duration
Years
Number
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
duration
Years
Number
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
duration
Years
Defined benefit
– active members 17 6 20 111 66 21 69 6 20 156 63 21
–  de f e rr ed 
pensioners 12,894 1,546 23 1,335 100 20 13,423 1,539 23 1,389 99 20
–  p e nsi o n e r s , 
widow(er)s and 
dependants 19,045 1,479 11 1,632 148
 
12 20,772 1,595 11 1,578 157 12
Defined contribution 13,163 – – – – – 12,809 – – – – –
Total 45,119 3,031 17 3,078 314 16 47 ,073 3,140 17 3,123 319 16
28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations
Principal actuarial assumptions for the IAS 19 accounting valuations of the Group’s principal schemes
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2015
%
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2015
%
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
%
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
%
Discount rate 3.70 3.70 3.60 3.60
Inflation rate – RPI 3.00 3.00 2.95 2.95
 – CPI 1.60 1.60 1 .55 1 .55
Future increases in pensionable salary 1.60 1.60 1 .55 1 .55
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (or such other rate as is guaranteed) 2.85 1.80 2.80 1 .80
In December 2014, following independent advice from the Group’s actuaries based on further announcements by the Office for National 
Statistics, the Group reassessed the difference between RPI and CPI measures of price inflation from 1.2% in January 2014 to 1.4% 
reducing the retirement benefit liability by a further £31m which was recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
140 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 28 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
The BBPF actuary undertakes regular mortality investigations based on the experience exhibited by pensioners of the BBPF and due to 
the size of the membership of the BBPF (45,119 members at 31 December 2015) is able to make comparisons of this experience with the 
mortality rates set out in the various published mortality tables. The actuary is also able to monitor changes in the exhibited mortality over 
time. This research is taken into account in the Group’s mortality assumptions across its various defined benefit schemes.
The mortality assumptions as at 31 December 2015 have been updated to reflect the experience of Balfour Beatty pensioners for the period 
1 April 2004 to 31 March 2015. The mortality tables adopted for the 2015 IAS 19 valuations are the Self-Administered Pension Scheme 
(SAPS) S2 tables (2014: SAPS S2 tables) with a multiplier of 102% for all male and female members (2014: 102%) and 109% for female 
widows and dependants (2014: 109%); all with future improvements in line with the CMI 2015 core projection model (2014: CMI 2014 
core projection model), with long-term improvement rates of 1.25% per annum and 1.00% per annum for males and females respectively 
(2014: 1.25% per annum and 1.00% per annum).
2015  
Average life  
expectancy  
at 65 years of age
2014  
Average life  
expectancy  
at 65 years of age
Male Female Male Female
Members in receipt of a pension 22.1 23.9 22.2 24.0
Members not yet in receipt of a pension (current age 50) 23.4 25.0 23.5 25.1
Amounts recognised in the income statement
The BBPF defined contribution employer contributions paid and charged to the income statement have been separately identified in 
the table below and the defined contribution section assets and liabilities amounting to £318m (2014: £306m) have been excluded 
from the other tables on pages 142 to 144. Defined contribution charges for other schemes include contributions to multi-employer 
pension schemes.
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2015
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2015
£m
Other
schemes
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Continuing operations
Current service cost (4) (2) (1) (7) (3) (2) (2) (7)
Defined contribution charge (45) – (1) (46) (49) – (3) (52)
Included in employee costs (Note 7) (49) (2) (2) (53) (52) (2) (5) (59)
Interest income 111 9 – 120 113 6 – 119
Interest cost (110) (11) (2) (123) (126) (7) (2) (135)
Net finance cost (Note 9) 1 (2) (2) (3) (13) (1) (2) (16)
Settlements (Note 7) 3 – – 3 2 – – 2
Total charged to income statement from 
continuing operations (45) (4) (4) (53) (63) (3) (7) (73)
Discontinued operations
Current service cost (Note 7) – – – – – – (4) (4)
Defined contribution costs (Note 7) – – – – (4) – (12) (16)
Net finance cost – – – – – – (1) (1)
Total charged to income statement from 
discontinued operations – – – – (4) – (17) (21)
Total charged to income statement (45) (4) (4) (53) (67) (3) (24) (94)
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2015
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2015
£m
Other
schemes
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Actuarial movements on pension 
scheme obligations 57 5 6 68 (195) (128) (14) (337)
Actuarial movements on pension 
scheme assets (157) 4 (1) (154) 465 109 – 574
Total actuarial movements recognised in 
the Statement of Comprehensive Income 
(Note 30.1) (100) 9 5 (86) 270 (19) (14) 237
Cumulative actuarial movements recognised in 
the Statement of Comprehensive Income (276) (44) (29) (349) (176) (53) (34) (263)
The actual return on plan assets was a loss of £34m (2014: £693m gain).
141 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 28 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2015
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2015
£m
Other
schemes
†
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
†
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Present value of obligations (3,031) (314) (52) (3,397) (3,140) (319) (59) (3,518)
Fair value of plan assets 2,988 263 – 3,251 3,128 261 1 3,390
Liabilities in the balance sheet (43) (51) (52) (146) (12) (58) (58) (128)
†
 Available-for-sale investments in mutual funds of £20m (2014: £20m) are held to satisfy the Group’s deferred compensation obligations (Note 19.1).
The defined benefit obligation comprises £52m (2014: £58m) arising from wholly unfunded plans and £3,345m (2014: £3,460m) arising 
from plans that are wholly or partly funded.
Movement in the present value of obligations 
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund  
2015  
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2015
£m
Other
schemes
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension  
Fund  
2014  
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
At 1 January (3,140) (319) (59) (3,518) (2,964) (191) (7 4) (3,229)
Currency translation differences – – (1) (1) – – (1) (1)
Current service cost – continuing operations (4) (2) (1) (7) (3) (2) (2) (7)
Interest cost – continuing operations (110) (11) (2) (123) (126) (7) (2) (135)
Income statement costs relating to 
discontinued operations – – – – – – (5) (5)
Actuarial movements from reassessing the 
difference between RPI and CPI – – – – 27 4 – 31
Other financial actuarial movements 41 4 6 51 (226) (133) (13) (372)
Actuarial movements from changes in 
demographic assumptions 15 1 – 16 9 2 – 11
Experience gains/(losses) 1 – – 1 (5) (1) (1) (7)
Total actuarial movements 57 5 6 68 (195) (128) (14) (337)
Benefits paid 163 13 5 181 146 9 9 164
Settlements 3 – – 3 2 – – 2
Reclassified from liabilities held for sale – – – – – – (20) (20)
Reclassified to liabilities held for sale and 
subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) – – – – – – 50 50
At 31 December (3,031) (314) (52) (3,397) (3,140) (319) (59) (3,518)
Movement in the fair value of plan assets
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund  
2015  
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2015
£m
Other
schemes
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension  
Fund  
2014  
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
At 1 January 3,128 261 1 3,390 2,641 153 1 2,795
Interest income 111 9 – 120 113 6 – 119
Actuarial movements (157) 4 (1) (154) 465 109 – 574
Contributions from employer
– regular funding 3 1 – 4 4 1 – 5
–  ongoing deficit funding 65 1 – 66 48 1 – 49
Benefits paid (162) (13) – (175) (146) (9) – (155)
Settlements – – – – 3 – – 3
At 31 December 2,988 263 – 3,251 3,128 261 1 3,390
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
142 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 28 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Fair value of the assets held by the schemes at 31 December
2015 2014
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
†
£m
Total
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
†
£m
Other
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Return-seeking 973 200 1,173 979 197 – 1,176
– Developed nation equities 358 – 358 356 – – 356
– Emerging market equities 103 – 103 115 – – 115
– Emerging market debt and currency 116 – 116 134 – – 134
– Hedge funds 336 – 336 313 – – 313
– Return-seeking growth pooled funds – 200 200 – 197 – 197
– Other return-seeking assets 60 – 60 61 – – 61
Liability matching bond-type assets 1,963 63 2,026 1,944 64 – 2,008
– Corporate bonds 617 – 617 681 – – 681
– Fixed interest gilts 628 – 628 464 – – 464
– Index-linked gilts 588 – 588 583 – – 583
– Liability matching pooled funds – 63 63 – 64 – 64
– Interest and inflation rate swaps 130 – 130 216 – – 216
Other 52 – 52 205 – 1 206
Total 2,988 263 3,251 3,128 261 1 3,390
†
 The amounts in 2015 represent 95% of the scheme’s assets (2014: 95%).
All assets have quoted prices in active markets with the exception of the following where the classification is in accordance with 
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement:
 – £240m of the corporate bonds (Level 2)
 – interest and inflation rate swaps (Level 2)
 – hedge funds (Level 3)
 – return-seeking growth pooled funds (Level 3)
 – other return-seeking assets (Level 3)
 – liability matching pooled funds (Level 3).
Estimated contributions expected to be paid to the Group’s principal defined benefit schemes during 2016
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2016
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2016
£m
Total
2016
£m
Regular funding 2 1 3
Ongoing deficit funding 59 1 60
Total 61 2 63
143 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 28 Retirement benefit liabilities continued
28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations at 31 December 2015 to different actuarial assumptions
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible changes in assumptions occurring at the end of the 
reporting period. In each case the relevant change in assumption occurs in isolation from potential changes in other assumptions. In practice 
more than one variable is likely to change at the same time. The sensitivities have been calculated using the projected unit credit method.
Obligations
Percentage 
points/ 
Years
(Decrease)/
increase in 
obligations 
%
(Decrease)/
increase in 
obligations 
£m
Increase in discount rate 0.5% (7 .8) (262)
Increase in market expectation of RPI inflation 0.5% 5.3 178
Increase in salary growth 0.5% 0.1 3
Increase in life expectancy 1 year 4.0 135
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement benefit assets at 31 December 2015 to changes in market conditions
Assets
Percentage
points
(Decrease)/
increase
in assets
%
(Decrease)/
increase
in assets
£m
Increase in interest rates 0.5% (8.3) (270)
Increase in market expectation of RPI inflation 0.5% 4.9 159
The asset sensitivities only take into account the impact of the changes in market conditions on bond type assets. The value of the schemes’ 
return-seeking assets is not directly correlated with movements in interest rates or RPI inflation.
Year end historical information for the Group’s retirement defined benefit schemes
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Present value of obligations (3,397) (3,518) (3,229) (3,146) (2,910)
Fair value of assets 3,251 3,390 2,795 2,813 2,640
Deficit (146) (128) (434) (333) (270)
Experience adjustment for obligations 1 (7) 16 (39) (1 1)
Experience adjustment for assets (154) 574 (44) 83 148
Total deficit funding 66 49 59 61 113
28.3 Latest formal triennial funding valuations
Balfour Beatty 
Pension  
Fund  
£m
Railways  
Pension  
Scheme  
£m
Date of last formal triennial funding valuation 31/03/2013 31/12/2010
Scheme deficit
Market value of assets 3,103 260
Present value of obligations (3,522) (268)
Deficit in defined benefit scheme (419) (8)
Funding level 88.1% 97 .0%
The triennial funding valuation as at 31 December 2013 for the RPS scheme continues to progress. The valuation has been subject to delays 
as the deficit is likely to have increased substantially and the shared cost nature of the scheme means that the impact of any of the trustees’ 
funding decisions on members needs to be considered very carefully.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
144 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 29 Share capital
29.1 Ordinary shares of 50p each
Issued
Million £m
At 1 January 2014 689 344
Shares issued 1 1
At 31 December 2014 690 345
Shares issued – –
At 31 December 2015 690 345
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid. Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income but each share carries the right to one vote at general 
meetings of the Company.
Ordinary shares issued during the year credited as fully paid
Ordinary 
shares  
2015  
Number
Consideration 
2015  
£m
Ordinary 
shares  
2014  
Number
Consideration 
2014  
£m
Savings-related share options exercised 210,214 1 101,540 –
Executive share options exercised – – 318,840 1
210,214 1 420,380 1
At 31 December 2015, there were no share options outstanding under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE) (2014: 591,789 
options at an exercise price of 236.0p). No options have been granted under the SAYE since 2010.
29.2 Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each
Issued
Million £m
At 31 December 2014 and 2015 112 1
All issued preference shares are fully paid. During the current and prior year, no preference shares were repurchased for cancellation by 
the Company.
Holders of preference shares are entitled to a preferential dividend equivalent to a gross payment of 10.75p per preference share per annum, 
payable half-yearly. A preference dividend of 5.375p gross (4.8375p net) per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share of 1p was 
paid on 1 July 2015 in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2015. A preference dividend of 5.375p gross (4.8375p net) per cumulative 
convertible redeemable preference share of 1p was paid on 1 January 2016 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2015. As a 
result of changes in the tax legislation, and in accordance with the terms of the preference shares, from July 2016 the half-yearly dividend 
payment will be 5.375p. 
On 1 July 2020, any preference shares still outstanding are redeemable at £1 each, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, unless 
the holder exercises any option granted by the Company to extend the redemption date. The maximum redemption value of all of the issued 
and outstanding preference shares, excluding any arrears or accruals of dividend, was £112m at 31 December 2015 (2014: £112m).
At the option of the holder, preference shares are convertible on the first day of the next calendar month following receipt of the conversion 
notice into new Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares effectively on the basis of 24.69136 ordinary shares for every 100 preference shares, 
subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. The Company is entitled to convert all outstanding preference shares into ordinary shares 
if there are fewer than 44,281,239 preference shares in issue or if the average of the closing mid-market price for a Balfour Beatty plc 
ordinary share during a 30-day period exceeds 810p, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
The preference shares carry no voting rights at a general meeting of the Company, except where the dividend is six months or more in 
arrears, or where the business of the meeting includes a resolution which directly affects the rights and privileges attached to the preference 
shares or a resolution for the winding up of the Company. On winding up the Company, holders are entitled to receive the sum of £1 per 
preference share, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, in priority to any payment on any other class of shares.
The preference shares are a compound instrument, comprising equity and liability components. The fair value of the liability component at 
the date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 13.5% per annum for a 
similar non-convertible instrument. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and the fair value assigned to 
the liability component, representing the value of the equity conversion component, is included in equity holders’ equity, net of deferred tax.
145 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 29 Share capital continued
29.2 Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each continued
Liability component recognised in the Balance Sheet
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Redemption value of shares in issue at 1 January 112 112
Equity component (18) (18)
Interest element 2 –
Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 96 94
Interest accretion 2 2
Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 98 96
The fair value of the liability component of the preference shares at 31 December 2015 amounted to £109m (2014: £111m). The fair value is 
determined by using the market price of the preference shares at the reporting date.
Interest expense on the preference shares is calculated using the effective interest method.
29.3 Convertible bonds
On 3 December 2013, the Group issued convertible bonds for net proceeds of £246m. The convertible bonds are compound instruments 
comprising equity and liability components. The fair value of the liability component was estimated as £220m using the prevailing market 
rate at the date of issue for a similar non-convertible instrument. The difference between the net proceeds and the fair value of the liability 
represented the embedded option to convert the liability into the Company’s ordinary shares being the equity component of £26m. 
Refer to Note 26.3.
30 Movements in equity
30.1 Group
Other reserves
Called- 
up share 
capital 
2015 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
2015 
£m
Special 
reserve 
2015 
£m
Share 
of joint 
ventures’ 
and 
associates’ 
reserves 
(Note 18.7) 
2015 
£m
Equity 
component 
of 
preference 
shares and 
convertible 
bonds 
2015 
£m
Hedging 
reserves 
2015 
£m
PPP 
financial 
assets 
2015 
£m
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
2015 
£m
Other 
2015 
£m
Retained 
profits 
2015 
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
2015 
£m
Total 
2015 
£m
At 1 January 2015 345 64 23 340 44 (7 4) 101 55 14 315 3 1,230
Profit for the year – – – 44 – – – – – (250) – (206)
Currency translation  
differences – – – 3 – – – 29 – – – 32
Actuarial movements on  
retirement benefit liabilities – – – (4) – – – – – (86) – (90)
Fair value revaluations
– PPP financial assets – – – (170) – – (13) – – – – (183)
– cash flow hedges – – – 21 – 8 – – – – – 29
Recycling of revaluation  
reserves to the income  
statement on disposal
@
– – – (5) – 4 (27) 3 – 5 – (20)
Tax on items recognised in  
other comprehensive income
@
– – – 33 – 4 (3) – – 15 – 49
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year – – – (78) – 16 (43) 32 – (316) – (389)
Joint ventures’ and associates’ 
dividends – – – (69) – – – – – 69 – –
Issue of ordinary shares – 1 – – – – – – – – – 1
Movements relating to  
share-based payments – – – – – – – – (1) (12) – (13)
Minority interest – – – – – – – – – – 1 1
Reserve transfers relating to joint 
venture and associate disposals – – – (13) – – – – – 13 – –
Other transfers – – (1) 16 – – – – – (15) – –
At 31 December 2015 345 65 22 196 44 (58) 58 87 13 54 4 830
@
 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
146 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 30 Movements in equity continued
30.1 Group continued
Other reserves
Called- 
up 
share 
capital 
2014 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
2014 
£m
Special 
reserve 
2014 
£m
Share 
of joint 
ventures’ 
and 
associates’ 
reserves 
(Note 18.7) 
2014 
£m
Equity 
component 
of 
preference 
shares and 
convertible 
bonds 
2014 
£m
Hedging 
reserves 
2014 
£m
PPP 
financial 
assets 
2014 
£m
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
2014 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
2014 
£m
Other 
2014 
£m
Retained 
profits 
2014 
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
2014 
£m
Total 
2014 
£m
At 1 January 2014 344 64 24 278 44 (56) 56 8 249 22 – 2 1,035
Profit for the year – – – 53 – – – – – – (1 13) 1 (59)
Currency translation 
differences – – – 2 – – – 30 – – – – 32
Actuarial movements on 
retirement benefit liabilities – – – (5) – – – – – – 237 – 232
Fair value revaluations
– PPP financial assets – – – 224 – – 79 – – – – – 303
– cash flow hedges – – – (102) – (54) – – – – – – (156)
–  a v ai l a b l e - f o r - s al e 
investments in 
mutual funds – – – – – – – – – 2 – – 2
Recycling of revaluation 
reserves to the income 
statement on disposal
@
– – – (7) – 26 (18) 17 – (7) – – 11
Tax on items recognised 
in other comprehensive 
income
@
– – – (23) – 10 (16) – – – (48) – (77)
Total comprehensive 
income/(expense) for 
the year – – – 142 – (18) 45 47 – (5) 76 1 288
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – – – – – (96) – (96)
Joint ventures’ and 
associates’dividends – – – (56) – – – – – – 56 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 1 – – – – – – – – – – – 1
Movements relating to 
share-based payments – – – – – – – – – (3) 5 – 2
Reserve transfers relating  
to joint venture and 
associate disposals – – – (24) – – – – – – 24 – –
Other transfers – – (1) – – – – – (249) – 250 – –
At 31 December 2014 345 64 23 340 44 (7 4) 101 55 – 14 315 3 1,230
@
 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect.
147 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 30 Movements in equity continued
30.2 Company
Other reserves
Called-up 
share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Special 
reserve 
£m
Equity 
component 
of 
preference 
shares and 
convertible 
bonds 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Other 
£m
Retained 
profits 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2014 344 64 24 44 249 69 271 1,065
Profit for the year – – – – – – 156 156
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – – 156 156
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – (96) (96)
Issue of ordinary shares 1 – – – – – – 1
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – – 5 – 5
Other transfers – – (1) – (249) – 250 –
At 31 December 2014 345 64 23 44 – 74 581 1,131
Profit for the year – – – – – – 34 34
Currency translation differences – – – – – – 2 2
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – – 36 36
Issue of ordinary shares – 1 – – – – – 1
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – – (2) (14) (16)
Other transfers – – (1) – – – 1 –
At 31 December 2015 345 65 22 44 – 72 604 1,152
The retained profits of Balfour Beatty plc are wholly distributable. By special resolution on 13 May 2004, confirmed by the court on 16 June 
2004, the share premium account was reduced by £181m and the £4m capital redemption reserve was cancelled, effective on 25 June 
2004, and a special reserve of £185m was created. This reserve becomes distributable to the extent of future increases in share capital 
and share premium account, of which £1m occurred in 2015 (2014: £1m).
30.3 The retained profits in the Group and the retained profits of the Company are stated net of investments in Balfour Beatty plc ordinary 
shares acquired by the Group’s employee discretionary trust, the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust, to satisfy awards 
under the Performance Share Plan, the Executive Buyout Scheme, the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Plan. In 2015, 7.3m 
(2014: 0.6m) shares were purchased at a cost of £16.9m (2014: £1.7m). The market value of the 9.2m (2014: 2.9m) shares held by the Trust 
at 31 December 2015 was £24.9m (2014: £6.2m). The carrying value of these shares is £23.0m (2014: £9.0m). Following confirmation of 
the performance criteria at the end of the performance period in the case of the Performance Share Plan and the Executive Buyout Scheme, 
and at the end of the vesting period in the case of the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Plan, the appropriate number of shares 
will be unconditionally transferred to participants. In 2015, nil shares were transferred to participants in relation to the April 2013 special 
awards under the Performance Share Plan (2014: 0.1m shares were transferred to participants), nil shares were transferred to participants in 
relation to the April 2012 awards under the Performance Share Plan (2014: nil shares were transferred to participants in relation to the April 
2011 awards under the Performance Share Plan), 0.3m were transferred to participants in relation to the January 2015 awards under the 
Executive Buyout Scheme and 0.7m shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan (2014: 0.9m 
shares). The Trustees have waived the rights to dividends on shares held by the trust. Other reserves in the Group and Company include 
£3.9m relating to unvested Performance Share Plan awards (2014: £4.3m), £nil relating to unvested share options (2014: £0.4m), £0.2m 
(2014: £nil) relating to unvested Restricted Share Plan awards, £1.3m (2014: £nil) relating to unvested Executive Buyout Scheme awards and 
£1.5m relating to unvested Deferred Bonus Plan awards (2014: £2.1m). 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
148 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 31 Notes to the statements of cash flows
Continuing operations
Notes
Underlying
items
1
2015 
£m
Non- 
underlying 
items 
(Note 10) 
2015 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
and assets 
held for sale 
(Note 12) 
2015 
£m
Group 
2015 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company
2014
^
£m
31.1 Cash (used in)/generated from operations
(Loss)/profit from operations (106) (76) – (182) (43) 62 185
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 18 (47) 3 – (44) (53) – –
Dividends received – – – – – (25) (168)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 33 2 – 35 54 – –
Amortisation of other intangible assets 16 15 10 – 25 25 – –
Impairment of IT intangible assets 16 – 17 – 17 21 – –
Pension deficit payments 28.2 (66) – – (66) (49) – –
Pension fund settlement gain 10 – (3) – (3) (2) – –
Movements relating to share-based payments 33 5 – – 5 5 – –
Profit on disposal of investments in  
infrastructure concessions 32.2 (95) – – (95) (93) (54) (49)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1) – – (1) (7) – –
Net gain on disposal of other businesses 32.2 – (13) (1) (14) (234) – –
Goodwill impairment 10 – 4 – 4 24 – –
Impairment of assets within Rail Germany 10 – 7 – 7 30 – –
Other non-cash items (1) – – (1) 1 – –
Operating cash flows before movements in  
working capital (263) (49) (1) (313) (321) (17) (32)
Decrease/(increase) in operating working capital 179 (5) 4 178 (31) (144) 310
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 21 5 1 27 (30) – –
Due from construction contract customers 160 22 – 182 (92) – –
Trade and other receivables 52 18 4 74 (43) (259) 46
Due to construction contract customers 137 (11) – 126 50 – –
Trade and other payables (181) (51) (4) (236) 85 115 264
Provisions (10) 12 3 5 (1) – –
Cash (used in)/generated from operations (84) (54) 3 (135) (352) (161) 278
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
^
 Re-presented to show short-term loans made to joint ventures and associates separately from cash used in operations in the Company cash flow. 
Group 
2015 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company 
2014 
£m
31.2 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and deposits 562 653 50 249
Term deposits 84 38 – –
Cash balances within infrastructure concessions 20 40 – –
Bank overdrafts (3) (4) (160) (142)
663 727 (110) 107
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of less than three months and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the 
balance sheet.
Infrastructure 
concessions 
non-recourse 
project 
finance 
2015 
£m
Other 
2015 
£m
Group 
2015 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Company 
2015 
£m
Company 
2014 
£m
31.3 Analysis of movement in net (borrowings)/cash
Opening net borrowings (445) 219 (226) (420) (117) (318)
Currency translation differences (3) (12) (15) (21) (12) (12)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (20) (63) (83) 212 (217) 213
Accretion on convertible bonds – (6) (6) (6) – –
Proceeds from new loans (79) – (79) (247) – –
Proceeds from new finance leases – – – (1) – –
Repayments of loans 11 1 12 90 – –
Repayments of finance leases – – – 3 – –
Transfer of borrowings in the period (6) 6 – – – –
Disposal of non-recourse borrowings (Notes 32.2.10 and 32.3.7) 177 – 177 163 – –
Net decrease in cash within assets held for sale – 18 18 1 – –
Closing net (borrowings)/cash (365) 163 (202) (226) (346) (1 17)
149 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 31 Notes to the statements of cash flows continued
31.4 Borrowings
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the significant movements in borrowings were: a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 
(excluding cash held in infrastructure concession projects) of £63m (2014: £237m net increase); a net repayment of short-term loans of 
£1m (2014: £83m); an increase of £79m (2014: £236m) in non-recourse loans funding the development of financial assets in infrastructure 
concession subsidiaries; disposal of non-recourse borrowings in Thanet OFTO HoldCo Ltd £177m (2014: £163m on disposal of Transform 
Schools (Knowsley) Holdings Ltd); and repayment of £11m (2014: £7m) of non-recourse loans.
32 Acquisitions and disposals
32.1 Current and prior year acquisitions
There were no material acquisitions during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014.
Deferred consideration paid during 2015 in respect of acquisitions completed in earlier years was £3m (2014: £3m). This related to the 
Group’s acquisition of Centex Construction in 2007.
32.2 Current year disposals
Notes Disposal date Entity/business
Percentage 
disposed 
%
Cash 
consideration 
£m
Net assets 
disposed 
£m
Amount 
recycled 
from 
reserves 
£m
Direct 
costs 
incurred, 
indemnity 
provisions 
created 
and 
fair value 
uplift 
£m
Underlying 
gain 
£m
Non- 
underlying 
gain/(loss) 
£m
32.2.1 31 January 2015 Parts of Rail Germany
*
100 5 (5) (1) (4) – (5)
32.2.2 16 February 2015 Thanet OFTO HoldCo Ltd
*
80 40 (35) 18 6 29 –
32.2.3 11 March 2015 Rail Italy
*
100 5 (6) (2) (1) – (4)
32.2.4 12 March 2015
Baoji BaoDeLi Electrification 
Ltd
^
25 4 (2) – – – 2
32.2.5 28 April 2015 Edinburgh Royal Infirmary
^
 50 72 (15) (1) (1) 55 –
32.2.6 27 May 2015 Signalling Solutions Ltd
^
50 18 (1) – (1) – 16
32.2.7 30 November 2015
Aura Holdings (Newcastle) 
Ltd
^
25 7 (3) – – 4 –
32.2.8 2 December 2015
Greater Gabbard OFTO 
Holdings Ltd
^
33 26 (25) 6 – 7 –
177 (92) 20 (1) 95 9
* Subsidiary.
^
 Joint venture.
32.2.1 On 31 January 2015, as part of the ongoing process to exit the Mainland European rail business, the Group disposed of part of its Rail 
business in Germany and its Rail business in Austria for a cash consideration of £5m. The disposal resulted in a £5m loss being recognised 
as a non-underlying item within continuing operations, comprising a £1m loss on recycling currency translation reserves to the income 
statement and costs of disposal of £4m, of which £1m remains unpaid. The disposal included cash disposed of £12m.
32.2.2 On 16 February 2015, the Group disposed of an 80% interest in Thanet OFTO HoldCo Ltd (Thanet) for a cash consideration of £40m. 
This infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of £29m being recognised within underlying operating profit, comprising: a gain 
of £5m in respect of the investment in the subsidiary, an £18m gain in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement and 
£6m representing the fair value uplift of the interest retained. The Group retains a 20% interest in Thanet which will be accounted for as a 
joint venture using the equity method. The disposal included cash disposed of £17m.
32.2.3 On 11 March 2015, as part of the ongoing process to exit the mainland European Rail business, the Group disposed of its Rail 
business in Italy for a cash consideration of £5m. The disposal resulted in a £4m loss being recognised as a non-underlying item within 
discontinued operations, comprising a £1m loss in respect of the fair value of net assets disposed, a £2m loss on recycling currency 
translation reserves to the income statement and costs of disposal of £1m. The disposal included cash disposed of £3m.
32.2.4 On 12 March 2015, as part of the ongoing process to exit the mainland European Rail business, the Group disposed of its 25% 
interest in Baoji BaoDeLi Electrification Equipment Ltd for a cash consideration of £4m. The disposal resulted in a £2m gain being recognised 
as a non-underlying item within continuing operations in respect of the investment in the joint venture.
32.2.5 On 28 April 2015, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Holdings Ltd (Edinburgh 
Royal Infirmary) for a cash consideration of £72m. This infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of £55m being recognised 
within underlying operating profit, comprising: a gain of £57m in respect of the investment in the joint venture, a £1m loss in respect of 
revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement and £1m costs of disposal incurred. 
The Company received £54m of cash consideration in relation to the disposal of its interest in Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and recognised an 
underlying gain of £54m in respect of this disposal.
32.2.6 On 27 May 2015, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Signalling Solutions Ltd for an initial cash consideration of £17m. 
An additional cash consideration of £1m was subsequently received in the second half of the year. The disposal resulted in a £16m gain 
being recognised in non-underlying items within continuing operations in respect of the disposal of the investment in the joint venture, 
after deducting disposal costs of £1m. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
150 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 32 Acquisitions and disposals continued
32.2 Current year disposals continued
32.2.7 On 30 November 2015, the Group disposed of its 25% interest in Aura Holdings (Newcastle) Ltd for a cash consideration of £7m. 
This infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of £4m being recognised within underlying operating profit in respect of the 
investment in the joint venture.
32.2.8 On 2 December 2015, the Group disposed of its 33% interest in Greater Gabbard OFTO Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration 
of £26m. This infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of £7m being recognised within underlying operating profit, 
comprising a gain of £1m in respect of the investment in the joint venture and a £6m gain in respect of revaluation reserves recycled 
to the income statement.
32.2.9 In 2015, the Group finalised the cash consideration due on the disposal of its professional services business, Parsons Brinckerhoff 
(PB), amounting to additional consideration for the Group of £16m of which £7m was recognised as a receivable at the date of disposal in 
the prior period. In accordance with the stock purchase agreement, the Group received cash of £20m relating to historic tax matters (£16m 
of which was recognised as a current tax receivable in the prior period) and the Group also released an indemnity provision relating to an 
historic legal claim of £3m which was successfully settled during the period. Offsetting this additional non-underlying gain on disposal are 
separation costs incurred during the period of £4m, of which £2m were paid during the period, and the write-off of a deferred tax asset of 
£7m resulting in an overall net gain of £5m. Transaction costs of £9m, which were accrued in the prior period, were paid in the year.
32.2.10 Subsidiaries net assets disposed
Continuing 
operations
Discontinued operations 
and assets held for sale
Net assets disposed Notes
Thanet
£m
Rail 
Germany
£m
Rail Italy
£m
Total  
£m
PPP financial assets 20 214 – – 214
Deferred taxation 27 (6) – 1 (5)
Inventories and non-construction work in progress – 1 – 1
Due from construction contract customers – 10 4 14
Trade and other receivables 2 5 10 17
Trade and other payables – (20) (11) (31)
Provisions – (1) – (1)
Retirement benefit liabilities – (1) (1) (2)
Current taxation – – 1 1
Derivatives (6) – – (6)
Cash 17 12 3 32
Recourse borrowings – (1) (1) (2)
Non-recourse borrowings 31 .3 (177) – – (177)
Net assets of interest retained (9) – – (9)
12 35 5 6 46
Fair value movement on retained interest (6) – – (6)
Reserves recycled to the income statement (18) 1 2 (15)
Costs directly related to the sale – 4 1 5
11 10 9 30
Net cash consideration (40) (5) (5) (50)
(Gain)/loss on disposal (29) 5 4 (20)
Net cash flow effect
Total consideration 40 5 5 50
Cash and cash equivalents disposed (17) (12) (3) (32)
Transaction and separation costs paid – (3) (1) (4)
Net cash consideration 23 (10) 1 14
Net receipt in relation to the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff 32.2.9 25
39
151 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 32 Acquisitions and disposals continued
32.3 Prior year disposals
Notes Disposal date Entity/business
Percentage 
disposed 
%
Cash 
consideration 
£m
Net assets 
disposed 
£m
Amount 
recycled 
from 
reserves 
£m
Direct costs 
incurred, 
indemnity 
provisions 
created and 
fair value 
uplift 
£m
Underlying 
gain 
£m
Non- 
underlying 
gain 
£m
32.3.1 8 January 2014 Rail Scandinavia
*
100 2 (2) 1 (1) – –
32.3.2 22 May 2014
Consort Healthcare (Durham) 
Holdings Ltd
^
50 55 (43) 15 – 27 –
32.3.3 30 May 2014
Transform Schools (Knowsley) 
Holdings Ltd
*
100 42 (10) (8) – 24 –
32.3.4 1 October 2014
Consort Healthcare (Mid 
Yorkshire) Holdings Ltd
^
50 62 (12) (8) – 42 –
32.3.5 31 October 2014 Parsons Brinckerhoff
*
100 812 (498) (1 1) (69) – 234
973 (565) (11) (70) 93 234
* Subsidiary.
^
 Joint venture.
32.3.1 On 8 January 2014, the Group disposed of its Rail business in Scandinavia for a cash consideration of £2m. The disposal resulted in 
a £nil gain/loss being recognised as a non-underlying item, comprising a £nil gain/loss in respect of the fair value of net assets disposed and 
a £1m gain on recycling currency translation reserves to the income statement. Costs of disposal incurred and indemnity provisions of £1m 
were charged to the income statement which resulted in the overall £nil gain/loss. The disposal included cash disposed of £9m.
32.3.2 On 22 May 2014, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Durham) Holdings Ltd (CHDHL) for an agreed 
cash consideration of £55m, including a settlement of short-term loans due from joint ventures of £5m. On this date, the Group ceased 
to jointly control CHDHL by virtue of a put/call structure with a preferred bidder. The disposal was completed on 30 June 2014 and the 
proceeds were received in July 2014. This disposal resulted in a net gain of £27m being recognised within underlying operating profit in the 
income statement, comprising a gain of £12m in respect of the disposal of the investment in the joint venture and a £15m gain in respect of 
revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement.
The Company recognised an underlying gain of £49m in respect of this disposal.
32.3.3 On 30 May 2014, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Transform Schools (Knowsley) Holdings Ltd (TSKHL) for an agreed 
cash consideration of £42m. On this date, the Group ceased to jointly control TSKHL by virtue of a put/call structure with a preferred bidder. 
The disposal of the subsidiary was completed on 12 June 2014. This disposal resulted in a net gain of £24m being recognised within 
underlying profit, comprising a gain of £32m in respect of the fair value of net assets disposed and an £8m loss in respect of revaluation 
reserves recycled to the income statement. The disposal included cash disposed of £8m.
32.3.4 On 1 October 2014, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Mid Yorkshire) Holdings Ltd for an agreed cash 
consideration of £62m. This disposal was completed on 1 October 2014 and resulted in a gain of £42m being recognised within underlying 
operating profit, comprising a £50m gain in respect of the disposal of the investment in the joint venture and an £8m loss in respect of 
revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement.
32.3.5 On 28 October 2014, shareholder approval was granted for the disposal of the Group’s 100% interest in Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
The deal subsequently completed on 31 October 2014 for an agreed cash consideration of £812m. The disposal resulted in a net non-
underlying gain of £234m being recognised within discontinued operations after incurring separation costs of £24m and transaction costs of 
£45m. The net gain comprised a gain of £314m before disposal costs in respect of the fair value of net assets disposed and a £11m loss in 
respect of reserves recycled to the income statement. This disposal included cash disposed of £42m. Additional consideration of £16m was 
received in 2015. Refer to Notes 12 and 32.2.9. 
32.3.6 In 2014, the Group finalised the cash consideration due on the disposal of its UK facilities management business, Balfour Beatty 
WorkPlace (BBW), amounting to an additional consideration for the Group of £1m. At the same time, an agreement was reached to 
discharge the Group’s obligation for which a provision of £14m had been made in return for a payment by the Group of £9m. This resulted 
in an additional non-underlying gain on disposal of £6m, which was fully offset with an impairment charge for an intangible asset of £6m. 
The additional net non-underlying gain on disposal recognised in 2014 was therefore £nil. Costs of £6m incurred in 2013 were subsequently 
settled in 2014. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
152 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 32 Acquisitions and disposals continued
32.3 Prior year disposals continued
32.3.7 Prior year subsidiaries net assets disposed
Net assets disposed Notes
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
£m
Knowsley 
£m
Rail 
Scandinavia 
£m
Total  
£m
Intangible assets – goodwill 15 227 – – 227
Intangible assets – other 16 7 – – 7
Property, plant and equipment 17 53 – 7 60
Investment in joint ventures and associates 18 1 – – 1
Available-for-sale investments 19 45 – – 45
PPP financial assets 20 – 197 – 197
Deferred taxation 27 42 2 – 44
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 116 – 5 121
Trade and other receivables 300 3 21 324
Trade and other payables (269) (4) (30) (303)
Provisions 25 (12) – (2) (14)
Retirement benefit liabilities 28 (50) – (8) (58)
Current taxation (4) – – (4)
Derivatives – (33) – (33)
Cash 42 8 9 59
Non-recourse borrowings 31 .3 – (163) – (163)
498 10 2 510
Reserves recycled to the income statement 11 8 (1) 18
Costs directly related to the sale 69 – 1 70
578 18 2 598
Net cash consideration (812) (42) (2) (856)
Gain on disposal (234) (24) – (258)
Net cash flow effect
Total consideration 812 42 2 856
Cash and cash equivalents disposed (42) (8) (9) (59)
Transaction and separation costs paid (47) – (1) (48)
Net cash consideration 723 34 (8) 749
Net payments made in relation to BBW disposal and associated transaction
costs (Note 32.3.6) (14)
735
33 Share-based payments
The Company operates five equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the Executive Buyout Scheme (EBS), the 
Performance Share Plan (PSP), the Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP), the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) and the Savings-Related Share Option 
Scheme (SAYE). The Group recognised total expenses relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions of £4.5m in 2015 
(2014: £4.9m). Refer to the Remuneration report for details of the various schemes and to Note 29.1.
33.1 Movements in share options
SAYE options ESOS options
2015 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
2015 
Pence
2014 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
2014 
Pence
2015 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
2015 
Pence
2014 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
2014 
Pence
Outstanding at 1 January 591,789 236.0 1,364,265 242.1 – – 387 ,733 227 .3
Forfeited during the year (134,062) 236.0 (187 ,464) 242.8 – – – –
Exercised during the year (210,214) 236.0 (101,540) 242.3 – – (318,840) 227 .3
Expired during the year (247 ,513) 236.0 (483,472) 249.2 – – (68,893) 227 .3
Outstanding at 31 December – – 591,789 236.0 – – – –
Exercisable at 31 December – – – – – – – –
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those SAYE options exercised during the year was 265.3p (2014: 274.7p). 
There are no SAYE options outstanding as at 31 December 2015. The weighted average remaining contractual life of SAYE options 
outstanding at 31 December 2014 was 0.5 years.
There are no ESOS options outstanding. The ESOS scheme is now closed. 
153 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 33 Share-based payments continued
33.2 Movements in share plans
EBS conditional 
awards PSP conditional awards DBP conditional awards
RSP conditional 
awards
2015 
Number
2015 
Number
2014 
Number
2015 
Number
2014 
Number
2015 
Number
Outstanding at 1 January – 6,833,065 9,615,176 1,345,473 1,797 ,335 –
Granted during the year 2,859,212 3,969,923 2,521,625 700,087 490,541 1,105,658
Awards in lieu of dividends – – – – 96,973 –
Forfeited during the year – (1,351,983) (2,431,898) (68,220) (1 16,179) –
Exercised during the year (409,156) – (143,337) (728,104) (923,197) –
Expired during the year (544,796) (2,607 ,027) (2,728,501) – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 1,905,260 6,843,978 6,833,065 1,249,236 1,345,473 1,105,658
Exercisable at 31 December – – – – 30,239 –
Weighted average remaining contractual 
life (years) 1.5 1.4 1.1 1.9 1.7 2.4
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those EBS awards exercised during the year was 261.6p (2014: nil). 
Included in the number of shares exercised during the year is the exercise of an award of 141,791 shares which was cash-settled. 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those DBP awards exercised during the year was 278.1p (2014: 273.7p).
The principal assumptions, including expected volatility determined from the historical weekly share price movements over the three-year 
period immediately preceding the award date, used by the consultants in the stochastic model for all awards granted in 2015 subject to 
market conditions, were:
Award date Name of award
Closing 
share  
price on 
award date 
Pence
Expected 
volatility of 
shares 
%
Expected 
term of 
awards 
Years
Risk-free 
interest 
rate 
%
Calculated 
fair value 
of an 
award 
Pence
2 January 2015 EBS – Leo Quinn 212.4 38.6 2.0 0.43 102.1
2 January 2015 EBS – Leo Quinn 212.4 37 .1 3.0 0.67 92.1
11 June 2015 EBS – Philip Harrison 253.1 38.4 1.6 0.55 157 .1
11 June 2015 EBS – Philip Harrison 253.1 36.0 2.6 0.71 135.8
26 June 2015 PSP award granted in 2015 243.0 36.3 3.0 0.94 173.5
26 June 2015 PSP award granted in 2015 – Leo Quinn 243.0 37 .4 3.0 0.94 193.4
For the DBP and RSP awards granted in 2015, the fair value of the awards is the closing share price before award date.
34 Commitments
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for which has not been provided for in the financial statements amounted to £4m (2014: £3m) 
in the Group and £nil (2014: £nil) in the Company.
The Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding and subordinated debt in Infrastructure Investments projects which 
have reached financial close. Refer to Note 39f.
In January 2013, the Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners Fund (Infrastructure Fund) reached first close with US$317m of commitments, 
of which Balfour Beatty committed US$110m. Final close was reached in July 2014 with a total of US$618m committed. The Group has 
invested a net US$55m in the Infrastructure Fund, of which US$22m was invested in 2015.
The Group leases land and buildings, equipment and other various assets under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases 
have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The lease expenditure charged to the income statement for continuing operations 
is disclosed in Note 6.1.
Future operating lease expenditure commitments
Continuing operations
Land and 
buildings 
2015 
£m
Other  
2015  
£m
Land and 
buildings 
2014 
£m
 
Other  
2014 
£m
Group
Due within one year 28 32 30 29
Due between one and five years 58 43 57 41
Due after more than five years 23 3 23 5
109 78 110 75
The Company did not have any future operating lease expenditure commitments as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
154 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 34 Commitments continued
Future committed operating lease income
Continuing operations
Land and 
buildings 
2015 
£m
Land and 
buildings 
2014 
£m
Group
Due within one year 1 1
Due between one and five years 5 1
Due after more than five years 1 –
7 2
The Company did not have any future committed operating lease income as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil). 
35 Contingent liabilities
The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into counter-
indemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Group’s own contracts and given guarantees in respect of their share of certain contractual 
obligations of joint ventures and associates and certain retirement benefit liabilities of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and the Railways 
Pension Scheme. Guarantees are treated as contingent liabilities until such time as it becomes probable payment will be required under 
the terms of the guarantee.
Provision has been made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress. The Group 
takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on 
that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed, or that the Group cannot make a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation.
36 Related party transactions
Joint ventures and associates
The Group has contracted with, provided services to, and received management fees from, certain joint ventures and associates amounting 
to £414m (2014: £673m). These transactions occurred in the normal course of business at market rates and terms. In addition, the Group 
procured equipment and labour on behalf of certain joint ventures and associates which were recharged at cost with no mark-up. The amounts 
due from or to joint ventures and associates at the reporting date are disclosed in Notes 23 and 24 respectively.
Key management personnel
Remuneration of key management personnel of the Company
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Short-term benefits 2.584 2.27 4
Long-term benefits 0.291 0.167
Post-employment benefits – 0.002
Payments for loss of office 0.639 0.57 4
Joining costs 2.053 –
Share-based payments 1.642 0.988
7 .209 4.005
Key management personnel comprise the executive Directors who are directly responsible for the Group’s activities and the non-executive 
Directors. The remuneration included above is that paid in respect of the period of the year during which the individuals were Directors. 
Further details of Directors’ emoluments, post-employment benefits and interests are set out in the 2015 Remuneration report on pages 68 
to 84.
Balfour Beatty Group Employment Ltd (BBGEL) was established in February 2013 as the employing entity for the Group’s UK employees. 
During the year, employee costs of £6m (2014: £11m) were recharged from BBGEL as management fees to the Company.
37 Events after the reporting date
As at 14 March 2016, there were no material post balance sheet events arising after the reporting date. 
38 Financial instruments
38.1 Capital risk management
The Group and Company manage their capital to ensure their ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital. The components of capital are as follows: equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 
comprising issued ordinary share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 29.1 and 30; preference shares as disclosed 
in Note 29.2; US private placement as disclosed in Note 26; convertible bonds as disclosed in Note 26; and cash and cash equivalents and 
borrowings as disclosed in Note 26.
The Group and Company maintain or adjust their capital structure through the payment of dividends to equity holders, issue of new shares 
and buyback of existing shares, and drawdown of new borrowings and repayment of existing borrowings. The policy of the Group and the 
Company is to ensure an appropriate balance between cash, borrowings (other than the non-recourse borrowings of companies engaged 
in Infrastructure Investments projects), working capital and the value in the Infrastructure Investments investment portfolio.
The overall capital risk management strategy of the Group and the Company remains unchanged from 2014. 
155 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 38 Financial instruments continued
38.2 Group
Categories of financial instruments
Group
Loans and 
receivables 
at amortised 
cost, cash 
and  
deposits 
2015  
£m
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost  
2015  
£m
Available-
for-sale 
financial 
assets  
2015  
£m
Held to 
maturity 
financial 
assets  
2015  
£m
Derivatives 
2015  
£m
Loans and 
receivables  
at amortised 
cost, cash  
and  
deposits  
2014  
£m
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost  
2014  
£m
Available- 
for-sale 
financial 
assets  
2014  
£m
Held to 
maturity 
financial 
assets  
2014  
£m
Derivatives 
2014  
£m
Financial assets
Fixed rate bonds and 
treasury stock – – – 24 – – – – 31 –
Mutual funds – – 20 – – – – 20 – –
PPP financial assets – – 402 – – – – 559 – –
Cash and deposits 666 – – – – 731 – – – –
Trade and other receivables 945 – – – – 1,035 – – – –
Derivatives – – – – 1 – – – – 2
Total 1,611 – 422 24 1 1,766 – 579 31 2
Financial liabilities
Liability component of 
preference shares – (98) – – – – (96) – – –
Trade and other payables – (1,732) – – – – (1,972) – – –
Unsecured borrowings – (482) – – – – (471) – – –
Secured borrowings – (1) – – – – (1) – – –
Infrastructure concessions 
non-recourse term loans – (385) – – – – (485) – – –
Derivatives – – – – (78) – – – – (92)
Total – (2,698) – – (78) – (3,025) – – (92)
Net 1,611 (2,698) 422 24 (77) 1,766 (3,025) 579 31 (90)
Current year comprehensive 
income/(loss) excluding 
share of joint ventures 
and associates 25 (60) (16) 1 12 29 (68) 89 1 28
Derivatives
Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities
Current 
2015  
£m
Non- 
current 
2015  
£m
Total  
2015  
£m
Current  
2015  
£m
Non- 
current  
2015  
£m
Total  
2015  
£m
Current  
2014  
£m
Non- 
current  
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Current  
2014  
£m
Non- 
current  
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Foreign currency contracts 
Held for trading at fair value through  
income statement 1 – 1 – – – 2 – 2 (1) – (1)
Designated as cash flow hedges – – – – – – – – – (1) – (1)
Interest rate swaps
Designated as cash flow hedges – – – (11) (67) (78) – – – (12) (78) (90)
1 – 1 (11) (67) (78) 2 – 2 (14) (78) (92)
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
156 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 38 Financial instruments continued
38.2 Group continued
Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities. The table reflects the 
undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial liabilities including interest that will accrue on those liabilities except where the Group is 
entitled to and intends to repay the liability before its maturity. The discount column represents the possible future cash flows included in the 
maturity analysis, such as future interest, that are not included in the carrying value of the financial liability. 
Maturity profile of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December
Infrastructure 
concessions 
non-recourse 
project  
finance  
2015  
£m
Other 
borrowings  
2015  
£m
Other  
financial 
liabilities  
2015  
£m
Total 
non-  
derivative 
financial 
liabilities  
2015  
£m
Discount  
2015  
£m
Carrying  
value  
2015  
£m
Due on demand or within one year (24) (13) (1,606) (1,643) 2 (1,641)
Due within one to two years (38) (2) (74) (114) 3 (111)
Due within two to five years (46) (313) (130) (489) 47 (442)
Due after more than five years (383) (175) (36) (594) 90 (504)
(491) (503) (1,846) (2,840) 142 (2,698)
Discount 106 20 16 142
Carrying value (385) (483) (1,830) (2,698)
Infrastructure 
concessions 
non-recourse 
project  
finance  
2014  
£m
Other 
borrowings  
2014  
£m
Other  
financial 
liabilities  
2014  
£m
Total  
non-  
derivative 
financial 
liabilities 
2014
+
 
£m
Discount 
2014
+
 
£m
Carrying  
value  
2014  
£m
Due on demand or within one year (18) (4) (1,841) (1,863) 3 (1,860)
Due within one to two years (43) (18) (58) (1 19) 12 (107)
Due within two to five years (73) (278) (25) (376) 67 (309)
Due after more than five years (609) (197) (163) (969) 220 (7 49)
(7 43) (497) (2,087) (3,327) 302 (3,025)
Discount 258 25 19 302
Carrying value (485) (472) (2,068) (3,025)
+
 Re-presented to exclude dividends relating to the Group’s preference shares occuring after the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its derivative financial liabilities. The table reflects the undiscounted net cash 
inflows/(outflows) on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis (interest rate swaps) and undiscounted gross inflows/(outflows) 
for those derivatives that are settled on a gross basis (foreign exchange contracts). When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, 
the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates, using the yield curves at the reporting date.
Maturity profile of the Group’s derivative financial liabilities at 31 December
Payable  
2015  
£m
Receivable  
2015  
£m
Net  
payable  
2015  
£m
Payable  
2014  
£m
Receivable  
2014  
£m
Net  
payable  
2014  
£m
Due on demand or within one year (45) 33 (12) (193) 172 (21)
Due within one to two years (13) 2 (11) (21) 5 (16)
Due within two to five years (29) – (29) (45) 1 (44)
Due after more than five years (64) – (64) (105) – (105)
Total (151) 35 (116) (364) 178 (186)
157 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 38 Financial instruments continued
38.2 Group continued
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk; credit risk; and liquidity risk. The Group’s financial risk management 
strategy seeks to minimise the potential adverse effect of these risks on the Group’s financial performance.
Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board. Group Treasury liaises with 
the Group’s operating companies to identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks. The Board provides written principles for overall financial 
risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of 
derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies 
and exposure limits is monitored through the Group’s internal audit and risk management procedures. The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The Group does not trade in financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, 
for speculative purposes.
(a) Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group 
enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
 – forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities transacted in a currency that is not the 
functional currency of the operating company
 – interest rate swaps to mitigate the cash flow variability in Infrastructure Investments concessions arising from variable interest rates 
on borrowings.
There has been no material change to the Group’s exposure to market risks and there has been no change in how the Group manages those 
risks since 2014.
(i) Foreign currency risk management
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from exposure to various currencies, primarily to US dollars, 
euros, Hong Kong dollars and United Arab Emirates dirhams. Foreign exchange risk arises from future trading transactions, assets and 
liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy requires operating companies to manage their transactional foreign exchange risk against their functional currency. 
Whenever a current or future foreign currency exposure is identified with sufficient reliability Group Treasury enters into forward contracts 
on behalf of operating companies to cover 100% of foreign exchange risk above materiality levels determined by the Chief Financial Officer.
Refer to page 156 for details of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the reporting date in respect of foreign currency 
transactional exposures.
As at 31 December 2015, the notional principal amounts of foreign exchange contracts in respect of foreign currency transactions where 
hedge accounting is not applied was £35m (2014: £176m) receivable and £36m (2014: £181m) payable with related cash flows expected 
to occur in up to two (2014: three) years. The foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from fair valuing these unhedged foreign exchange 
contracts will affect the income statement throughout the same periods.
The Group has designated forward exchange contracts with a notional principal amount of £nil (2014: £2m) receivable and £nil (2014: £2m) 
payable as cash flow hedges against highly probable cash flows which are expected to occur in up to one (2014: two) year. Fair value gains 
on these contracts of £nil (2014: £nil) have been taken to hedging reserves through other comprehensive income. The cumulative amount 
deferred in the hedging reserves relating to cash flow hedges at the reporting date is £nil (2014: £nil).
No significant amounts in relation to hedge ineffectiveness have been charged or credited to the income statement in relation to any foreign 
exchange cash flow hedges.
The Group’s investments in foreign operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risks. The Group does not enter into forward 
foreign exchange or other derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency denominated net assets.
In March 2013, the Group raised US$350m through a US private placement which has been designated as a net investment hedge against 
changes in the value of the Group’s US net assets due to exchange movements. The Group has reassessed this hedge and has concluded 
that the hedge continues to be effective. Exchange movements in the year totalled £12m (2014: £12m).
The hedging policy is reviewed periodically. At the reporting date there had been no change to the hedging policies since 2014.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
158 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 38 Financial instruments continued
38.2 Group continued
(ii) Interest rate risk management
Interest rate risk arises in the Group’s Infrastructure Investments concessions which borrow funds at both floating and fixed interest rates 
and hold available-for-sale financial assets. Floating rate borrowings expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group’s policy to 
manage this risk is to swap floating rate interest to fixed rate, using interest rate swap contracts.
In an interest rate swap, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed 
notional principal amounts. The net effect of a movement in interest rates on income would therefore be immaterial. The fair value of interest 
rate swaps is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the yield curve at the reporting date.
During 2015 and 2014, the Group’s infrastructure concessions subsidiaries’ borrowings at variable rates of interest were denominated 
in sterling.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding subsidiaries’ interest rate swaps outstanding at 31 December 2015 totalled £304m 
(2014: £419m) with maturities that match the maturity of the underlying borrowings ranging from one year to 25 years.
At 31 December 2015, the fixed interest rates range from 3.5% to 5.1% (2014: 3.5% to 5.1%) and the principal floating rates are LIBOR plus 
a fixed margin.
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate in which financial instruments are held would lead to a £20m increase (2014: £3m)/ 
£24m decrease (2014: £4m) in amounts taken directly to other comprehensive income by the Group in relation to the Group’s exposure to 
interest rates on the available-for-sale financial assets and cash flow hedges of its Infrastructure Investments subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk also arises on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and other borrowings. A 50 basis point increase/
decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which these financial instruments are held would lead to a £2m decrease (2014: £nil)/ 
£1m (2014: £nil) increase in the Group’s net finance cost.
(iii) Price risk management
The Group’s principal price risk exposure arises in its Infrastructure Investments concessions. At the commencement of the concession, an 
element of the unitary payment by the customer is indexed to offset the effect of inflation on the concession’s costs. The Group is exposed 
to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in financial loss. Credit risk arises from cash and 
deposits, derivative financial instruments and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. 
The Group has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of potential customers before entering into transactions.
For cash and deposits and derivative financial instruments, the Group has a policy of only using counterparties that are independently rated 
with a minimum long-term credit rating of BBB+. At 31 December 2015, £5m (2014: £13m) did not meet this criterion due to the operational 
and relationship difficulties in transferring certain balances, however no losses are anticipated from these counterparties. The credit rating of 
a financial institution will determine the amount and duration for which funds may be deposited under individual risk limits set by the Board 
of Directors for the Group and subsidiary companies. Management monitors the utilisation of these credit limits regularly.
For trade and other receivables, credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable using independent ratings 
where available or by assessment of the customer’s credit quality based on its financial position, past experience and other factors. 
The Group’s most significant customers are public or regulated industry entities which generally have high credit ratings or are of a high 
credit quality due to the nature of the customer.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of the above at the reporting date is the carrying value of financial assets recorded in the 
financial statements, net of any allowance for losses.
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash balances and banking facilities, continuously monitoring forecast and actual 
cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are set out 
in Note 26.1. The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities is set out on page 157.
Fair value estimation
The Group holds certain financial instruments on the balance sheet at their fair values. The following hierarchy classifies each class of 
financial asset or liability in accordance with the valuation technique applied in determining its fair value.
Level 1 – The fair value is calculated based on quoted prices traded in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
The Group holds available-for-sale investments in mutual funds which are traded in active markets and valued at the closing market price 
at the reporting date.
Level 2 – The fair value is based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly or indirectly.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows utilising yield curves at the reporting 
date and taking into account own credit risk. Own credit risk for Infrastructure Investments’ swaps is not material and is calculated using the 
following credit valuation adjustment (CVA) calculation: loss given default multiplied by exposure multiplied by probability of default.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield 
curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts. Own credit risk for the other derivative 
liabilities is not material and is calculated by applying a relevant credit default swap (CDS) rate obtained from a third party.
159 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 38 Financial instruments continued
38.2 Group continued
Level 3 – The fair value is based on unobservable inputs.
There have been no transfers between these categories in the current or preceding year.
PPP financial assets
The fair value of the Group’s PPP financial assets is determined in the construction phase by applying an attributable profit margin by 
reference to the construction margin on non-PPP projects reflecting the construction risks retained by the construction contractor, and fair 
value of construction services performed. In the operational phase it is determined by discounting the future cash flows allocated to the 
financial asset at a discount rate which is based on long-term gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets, with market-
related movements in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and other movements recognised in the income statement. 
Amounts originally recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement upon disposal of the asset. 
Investment in the Infrastructure Fund
The Group’s investment in the Infrastructure Fund (the Fund) is subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s offering documentation. 
The investment in the Fund is primarily valued based on the latest available financial information provided by the Fund’s General Partner, 
which is a related party of the Group. Management reviews the details of the reported valuation obtained from the Fund and considers: 
(i) the valuation of the underlying investments; (ii) the value date of the net asset value (NAV) provided; (iii) cash flows (calls/distributions) 
since the latest value date; and (iv) the basis of accounting and, in instances where the basis of accounting is other than fair value, fair value 
information provided by the Fund’s General Partner.
Where the information provided by the Fund’s General Partner is not considered appropriate, management will make amendments to the 
NAV obtained as noted above in order to present a carrying value that more appropriately reflects the fair value of the Group’s investment at 
the reporting date. In determining the continued appropriateness of the valuation, management reviews the valuation reports received from 
the Fund’s General Partner. The terms of the Fund’s partnership agreement require these valuation reports to be supported by an annual 
external valuation.
2015 2014
Financial instruments at fair value
Level 1 
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3 
£m
Total 
£m
Level 1 
£m
Level 2 
£m
Level 3
+
£m
Total
+
£m
Available-for-sale mutual fund financial assets 20 – – 20 20 – – 20
Available-for-sale PPP financial assets – – 402 402 – – 559 559
Financial assets – foreign currency contracts – 1 – 1 – 2 – 2
Investment in the Infrastructure Fund (Note 18.2) – – 38 38 – – 20 20
Total assets measured at fair value 20 1 440 461 20 2 579 601
Financial liabilities – foreign currency contracts – – – – – (2) – (2)
Financial liabilities – infrastructure  
concessions interest rate swaps – (78) – (78) – (90) – (90)
Total liabilities measured at fair value – (78) – (78) – (92) – (92)
+
 Re-presented to include the Infrastructure Fund. 
Level 3 financial assets
PPP financial assets
A change in the discount rate would have a significant effect on the value of the asset and a 50 basis points increase/decrease, which 
represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in the risk adjusted discount rate, would lead to a £14m decrease 
(2014: £27m)/£15m increase (2014: £27m) in the fair value of the assets taken through equity. Refer to Note 20 for a reconciliation of the 
movement from the opening balance to the closing balance.
Investment in the Infrastructure Fund
Management has determined that an absolute shift of 15% represents a reasonably possible change in the fair value of the Group’s 
investment in the Fund and would result in an absolute change of £6m (2014: £3m). In arriving at this value, management have considered 
the economic assumptions and discount rates used in the valuation of the underlying investments. Refer to Note 18.6 for a reconciliation of 
the movement from the opening balance to the closing balance. At 31 December 2015, management considered that the NAV provided by 
the Fund’s General Partner appropriately reflected the fair value of the Group’s investment.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
160 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 38 Financial instruments continued
38.3 Company
Categories of financial instruments
Company
Loans and 
receivables at 
amortised 
cost, cash 
and deposits  
2015  
£m
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost  
2015  
£m
Derivatives 
2015  
£m
Loans and 
receivables at 
amortised  
cost, cash  
and deposits  
2014  
£m
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised  
cost  
2014  
£m
Derivatives 
2014  
£m
Financial assets
Cash and deposits 50 – – 249 – –
Trade and other receivables 1,648 – – 1,391 – –
Derivatives – – 1 – – 3
Total 1,698 – 1 1,640 – 3
Financial liabilities
Liability component of preference shares – (98) – – (96) –
Trade and other payables – (1,730) – – (1,605) –
Unsecured borrowings – (396) – – (366) –
Derivatives – – (1) – – (2)
Total – (2,224) (1) – (2,067) (2)
Net 1,698 (2,224) – 1,640 (2,067) 1
Current year comprehensive income/(loss) 7 (46) – 8 (49) –
Derivatives
Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities
Current 
2015  
£m
Non-
current 
2015  
£m
Total  
2015  
£m
Current  
2015  
£m
Non-
current 
2015  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Current  
2014  
£m
Non- 
current  
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Current  
2014  
£m
Non- 
current  
2014  
£m
Total  
2014  
£m
Held for trading at fair value through 
income statement 1 – 1 (1) – (1) 2 1 3 (2) – (2)
The Company is responsible for executing all of the Group’s external derivative contracts, except for those in relation to infrastructure 
concessions. The Company’s external derivative contracts are matched with derivative contracts issued by the Company to the Group’s 
operating companies. The Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value are the derivative foreign currency 
contracts shown in the table above. The fair value of these foreign currency contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates 
at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.
The Company’s derivatives are classified as Level 2 in the fair value estimation hierarchy detailed above.
161 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 38 Financial instruments continued
38.3 Company continued
Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
Maturity profile of the Company’s non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December
Borrowings  
2015  
£m
Other  
financial  
liabilities  
2015  
£m 
Total  
non-  
derivative 
financial 
liabilities  
2015  
£m
Total  
discount  
2015  
£m
Carrying  
value  
2015  
£m
Due on demand or within one year (160) (1,722) (1,882) – (1,882)
Due within two to five years (62) (112) (174) 14 (160)
Due after more than five years (174) (8) (182) – (182)
(396) (1,842) (2,238) 14 (2,224)
Discount – 14 14
Carrying value (396) (1,828) (2,224)
Borrowings  
2014  
£m
Other  
financial  
liabilities 
2014
+
 
£m 
Total  
non-  
derivative  
financial  
liabilities 
2014
+
 
£m
Total  
discount 
2014
+
 
£m
Carrying  
value  
2014  
£m
Due on demand or within one year (142) (1,580) (1,722) – (1,722)
Due within one to two years – (1) (1) – (1)
Due within two to five years (32) – (32) – (32)
Due after more than five years (192) (136) (328) 16 (312)
(366) (1,717) (2,083) 16 (2,067)
Discount – 16 16
Carrying value (366) (1,701) (2,067)
+
 Re-presented to exclude dividends relating to the Company’s preference shares occuring after the balance sheet date. 
Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
Maturity profile of the Company’s derivative financial liabilities at 31 December
Payable  
2015  
£m
Receivable  
2015  
£m
Net  
receivable 
2015  
£m
Payable  
2014  
£m
Receivable  
2014  
£m
Net  
receivable  
2014  
£m
Due on demand or within one year (43) 43 – (151) 152 1
Due within one to two years (4) 4 – (12) 12 –
Due within two to five years – – – (3) 3 –
Due after more than five years – – – – – –
Total (47) 47 – (166) 167 1
Financial risk factors
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign currency risk management
For the Company, there would be no material effect of any strengthening/weakening in US dollar, euro, Hong Kong dollar or United Arab 
Emirates dirham exchange rates against sterling. The Company’s external forward foreign exchange contracts hedge the currency risk on 
foreign currency loans entered into with Group companies or are offset by forward foreign exchange contracts with the Group’s operating 
companies where Group Treasury is hedging the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities on their behalf.
(ii) Interest rate risk management
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which financial instruments are held would lead to a £4m 
(2014: £8m) increase/decrease in the Company’s net finance cost. This is mainly attributable to the Company’s exposure to UK interest rates 
on its cash and cash equivalents and term deposits and amounts due to and from its subsidiaries. There would be no effect on amounts 
taken directly by the Company to other comprehensive income.
(b) Credit risk
The Company bears credit risk in respect to trade and other receivables and payables due from/to subsidiaries. There were no amounts past 
due at the reporting date. The maximum exposure is the carrying value of the financial assets recorded in the financial statements.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
162 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
(a) Principal subsidiaries 
Country of 
incorporation or 
registration (b) Principal joint ventures and associates 
Country of 
incorporation 
or registration
Ownership 
interest 
%
Construction and Support Services Construction and Support Services
Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering Ltd BK Gulf LLC Dubai 49.0
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc US Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC Dubai 49.0
Balfour Beatty Construction, LP Canada Gammon China Ltd Hong Kong 50.0
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services Ltd Scotland
Balfour Beatty Group Ltd (c) Principal joint operations 
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc US
The Group carries out a number of its larger contracts in joint 
arrangements with other contractors so as to share resources and risk. 
The principal joint projects in progress during the year are shown below. 
Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH Germany
Balfour Beatty Rail Inc US
Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd South-East England Roads 65.0
Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions Ltd Crossrail 26.7
Infrastructure Investments (Note 39) M25 Maintenance 52.5
Balfour Beatty Communities LLC US M25 LUS 50.0
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investments Ltd
*
Gotthard Base Tunnel Switzerland 25.0
Balfour Beatty Investments Inc US Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center US 50.0
Balfour Beatty Investments, LP Canada Parkland Acute Care Hospital US 40.0
Balfour Beatty Communities, LP Canada DFW Terminal Development Program US 60.0
Balfour Beatty Investments Ltd
Other
Balfour Beatty Holdings Inc. US
Delphian Insurance Company Ltd
*
Isle of Man
Notes 
(i)
 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose results did not, in the opinion of the Directors, materially affect the results or net assets of the Group are not shown. 
(ii)
 Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the equity capital is owned and companies are registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conducted 
in the country of incorporation. 
* Indicates held directly by Balfour Beatty plc. 
A full list of the Group’s related undertakings is included in Note 41. 
163 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK
Roads
Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 13 road and street lighting projects to construct new roads, to upgrade and maintain 
existing roads and to replace and maintain street lighting. The principal contract is the project agreement with the governmental highway 
authority. All assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt  
and equity  
funding  
£m Shareholding
Financial  
close
Duration  
years
Construction 
completion
Connect M1-A1 Ltd 30km road 290 50% March 1996 30 1999
Connect A50 Ltd 57km road 42 25% May 1996 30 1998
Connect A30/A35 Ltd 102km road 127 20% July 1996 30 2000
Connect M77/GSO plc (ii) 25km road 167 85% May 2003 32 2005
Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd Street lighting 27 100% August 2003 25 2008
Connect Roads South Street lighting 28 100% December 2005 25 2010
Tyneside Ltd
Connect Roads Derby Ltd Street lighting 36 100% April 2007 25 2012
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd J16 – J23, J27 – J30 and 
A1(M) Hatfi eld T unnel 1,309 40% May 2009 30 2012
Connect CNDR Ltd Carlisle Northern  
Development Route 176 25% July 2009 30 2012
Connect Roads Coventry Ltd Street lighting 56 100% August 2010 25 2015
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Ltd Street lighting 51 100% April 201 1 25 2016
Connect Roads Northamptonshire Ltd Street lighting 64 100% August 201 1 25 2016
Aberdeen Roads Ltd Aberdeen Western Peripheral 
Route 665 33.3% December 2014 33 2018
Notes
(i)
 Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Connect M77/GSO plc and Aberdeen Roads Ltd which are 
registered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland.
(ii)
 Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial 
and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control this company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Healthcare
Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in three hospital projects to build hospital accommodation and to provide certain non-
medical facilities management services over the concession period. The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession 
company and the NHS Trust. All assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt  
and equity  
funding  
£m Shareholding
Financial  
close
Duration  
years
Construction 
completion
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Ltd T eaching hospital and mental 
health hospital 553 40% June 2006 40 2011
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd General hospital 170 50% April 2009 30 2011 
Woodland View Project Co Ltd Mental health hospital in Irvine 58 100% June 2014 27 2016 
Note
(i)
 Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd and Woodland View Project Co Ltd 
which are registered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
164 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK continued
Schools
Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in seven school projects to design, build or refurbish schools and to provide certain non-
educational services over the concession period under the UK Government Building Schools for the Future (BSF) programme. The principal 
contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the local authority. All assets transfer to the customer at the end of 
the concession.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
 and equity  
funding  
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration  
years
Construction  
completion
Transform Islington Ltd (ii) BSF 77 80% July 2008 26 2013
4 Futures Ltd (ii) BSF 70 80% May 2009 26 2014
Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton LEP Ltd (ii) BSF 85 80% January 2010 25 2011
Derby City BSF Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF 39 80% December 2010 25 2012
Future Ealing Ltd (ii) BSF 36 80% December 2010 25 2012
Oldham Education Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF 40 90% December 2010 25 2012
Hertfordshire Schools Building Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF 55 80% January 201 1 25 2012 
Notes
(i)
 Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales.
(ii)
 Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial 
and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control this company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Student accommodation
Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in three student accommodation projects and provides maintenance services over 
the concession period. The Wollongong project involves the finance, design, construction and operation of new and existing student 
accommodation for the University of Wollongong, Australia. The principal contract in all cases is the project agreement between the 
concession company and the university. All assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
 and equity  
funding  
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration  
years
Construction  
completion
Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd Edinburgh 82 100% July 2013 50 2016
Aberystwyth Student Accommodation Ltd Aberystwyth 51 100% July 2013 35 2015
Living and Learning Unit Trust Wollongong 144 50% December 2014 34 2017
Note
(i)
 Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales except Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd and Living and 
Learning Unit Trust which are registered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland and Australia respectively.
165 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK continued
Other concessions
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd (PCDL) has a 25-year contract with the Environment Agency to maintain a shingle bank sea defence in East 
Sussex. Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd has a contract with the Institute of Technical Education (ITE) College West of Singapore to design, 
build and finance the ITE and provide long-term facilities management services for the remainder of the 27-year project. Balfour Beatty Fire 
and Rescue NW Ltd is contracted by the local authority to design, construct, fund and provide facilities for 16 community firestations in 
Merseyside, Cumbria and Lancashire. UBB Waste (Essex) Ltd and UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) Ltd have contracts with the local authorities 
to design, build and operate new sustainable waste treatment facilities. Thanet involves the operation of transmission assets for the 300MW 
offshore wind farm project located off the Kent coast. Gwynt y Môr involves the operation of transmission assets for the 576MW offshore 
wind farm in the Irish sea. Both Thanet and Gwynt y Môr operate and maintain the transmission assets under the terms of a perpetual 
licence granted by Ofgem which contains the right to be paid a revenue stream over a 20-year period on an availability basis. Birmingham Bio 
Power involves the design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of a 9.3MW waste wood gasifier located at Tyseley Energy 
Park, Birmingham. Welland Waste Bio Power involves the design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of a 10.4MW waste 
wood gasifier located at Pebble Hall Farm, Thredingworth. All assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession. 
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt  
and equity  
funding  
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration  
years
Construction 
completion
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd Sea defences 3 25% July 2000 25 n/a
Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd T echnical education college 100 50% August 2008 27 2010
Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd Fire stations 55 100% February 201 1 25 2013
UBB Waste (Essex) Ltd Waste processing plant 146 30% May 2012 28 2015
UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) Ltd Waste processing plant 194 49.5% February 2013
*
28 2017
Thanet OFTO Ltd Offshore transmission 197 20% December 2014 20 n/a
Gwynt y Môr OFTO Ltd (ii) Offshore transmission 256 60% February 2015 20 n/a
Birmingham Bio Power Ltd Waste wood gasifier 53 37 .5% December 2013 20 2016
Welland Waste Bio Power Ltd Waste wood gasifier 17 25% March 2015 20 2017
Notes
(i) 
 Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd which is registered in and 
conducts its principal operations in Singapore.
(ii)
 Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial 
and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control this company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
* Due to delays in achieving planning, UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) Ltd reached a second financial close in January 2016.
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America
Military housing
Summary Balfour Beatty through its subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities LLC is a manager, developer, and investor in a number of 
US military privatisation projects associated with a total of 55 US government military bases which includes 55 military family housing 
communities and one unaccompanied personnel housing community that are expected to contain approximately 42,800 housing units once 
development, construction and renovation are complete.
The projects comprise 11 military family housing privatisation projects with the United States Department of the Army (Army), seven 
projects with the United States Department of the Air Force (Air Force) and two projects with the United States Department of the Navy 
(Navy). In addition, there is one unaccompanied personnel housing (UPH) project with the Army at Fort Stewart.
Contractual arrangements The first phase of the project, known as the initial development period, covers the period of initial construction 
or renovation of military housing on a base, typically lasting three to eight years. With respect to Army and Navy projects, the government 
becomes a member or partner of the project entity (Project LLC); the Air Force is not a named partner or member in Balfour Beatty 
Communities’ Project LLCs, however it contributes a commitment to provide a government direct loan to the Project LLC and has similar 
rights to share in distributions and cash flows of the Project LLC. On each project, the Project LLC enters into a ground lease with the 
government, which provides the Project LLC with a leasehold interest in the land and title to the improvements on the land for a period of 50 
years. Each of these military housing privatisation projects includes agreements covering the management, renovation, and development 
of existing housing units, as well as the development, construction, renovation and management of new units during the term of the 
project, which, in the case of the Army, could potentially extend for up to an additional 25 years. The 50-year duration of each project calls 
for continuous renovation, rehabilitation, demolition and reconstruction of housing units. At the end of the ground lease term the Project 
LLC’s leasehold interest terminates and all project improvements on the land generally transfer to the government.
Preferred returns The projects will typically receive, to the extent that adequate funds are available, an annual minimum preferred rate of 
return. On most existing projects, this annual minimum preferred rate of return ranges from 9% to 12% of Balfour Beatty Communities’ 
initial equity contribution to the project. During the initial development period, the project is precluded from distributing funds to pay the 
minimum preferred rate of return. The unpaid amounts will generally accrue and accumulate, and can be used to fund renovation and 
construction costs, if necessary. If the accumulated funds are not needed to fund renovation and construction costs, at the end of the initial 
development period they are distributed to pay accrued preferred returns to Balfour Beatty Communities and the government in accordance 
with the terms of the project agreements.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
166 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued
Military housing continued
Allocation of remaining operating cash flows Subsequent to the initial development period, any operating cash flow remaining after the 
annual minimum preferred rate of return is paid is shared between Balfour Beatty Communities and the reinvestment account held by the 
project for the benefit of the government. On most of the existing projects, the total amount that Balfour Beatty Communities is entitled to 
receive (inclusive of the preferred return) is generally capped at an annual modified rate of return, or cash-on-cash return, on its initial equity 
contribution to the project. Historically, these caps have ranged between approximately 9% to 18% depending on the particular project and 
the type of return (annual modified rates of return or cash-on-cash). However, in some of the more recent projects, there are either no annual 
caps or lower projected annual rates of return. The total capped return generally will include the annual minimum preferred return discussed 
above. The reinvestment account is an account established for the benefit of the military, but funds may be withdrawn for construction, 
development and renovation costs during the remaining life of a privatisation project upon approval by the applicable military service.
Return of equity Generally, at the end of a project term, any monies remaining in the reinvestment account are distributed to Balfour 
Beatty Communities and the Army, Navy or Air Force, in a predetermined order of priority. Typically these distributions will have the effect 
of providing the parties with sufficient funds to provide a minimum annual return over the life of the project and a complete return of the 
initial capital contribution. After payment of the minimum annual return and the return of a party’s initial contribution, all remaining funds 
will typically be distributed to the applicable military service.
Military concession company (i)(ii) Projects
Total project  
funding  
£m Financial close
Duration  
years
Construction  
completion
Military family housing
Fort Carson Family Housing LLC Army base 119 November 2003 46 2004
– Fort Carson expansion 88 November 2006 43 2010
– Fort Carson GTA expansion 67 April 2010 39 2013
Stewart Hunter Housing LLC T wo Army bases 253 November 2003 50 2012
Fort Hamilton Housing LLC Army base 41 June 2004 50 2009
Fort Detrick/Walter Reed Army Medical Center 
Housing LLC T wo Army bases 75 July 2004 50 2008
Northeast Housing LLC Seven Navy bases 335 November 2004 50 2010
Fort Eustis/Fort Story Housing LLC T wo Army bases 118 March 2005 50 2011
– Fort Eustis expansion 6 July 2010 45 2011
– Fort Eustis – Marseilles Village 18 March 2013 42 2015
Fort Bliss/White Sands Missile Range Housing LP T wo Army bases 289 July 2005 50 2011
– Fort Bliss expansion 33 December 2009 46 2011
– Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase I 110 July 201 1 44 2014
– Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase II 100 November 2012 43 2016
Fort Gordon Housing LLC Army base 74 May 2006 50 2012
Carlisle/Picatinny Family Housing LP T wo Army bases 57 July 2006 50 2011
– Carlisle Heritage Heights phase II 14 October 2012 44 2014
AETC Housing LP Four Air Force bases 242 February 2007 50 2012
Southeast Housing LLC 1 1 Navy bases 377 November 2007 50 2013
Vandenberg Housing LP Air Force base 105 November 2007 50 2012
Leonard Wood Family Communities LLC Army base 156 Acquired June 2008 47 2014
AMC West Housing LP Three Air Force bases 298 July 2008 50 2015
West Point Housing LLC Army base 152 August 2008 50 2016
Fort Jackson Housing LLC Army base 122 October 2008 50 2013
Lackland Family Housing LLC Air Force base 71 Acquired December 2008 50 2013
Western Group Housing LP Four Air Force bases 222 March 2012 50 2017
Northern Group Housing LP Six Air Force bases 291 August 2013 50 2019
ACC Group Housing LLC T wo Air Force bases 39 June 2014 50 2018
Military unaccompanied personnel housing
Stewart Hunter Housing LLC 24 January 2008 50 2010
Notes
(i)
 Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
(ii)
 The share of results of the military housing joint ventures of Balfour Beatty Communities is limited to a pre-agreed preferred return on funds invested.
The Group evaluated each of its interests in the military housing projects to determine if the entities should be consolidated. This analysis 
included, but was not limited to, identifying the activities that most significantly impact an entity’s economic performance, which party or 
parties control those activities and the risks associated with these entities. Decision making power over key facets of the contracts were 
evaluated when determining which party or parties had control over the activities that most significantly impacted a project’s economics. 
Based on this review, the Directors consider that the Group does not have the power to direct these activities and does not have control and 
therefore the Group does not consolidate the military housing projects.
167 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued
Hospitals
Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in two hospital projects in Canada.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession companies and the authorities. 
An inflation-indexed payment is primarily based upon availability of the hospital subject to any performance related deductions. 
The construction services for the BC Children’s and BC Women’s Hospital project were subcontracted to a joint venture in which the Group 
has a 50% participation and the facilities maintenance services were subcontracted to a joint venture in which the Group also has a 50% 
participation. The soft facilities management services at North Island Hospital were subcontracted to a Group company and the hard facilities 
management services were subcontracted to a third party. The payments for the soft facilities management services, at both projects, are 
initially market adjusted after the third year of operations and then every six years thereafter. All assets transfer to the authorities at the end 
of the concession.
Hospitals (i) Project
Total project  
funding  
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration  
years
Construction 
completion
Affinity Partnerships (ii) BC Children and BC Women’ s Hospital 219 70% April 2014 33 2017
THP Partnerships North Island Hospital 251 50% June 2014 32 2017
Notes
(i)
 Registered in the Province of Manitoba in Canada and the principal operations of each project are conducted in British Columbia, Canada.
(ii)
 Balfour Beatty has joint control over the project through unanimous consent over all significant operating and financing decisions, and therefore does not consolidate the project.
Residential investments
Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in four multifamily residential projects.
Contractual arrangements Balfour Beatty formed joint ventures to acquire residential apartment buildings for four multifamily residential 
projects. For the Carmendy Square, Townlake of Coppell and The Dallas 5 Portfolio projects, the joint ventures entered into agreements with 
Balfour Beatty Communities LLC to perform the operations and renovation work. For The Ranch at Pinnacle Point, the joint venture entered 
into an agreement with Balfour Beatty Communities LLC to perform the asset management services and renovation work.
Residential investments (i)
Total project  
funding  
£m Shareholding Financial close
Renovation  
completion
Carmendy Square 10 45% September 2014 2016
Ranch at Pinnacle Point 29 50% February 2015 2018
Dallas 5 Portfolio 115 10% May 2015 2018
Townlake of Coppell 33 10% May 2015 2018
Note
(i)
 Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in Florida, US.
Student accommodation
Summary Through its subsidiary, Balfour Beatty Campus Solutions LLC, Balfour Beatty is a manager on one student accommodation 
project, where it also acted as a developer. Balfour Beatty is also a developer and owner of three additional student accommodation projects, 
and is a joint venture partner to develop one other student accommodation project. 
Contractual arrangements The principal contract in the Florida Atlantic University project is the property management agreement 
with the state university setting out the obligations for the operation and maintenance of the student accommodation. The principal 
contracts in the other student accommodation projects where Balfour Beatty is an owner are the ground leases, development leases and 
operating agreements with the state universities setting out the obligations for the construction, operation and maintenance of the student 
accommodation including lifecycle replacement during the concession period.
Concession company (i)
Total project  
funding  
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration  
years
Construction  
completion
CBBC Management/CBBC Development (Florida) 68 (ii) March 2010 30 2011
Hawkeye Housing LLC (Iowa) Phase 1 21 100% June 2013 41 2014 
BCS UN Reno Housing LLC (Reno) 15 100% August 2013 43 2014
University of Texas Dallas 36 50% March 2015 61 2016
Hawkeye Housing LLC (Iowa) Phase 2 35 100% May 2015 41 2016
Notes
(i)
 Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
(ii)
 50% holding in the management company. 
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
168 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(f) Balfour Beatty Investments UK and North America
Total future committed equity and debt funding for Infrastructure Investments’ project companies
Concessions
2016  
£m
2017  
£m
2018  
£m
2019  
onwards  
£m
Total  
£m
UK
Roads 11 – 20 – 31
Healthcare 5 – 7 – 12
Student accommodation 6 – 18 20 44
OFTOs
+
4 – – – 4
Waste and biomass
+
13 3 2 24 42
Other UK
+
2 8 6 7 23
41 11 53 51 156
North America
Military housing 2 – – – 2
Social infrastructure – – – – –
Hospitals 1 15 – – 16
Student accommodation – 2 – – 2
3 17 – – 20
44 28 53 51 176
Projects at financial close 33 20 23 24 100
Projects at preferred bidder stage 11 8 30 27 76
Total 44 28 53 51 176
+
 These three categories have been presented within Other concessions in Note 39(d).
40 Audit exemptions taken for subsidiaries
The following subsidiaries are exempt from the requirements under the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual financial 
statements by virtue of Section 479A of the Act.
Company 
registration 
number
Balfour Beatty Education Ltd 6863458
Balfour Beatty Engineering Solutions Ltd 1531651
Consort Healthcare Infrastructure Investments Ltd 6859623
Heery International Ltd 2759565
The Telegraph Construction and Maintenance Company Ltd 1147
169 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2015
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates and joint ventures, including 
the principal activity, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned as at 31 December 2015 is disclosed below. 
Unless otherwise stated, all interests are in the ordinary share capital or shares of common stock in the entity and are held indirectly by the 
Company, and all entities operate principally in their country of incorporation. All subsidiaries had a reporting period ended 31 December 
2015 and are wholly owned, except where indicated. The percentage held by the Group is the ultimate economic interest of the Group in 
the entity. 
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom
Name of undertaking Principal activity
Aberdeen Construction Group Ltd Dormant 
Aberystwyth Student Accommodation Ltd Infrastructure concession
Armpledge Ltd Investment holding company
Avatar Ltd Dormant
Balfour Beatty Australia Finance Ltd Dormant – in liquidation 
Balfour Beatty Build Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Building Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty CE Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering (SW) Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Civils Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Const Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction (SW) Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction 
International Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction Northern Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction Scottish & 
Southern Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Education Ltd Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services 
(CL) Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services 
(HY) Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services 
(LEL) Ltd
Dormant
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Engineering Solutions Ltd Dormant
Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW 
Holdings Ltd
Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW 
Intermediate Ltd
Infrastructure concession
Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd Infrastructure concession
Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Group Employment Ltd Employer for UK workforce
Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Construction and support services
Balfour Beatty Homes (South Western) Ltd Dormant 
Balfour Beatty Homes Ltd Agent of Manring Homes Ltd
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure 
Investments Ltd (i) Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners 
LLP (v)
Infrastructure Fund 
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners 
Member Ltd
Infrastructure Fund
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Projects 
Investments Ltd
Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Services Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty International Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Investment Holdings Ltd (i) Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Investments Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Living Places Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Management Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Nominees Ltd Nominee company
Balfour Beatty OFTO Holdings Ltd Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Overseas Investments Ltd Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Overseas Ltd Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Pension Trust Ltd (i) Pension fund trustee
Balfour Beatty Plant & Fleet Services Ltd Hire of plant and transport
Name of undertaking Principal activity
Balfour Beatty Power Networks 
(Distribution Services) Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Property Investments Ltd (i) Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Property Ltd (i) Agent of Balfour Beatty plc
Balfour Beatty Rail Corporate Services Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Rail Infrastructure 
Services Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Rail Investments Ltd Investment holding company
Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Rail Projects Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Rail Residuary Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Rail Technologies Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Rail Track Systems Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Refurbishment Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Regional Civil 
Engineering Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Regional Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions Ltd (iv) Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty WorkSmart Ltd Business services
Balfour Kilpatrick Ltd Dormant
Balfour Kilpatrick Northern Ireland Ltd Dormant
Balvac Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
BB Indonesia Ltd Support services
BBPF LLP (v) Investment holding partnership
BBPFS LP (v) Investment holding partnership
Bical Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Bignell & Associates Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Birse Construction Ltd Investment holding company
Birse Group Ltd Investment holding company
Birse Group Services Ltd Business services
Birse Integrated Solutions Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Birse Metro Ltd Construction and support services
Birse Properties Ltd Dormant
Birse Rail Ltd Construction and support services
Blackpool Airport Ltd (ii) Ceased trading – in liquidation 
Blackpool Airport Properties Ltd (ii) Property investment
Bnoms Ltd (i) Nominee company
BPH Equipment Ltd Hire of plant and transport
Branlow Ltd Dormant
British Insulated Callender’s Cables Ltd (i) Dormant
Bruton Investments Ltd (i) Investment holding company – 
in liquidation
Burnbank House Ltd (iii) Property investment
Chris Britton Consultancy Ltd Construction services
Clarke Securities Ltd (i) Investment holding company
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire 
Holdings Ltd
Investment holding company
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire 
Intermediate Ltd
Infrastructure concession
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Ltd Infrastructure concession
Connect Roads Coventry Holdings Ltd Investment holding company
Connect Roads Coventry Intermediate Ltd Infrastructure concession
Connect Roads Coventry Ltd Infrastructure concession
Connect Roads Derby Holdings Ltd Investment holding company
Connect Roads Derby Ltd Infrastructure concession
Connect Roads Infrastructure 
Investments Ltd
Investment holding company
Connect Roads Northamptonshire 
Holdings Ltd
Investment holding company
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
170 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2015 continued
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom continued
Name of undertaking Principal activity
Connect Roads Northamptonshire 
Intermediate Ltd
Infrastructure concession
Connect Roads Northamptonshire Ltd Infrastructure concession
Connect Roads South Tyneside 
Holdings Ltd
Investment holding company
Connect Roads South Tyneside Ltd Infrastructure concession
Connect Roads Sunderland Holdings Ltd Investment holding company
Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd Infrastructure concession
Consort Healthcare Infrastructure 
Investments Ltd
Investment holding company
Cowlin Group Ltd Investment holding company
Cowlin Management Ltd Investment holding company
Dean & Dyball Developments Ltd Dormant
Dean & Dyball Investments Ltd Investment holding company
Dean & Dyball Ltd Investment holding company
Dean & Dyball Rail Ltd Dormant
Dean & Dyball Workforce Ltd Dormant – in liquidation
Eastern Infrastructure Maintenance 
Company Ltd
Property investment
Edgar Allen Engineering Ltd Dormant – in liquidation
EIMCO Ltd Investment holding company
Fielden & Ashworth Ltd Dormant – in liquidation
Footprint Furniture Ltd Construction services
G. N. Haden & Sons Ltd Dormant
Glasgow Residences (Kennedy Street) 
Holdings Ltd
Investment holding company
Glasgow Residences (Kennedy 
Street) LLP (v)
Infrastructure concession 
Glasgow Residences (Kennedy Street) 
SPV Ltd
Infrastructure concession
Guinea Investments Ltd Investment holding company
Haden Building Services Ltd Investment holding company
Haden Young Ltd (i) Dormant
Hall & Tawse Ltd Dormant
Hall & Tawse Western Ltd Dormant
Heery Holdings Ltd (i) Dormant
Heery International Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Holyrood Student Accommodation 
Holdings Ltd
Investment holding company
Holyrood Student Accommodation 
Intermediate Ltd
Infrastructure concession
Holyrood Student Accommodation plc Infrastructure concession
Holyrood Student Accommodation 
SPV Ltd
Infrastructure concession
Initial Founder Partner GP1 Ltd Investment holding company
Initial GP1 Ltd Investment holding company
John Kennedy (Civil Engineering) Ltd (iv) Dormant
John Kennedy (Holdings) Ltd Investment holding company
Kenton Utility Service Management Ltd Dormant
Kirby Maclean Ltd Dormant
Laser Rail Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Lounsdale Electric Ltd Dormant
Manring Homes Ltd Property investment
Mansell North East Ltd Dormant
Mansell plc Investment holding company
Mayfair Place Investments Ltd Investment holding company – 
in liquidation
Multibuild (Construction & Interiors) Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Multibuild Hotels and Leisure Ltd Construction services
Multibuild Interiors Ltd Construction services
Network Plant Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Office Projects (Interiors) Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Office Projects Group Ltd Investment holding company
Office Projects Ltd Construction services
Painter Brothers Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Name of undertaking Principal activity
Pennine Vibropiling Ltd Dormant – in liquidation
Raynesway Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Regional & City Airports (Blackpool) 
Holdings Ltd
Investment holding company
Regional & City Airports (Blackpool) Ltd (ii) Investment holding company
SEIMCO Ltd Investment holding company
South East Infrastructure Maintenance 
Company Ltd
Property investment 
Southern Track Renewals Company Ltd Property investment
Squires Gate Airport Operations Ltd (ii) Airport services
STAT 123 Ltd Dormant
Strata Construction Ltd Dormant
Sunderland Streetlighting Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Testing and Analysis Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
The Telegraph Construction and 
Maintenance Company Ltd
Finance company
Traffic Flow Ltd Construction services
W. T. Glover & Company Ltd (i) Dormant
West Stratford Developments Ltd Investment holding company 
William Cowlin (Holdings) Ltd Business services
Woodland View Holdings Co Ltd Investment holding company
Woodland View Intermediate Co Ltd Infrastructure concession 
Woodland View Project Co Ltd Infrastructure concession
Notes
(i)
 held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
(ii)
 Regional & City Airports (Blackpool) Holdings Ltd holds an economic interest of 
95% in Regional & City Airports (Blackpool) Ltd, which holds 100% of each of 
Blackpool Airport Ltd, Blackpool Airport Properties Ltd and Squires Gate Airport 
Operations Ltd. 
(iii)
 75% owned. 
(iv)
 preference shares and/or deferred shares also held.
(v)
 partnership interests held.
171 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2015 continued
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom
Name of undertaking Principal activity Country of incorporation
Balfour Beatty Rail Argentina SA Construction services Argentina
Balfour Beatty Australian LP (iii) Investment holding partnership Australia
Balfour Beatty Australia Pty Ltd Construction and support services Australia
Balfour Beatty Holdings Australia Pty Ltd Investment holding company Australia
Balfour Beatty Investments Australia Pty Ltd Investment holding company Australia
Harvest Power Custodians Pty Ltd Dormant Australia
Harvest Power Holdings Custodians Pty Ltd Investment holding company Australia
Harvest Power Holdings Pty Ltd Dormant Australia
Harvest Power Pty Ltd Dormant Australia
RHA do Brasil Serviços de Infraestrutura Ltda Construction services Brazil
Balfour Beatty Communities GP, Inc Investment holding company Canada
Balfour Beatty Communities, LP (iii) Infrastructure investment Canada
Balfour Beatty Construction GP, Inc Investment holding company Canada
Balfour Beatty Construction LP (iii) Investment holding partnership Canada
Balfour Beatty CWH Holdings Inc Investment holding company Canada
Balfour Beatty Investments GP Inc Infrastructure investment Canada
Balfour Beatty Investments LP (iii) Investment holding partnership Canada
BB CWH GP, Inc Infrastructure investment Canada
BB CWH LP (iii) Infrastructure investment Canada
BB Group Canada Inc Investment holding company Canada
BB NIH GP, Inc Infrastructure investment Canada
BB NIH LP (iii) Infrastructure investment Canada
Balfour Beatty Chile SA Construction services Chile
Balfour Beatty Rail Electrification Equipment Trading (Beijing) Ltd Construction services China
Balfour Beatty Capital GmbH Infrastructure investment Germany
Balfour Beatty Offshore Transmission Germany GmbH Dormant Germany
Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH Construction services Germany
Balfour Beatty Rail Power Systems GmbH Construction services Germany
Balfour Beatty Rail Signal GmbH Construction services Germany
BICC Holdings GmbH Investment holding company Germany
Schreck-Mieves GmbH Construction services Germany
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners GP Ltd Infrastructure fund Guernsey
BBIP Founder Partner LP (iii) Infrastructure fund Guernsey
BBPGP Member Ltd Infrastructure fund Guernsey
Balfour Beatty Hong Kong Ltd Construction and support services Hong Kong
Balfour Beatty India Pvt. Ltd Construction and support services India
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure India Pvt. Ltd Construction and support services India
Balfour Beatty Ireland Ltd (ii) Investment holding company Ireland
Kenton Utilities & Developments (Ireland) Ltd Dormant Ireland
Delphian Insurance Company Ltd (i) Captive insurance company Isle of Man
Balfour Beatty Employees Trustees Ltd (i) Employee trust Jersey
Balfour Beatty Finance No.2 Ltd (i) Finance company Jersey
Balfour Beatty Projects Sdn Bhd Construction services Malaysia
Balfour Beatty Rail Design International Sdn Bhd Construction services Malaysia
Balfour Beatty Transmission Sdn Bhd Dormant – in liquidation Malaysia
Balfour Beatty Rail Mexico SA de CV Construction services Mexico
Balfour Beatty Netherlands BV Investment holding company Netherlands
BICC Finance BV Dormant Netherlands
Balfour Beatty New Zealand Ltd Construction and support services New Zealand
SC Balfour Beatty Rail SRL Construction services Romania
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services Ceylon (Pvt.) Ltd Construction services Sri Lanka
Balfour Beatty Rail Schweiz GmbH Construction services Switzerland
Asia Trade Development Co Ltd Construction services Thailand
Balfour Beatty Construction (Thailand) Co Ltd Construction services Thailand
Balfour Beatty Holdings (Thailand) Co Ltd Investment holding company Thailand
Linwood Co Ltd Investment holding company Thailand
Balfour Beatty – Golden Construction Company Construction services United States
Balfour Beatty – Worthgroup, LLC Construction services United States
Balfour Beatty Campus Solutions, LLC Infrastructure investment United States
Balfour Beatty Capital Investments, LLC Infrastructure investment United States
Balfour Beatty Communities TRS, Inc Infrastructure investment United States
Balfour Beatty Communities, LLC Infrastructure investment United States
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
172 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2015 continued
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom continued
Name of undertaking Principal activity Country of incorporation
Balfour Beatty Construction Company, Inc Construction services United States
Balfour Beatty Construction D.C., LLC Construction services United States
Balfour Beatty Construction Group, Inc Investment holding company United States
Balfour Beatty Construction, LLC Construction services United States
Balfour Beatty Energy Solutions, LLC Construction services United States
Balfour Beatty Equipment, LLC Construction services United States
Balfour Beatty Holdings Inc Investment holding company United States
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure, Inc Construction services United States
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners LLC Infrastructure fund United States
Balfour Beatty Investments, Inc Infrastructure investment United States
Balfour Beatty LLC Investment holding company United States
Balfour Beatty Management Inc Business services United States
Balfour Beatty Military Communities LLC Infrastructure investment United States
Balfour Beatty Military Housing Construction LLC Infrastructure investment United States
Balfour Beatty Military Housing Development LLC Infrastructure investment United States
Balfour Beatty Military Housing Investments LLC Investment holding company United States
Balfour Beatty Military Housing LLC Infrastructure investment United States
Balfour Beatty Military Housing Management LLC Infrastructure investment United States
BBC – D5 Investors, LLC (iv) Infrastructure investment United States
BBC AF Housing Construction LLC Infrastructure investment United States
BBC AF Management/Development LLC Infrastructure investment United States
BBC Independent Member I, Inc Infrastructure fund United States
BBC Independent Member II, Inc Infrastructure fund United States
BBC Military Housing – ACC Group, LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – AETC General Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – AETC Limited Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – AMC General Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – AMC Limited Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Bliss/WSMR General Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Bliss/WSMR Limited Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Carlisle/Picatinny General Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Carlisle/Picatinny Limited Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – FDWR LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Fort Carson LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Fort Gordon LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Fort Hamilton LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Fort Jackson LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Hampton Roads LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Lackland LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Leonard Wood LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Navy Northeast LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Navy Southeast LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Northern Group, LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Stewart Hunter LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Vandenberg General Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Vandenberg Limited Partner LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – West Point LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Western General Partner, LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Military Housing – Western Limited Partner, LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Multifamily Holdings, LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBC Northeast Housing Design/Build LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBCS – Hawkeye Housing, LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBCS – Northside Campus, LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBCS – UN Reno Housing, LLC Infrastructure concession United States
BBCS Development, LLC Infrastructure investment United States
BBCS Management, LLC Infrastructure investment United States
BBI – Indy, LLC Infrastructure investment United States
BICC Cables Corporation Dormant United States
Columbia Plaza Investments, LLC Construction services United States
E3 2020, LLC Construction services United States
FLW Design/Build Management LLC Construction services United States
Heery Architects & Engineers, Inc Dormant United States
173 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 Name of undertaking Principal activity Country of incorporation
Heery Engineering, Inc Dormant United States
Heery International, Inc Construction services United States
Heery Program Management, Inc Dormant United States
Howard S Wright Construction Co Construction services United States
HSW Rock Springs, LLC Construction services United States
HSW, Inc Construction services United States
JCM Group Dormant United States
National Casualty and Assurance, Inc Captive insurance company United States
National Engineering & Contracting Company Construction services United States
Sequeira & Gavarrete, Inc Construction services United States
Notes
(i)
 held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
(ii)
 in accordance with the provisions of Section 357 of the Irish Companies Act 2014, the Company, as the ultimate parent of Balfour Beatty Ireland Ltd (BBIL) having its registered 
office at City Junction Business Park, Northern Cross, Malahide Road, Dublin 17, Ireland, irrevocably guarantees in respect of the whole of the financial year of BBIL ended 
31 December 2015, all of the liabilities of BBIL provided that this guarantee shall not extend to any liability or commitment of BBIL which shall not have arisen otherwise than 
in respect of that financial year or which shall not constitute a liability or loss.
(iii)
 partnership interests held.
(iv)
 65% owned.
Joint ventures incorporated in the United Kingdom
Name of undertaking Principal activity Percentage held by the Group
4 Futures Ltd (ii) Investment holding company 80.0%
4 Futures Phase 1 Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
4 Futures Phase 1 Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
4 Futures Phase 2 Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
4 Futures Phase 2 Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Aberdeen Roads (Finance) plc Infrastructure concession 33.3%
Aberdeen Roads Holdings Ltd Investment holding company 33.3%
Aberdeen Roads Ltd Infrastructure concession 33.3%
Birmingham Bio Power Ltd Infrastructure concession 37.5%
Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton Local Education Partnership Ltd (ii) Investment holding company 80.0%
Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton Phase 1 Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton Phase 1 Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton Phase 2 Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton Phase 2 Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Connect A30/A35 Holdings Ltd Investment holding company 20.0%
Connect A30/A35 Ltd Infrastructure concession 20.0%
Connect A50 Ltd Infrastructure concession 25.0%
Connect CNDR Holdings Ltd Investment holding company 25.0%
Connect CNDR Intermediate Ltd Infrastructure concession 25.0%
Connect CNDR Ltd Infrastructure concession 25.0%
Connect M1-A1 Holdings Ltd (i) Investment holding company 50.0%
Connect M1-A1 Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
Connect M77/GSO Holdings Ltd (ii) Investment holding company 85.0%
Connect M77/GSO plc (ii) Infrastructure concession 85.0%
Connect Plus (M25) Holdings Ltd Investment holding company 40.0%
Connect Plus (M25) Intermediate Ltd Infrastructure concession 40.0%
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd Infrastructure concession 40.0%
Connect Roads Ltd Investment holding company 25.0%
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Funding plc Infrastructure concession 40.0%
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Holdings Ltd Investment holding company 40.0%
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Intermediate Ltd Infrastructure concession 40.0%
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Ltd Infrastructure concession 40.0%
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Holdings Ltd Investment holding company 50.0%
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Intermediate Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
Derby City BSF Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Derby City BSF Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Derby City BSF Partnership Ltd (ii) Investment holding company 80.0%
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Holdings) Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 1) Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 2) Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 3) Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 4) Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2015 continued
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom continued
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
174 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2015 continued
Joint ventures incorporated in the United Kingdom continued
Name of undertaking Principal activity Percentage held by the Group
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 5) Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 6) Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 7) Ltd Infrastructure concession 50.0%
Future Ealing Ltd (ii) Investment holding company 80.0%
Future Ealing Phase 1 Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Future Ealing Phase 1 Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Gwynt y Mor OFTO Holdings Ltd (ii) Investment holding company 60.0%
Gwynt y Mor OFTO Intermediate Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 60.0%
Gwynt y Mor OFTO plc (ii) Infrastructure concession 60.0%
Hertfordshire Schools Building Partnership Ltd (ii) Investment holding company 80.0%
Hertfordshire Schools Building Partnership Phase 1 Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Hertfordshire Schools Building Partnership Phase 1 Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Oldham BSF Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 90.0%
Oldham BSF Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 90.0%
Oldham Education Partnership Ltd (ii) Investment holding company 90.0%
Pebblehall Bio Power Ltd Investment holding company 25.0%
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd Infrastructure concession 25.0%
Regional & City Airports (Exeter) Holdings Ltd (ii) Dormant – in liquidation 60.0%
Thanet OFTO Holdco Ltd Investment holding company 20.0%
Thanet OFTO Intermediate Ltd Infrastructure concession 20.0%
Thanet OFTO Ltd Infrastructure concession 20.0%
Trans4m Ltd Construction services 25.0%
Transform Islington (Phase 1) Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Transform Islington (Phase 1) Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Transform Islington (Phase 2) Holdings Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Transform Islington (Phase 2) Ltd (ii) Infrastructure concession 80.0%
Transform Islington Ltd (ii) Investment holding company 80.0%
Tyseley Bio Power Ltd Investment holding company 37.5%
Welland Bio Power Ltd Infrastructure concession 25.0%
Woking Housing Partnership Ltd Property management 50.0%
Notes
(i)
 held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
(ii)
 due to the shareholders’ agreeement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial 
and operating policies of the company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control the company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture. 
175 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2015 continued
Joint ventures incorporated outside the United Kingdom
Name of undertaking Principal activity Country of incorporation Percentage held by the Group
Living & Learning Custodians Pty Ltd Infrastructure concession Australia 50.0%
Living & Learning Holdings Custodians Pty Ltd Investment holding company Australia 50.0%
Gammon Asia Ltd Investment holding company British Virgin Islands 50.0%
Gammon Construction Holdings Ltd Investment holding company British Virgin Islands 50.0%
Affinity LP (i)(iv) Infrastructure concession Canada 70.0%
CWH Design Build GP (iv) Construction services Canada 50.0%
CWH Facilities Management, LP (iv) Infrastructure investment Canada 50.0%
CWH FM GP Inc Infrastructure investment Canada 50.0%
THP LP (iv) Infrastructure concession Canada 50.0%
Balfour Beatty Mendes Junior Ltda Construction services Chile 50.0%
Tianjin BB Electric JV Ltd Construction services China 49.0%
InoSig GmbH Construction services Germany 50.0%
Gammon China Ltd Investment holding company Hong Kong 50.0%
Gammon Construction Ltd (iii) Construction services Hong Kong 50.0%
PT Balfour Beatty Sakti Indonesia Construction services Indonesia 49.0%
Balfour Beatty CLG Ltd Support services Ireland 50.0%
Balfour Beatty Ansaldo Systems JV Sdn Bhd (ii) Construction services Malaysia 60.0%
Balfour Beatty – Maju Sdn Bhd Dormant – in liquidation Malaysia 49.0%
Balfour Beatty Rail Sdn Bhd (ii) Construction services Malaysia 70.0%
Gammon Capital (West) Holdings Pte. Ltd Infrastructure concession Singapore 50.0%
Gammon Capital (West) Pte. Ltd Infrastructure concession Singapore 50.0%
Gammon Investments Pte. Ltd Investment holding company Singapore 50.0%
Balfour Beatty Abu Dhabi LLC Construction services United Arab Emirates 49.0%
BK Gulf LLC Construction services United Arab Emirates 49.0%
BK Gulf – Nass Contracting WLL Construction services United Arab Emirates 30.0%
Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC Construction services United Arab Emirates 49.0%
Dutco Construction Company LLC Construction services United Arab Emirates 49.0%
Dutco Tunnelling LLC Construction services United Arab Emirates 49.0%
Middle East Scaffolding Company LLC Construction services United Arab Emirates 49.0%
Power Transmission Gulf LLC Construction services United Arab Emirates 49.0%
Balfour Beatty/Benham Military Communities LLC (i) Infrastructure investment United States 90.0%
Balfour Beatty/PHELPS Military Communities LLC (i) Infrastructure investment United States 90.0%
Balfour Concord GP (iv) Construction services United States 50.0%
Balfour Concord Property Management, LLC Construction services United States 50.0%
BBC – Apexone Holdings, LLC Infrastructure investment United States 45.0%
Carmendy Square Properties, LLC Infrastructure investment United States 45.0%
C-BB Management, LLC Infrastructure investment United States 50.0%
C-BBC Development, LLC Infrastructure investment United States 50.0%
New Energy Alliance LLC Construction and support services United States 50.0%
Northside Campus General Partner, LLC Infrastructure investment United States 50.0%
Northside Campus Limited Partner, LLC (i) Infrastructure investment United States 90.0%
Northside Campus Partners, LP (iv) Infrastructure investment United States 50.0%
Structure Tone/Dooley Construction, LLC (i) Construction services United States 70.0%
University Hotel Partners, LLC Construction services United States 49.0%
Notes
(i)
 due to the shareholders’ agreeement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial 
and operating policies of the company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control the company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
(ii)
 the Group holds a 70% interest in Balfour Beatty Rail Sdn Bhd, which holds a 60% interest in Balfour Beatty Ansaldo Systems JV Sdn Bhd. Due to the shareholders’ agreement 
between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of these 
companies, the Directors consider that the Group does not control these companies and they have been accounted for as joint ventures. 
(ii)
 preference shares and/or deferred shares in the Company also held.
(iv)
 partnership interests held.
Notes to the Financial Statements continued
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
176 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2015 continued
Associated undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom
Name of undertaking Principal activity Percentage held by the Group
Power Asset Development Company Ltd Infrastructure concession 25.0%
UBB Waste (Essex) Holdings Ltd Investment holding company 30.0%
UBB Waste (Essex) Intermediate Ltd Infrastructure concession 30.0%
UBB Waste (Essex) Ltd Infrastructure concession 49.5%
UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) Holdings Ltd Investment holding company 49.5%
UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) Intermediate Ltd Infrastructure concession 49.5%
UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) Ltd Infrastructure concession 49.5%
UK Power Networks Services Powerlink Ltd Infrastructure concession 10.0%
Associated undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom
Name of undertaking Principal activity Country of incorporation Percentage held by the Group
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners LP (ii) Infrastructure fund Guernsey 17.8%
ACC Group Housing, LLC (i) Infrastructure concession United States 100.0%
AETC Housing LP (i)(ii) Infrastructure concession United States 100.0%
AMC West Housing LP (i)(ii) Infrastructure concession United States 100.0%
Lackland Family Housing, LLC (i) Infrastructure investment United States 100.0%
Leonard Wood Family Communities, LLC Infrastructure investment United States 10.0%
Northern Group Housing, LLC (i) Infrastructure investment United States 100.0%
Vandenberg Housing LP (i)(ii) Infrastructure investment United States 100.0%
Western Group Housing, LP (i)(ii) Infrastructure investment United States 100.0%
Notes
(i)
 the Group evaluated each of its interests in the military housing projects to determine if the entities should be consolidated. This analysis included, but was not limited to, 
identifying the activities that most significantly impact an entity’s economic performance, which party or parties control those activities and the risks associated with these 
entities. Decision making power over key facets of the contracts were evaluated when determining which party or parties had control over the activities that most signficantly 
impact a project’s economics. Based on this review, the Directors consider that the Group does not have the power to direct these activities and does not have control and 
therefore the entities have been accounted for as joint ventures.
(ii)
 partnership interests held. 
177 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015 2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Income
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 8,444 8,793 8,852 8,681 8,842
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (1,489) (1,529) (1,364) (1,301) (1,420)
Group revenue from continuing operations 6,955 7 ,264 7 ,488 7 ,380 7 ,422
Underlying (loss)/profit from continuing operations (106) (58) 146 188 212
Underlying net finance costs (17) (22) (15) (6) (14)
Underlying (loss)/profit before taxation (123) (80) 131 182 198
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (10) (1 1) (17) (20) (27)
Other non-underlying items (66) (213) (163) (159) (21)
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations before taxation (199) (304) (49) 3 150
Taxation on (loss)/profit from continuing operations (7) 3 (4) (6) (30)
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations after taxation (206) (301) (53) (3) 120
Profit from discontinued operations after taxation – 242 18 38 53
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to equity holders (206) (59) (35) 35 173
 
Capital employed
Equity holders’ funds 826 1,227 1,033 1,310 1,259
Liability component of preference shares 98 96 94 92 91
Net non-recourse borrowings – infrastructure concessions 365 445 354 368 332
Net (cash)/borrowings – other (163) (219) 66 (35) (340)
1,126 1,549 1,547 1,735 1,342
2015 
Pence
2014 
Pence
2013 
Pence
2012 
Pence
2011 
Pence
Statistics
Underlying (loss)/earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations
*
(19.7) (1 1 .5) 15.3 23.6 22.0
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (30.2) (43.9) (7 .5) (0.3) 17.5
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (30.2) (43.9) (7 .5) (0.3) 17.5
Proposed dividends per ordinary share – 5.6 14.1 14.1 13.8
Underlying (loss)/profit from continuing operations before net finance costs 
including share of joint ventures and associates as a percentage of revenue 
including share of joint ventures and associates (1.3)% (0.7)% 1 .6% 2.2% 2.4%
Note
* Underlying earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations have been disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
178 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Unaudited Group five-year summary Financial calendar
2016
19 May Annual General Meeting
19 May Ex-dividend date for July 2016 preference dividend
20 May July 2016 preference dividend record date
1 July Preference dividend payable
17 August
*
 Announcement of 2016 half-year results
* Provisional date.
Registrars
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests 
to receive corporate documents by email should, in the first 
instance, be directed to the Company’s Registrars and clearly state 
your registered address and, if available, your shareholder reference 
number. Please write to:
Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from the 
UK (calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone company’s access 
charge) and +44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK (Monday to 
Friday 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time). Alternatively, you can email: 
Shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk.
They can help you to: check your shareholding; register a change 
of address or name; obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax 
voucher; record the death of a shareholder.
Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan
Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society 
account through the Bankers Automated Clearing System (BACS). 
The Registrars can provide a dividend mandate form. A dividend 
reinvestment plan (DRIP) is offered which allows holders of ordinary 
shares to reinvest their cash dividends in the Company’s shares 
through a specially arranged share dealing service. Full details 
of the DRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, are 
available at www.balfourbeatty-shares.com.
International payment service
Shareholders outside the UK may elect to receive dividends 
direct into their overseas bank account, or by currency draft, 
instead of by sterling cheque. For further information, contact 
the Company’s Registrars on +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside the 
UK) or 0871 664 0385 from the UK (calls cost 12p per minute plus 
your phone company’s access charge). Lines are open Monday 
to Friday 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time. Alternatively, you can 
log on to www.balfourbeatty-shares.com and click on the link 
for International Payment Service.
Shareholder information on the internet and  
electronic communications
Our website www.balfourbeatty.com provides a range of 
information about the Company, our people and businesses and 
our policies on corporate governance and corporate responsibility. 
It should be regarded as your first point of reference for information 
on any of these matters. The share price can also be found there. 
You can create a Share Portal account, through which you will 
be able to access the full range of online shareholder services, 
including the ability to: view your holdings and indicative share 
price and valuation; view movements on your holdings and your 
dividend payment history; register a dividend mandate to have 
your dividends paid directly into your bank account; change 
your registered address; sign up to receive e-communications 
or access the online proxy voting facility; and download 
and print shareholder forms.
The Share Portal is easy to use. Please visit 
www.balfourbeatty-shares.com. Alternatively, you can email: 
shareportal@capita.co.uk.
Unsolicited telephone calls
In the past, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited 
telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters 
from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have 
some connection with the Company. These are typically from 
overseas-based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders offering to 
sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in 
UK or overseas investments. Shareholders are advised to be very 
wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount 
or offers of free reports on the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
 – always ensure the firm is on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Register and is allowed to give financial advice before handing 
over your money. You can check via  
www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
 – double-check the caller is from the firm they say they are – ask 
for their name and telephone number and say you will call them 
back. Check their identity by calling the firm using the contact 
number listed on the FCA Register. If there are no contact details 
on the FCA Register or you are told that they are out of date,  
or if you have any other doubts, call the FCA Consumer Helpline 
on 0800 111 6768
 – check the FCA’s list of known unauthorised overseas firms at  
www.fca.org.uk. However, these firms change names regularly, 
so even if a firm is not listed, it does not mean they are 
legitimate. Always check that they are listed on the FCA Register
 – if you are approached about a share scam, you should inform the 
FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/
consumers/scams/ report-scam/share-fraud-form, where you can 
also find out about the latest investment scams or alternatively, 
you can call the FCA Consumer Helpline (see above). If you use 
an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, 
you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
or be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme if things go wrong
 – you should also report any approach to Action Fraud, who are the 
UK’s national fraud reporting centre at www.actionfraud.police.uk, 
or by calling 0300 123 2040. 
Gifting shares to your family or to charity
To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, 
please ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form. 
Alternatively, if you only have a small number of shares whose 
value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider 
donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift (registered 
charity no. 1052686), whose work Balfour Beatty supports.
Any shares you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when 
possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other 
UK charities. Since ShareGift was launched, over £20m has been 
given to more than 2,000 charities.
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the 
Registrars. For more information visit www.sharegift.org.
179 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Shareholder information Share dealing services
Capita Share Dealing Services (a trading name of Capita IRG 
Trustees Limited) provide a telephone and online share dealing 
service for UK and EEA resident shareholders. To use this service, 
telephone: 0371 664 0445. Calls cost 12p per minute plus your 
phone company’s access charge. Calls from outside the UK will 
be charged at the applicable international rate. Lines are open 
9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding bank 
holidays in England and Wales. Alternatively, you can log on to 
www.capitadeal.com.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited is authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority and is also authorised to conduct  
cross-border business within the EEA under the provisions of the 
EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
London Stock Exchange Codes
The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List (SEDOL) codes are: 
Ordinary shares: 0096162. Preference shares: 0097820. 
The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Ordinary shares: 
BBY; Preference shares: BBYB.
Capital gains tax (CGT)
For CGT purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour 
Beatty plc’s ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p per share. 
This has been adjusted for the 1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, 
the 2 for 11 rights issue in September 1996 and the 3 for 7 rights 
issue in October 2009 and  assumes that all rights have been 
taken up.
Consolidated tax vouchers
Balfour Beatty issues a consolidated tax voucher annually 
to all shareholders who have their dividends paid direct to 
their bank accounts. If you would prefer to receive a tax 
voucher at each dividend payment date rather than annually, 
please contact the Registrars. A copy of the consolidated 
tax voucher may be downloaded from the Share Portal at 
www.balfourbeatty-shares.com.
Enquiries
Enquiries relating to Balfour Beatty’s results, business and 
financial position should be made in writing to the Corporate 
Communications Department at the address shown below 
or by email to info@balfourbeatty.com.
Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 5 Churchill Place, Canary 
Wharf, London E14 5HU. Registered in England Number 395826. 
Forward-looking statements
This document may include certain forward-looking statements, 
beliefs or opinions, including statements with respect to Balfour 
Beatty plc’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use 
of forward-looking terminology, including the terms ‘believes’, 
‘estimates’, ‘plans’, ‘anticipates’, ‘targets’, ‘aims’, ‘continues’, 
‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘hopes’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘would’, ‘could’ or ‘should’ 
or in each case, their negative or other various or comparable 
terminology. These statements are made by the Balfour Beatty plc 
Directors in good faith-based on the information available to 
them at the date of this report and reflect the Balfour Beatty 
plc Directors’ beliefs and expectations. By their nature, these 
statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to 
events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur 
in the future. A number of factors could cause actual results and 
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied 
by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, 
developments in the global economy, changes in UK and US 
government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, 
failure in Balfour Beatty’s health, safety or environmental policies 
and those factors set out under ‘Principal risks’ on pages 44 to 50 
of this document.
No representation or warranty is made that any of these statements 
or forecasts will come to pass or that any forecast results will be 
achieved. Forward-looking statements speak only as at the date 
of this document and Balfour Beatty plc and its advisers expressly 
disclaim any obligations or undertaking to release any update of, 
or revisions to, any forward-looking statements in this document. 
No statement in the document is intended to be, or intended 
to be construed as, a profit forecast or to be interpreted to 
mean that earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share for the current 
or future financial years will necessarily match or exceed the 
historical earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share. As a result, you 
are cautioned not to place any undue reliance on such forward-
looking statements.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015
180 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
balfourbeatty.com/AR2015
Shareholder information continued Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar
Printed in England by Pureprint
The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, of which 100% is de-inked post-consumer 
waste. All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process (ECF). Printed in the UK by 
Pureprint using its alcofree
 ®
 and pureprint
 ®
 environmental printing technology, with vegetable inks used 
throughout. Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both the manufacturing mill and printer are registered 
to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) 
chain-of-custody certified.
Follow us on:
 Twitter
 @balfourbeatty
 LinkedIn
 linkedin.com/company/balfour-beatty-plc
 Facebook
 facebook.com/balfourbeatty
 YouTube
 youtube.com/BalfourBeattyPlc
Find out more about our investor relations at: 
www.balfourbeatty.com/investors Balfour Beatty 
5 Churchill Place 
Canary Wharf  
London E14 5HU
Telephone: +44(0) 20 7216 6800 
Facsimile: +44(0) 20 7216 6950
www.balfourbeatty.com
Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
