 BLINKX
BLINKX ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015
blinkx plc
ANNUAL 
REPORT
AND 
ACCOUNTS
YEAR ENDED 
31 MARCH
2015
COMPANY NO
:
 06223359  This Annual Report contains forward-looking  
 statements. These include, but are not limited to, 
 statements regarding:
• the growth of our business and revenues;
• our expectations about the factors that influence  
 our success and trends in our business;
• forecasts regarding Internet usage and advertising 
 spend, which are likely to cause fluctuations in  
 our results;
• our plans to continue to invest in our people,  
 processes and products;
• our plans to continue our current pace 
 of acquisitions;
• the potential for declines in our revenue,  
 profitability or growth rates;
• projected levels of growth in our markets;
• our investments in international and emerging  
 markets and sectors;
• estimates of future compensation expenses;
• fluctuations in our effective tax rate;
• the sufficiency of our sources of funding and our 
 plans to use funds;
• fluctuations in our capital expenditures and  
 operating expenses; and
• other statements regarding our future operations,  
 financial condition and prospects, and business  
 strategies. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve 
risk and uncertainty because they relate to future 
events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, 
US and UK domestic and global economic and business 
conditions, the effects of blogs and media coverage, 
the effects of continued volatility in credit markets, 
market-related risks such as changes in interest rates 
and exchange rates, the policies and actions of 
governmental and regulatory authorities, changes in 
legislation, the further development of standards and 
interpretations under International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) applicable to past, current and future 
periods, evolving practices with regard to the 
interpretation and application of standards under IFRS, 
the outcome of pending and future litigation, the 
success of future acquisitions and other strategic 
transactions, and the impact of competition –  
a number of which are beyond blinkx’s control.
As used herein, “blinkx,” “the Company,” “the Group,” 
“we,” “our,” and similar terms include blinkx plc and  
its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. 
“blinkx” and other trademarks of ours appearing in  
this report are our property. This report contains 
additional trade names and trademarks of other 
companies. We do not intend our use or display of 
other companies’ trade names or trademarks to  
imply an endorsement or sponsorship of us by  
such companies, or any relationship with any of  
these companies. 
Except as required by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), Alternative Investment Market (AIM), or 
applicable law, blinkx expressly disclaims any obligation 
or undertaking to release publicly any updates or 
revisions to any forward-looking statements contained 
in this Annual Report to reflect any changes in blinkx’s 
expectations with regard thereto or any changes in 
events, conditions or circumstances on which any 
such statement is based. Neither the content of the 
Company’s website (or any other website) nor the 
content of any website accessible from hyperlinks on 
the Company’s website (or any other website) is 
incorporated into, or forms part of, this report. 
None of these statements should be explicitly 
interpreted as a profit forecast or a recommendation 
to invest in the Company.
SAFE HARBOR DISCLOSURE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 C ONTENTS
KEY HIGHLIGHTS 1 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW 2 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 5 
THE CEO’S REPORT 7 
THE CFO‘S REPORT 8 
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL 13 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 17 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 21
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT 24 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 29 
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT 32 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 33 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 37
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 39
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  41
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 43
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 44
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AND ADVISORS 78
GLOSSARY 79  1
HIGHLIGHTS
 KEY BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS IN THE YEAR INCLUDE:
• generated revenue of $215.0 million; Mobile revenues nearly tripled 
 year-on-year to $41.4 million, which combined with Desktop Video and 
 Programmatic now constitute the majority of revenue streams;
• in a year of significant industry changes, generated a Loss before 
 T ax of $24.8 million, although on an adjusted basis, the Group still 
 generated positive adjusted EBITDA
*
 of $3.5 million; and cash from 
 operations of $5.0 million, excluding one time or exceptional charges;
• maintained a strong, debt free balance sheet with closing cash  
 and cash equivalents of $95.7 million, after funding $27.8 million 
 for four acquisitions and technology investments;
• acquired L YFE mobile, an innovative mobile Demand Side Platform 
 (DSP) and Data Management Platform (DMP);
• acquired AdKarma LLC, a leading video Supply Side Platform (SSP);
• acquired All Media Network, LLC, gaining a number of premium 
 consumer properties, including, Sidereel.com, Allmusic.com, 
 Allmovie.com and Celebified.com;
• executed T echnology Licensing deal with Zenovia Digital Exchange;
• forged key partnerships with leading viewability and verification
 companies, including Integral Ad Science, Nielsen Double Verify,
 Co Score and Forensiq to pre-filter, segment and enhance traffic
 quality and measurement;
• expanded the Board of Directors with the appointment of  
 Mr. Raj Chellaraj of Stanford University;
• expanded the executive leadership team with the appointment  
 of senior product, engineering and operations staff; and
• consolidated key brand advertising entities under a single trade
 brand, RhythmOne, to deliver on the promise of cross-screen
 advertising at scale, across the Company’s supply base.
*Non-GAAP Measures
• references to adjusted EBITDA. This financial measure does  
 not have any standardized meaning prescribed by IFRS and  
 is therefore referred to as a non-GAAP measures. The non-GAAP
 measure used by blinkx may not be comparable to similar  
 measures used by other companies; and
• adjusted EBITDA is defined as profit attributable to equity holders 
 of the parent before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, 
 share-based payment expense, and acquisition and exceptional costs. 
 Management believes that this measure is a useful supplemental 
 metric as it provides an indication of the results generated by the 
 Company’s principal business activities prior to consideration of how 
 the results are impacted by non-recurring costs, how the results are 
 taxed in various jurisdictions, or how the results are affected by the 
 accounting standards associated with the Group’s share-based 
 payment expense.
Notes: FY2015 numbers are in line one; FY2014 numbers are in line two.
1. Excludes acquisitions and non-recurring expenses, share-based compensation and other income.
OVER THE PAST YEAR,  
THE COMPANY MADE  
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS 
TO STABILIZE ITS  
DESKTOP BUSINESS,  
AND CONTINUED TO  
INVEST IN VIDEO, MOBILE 
AND PROGRAMMATIC  
CAPABILITIES –  
THE KEY INDUSTRY 
GROWTH AREAS.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
This has been a transformational year for both the online advertising 
sector and blinkx. Revenue growth continued to transition toward 
Mobile and Video, specifically through automated or “Programmatic” 
trading channels. Over the past year, the Company made significant 
progress to stabilize its desktop business, and continued to invest in 
video, mobile and Programmatic capabilities – the key industry 
growth areas. During the year, we also launched a major initiative to 
consolidate the product, technology, sales and marketing strategy 
and operations to better align with evolving advertiser requirements.
REVENUE
$215.0 M
$247.2 M
ADJ. EBITDA
1
$3.5 M
$39.6 M
ADJ. PBT
-$7.8 M
$31.9 M
NET CASH
$95.7 M
$126.9 M MARKET OUTLOOK:
A number of key trends are driving evolution of the industry. 
Online advertising continues to grow at 13% per year, as
budgets continue to shift from offline channels. Within online 
advertising, mobile ad spend is expected to exceed desktop
spend for the first time in 2016, with channel growth of 32% 
Compounded Average Growth Rate (CAGR). From a segment
standpoint, online video is at the head of the pack, growing at  
a 22% CAGR, while mobile video spend is expected to grow
at an industry leading 32% CAGR.
Programmatic has gained a permanent foothold within digital 
advertising as more inventory is bought and sold through
automated trading mechanisms. Growing at 26% CAGR over  
five years, auction-based, Real-Time Bidding (RTB) budgets
will nearly triple by 2018. RTB is expected to account for 50%  
of display ad spending in 2018, with non-RTB Programmatic
accounting for an additional 30% of spend. Even more impres-
sive, mobile real-time bidding is growing at a remarkable
128% CAGR over the same period, and is expected to account  
for 27% of all RTB display ad spending by 2017.
Cross-screen advertising has emerged as a high-growth indus-
try sub-sector, with advertisers seeking efficient, transparent
audience targeting across devices. By all accounts, audience 
targeting across devices will become a required capability in
every supply provider’s arsenal.
Finally, the industry continues to drive toward common,  
established measurement standards around audience quality 
and brand safety. A number of third parties have emerged as 
leaders in the space – working with supply and demand players
alike within the value chain, to eliminate subjectivity in assess-
ing inventory quality. The Company has sought to grow its
quality supply footprint in the Programmatic marketplace by 
placing a strong focus on technology-enabled traffic filters.
2
BLINKX
blinkx (LSE AIM: BLNX) is a Technology company that connects 
consumers and brands through premium content online. As a 
B2B company, over 95% of blinkx revenue comes from digital 
advertising, with a core focus on video, mobile and Program-
matic segments. The Company has directed efforts during 
FY2015 toward assembling the key component parts of a 
comprehensive digital advertising and content distribution 
platform. blinkx’s customers have been demanding greater 
integration of its different products and solutions between  
the various channels of digital advertising spend to better  
target audiences across devices, and deliver a clearer  
understanding of campaign effectiveness to ultimately  
enhance return on advertising spend.
We believe the online advertising sector will continue to grow 
and transform at a rapid pace. Likewise, we believe advertisers 
will continue to seek audience-centric, cross-screen advertising 
capabilities and will reward supply partners that demonstrate 
supply scale, advanced targeting capabilities, integrated 
campaign implementation, and clear measurement around 
campaign effectiveness and brand safety.
The Company’s recent product integration efforts are  
expected to augment supply scale and provide transparency 
into campaign effectiveness for its customers, thereby growing 
the top-line revenue opportunity. The Board also believes the 
resulting cohesion will make the sale of advertising inventory 
more efficient. blinkx is headquartered in San Francisco,  
California, with offices worldwide.
PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE:
The Company’s guiding principle is to democratize the access to 
quality digital content globally. Our Vision is to connect Audienc-
es and Brands through premium Content across Devices. Our 
Mission is to provide the most efficient, brand-safe marketplace 
for digital advertising and content distribution. By achieving this 
objective, blinkx adds value and aligns the interests of the four 
key constituents in its value chain:
CONSUMERS: blinkx facilitates the access to premium  
digital content.
ADVERTISERS: blinkx helps advertisers maximize the  
return on investment on their digital marketing spend.
PUBLISHERS: blinkx enables its publisher partners to monetize 
their users and maximize the price for their audiences.
CONTENT PROVIDERS: blinkx provides content creators an extend-
ed distribution and monetization platform for their assets.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
C ONTENT APPS
AD VER TISERS C ONSUMERS
BLINKX
BLINKX PLATFORM
Source: blinkx  STRATEGY:
 blinkx’s strategy incorporates a number of key components:
1.  CONTROL THE SUPPLY CHAIN FROM PUBLISHER TO MARKETPLACE 
 blinkx historically has operated as a media entity, defined as placing inventory for sale into the ecosystem – with a focus on online
 video. As the value chain has become more complex, and Programmatic trading has emerged in prominence, the revenue share 
 equation has fragmented further to accommodate Supply Side Platforms, Demand Side Platforms and Exchanges. blinkx has 
 deliberately forward integrated within the value chain, and assembled the key components of a unified advertising stack, from 
 consumers to a buying platform for advertisers. This strategy is expected to result in a number of positive outcomes – a one-stop 
 shop for all advertiser needs, the opportunity to capture a greater share of each advertising dollar spent, and a differentiated 
 traffic quality and brand safe inventory, resulting in greater demand and higher pricing.
2.  DELIVER CROSS-SCREEN ADVERTISING AT SCALE
 Advertisers still buy inventory in silos – largely at the format (video, search, display, social, etc.) and channel (desktop, mobile,  
 connected TV) levels. There is a prime opportunity to evolve and simplify the dialogue with blinkx customers, harnessing the  
 breadth of the Company’s supply footprint, cross-screen capabilities, integrated advertising formats, and data analytics around  
 audience targeting. By defining an advertiser’s ideal customer profile, campaign budget and KPI, blinkx can reach discrete audi 
 ences across devices, at scale, using the most appropriate formats and channels to achieve campaign goals. This results in great 
 er campaign optimization and transparency, resulting in greater demand and cross-sell opportunity.
3.  REPRESENT QUALITY SUPPLY AND ENHANCE BRAND SAFETY
 Supply aggregators are being subjected to increased quality scrutiny. Because aggregators largely do not control the audiences 
 within their networks, it is imperative to present clear, transparent measures around supply quality and brand safety. blinkx made 
 significant strides in this regard during FY2015 – through the acquisition of respected owned-and-operated consumer sites and 
 integration of industry-leading traffic filtering IP into its platform and marketplace. This results in quantifiable audience metrics 
 and a highly differentiated marketplace proposition, letting us enrich the inventory made available to advertisers through our 
 Programmatic channels, and drive greater demand and higher pricing.
3
EV OL UTION
CONSUMER WEBSITE NWK SSP EXCHANGE DSP ATD AGENCY BRAND
MOBILE
VIDEO
DISPLAY
MOBILE
VIDEO
DISPLAY
CONTEXTUAL
TEXT
MOBILE
VIDEO
DISPLAY
CONTEXTUAL
TEXT
2012-2015 2009-2012 2004-2009
BLINKX
BLINKX
BLINKX
BLINKX
BLINKX
Source: blinkx 
Definitions: NWK: Ad Network, SSP: Supply Side Platform, DSP: Demand Side Platform, ATD: Agency Trading Desk
 
 OPERATING MODEL:
 The blinkx operating model consists of four key components: 
 supply partners, demand partners, content (including desktop 
 and mobile app providers) and underlying technology. The 
 Company earns revenue by connecting advertisers with con-
 sumers through premium content across devices. blinkx 
 solves the fragmentation problem inherent to supply aggre-
 gation by matching consumers with content and ads in real 
 time, using its contextual algorithms and Programmatic 
 trading capabilities.
 The Company’s organization structure largely reflects the 
 above operating model, with supply and demand entities sup-
 ported by centralized finance, operations, marketing, product 
 and engineering, and legal functions. Sales is consolidated 
 within the demand functions to encourage and ramp cross-
 platform, integrated campaign selling.
 OUTLOOK:
 blinkx expects a number of outcomes as a result of executing 
 against its strategy. By unifying its Programmatic capabilities, 
 the Company aims to retain a greater percentage of revenue 
 share funneled through the supply chain. Moreover, a mar- 
 ketplace, by definition, creates a network effect that is 
 self-propagating. An integrated Programmatic platform 
 allows the Company to add supply and demand partners 
 through technology, without the need for intervention or 
 an intermediary, resulting in growth of both inventory and 
 ad spend. Integrated, cross-device selling will have a positive 
 effect on revenue. By unifying its brand advertising capabili-
 ties, blinkx’s sales teams can evolve the dialogue with demand 
 partners, resulting in broader, more integrated campaigns 
 that span formats and devices – all in support of a common 
 adver tising objective.
 blinkx’s focus on brand safety will grow both demand and 
 supply partnerships. The Company uses industry-leading 
 technology to segment Internet traffic across devices at  
 scale and eliminate suspicious or underperforming traffic 
 from its marketplace. This fortifies blinkx’s ability to  
 connect advertisers with highly qualified audiences prog- 
 rammatically. It also enables blinkx to offer its publisher  
 partners a universal platform to pre-qualify and screen  
 their inventory to maximize yield, quality and performance.  5
Anthony Bettencourt
Chairman of the Board of Directors
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Financial Year 2015 was a transformational and challenging 
year for both the online advertising sector and blinkx. Revenue 
growth continued to transition toward mobile and video, 
specifically through automated or “Programmatic” trading 
channels. Supply aggregators faced the growing requirement 
of representing audience targeting across devices, and the 
sector continued to show signs of rapid consolidation in a race 
toward scale and profitability.
Against this backdrop, the Company continued to execute 
against its strategy to pursue key growth opportunities by 
investing in mobile and Programmatic capabilities, and also 
made significant progress to stabilize its desktop business. 
During the year, blinkx also implemented a major initiative to 
consolidate its product, sales and marketing efforts to better 
align with evolving advertiser requirements. This resulted in the 
launch of its new brand advertising trade entity RhythmOne, 
which extends the promise of cross-screen advertising across  
a significant and growing base of quality supply, at scale.
The Company continued to display good operating discipline 
and positive metrics around business stabilization, demon-
strated by cash preservation and a clear inflection point in the 
performance of its desktop business. The Company’s perfor-
mance is evidence of the significant strides the team has made 
in reconstituting the business and positioning it for growth.  
I believe our future prospects look bright, based on the 
Company’s breadth of integrated capabilities and sheer scale  
as a Supply Side player. I also want to commend the entire 
management team for the deliberate manner in which it has 
added strategic capabilities and refactored the Company’s 
revenue base, all while demonstrating acute financial discipline.
Over the course of the year the Board has also taken steps 
to bolster its governance and independence efforts. We have 
added another highly qualified independent Non-Executive 
Board member, with significant finance, strategy and 
governance expertise. We are delighted to welcome Raj 
Chellaraj to the Board, pending the ratification of his  
appointment by shareholders.
I would further like to thank our institutional and private 
shareholders, as well as our customers, employees and 
partners, for their continued support of blinkx. The Board is 
encouraged by the performance of both the Company and the 
management team in a year of transformation, and is confident 
about blinkx’s future and prospects. I wish the Company and its 
shareholders every success in the future.
Anthony Bettencourt
Chairman of the Board of Directors
blinkx plc
18 June 2015
I BELIEVE OUR  
FUTURE PROSPECTS 
LOOK BRIGHT, BASED 
ON THE COMPANY’S 
BREADTH OF INTEGRATED 
CAPABILITIES AND SHEER 
SCALE AS A SUPPLY  
SIDE PLAYER. IN ANTICIPATION OF THESE PARADIGM 
SHIFTS, BLINKX HAS TAKEN DELIBERATE, 
PRE-EMPTIVE ACTION TO STABILIZE ITS 
CORE BUSINESS AND ENSURE THAT IT WILL 
CONTINUE TO RISE WITH THE VIDEO,  
MOBILE AND PROGRAMMATIC TIDES. 7
Subhransu (“Brian”) Mukherjee
Chief Executive Officer
Dear Shareholder:
Financial Year 2015 was a transformational year for our  
Company. We reconstituted our desktop video business and 
made significant strides to reposition the Company to compete 
and grow. During the year, blinkx continued to execute against 
its strategy to re-direct the Company’s capabilities toward 
the high-growth mobile, video and Programmatic advertising 
segments of the industry. In a sector characterized by rapid 
change, we made pivotal moves to stabilize and strengthen 
our core revenue streams while positioning the Company in 
the emerging high-growth areas of the industry. Our vision 
remains to connect Audiences and Brands through premium 
digital Content across Devices. This enables the Company to 
facilitate the fair value exchange between the Consumer’s 
engagement with the Advertiser’s message through useful 
digital content.
We made progress toward this vision during the year, despite 
the ongoing structural changes within the industry. During the 
year, the Company took deliberate actions to simplify its prop-
osition to advertisers and partners. Specifically, we launched 
the integration of our teams, capabilities, products, technology 
and systems under a single brand. A beacon of simplification 
and completeness, we fully aligned our brand advertising assets 
under a single trade entity, RhythmOne (1R). The 1R brand 
unification is designed to deliver on the promise of brand-safe, 
quality, cross-screen advertising at scale, across a consolidated 
supply footprint. This covers the Company’s comprehensive 
range of formats and devices, including desktop and mobile 
video, rich media, display, social and native. Through a single 
entry point, advertisers are now able to reach target audiences 
efficiently to achieve measurable ROI at their desired spend level. 
1R combines our aggregate supply footprint and enables us to 
follow audiences across devices using the most appropriate 
formats to achieve an advertiser’s KPI, while being transparent 
about attribution and optimization of the entire campaign.
blinkx also initiated a reorganization plan to better align its 
sales teams around the unified selling proposition. The reorga-
nization also brings together systems and operations functions, 
ensuring they fully support integrated, cross-device selling and 
provide convenient access to consolidated metrics for advertis-
ers, publishers and content partners alike.
blinkx extended its suite of offerings with new audience-target-
ing solutions that enable the Company to target audience  
segments and users within its supply base as they consume 
media across devices. These capabilities support the Company’s 
audience-centric value proposition and help us to break down 
traditional format – or channel-centric silos in how online ad-
vertising is bought and sold – shifting the conversation instead 
to the advertiser’s target audience and campaign KPI.
blinkx also undertook highly selective strategic acquisitions 
to extend its quality supply footprint and complete its unified 
Programmatic stack. The integration of these key acquisitions 
with the Company’s existing platforms and operations will be 
the primary operational focus of the coming year. The acquisi-
tions of L YFE Mobile and AdKarma earlier in the financial year 
were instrumental in bolstering the Company’s Programmatic 
capabilities across both video and mobile formats, which helped 
reconstitute the Company’s desktop video business and posi-
tion the enterprise for future mobile growth. These acquisitions 
provide integral components of blinkx’s unified Programmatic 
stack that is able to deliver on the promise of brand-safe, cross-
screen advertising at scale.
The technology licensing agreement with Zenovia Digital 
Exchange brings to blinkx industry-leading technology to filter 
and segment traffic, and enhance brand safety. The ability to 
prevent fraud before it occurs, rather than just measure fraud 
after it occurs, is a radically different approach to operating a 
Programmatic marketplace. By combining blinkx’s contextual 
targeting and user-filtering techniques with Zenovia’s pre-bid 
filtering and screening technology, the Company will be able to 
pre-qualify, categorize and enrich the inventory made available 
to advertisers through our Programmatic channels, and take a 
definitive stance on inventory quality.
The most recent acquisition of All Media Network, LLC (All 
Media) represents an important and unique step forward in 
the Company’s strategy to build a complete digital advertising 
platform for brand-safe, cross-screen advertising at scale. 
Through All Media, blinkx gains access to a number of premium 
consumer properties, including Sidereel.com, Allmusic.com, 
Allmovie.com and Celebified.com – collectively representing 
over 25 million unique users per month. Owning and operating a 
sizeable, high-quality audience enhances the Company’s ability 
to continuously test, filter and score its aggregate supply to 
enhance traffic quality and performance.
The digital advertising sector continues to evolve rapidly – with 
video leading the pack in terms of growth. Spend continues 
to shift from offline to online channels as advertisers follow 
consumers online. Mobile spend is expected to exceed desktop 
spend for the first time this year – a trend that is due to contin-
ue as advertisers seek to connect with audiences whenever and 
wherever they consume media. Programmatic trading has be-
come firmly established as the dominant buying method, result-
ing in  significant M&A activity as traditional media companies 
race to acquire or augment their automated trading capabil-
ities. Finally, new tools are making it easier for advertisers to 
assess inventory quality and for supply partners to definitively 
represent a brand-safe advertising environment.
In anticipation of these paradigm shifts, blinkx has taken 
deliberate, pre-emptive action to stabilize its core business and 
ensure that it will continue to rise with the video, mobile and 
Programmatic tides. Through organic investments and acquisi-
tions, we are fully aligned with emerging trends and opportu-
nities, and operate a complete and integrated Programmatic 
digital advertising and content distribution stack. Our teams 
are empowered to go to market with a differentiated offer that 
spans both media and marketplace, and truly deliver on the 
promise of audience-centric, cross-screen advertising at scale.
During the year, we also made several key executive hires in 
product, sales, technology and marketing who will play critical 
roles in driving our future growth. In an effort to enhance our 
governance profile, we also strengthened our Board of Direc-
tors with the appointment of a lead Non-Executive Director,  
Raj Chellaraj, who brings over thirty years of finance, strategy 
and governance expertise in both the private and public sectors. 
In closing, we exit a transformational year poised for future 
competitiveness and growth. We remain optimistic about the 
fundamentals of the online advertising industry and believe  
we have the assets, technology, team, and a culture of innova-
tion and agility to compete and succeed. Our financial metrics 
demonstrate strong financial, operational and acquisition  
discipline. We remain focused on profitability which, along  
with a robust balance sheet, affords us the opportunity to  
drive truly catalytic growth. Our customers, competitors and 
shareholders inspire us to redouble our efforts to compete  
and succeed, and a smart, capable, energized team is ready  
to take on the challenge.
Let me also take this opportunity to express my sincere grati-
tude to you, our shareholders, for your ongoing support during 
a transformational year. As we navigate this dynamic terrain, 
we remain steadfast in our vision to connect Audiences and 
Brands through professional Content across Devices, and are 
bullish about our prospects and the industry going into the next 
financial year and beyond.
Subhransu (“Brian”) Mukherjee
Chief Executive Officer
blinkx plc
18 June 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
THE CEO’S REPORT   2015 2014  2015 2014 
Revenue  $215.0 M  $247.2 M  Staff, 31 March  363 ‘ees  327 ‘ees
Research & development spend  $30.0 M  $24.7 M
Adjusted EBITDA* $3.5 M $39.6 M
Net (loss)/profit  $(20.8) M  $12.2 M  No. of publisher partners  5,950  5,786
Net cash (used by)/generated by
operating activities  $(3.0) M  $39.2 M  No. of advertising partners  1,269  1,492
Cash and cash equivalents  $95.7 M  $126.9 M  No. of content partners  1,221  1,266
After a year of transition within the Industry, the Company 
continued to leverage its strong operational discipline and 
balance sheet to pursue opportunities in mobile and Program-
matic channels, to further increase the scale, scope and reach 
of the business, through organic growth and acquisitions.  
Due to the industry changes and the impact they have had  
on our operating profitability, the Company undertook critical 
cost reduction initiatives to ensure the Group continues to 
generate operating cash flows. We are focused on continuing 
the integration efforts of the recent acquisitions and remain 
committed to strong financial discipline.
The Group’s primary business continues to be based on the 
principle of facilitating access to digital content via an advertis-
ing-supported distribution model, where revenues are derived 
from advertising on the Internet. Advertisers select from 
several product types that are priced based on criteria of their 
choosing. Almost all products generate revenues from a mix of 
various pricing methodologies and therefore it is not mean-
ingful to separate the revenues by primary pricing scheme, 
product type, or ad format. We, therefore, report Group 
performance as a single operating segment, namely online 
advertising. 
THE CFO‘S REPORT
8
T otal revenue for the year ended 31 March 2015 was $215.0 
million compared with $247.2 million for the year ended 31 
March 2014. This was principally due to changing advertiser 
requirements, a reduction in industry-wide supply due to 
emerging verification standards, an overall industry slowdown 
and an accelerated trend toward Programmatic trading and 
mobile usage. We have taken decisive steps to enhance our 
business model and technology platforms to leverage the 
growth in mobile and Programmatic sectors, through the 
completion of strategic acquisitions and refactoring our 
product and technology capabilities.
Cost of revenue remained broadly in line with the prior year, 
at $120.4 million in the current year, compared to $120.8 million 
for the year ended 31 March 2014. This cost consists primarily 
of traffic acquisition and content partners charges that are 
directly attributable to revenue generated by the Group. 
During the year, revenue decreased, but cost of revenue  
remained flat compared to last year due to a shift in product 
mix towards higher volume, lower margin products and an 
increase in premium inventory costs, which is a trend  
affecting the entire industry.
Research and development expenditure increased by  
$5.3 million to $30.0 million for the year ended 31 March 2015, 
from $24.7 million for the year ended 31 March 2014. The  
increase was driven by advancements to the information  
technology platforms and incremental headcount and  
related costs from the acquisitions.
Sales and marketing expenditure has remained broadly consis-
tent with the previous year, at $58.6 million for the year ended 
31 March 2015, compared to $57.7 million for the year ended 
31 March 2014. The increase was attributable to investment 
in advertising, traffic verification and monitoring, promotion-
al activities, and incremental headcount and costs from the 
acquisitions.
General and administrative expenditures increased by $1.5 mil-
lion to $13.7 million for the year ended 31 March 2015 from $12.1 
million for the year ended 31 March 2014. The majority of the 
increase was driven by increased headcount and related costs 
from the acquisitions made during the year.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICAT ORS
FINANCIAL NON FINANCIAL
*Adjusted EBITDA is defined as profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, 
 share-based payment expense, and acquisition and exceptional costs. Management believes that this measure is a useful supplemental 
 metric as it provides an indication of the results generated by the Company’s principal business activities prior to consideration of how
 the results are impacted by non-recurring costs, how the results are taxed in various jurisdictions, or how the results are affected by the
 accounting standards associated with the Group’s share-based payment expense.
Edward Reginelli
Chief Financial Officer
THE YEAR HAS BEEN ONE OF TRANSITION 
FOR BOTH THE GROUP AND INDUSTRY. WE 
HAVE INVESTED IN OUR KEY STRATEGIC 
PRIORITIES WITH THREE ACQUISITIONS AND 
NEW SOFTWARE LICENSES, WHICH ARE IN 
THE PROCESS OF BEING INTEGRATED INTO 
THE BUSINESS. 9
EARNINGS AND TAX
Despite the challenges facing the industry this year, the Group 
maintained a positive adjusted EBITDA of $3.5 million (2014:
$39.6 million). Overall, however, the Group became loss making 
for the first time since 2010, generating a net loss of $20.8
million compared to a net profit of $12.2 million last year, which 
is a reflection of the transition in our industry as a whole
toward Programmatic and mobile. We have already commenced 
implementation of our new strategy to focus energy and
resources in these areas. We foresee the upcoming financial 
year as one of integration and consolidation, to ensure that the
Group is able to take advantage of the premium quality revenue 
streams these sectors offer, whilst protecting the other
streams of our business, which remain cash generative.
The tax credit for the year ended 31 March 2015 is $4.0 million 
(2014: tax charge $5.7 million). The Group’s effective tax
rate was 16% compared with 31% in the prior year. The main 
reason for a lower effective tax rate is that the deferred tax
asset with respect to the losses of the UK entities has not been 
recognised.
CASH FLOW
The Group recorded a net cash outflow of $30.9 million, com-
pared with $70.5 million inflow for the year ended 31 March 
2014. The current year outflow was driven primarily by investing 
activities that took place during this period.
Net cash used in operating activities during the period was $3.0 
million compared with $39.2 million of net cash generated for 
the year ended 31 March 2014. Excluding payments of acqui-
sition and exceptional costs of $5.4 million, the Company gen-
erated $2.6 million from operating activities. Efficient working 
capital management contributed to this increase. This number 
also reflects the payment of $2.5 million in corporate income 
taxes during the year, compared to $2.1 million in the prior year.
The net cash used in investing activities was $27.9 million, a 
decrease from $35.1 million for the year ended 31 March 2014, 
principally reflecting cash outflow associated with the L YFE 
Mobile, AdKarma and All Media acquisitions. In addition, we saw 
an increase in expenditures related to the acquisition of the 
software license agreements, capitalization of internal develop-
ment charges, and the Group’s technology enhancements 
to existing Group platforms.
No cash was generated from financing activities in the current 
year. However, in the prior year, the Company generated net 
cash inflow of $66.3 million from financing activities, as a result 
of the December 2013 share issuance and exercise of share- 
based equity.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND INTANGIBLES
Capital expenditure decreased in the year, from $1.3 million  
in the year ended 31 March 2014, to $0.7 million in the current 
year. The current year spend is principally driven by the  
acquisition of computer equipment, which is complementary  
to the software license and needed to support the  
Programmatic platform.
Intangible assets have increased by $2.1 million in the current 
year to $43.8 million, from $41.7 million in the year ended 31 
March 2014. As well as the aforementioned software license  
for $1.5 million, we acquired intangibles from L YFE Mobile,  
AdKarma and All Media totalling $13.7 million, comprising  
trademarks and trade names, technology and relationships 
with advertisers and publishers.
FINANCIAL POSITION AND OUTLOOK
The Group’s cash position totals $95.7 million as of 31 March 
2015 compared with $126.9 million as of 31 March 2014. Net 
trade receivables at 31 March 2015 were $37.7 million compared 
with $36.9 million at 31 March 2014, which equates to 63 days 
sales outstanding, an increase from the prior year which was 
54 days.
OPERATING METRICS
Staff count at 31 March 2015 was 363 compared with 327 last 
year, driven primarily by the incremental headcount from the
acquisitions offset by restructuring reductions. The number of 
Publisher partner relationships increased to 5,950 compared
with 5,786 last year driven by commercial efforts to expand  
inventory offerings. The count of Advertiser partners  
decreased to 1,269 from 1,492 last year, reflective of revenue 
trends and the accelerating trend towards Programmatic 
trading. T otal Content partner relationships of 1,221 remained 
relatively consistent with previous year of 1,256. 
CONCLUSION
The year has been one of transition for both the Group and 
Industry. We have invested in our key strategic priorities with 
three acquisitions and new software licenses, which are in the 
process of being integrated into the business. 
T o maintain strong financial discipline, we have undertaken cost 
reduction initiatives and additional operational improvements 
during the year, to ensure that we protect our cash base and to 
enable the Group to take advantage of future opportunities.
Key hires were recruited in the product, sales, technology and 
marketing teams, further strengthening our ability to respond 
to industry challenges and maintain a sustainable business 
model in this changing environment. We will continue to 
leverage our strong balance sheet for organic and acquisition 
opportunities as part of our growth strategy to further increase 
the scale, scope and reach of our business.
Edward Reginelli
Chief Financial Officer
blinkx plc
18 June 2015 RISK
Our business depends on our core technology and we will 
continue to develop both the technology and its applications 
in online advertising. T echnology that significantly competes 
with our technology or any material claims against our tech-
nology would present a risk to the Group.
A majority of the Group’s revenues are transaction-based 
and capture discretionary advertising spend. Such adver-
tising spend is dependent on macro environmental industry 
conditions and elements outside of our direct control. If there 
is a negative change in economic and market conditions, this 
could impact the growth of the business.
Within the online advertising value chain we use intermediar-
ies between the Group and our end customers. Our business 
relies on our relationships with these entities, on which we 
place a high degree of importance.
The Group depends on owners of third-party digital media
properties for advertising inventory. Because only a small  
portion of our traffic supply is organically generated, this 
third-party supply is variable and must be carefully screened 
and optimized to ensure quality. If we fail to detect fraud or 
other actions that impact advertising performance, sellers 
and/or buyers could lose confidence in our products, which 
could cause our business to suffer.
Interruptions of services from our bandwidth providers, 
data centers, electricity providers and service providers may 
disrupt our business.
If we fail to attract and retain highly qualified key personnel, 
our ability to execute our business model and growth strategy 
could be impaired. We rely significantly upon our manage-
ment team for their strategic vision, industry knowledge and 
leadership; the loss of key members could have a significant 
adverse effect on  the business.
MITIGATION
Management continually reviews the competitive landscape 
and newly developing technology in the sector. In addition, 
in the course of developing the Group’s patent portfolio, 
advisers to the Group monitor competitive filings and take 
appropriate action as necessary.
The Group has a prudent approach on expenditure with a
significant amount of discretionary expenditure that could be 
reduced in poor economic conditions. In addition, the Group 
has significant financial reserves to weather macro economic 
downturns. Moreover, our diversified digital advertising prod-
uct mix addresses multiple advertiser objectives, helping us 
avoid risk associated with product concentration.
The Group’s well-diversified product line is designed to
address different marketing objectives. The Company focuses 
on continuously expanding both its customer base and rela-
tionships with its commercial partners.
The Group has built a system designed to offer a quality ad-
vertising environment for users and advertisers. Our supply
network is regulated by proprietary traffic filtering and
screening technology and processes that make use of multi-
ple sources of internal and external data, including whitelists,
blacklists, scoring and blocked IPs. Through this technology,
as well as publisher teams from across the organization, we
attempt to filter and optimize advertising inventory. We
continuously enhance our filtering and screening technology
in an effort to keep pace with the industry. We have also
appointed a Senior Compliance Officer, tasked with both
monitoring our processes around fraud prevention and future
proofing the Group’s products and services.
The Group’s systems operate in co-location facilities in 
several geographic regions, each with their own service 
providers; bandwidth is provided by multiple ISPs in each 
physical location; data centers provide redundant power with 
battery and generator back-up in each physical location; and 
functions are distributed across the data centers to minimize 
disruption in the event a data center goes offline. In addition, 
the Group leverages the cloud infrastructure for redundant 
and burst capacity.
The Group fosters a performance culture that encourages 
and rewards our talented team members, including  
the Executive team. We are always looking to improve our 
team through both acquisitions and direct hires.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on the Group’s long-term  
performance and could cause results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The principal risks to  
which the business is exposed are summarized below and the key sources of uncertainties are detailed in note 4.
10 RISK
Industry influencers, untrained experts and/or vested 
interests may use personal communication platforms to 
freely disseminate information, which may be incorrect or 
misleading and even sensational, damaging our reputation 
and commercial relationships.
Acquisitions have been, and are likely to remain, a critical 
growth option for the Group. Realization of synergies may not 
occur, or may take significant time, resources and manage-
ment attention. Any acquisitions we undertake may adversely 
affect our operations and, if not properly integrated, could 
disrupt our business model and profitability.
The digital advertising space is rapidly changing and common 
standards around quality assurance have yet to emerge. 
Changes in standards around verification, viewability and 
other key advertising requirements could cause us to incur 
substantial development costs, and failure to comply with 
these industry standards could harm our reputation and 
business.
Our contracts with buyers are generally not exclusive and  
do not typically require minimum volumes or long-term  
commitments, leading to demand side risk. Our buyers  
generally work with competitors as well, meaning that any 
strain in the relationship due to service failures or other  
reasons may lead to that buyer canceling or scaling back  
their spend with us in favor of a competitor.
The Group has grown rapidly through both organic growth 
and acquisitions since its inception. These growth paths 
are expected to continue. However, the Group may not be 
able to derive the full value of its acquisitions, if it is unable 
to successfully integrate these acquisitions into its existing 
infrastructure and culture.
MITIGATION
The Group has taken steps to mitigate reputation risk that 
may impact commercial and investor relationships. We hosted 
our first Capital Markets Day in March 2014, showcasing all 
aspects of the business. We intend to host further events 
to take the opportunity to communicate our strategy and 
business plan. The Group partners with industry-leading third 
parties for verification and actively participates in industry 
consortia to raise its profile and foster a clear understanding 
of its business model. 
The Group follows a disciplined, rigorous process with every
acquisition to determine enterprise value and financial im-
pact, and ensure timely integration. This process covers five 
areas, including strategic fit, financial performance, cultural 
match, deal execution and post-merger integration. The 
timely and impactful integration of our previous acquisitions, 
both throughout our history and over the past year, gives us 
confidence in seeking additional opportunities for inorganic 
growth in the future.
The Group works with a number of high profile, well-respect-
ed partners that we believe will lead the way to establishing 
this common bar for the industry. We are contributing to help
shape these standards through our work with OpenVV.org  
as well as our membership in IAB, and also work with several
leading third-party experts to continuously test our product
offerings. By continuously monitoring and contributing to 
this ongoing convergence of standards, we intend to stay on 
the cutting edge of what is expected and required of 
industry leaders.
The Group maintains a comprehensive product set and 
continuously develops new products and services designed 
to capture demand and further extend our relationships with 
partners. Additionally, we aim to comply with high service 
levels to ensure partner satisfaction and retention rates.
The Group follows a methodical process in integrating  
targets post-acquisitions. This includes appointing a  
Corporate ambassador to help targets and to navigate  
the Group’s processes, procedures and culture and help  
integrate all key functional and operational groups within  
the Group’s existing infrastructure. With each acquisition,  
the Group evaluates the best available options for key func-
tions or technologies to upgrade its infrastructure and staff.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES (CONTINUED)
11  13
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL
SECTOR OVERVIEW
The advertising industry is robust and dynamic — an estimated 
$187 billion in the US in 2015, and growing at 5% CAGR over five 
years. Within advertising, television dominates, commanding 
an estimated $69 billion in 2014. US online ad spend represents 
approximately 28% of total ad spend, but is growing at a much 
faster rate – an estimated 13% CAGR over five years.
Online advertising consists of several segments. The largest, 
search, accounted for 45.4% of total digital ad spending in
2014, but is projected to grow at a 7.9% CAGR through 2018 
(eMarketer). In contrast, video accounted for approximately
$6 billion in ad spend in 2014, but at 52% grew almost four 
times the rate of search (13.5%) (eMarketer). The fastest
growing segment in all of advertising, however, is mobile 
video, growing at a 2014-2018 CAGR of 40% (eMarketer).
The majority of our revenue is generated from online  
advertising, through a wide range of formats and pricing 
options that include video, mobile, social, display, text and rich 
media, covering brand and performance advertising campaigns, 
sold both directly and sourced from third parties. Through 
organic growth, selective acquisitions and unique technological
capabilities, we have created a growing ecosystem of audi-
ences, content providers and advertisers that we continue to 
video-enable on the web and on mobile devices. In addition to 
our scale, scope, and reach across the online advertising
ecosystem, we believe that blinkx is uniquely positioned within 
our competitive arena. We provide a combination of technology 
and media products that cover the entire Supply Side of the 
ecosystem, across all connected devices. This breadth includes 
video search and discovery technology, mobile video technol-
ogy, platform- and device-agnostic video players, audience 
access via our online properties and ad networks, access 
to professionally generated content through our extensive 
content relationships, and monetization options through direct 
and indirect advertising relationships. As purchasing behavior 
within the sector has moved from buying ad formats to Pro-
grammatic multichannel, integrated campaigns across devices, 
our business model and diversified capability set have grown in 
response to this trend.
The integration of previous acquisitions has brought us access 
to vast networks of text-oriented web and mobile properties
and the potential to deliver audiences, content and advertise-
ments to over 5,900 web properties, syndication partners,
application developers and affiliates. This number improved in 
2015 through the acquisition of AdKarma and All Media Net-
work. AdKarma is a video Supply Side Platform. The acquisition 
is expected to significantly bolster and accelerate the Compa-
ny’s position within the Programmatic segment of the digital 
video advertising market. The addition of transparent desktop 
and mobile video inventory at scale will enable the Company to 
further expand its premium video advertising footprint through 
its direct and Programmatic demand side relationships. All Me-
dia Network is a portfolio of premium digital properties that in-
cludes: Sidereel.com, Allmusic.com, Allmovie.com and Celebified.
com – collectively representing over 25 million unique users per 
month. All Media represents an important step forward in the 
Company’s strategy to own and operate a sizeable, high quality 
audience that enhances the Company’s ability to continuously 
test, filter and score its aggregate supply to enhance traffic 
quality and performance. All Media includes desktop and mobile 
properties, with a growing user base.
The size of the audience to which we own and have access has 
grown via these acquisitions, and monetization of this audience 
continues to represent one of our key organic growth drivers. 
Those interactions that remain under-monetized today repre-
sent a captive and well-understood organic growth opportunity 
for the Company, which we are actively seeking to convert 
through direct and Programmatic demand side relationships. In 
addition, we are actively pursuing ways to convert conventional 
to premium revenue, through our video syndication technology 
and ongoing product innovation.
GROWTH AND OPPORTUNITIES
Revenue growth continued to transition toward mobile and 
video, specifically through Programmatic trading channels.  
Over the past year, the Company made key investments in  
mobile and Programmatic capabilities – the key industry 
growth areas. 
In 2014, digital advertising surpassed $50 billion in ad spend, 
marking a true shift in the advertising ecosystem. Within digital 
advertising, video is one of the fastest growing formats, grow-
ing at a 22% CAGR over five years to $13 billion by 2018. Video 
offers the sight, sound, motion and immersive experience of TV 
advertising with the targeting and tracking capabilities inherent 
to digital experiences, making it an ideal format for advertisers 
looking to deliver their brand to an engaged online audience. 
Although it is not all we do, digital video is our past, present and 
future, and we have continued to invest in video and have fur-
ther accelerated these efforts with the acquisition of AdKarma. 
As a channel, mobile is also growing at an incredible 32% CAGR 
over five years, and mobile video spending is growing even fast-
er, with a 40% CAGR over the same time period. We anticipated 
the trend toward mobile over three years ago and began the 
Company’s organic and inorganic mobile growth efforts at  
that time.
Programmatic trading also continues to grow exponentially,  
accounting for 32% of all display ad spending in 2014 and 
expected to surge to over 50% by 2018. Even more impressive, 
mobile Programmatic (including RTB) is growing at a remark-
able 128% CAGR over five years, and is expected to account 
for 27% of all RTB display ad spending by 2017. At blinkx, the 
majority of our business occurs through Programmatic chan-
nels, placing us in an ideal position to capitalize on this growth. 
Additionally we have systematically forward-integrated through 
the Programmatic chain, covering media and marketplace func-
tions. The acquisition of AdKarma, a SSP which specializes in 
video, has further enhanced our supply footprint through new 
supply-side partners. In March 2015, blinkx executed a licensing 
deal with Zenovia Digital Exchange (“Zenovia”), a next-genera-
tion Programmatic trading exchange with pioneering technolo-
gy to filter and segment internet traffic across devices at scale. 
This technology will be integrated into the blinkx platform to 
expand the Company’s ability to further eliminate suspicious, 
underperforming or fraudulent traffic before it enters the 
marketplace. Deployment of this technology will fortify blinkx’s 
ability to provide advertisers highly qualified audiences in a 
brand-safe environment across devices Programmatically.
STRATEG Y
US DIGITAL AD SPEND BY CHANNEL, 
2014-2019 ($B)
25
58
25
50
25
41
27
19
29
32
30
66
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Desktop         Mobile
Source: eMarketer, IDC, Magna Global
CONSUMERS NETWORKS MARKETPLACE DEMAND
A GGREGATED A UDIENCES – RHYTHM ONE
O&O
Apps
Content
Websites
Apps
OTT
Ad units
RhythmMax
RhythmGuard
RhythmDirect
Search        Video        Sponsorships       Banners and other 
Rich media
US DIGITAL AD SPEND, BY FORMAT 2014-2019 ($B)
23
28
26
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Source: eMarketer, Kleiner Perkins, Caufield and Byers, IAB
11
13
12
6
10
8
4
7
5
2 2 2
31
15
11
9
3
34
16
13
11
3
37
18
14
12
3 14
RTB display ad spend                   % of total display ad spend RTB-based mobile sales
US REAL-TIME BIDDING (RTB) DISPLAY AD SPEND ($B) US REAL-TIME BIDDING (RTB) MOBILE SALES ($M)
PROGRAMMATIC DISPLAY AD SPEND ($B) US DISPLAY AD SPEND SHARE, BY TYPE  (% OF TOTAL)
5
22% 25% 28% 29% 30%
110
11
7
437
16
9
1,051
21
11
1,929
26
13
2,996
31
17% 21%
27%
36%
47%
2014 2013
2014 2013
2015 2014
2015 2014
2016 2015
2016 2015
2017 2016
2017 2016
2018 2017
2018 2017
GRO WTH OF PROGRAMMATIC SPEND
RTB         Non-RTB         Non-Programmatic
31%
32%
32%
29%
25%
52% 47% 41%
34%
28%
Source: eMarketer, IDC, Magna Global
As we enter the new financial year, our aspiration is to lead in 
digital video technology and advertising – connecting consum-
ers and brands through content on any device, anywhere in the 
world. This is a rapidly changing industry and we believe the next 
12 to 18 months will see a faster pace of consolidation in what 
has become a race to scale, and convergence of standards. In 
this environment we expect to continue to evolve in order to 
compete and succeed, as we have done since inception.
Through our multi-faceted business model, massive footprint 
in the industry, strategic acquisitions, patented technology, 
expert leadership and talented employee base, we feel we are 
well-positioned to adapt to any shifts in the industry and  
convert them into opportunities for further success. We have 
organized the Company to capitalize on emerging trends, 
and will continue to build innovative products to capture the 
budgets flowing into this ecosystem, as the convergence of 
digital and TV advertising continues. Our immediate focus is on 
expanding our ecosystem into new devices, including mobile 
and connected TV. We continue to grow by forward-integrating 
through the Programmatic technology stack, and are actively 
assessing opportunities to increase our revenue share by ob-
taining owned and operated or exclusive traffic, or owned and 
operated or licensed content. We are fortunate to have a  
capable, energized team and resources to seize new and 
emerging opportunities – both organic and via acquisitions.
INDUSTRY TRENDS
The ongoing shift from offline to online advertising budgets 
continues. Within online advertising, there is an accelerated 
growth of video and mobile. Every second, nearly a million 
minutes of video content will cross global IP networks by 2018 
(Cisco). Additionally, global IP video traffic will be 79% of all con-
sumer internet traffic in 2018 (Cisco). As the amount of video 
being consumed online increases, video advertising budgets are 
continuing to grow steadily at a 22% CAGR over five years, from 
approximately $6 billion in 2014 to approximately $13 billion 
by 2018. Mobile devices are accelerating access to high-speed 
mobile networks and enabling consumers to watch video con-
tent anytime, anywhere. According to eMarketer, consumers 
now spend more time with connected devices than any other 
form of media, with an average of 338 minutes spent per day 
compared with 255 minutes spent per day with TV. This high 
rate of consumer growth in the mobile sector is leading to ad 
budgets shifting away from desktop to mobile devices, as more 
advertisers capitalize on all four screens to reach consumers. 
Within mobile, video spending is growing the fastest with 40% 
CAGR, albeit from a relatively small base. This spend is expected 
to grow from $1.5 billion in 2014 to approximately $6 billion in 
2018. Further improving the opportunities to monetize each 
consumer interaction, data is fueling a Programmatic future, 
defined as the automated buying and selling of ads online.  
An increasing volume of ad budgets is going toward Real Time 
Bidding (RTB), allowing advertisers to target the consumer, 
based on profile data of a user, instead of the content where 
the ad appears. Growing at a 26% CAGR over five years, RTB 
budgets in the digital display space will nearly triple from $4.9 
billion in 2014 to $12.5 billion by 2018. Programmatic digital 
display ad spending (including RTB) was 45% of all display ad 
spending in 2014, and by 2016 it will account for 63% (eMar-
keter). Even more impressive, according to eMarketer, mobile 
Programmatic (including RTB) is growing at a remarkable 128% 
CAGR over five years, and is expected to account for 27% of 
all RTB display ad spending by 2017. This year has also marked 
a trend towards the convergence of linear and digital TV. Due 
to the increasing time spent with connected devices, digital 
and mobile video are both complementing and cannibalizing 
traditional TV budgets. 
Compared with the 22% CAGR of digital video, TV ad spending 
is growing at a 4% CAGR during the same period. While TV will 
remain a vital channel for brand awareness, media buyers 
are increasingly taking an expanded view of video campaigns, 
reserving larger budgets for both online and mobile video. As 
far as the future of the sector, we believe that the acceptance 
of, and agreement on, emerging standards will help guide and 
fuel industry growth. The digital video advertising space is 
rapidly changing and standards around quality assurance have 
yet to converge. Many vendors today apply display advertising 
measurements to this dynamic medium, and new entrants are 
adding proprietary technology and methodologies, with differ-
ent approaches to audience verification and viewability. blinkx 
works with a number of high profile, well-respected vendors 
that we believe will lead the way to establishing a common bar 
for the industry. We are contributing to help shape these  
standards through our work with OpenVV.org as well as 
our membership in IAB, and also work with several leading 
third-party experts, including Nielsen, comScore, Integral Ad 
Sciences, Moat, Adometry, Fraudlogix, Forensiq and Double  
Verify, among others, to continuously test our audience quality.
ECOSYSTEM
The digital advertising ecosystem functions on the principle 
of fair value exchange. Consumers gain access to quality con-
tent online (video, apps, text) in exchange for providing their 
attention and engagement to advertising. blinkx operates in 
an industry where users do not expect to pay for access to 
content. Rather, such access is subsidized by advertising. A typ-
ical daily experience consists of the following: a consumer visits 
a website, finds and clicks on interesting video content, an ad is 
presented to the consumer, followed by the content. Four par-
ties are involved in this transaction – consumer, web publisher, 
content producer and advertiser. In exchange for the consum-
er’s engagement, the advertiser pays the web publisher, who  
shares a portion of the revenue with the content producer.  
This event is repeated millions of times daily, creating a  
massive fragmentation challenge that must be solved in mil-
liseconds at scale. blinkx solves this challenge by aggregating 
audiences from thousands of supply sources, and matching 
these audiences with relevant content and ads, using sophisti-
cated algorithms and high-speed trading technology. Looking 
at our revenue equation, the left half of the Products Figure 
in this section represents the supply side of our business that 
consists of the audiences we aggregate and sell. The right half 
represents demand, ultimately consisting of advertisers. We 
have grown our supply footprint through organic audiences 
and acquisitions to extend the scale, scope, and reach of our 
revenue model. On the demand side, we have built a direct 
sales team and connected the blinkx engine to Programmatic 
trading partners, and increasingly prevalent means of buying 
and selling inventory. In the future, we expect to continue to add 
audiences from new and emerging sources, such as mobile and 
connected TV.   15
MEDIA CONSUMPTION V. AD SPEND, 2014 AVG. MINS SPENT PER DAY WITH MEDIA BY  
US ADULTS, 2015
20%
22% 25%
45%
38%
10%
12%
19%
5%
4%
PRINT RADIO RADIO TV TV INTERNET MOBILE TOTAL DIGITAL 338
Time spent         Ad spend         $30B Opportunity
255 196 142 87
ONLINE VIDEO AD SPEND, 2014-2018 ($B) US MOBILE AD SPEND, 2014-2018 ($B)
6
18
8
27
9
37
11
47
13 58
2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018
Source: eMarketer, Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield and Byers, IAB, IDC
COMMERCIAL MODEL
The blinkx commercial model is comprised of three compo-
nents. At the core is technology that lets us target consumers 
by deeply understanding the context of any online medium, in-
cluding video. This proprietary technology lets us deliver on the 
promise of brand safety to the advertiser, and advertising rel-
evance to the consumer. In addition to proprietary technology, 
blinkx has a highly diversified suite of products that has enabled 
us to move from selling units to executing integrated cam-
paigns on behalf of advertisers. Video and mobile lead the pack 
in terms of strategic focus, but the Company can satisfy the full 
range of advertiser objectives – from awareness through con-
version – through multi-channel products that include display, 
rich media, contextual advertising, social media solutions and 
more. blinkx offers supply partners turnkey monetization of the 
audiences these partners have built. Content partners achieve 
distribution of existing content assets to an incremental 
audience, with the associated revenue share. Demand partners 
can access audiences at scale within a brand-safe environment, 
based on blinkx’s deep understanding of the context of the 
content where ads appear. Over time, we have built a thriving 
partner ecosystem and network effects model that grows in all 
dimensions each day, and constitutes a significant competitive 
barrier to entry, since partner integrations can be time-con-
suming to establish and difficult to scale.
PROGRAMMATIC TRADING
An increasingly dominant subset of our commercial model is 
devoted to Programmatic buying and selling of inventory. The 
Programmatic value chain has supply and demand sides, with 
a central stack of technology that enables Real-Time Bidding 
(RTB). The edges of this ecosystem tend to be high-touch — 
publishers acquire consumers by maintaining websites, and 
agencies serve advertisers through media planning and creative 
execution. The center tends to be high-tech, with value chain 
elements devoted to scale and trade automation. On the supply 
side, consumers are aggregated by publishers that are aggre-
gated by ad networks, which in turn are aggregated by SSPs. 
In essence, eyeballs flow from left to right (as illustrated in the 
Products Figure in this section). On the demand side, advertis-
ers are aggregated by agencies (and their trading desks), which 
in turn are aggregated by DSPs.
Through the investment in the licensing deal with Zenovia, 
blinkx will obtain rights to proprietary software, hardware and 
intellectual property, including Zenovia’s groundbreaking traffic 
pre-filtering technology, Velvet Rope. This technology will be 
integrated into the blinkx platform to expand the Company’s 
ability to further eliminate suspicious, under-performing or 
fraudulent traffic before it enters the marketplace, enhancing 
the Group’s ability to provide advertisers highly qualified audi-
ences in a brand-safe environment across devices Program-
matically. It will also enable the Company to offer its publisher 
partners a universal platform to pre-qualify and screen their 
inventory to maximize yield, quality and performance. 
Traditional exchanges serve as brokers between supply  
and demand partners, leaving advertisers to assess and mea-
sure inventory quality after the campaign has concluded. In 
contrast, blinkx is pursuing an even more stringent quality mea-
sure – screening, qualifying and eliminating under-performing 
inventory from its ecosystem before it is made available to 
advertisers. Zenovia’s Velvet Rope technology enhances blinkx’s 
ability to run query time algorithms to identify poor quality 
impressions and block them from entering its marketplace.  
By integrating Velvet Rope technology into its platform, blinkx 
will augment advertisers’ ability to maximize their return on 
investment across desktop, video and mobile inventory,  
while providing its publisher partners higher yields for  
validated traffic.
PRODUCTS
CONSUMER WEBSITE NWK SSP EXCHANGE DSP ATD AGENCY BRAND
C ONSUMERS
( PUBLISHERS )
BRANDS
( AD VER TISERS )
C ONTENT
(TEXT, VIDEO, APPS)
TECHNOL OG Y
( PLA TFORM )
RHYTHMONE FOR PUBLISHERS RHYTHMONE FOR ADVERTISERS
RHYTHMONE FOR CONTENT
RHYTHMONE PLATFORM TECHNOLOGY
Definitions: NWK: Ad Network, SSP: Supply Side Platform, DSP: Demand Side Platform, ATD: Agency Trading Desk 15
THE 1R BRAND UNIFICATION IS  
DESIGNED TO DELIVER ON THE  
PROMISE OF BRAND SAFE, QUALITY, 
CROSS-SCREEN ADVERTISING AT SCALE, 
ACROSS A CONSOLIDATED 
SUPPLY FOOTPRINT. CORPORATEGOVERNANCEREPORT
OVERVIEW
TheDirectorsrecognizethevalueandimportanceofthehigheststandardsofCorporateGovernance.AstheGroupislisted
ontheAIMMarketoftheLondonStockExchange,itisnotrequiredtocomplyfullywiththeprinciplesofCorporate
GovernanceassetoutintheUKCorporateGovernanceCode(theCode),butseekstocomplywiththeprinciplesand
provisionsasfaraspracticableforaGroupofitssizeandstructure.
ThisreportsetsouttheGovernanceapproach.
ROLE AND COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
TheBoard’sroleistoprovideentrepreneurialleadershipoftheCompanywithinthecontrolsframeworkoftheGroup,
whichenablesrisktobeassessedandmitigated.TheBoardisfocusedonensuringthattheriskregisterandmanagement
ofthoserisksremainpertinentinthefaceofacontinuallyevolvingbusiness.Theprincipalrisksanduncertaintiesare
reviewedregularly,andaresetoutonpages10to11.WhilstitisrecognizedthattheGroupissubjecttoanumberofrisks
greaterthanthislist,weincludethosethatareofmostconcerntothebusinessatthispointintime.
TheBoardisalsoresponsibleforarticulatingtheCompany’sstrategicaimsandensuringthatthebusinesshasthe
resourcesnecessarytoenabletheCompanytomeetitsobjectives.
ItalsodeterminestheCompany’svaluesandstandards,andensuresthatitsobligationstoshareholdersaremet.
TheBoardiscomprisedofoneExecutiveDirector,andtheremainingsixBoardmembersareNon-ExecutiveDirectors.
CorporategovernanceguidelinesforAIMcompaniesissuedbytheQuotedCompaniesAlliancerequirethatboardsshould
be“balancedbetweenExecutiveandNon-ExecutiveDirectors,andshouldhaveatleasttwoindependent,Non-Executive
Directors.”Attheyear-enddate,blinkxexceedsthisrequirement,withfiveofthesevenBoardDirectorsbeing
independent,Non-ExecutiveDirectors.
ThebeneficialinterestsoftheNon-ExecutiveDirectorsinthesharecapitaloftheCompanyaresetoutonpage26.Inthe
opinionoftheBoard,theseinterestsdonotdetractfromtheDirectors’independence.
Intheeventofaconflictofinterest,therelevantDirectorisrequiredtodeclaretheconflictand,whereappropriate,abstain
fromvotingonanyresolutionsconnectedtoit.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
ThereisacleardivisionofresponsibilityattheheadoftheCompanybetweentherunningoftheBoard,whichisdelegated
totheChairman,AnthonyBettencourt,andtheexecutiveresponsibilityfortherunningoftheCompany’sbusiness,whichis
delegatedtotheChiefExecutiveOfficer,Subhransu(“Brian”)Mukherjee.
AsChairman,AnthonyisresponsibleforleadershipoftheBoard,settingtheBoard’sagenda,andensuringthatthereis
sufficienttimeavailablefordiscussionofallagendaitems.
TheNon-ExecutiveDirectorsdonothaveanyday-to-dayinvolvementintherunningofthebusiness.Theyworktogetherto
constructivelychallengeandassistinthedevelopmentofstrategicproposalsandtofulfilltheBoardcommitteeroles.
TheBoardconvenesatregularscheduledintervalsandfollowsaformalagendaofmattersspecificallyreservedfor
discussion,includingsuchmattersas:
» determiningtheGroup’sstrategy;
» ensuringopenandinformativecommunicationwithshareholders;
» riskreviewandmanagement;
» majorcapitalexpenditures;
» materialcontractstobeenteredinto;
» keyoperationalpolicies;
» reviewingandapprovingtheGroup’sbusinessplanandforecasts;
» performancemeasurement;and
» approvingtheannualandinterimfinancialstatements.
17 Italsomeetsoutsideoftheformalscheduleofmeetingsasandwhenrequired.Thenumberofformalmeetingsofthe
Boardduringtheyearended31March2015,andattendanceateacharesummarizedbelow:
DIRECTOR
NUMBEROFMEETINGS
DURINGAPPOINTMENT
NUMBEROFMEETINGS
ATTENDED
AnthonyBettencourt 22 15
Subhransu(“Brian”)Mukherjee 22 20
SurangaChandratillake 22 15
MarkOpzoomer 22 20
UjjalKohli 22 19
JudyVezmar 22 19
MichaelLynch(resigned31December2014) 14 7
RajChellaraj(appointed1October2014) 13 9
IntheeventthatanyDirectorisunabletoattendameeting,theyhavetheopportunitytorelaytheircommentsthroughthe
Chairman.IftheChairmanisabsent,anotherNon-ExecutiveDirectorisappointedChairmanforthatmeeting.
Atcertaintimes,wheretheremaybeaperceivedconflictduetothesubjectmatterofameeting,aDirectorisrecused
fromthatmeeting.
ThesizeandcompositionoftheBoardisregularlyreviewedtoensurethatitisofanappropriatesizeandstructure.The
BoarddeterminedthatanadditionalindependentNon-ExecutiveDirectorwouldbringvaluableexperienceduringa
transitionalyear,andhenceRajChellarajwasappointedduringtheyear.
TheDirectorsmaytakeindependentprofessionaladviceattheGroup’sexpense,andallarecoveredbyDirectorsand
Officersinsurance.
BOARD COMMITTEES
TheBoardhasestablishedaNominationsCommittee,aRemunerationCommitteeandanAuditCommittee.
TheseCommitteescompriseasmallsub-committeeofthemainBoardandareentirelymadeupofNon-Executive
Directors.Eachhasitsowntermsofreferenceandresponsibilities.
ThereportsofeachBoardCommitteearesetoutlaterinthisdocument.
EFFECTIVENESS
WehaveconsideredtheoverallbalancebetweenExecutiveandNon-ExecutiveDirectorsandbelievethatthestructureof
theBoardcoupledwiththeintegrityandcommitmentoftheindividualswhichmakeuptheBoardensuresthatnoone
individualhasagreaterproportionofdecision-makingpower.
TheBoardhasagoodbalancebetweenfinancial,industry-specificandgeneralbusinessknowledgeexperience,witha
highlyexperiencedexecutivemanagementteam.
AllDirectorsareconsideredabletodedicatesufficienttimetotheirroletoensurethattheycandischargetheir
responsibilitieseffectively.
OnjoiningtheBoard,allnewDirectorsreceiveacomprehensiveinductiontointroducethemtothebusiness,enhance
theirknowledgeoftheindustryandtomeetthekeypersonnelacrosstheGroup.TheBoardiscommittedtoacultureof
continuedpersonaldevelopment,andallmembersoftheBoardareencouragedtoundertakeanytrainingwhichwill
enhancetheirunderstandingorabilitytoservetheBoardandrefreshtheirknowledge.RegularupdatesonCorporate
Governancearealsoprovided.
Boardeffectivenessisreviewedregularly.Themostrecentreview,shortlyaftertheyearend,concludedthattheBoard
anditsindividualmemberscontinuetoperformeffectively.Thereviewconsideredageneraloverviewastotheoperation
oftheBoard,opinionsonshareholderrelationships,viewsontheBoard’sinputsintostrategy,governanceandcompliance,
riskmanagementandsuccessionplanning.
18 INFORMATION AND SUPPORT
TheBoardissuppliedwithinformationinaformthatenablesittodischargeitsresponsibilitieseffectively.Boardpapers
aresuppliedonatimelybasis,withsufficienttimefortheBoardtoreviewandraisequestionsaheadoftheformalmeeting
towhichtheyrelate.
ThecultureoftheBoardistoencourageparticipationandactivedebateinaconstructiveandsupportivemanner.
RELATIONSHIPS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
TheBoardbelievesinopenandregulardialoguewithshareholderstoensurethattheobjectivesandoverallbusiness
strategyoftheGroupareeffectivelycommunicated.Assuch,theChiefExecutiveOfficer,ChiefFinancialOfficerandthe
Chairman,workinginconsultationwiththeGroup’scorporatebrokersandadvisors,makethemselvesavailabletomeet
shareholdersatleastonceayearattheAnnualGeneralMeeting.Therearealsoaseriesofmeetingswithanalystsand
institutionalinvestorsinrelationtotheCompany’sannualandinterimfinancialstatements.
TheNon-ExecutiveDirectorsmakethemselvesavailabletomeetshareholdersonanadhocbasisasnecessary,and
considertheAnnualGeneralMeetingagoodopportunitytocanvasopinionandholddiscussionswithindividual
shareholders.TheBoardmakesconstructiveuseoftheAnnualGeneralMeetingtocommunicatewithinvestorsand
encouragesfullparticipation.
TradingupdatesandpressreleasesareissuedasappropriateandtheCompany’sbrokersprovideinformationon
shareholderopinionandcompileindependentfeedbackfrominvestormeetings.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
TheBoardacknowledgesitsresponsibilityforensuringthattheGroupmaintainsasoundsystemofinternalcontrolto
providethemwithreasonableassurancethattheassetsoftheGrouparesafeguardedandthattheshareholders’
investmentsareprotected.Ithasestablishedacontinuousprocessforidentifying,evaluatingandmonitoringthe
significantriskstowhichtheGroupisexposed.
TheBoardhasoverallresponsibilityforensuringtheGroupmaintainsanadequatesystemofinternalcontrolandrisk
management,whiletheAuditCommitteereviewstheeffectivenessofthosesystemsonbehalfoftheBoard.Thisreviewis
performedatleastannually.Theimplementationofinternalcontrolsystemsistheresponsibilityofexecutive
management.TheorganizationalstructureoftheGrouphasclearlydefinedlinesofresponsibilityanddelegationof
accountabilityandauthority.
TheBoard’sreviewofthesignificantrisksintheyearcoveredfinancial,operational,commercial,regulatory,fraudand
R&Drisks.TheriskreviewisanongoingprocesswithatleastannualinputandreviewfromtheBoard.Theprimepurpose
ofthisreviewistoensurethat,havingconsideredthecontrolsthatareinplacetomitigaterisks,theBoardissatisfiedwith
theresiduallevelofriskbeingtakeninpursuitoftheCompany’sstrategy.
Ourriskreviewcomprised:
» thereviewoftheriskregister,consideringtheongoingpertinenceofeachrisk,andwhetherchangesinthe
businessmeantthatadditionalriskshadbeenidentifiedwhichshouldbeadded.Allriskswererecordedina
centrallymaintainedregister;
» riskassessment,whichisperformedintermsofthelikelihoodofoccurrenceandthepotentialimpactonthe
Group;and
» identificationofappropriatemitigatingactionsforeachrisk,withresponsiblepartiesandatimetablefor
completionassigned.
Anysystemofinternalcontrolisdesignedtomanageratherthaneliminatetherisksinherentinafast-movingindustry,
andcantherefore,onlyprovidereasonable,andnotabsoluteassuranceagainstthepossibilityofmaterialmisstatementor
loss.However,duringthecourseofitsreviewsofthesystemofinternalcontrolduringtheyear,theBoardhasnot
identified,norbeeninformedofanyinstancesofcontrolfailingsorsignificantweaknesses.
TheBoardalsooperatesawhistleblowingpolicywhichprovidesforallemployeestoraiseconcernstotheAudit
Committee,instrictconfidenceaboutanyunethicalbehaviors,suspectedfraud,misconductorwrongdoingwithoutfearof
recrimination.Therewerenowhistleblowingreportsthroughoutfinancialyear2015,andtothedateofthisreport.
19 FINANCIAL REPORTING
TheBoardisresponsibleforreviewingandapprovingtheannualandhalfyearfinancialstatements,andforensuringthat
theypresentafair,balancedandunderstandableassessmentoftheGroup’spositionandperformance.TheStrategic
Report,onpages7to11setsouttheinformationnecessarytoenablereaderstounderstandthebusinessmodeland
strategy.
DraftsoftheannualandhalfyearfinancialstatementsarereviewedbytheBoardpriortoapprovalwithaformalprocess
foraddressingcommentsfromtheBoard.
TheBoardisrelativelyriskaverseinrespecttoinvestingtheGroup’ssurplusfundsandinrelationtotreasuryplanning.
TheBoard’sobjectivesaretominimizeriskwhilstachievingmaximumreturnonliquidassets.Riskislimitedbyinvesting
cashsurplusonlyinhighly-ratedfinancialinstitutionsandinstruments.TheGroup’sinvestmentportfolioiscomprised
entirelyofcashandcashequivalents.TheGroupdoesnotusederivativefinancialinstrumentsordebtinstruments.
Foreigncurrencyrisksaremanagedthroughnaturalhedgeswithcurrencybankaccounts.TheGrouphasnotexperienced
anymaterialexposuretopricerisk,liquidityriskorcashflowriskthatwouldaffecttheultimateobjectivesoftheGroup.
FurtherdetailsontheGroup’sfinancialriskmanagementpoliciesareincludedinnote3tothefinancialstatements.
Detailedworkingcapitalprojectionsandforecastsarepreparedbymanagement,andreviewedandapprovedbytheBoard
atleastannually.Theseareupdatedthroughouttheyearforsignificantevents.Actualmonthlyresultsarecomparedto
forecastsandvariancesinvestigatedandexplainedbytheexecutivemanagementteam.Therearenoexternalcapital
requirementsorfinancialcovenantsthattheGrouphastoabideby,andtheBoard’sconsiderationofgoingconcernis
discussedonpage35.
20 BOARDOFDIRECTORS
TheDirectorswhoservedthroughouttheyearto31March2015andtothedateofthisreportwereasfollows:
NAME AGE POSITION
AnthonyBettencourt 54 Non-ExecutiveChairman
SurangaChandratillake 37 Non-ExecutiveDirector
UjjalKohli 56 Non-ExecutiveDirector
Subhransu(“Brian”)Mukherjee 48 ExecutiveDirector
MarkOpzoomer 58 Non-ExecutiveDirector
JudyVezmar 58 Non-ExecutiveDirector
InadditionRajChellaraj(60)wasappointedasaDirectortotheCompanyon1October2014andDr.MichaelLynch
resignedfromtheBoardon31December2014.
Ms.JudyVezmarindicatedherintentiontoresignfromtheBoardofDirectors,whichwasacceptedbytheBoardon19May
2015.Ms.VezmarwillserveouthernoticeperiodontheBoard,through18August2015,Mr.UjjalKohliwillbecomethe
ChairmanoftheRemunerationCommittee.
ANTHONY BETTENCOURT
AnthonyBettencourtiscurrentlytheNon-ExecutiveChairmanof
blinkx.HealsoservesasthePresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficerof
Imperva,theRedwoodShores,CA-basedleaderindataand
applicationssecurity.AnthonymostrecentlywastheCEO,President
andChairmanofCoverity,theSanFrancisco-basedworldleaderin
DeveloperTestinguntilagreeingtobeacquiredbySynopsysfor
$375minMarch2014.Previously,AnthonyservedasChiefExecutive
OfficerofAutonomyInterwovenandAutonomyZANTAZ.Priortothat,
hewastheChiefExecutiveOfficerofVerity,Inc.wherehewas
responsibleforgrowingthebusinessfrom$15minannualrevenues
tomorethan$140mfrom1995to2006,resultinginVerityagreeingto
beacquiredformorethan$500mattheendof2005.In2005,hewas
awardedtheprestigiousErnst&YoungEntrepreneuroftheYearawardforsoftwareandtechnologyintheSiliconValley.
AnthonyservesasajudgefortheTechAwardsandamentorforSantaClaraUniversity’sGlobalSocialBenefitIncubator
program.HeservesontheBoardofDirectorsofProofPoint(NASDAQ:PFPT)andVersant(NASDAQ:VSNT).Anthony
earnedaB.A.inEnglishfromSantaClaraUniversityin2006.
SURANGA CHANDRATILLAKE
SurangaisaGeneralPartneratBaldertonCapital.Hewaspreviously
anentrepreneurandengineer.Surangafoundedblinkx,theintelligent
searchengineforvideoandaudiocontentinCambridgein2004.He
thenledthecompanyforeightyearsasCEOthroughitsjourneyof
movingtoSanFrancisco,buildingaprofitablebusinessandgoing
publicinLondon.HecontinuestoserveontheblinkxBoard.Before
foundingblinkx,SurangawasanearlyemployeeatAutonomy
Corporation–joiningasanengineerintheCambridgeR&Dteamand
ultimatelyservingasthecompany’sUSCTOinSanFrancisco.
SurangahasaM.A.inComputerSciencefromtheUniversityof
Cambridge.Heholdspatentsintheareasofvideodiscoveryand
onlinevideoadvertising,waselectedaFellowoftheRoyalAcademyof
Engineeringin2012,andwaschosenasoneoftheWorldEconomicForum’sYoungGlobalLeadersin2009.
21 UJJAL KOHLI
UjjalKohlijoinedtheBoardofDirectorsin2014asaNon-ExecutiveDirector.
Ujjalbringsovertwenty-fiveyearsofexecutivemanagement,engineering,
marketing,strategy,M&AandBoard-levelexperiencestoblinkx.Ujjalco-
foundedandledMountainView-headquarteredRhythmNewMedia(“Rhythm”)
asCEO,beforeitsacquisitionbyblinkxinDecember2013.Underhisleadership,
Rhythmemergedasadominantmobilevideotechnologyandadvertising
platformfortabletsandsmartphones–workingwithultra-premiummedia
partners,includingNBCUniversal,CBS,ABC,Fox,andWarnerBros.,aswellas
topbrandadvertisers,suchasDisney,McDonald’s,GeneralMotors,Ford,
AT&T,Verizon,andMacy’s.
UjjaliscurrentlytheCEOofPreact,aSaaScompanyinpredictiveanalytics,and
beforeRhythm,Ujjalco-foundedandservedasCEOofMeruNetworks
(NASDAQ:MERU).PriortothishewasEVPofMarketingandNationalSalesfor
AirTouchCellular,andwaspartoftheExecutiveteamthere.AirTouchmergedwithVodafone(LSE:VOD)ina$60Billion
transactionin1999.
Previously,UjjalwasaconsultantwithMcKinseyandCompanyinLondon,LosAngelesandSiliconValley.Mr.Kohlihas
alsobeenaninvestor,advisor,andapreviousBoardmemberatseveraltechnologycompanies,includingMagmaDesign
Automation,BerkeleyNetworks,ByteMobile,MaverickSemiconductor,Convergenet,andWirelessHome.Ujjalholdsan
M.B.A.fromHarvardBusinessSchool,anM.S.inElectricalEngineeringfromtheUniversityofRochesterandaBTechin
ElectricalEngineeringfromtheIndianInstituteofTechnology,NewDelhi.
SUBHRANSU (“BRIAN”) MUKHERJEE
BrianistheChiefExecutiveOfficerofblinkx(LSE:BLNX.L).Withastrong
Strategy,OperationsandEngineeringbackground,Brianhashelpedbuildand
transformseveralpublicandprivateTechnologyandMediabusinessesglobally.
BrianjoinedtheCompanyin2011throughtheacquisitionofPrimeVisibility
MediaGroup,Inc.(PVMG),wherehewasthePresident&CEO.BeforePVMG,
BrianwastheSeniorVicePresident&GroupManagingDirectorofMiva,Inc.
(NASDAQ:MIVA),responsiblefortheturnaroundandeventualsaleofitsglobal
MediaDivision.Earlierinhiscareer,Brianheldexecutive,staffandline
managementpositionsatseveralPrivateEquityandVenture-backedInternet,
mobileandsoftwarecompanieswhereheplayedpivotalrolesinbuildinghigh
performanceteams,acceleratinggrowthandprofitability,raisingcapital,
mergers,acquisitionsandexits.BrianstartedhiscareerasanEngineeranda
StrategyConsultant.HecurrentlyservesontheBoardofDirectorsofStrategic
PharmaSolutions,LLCandInflexxion,Inc.BrianholdsB.E.(Honors)andM.S.
(Honors)degreesinEngineering,andanM.B.A.(Honors)fromtheUniversityofChicago,BoothSchoolofBusiness.
MARK OPZOOMER
MarkOpzoomerhasextensiveknowledgeofInternet,communicationsand
mediamarketsinmanydifferentcountriesand25yearsofcorporateoperating
anddealmakingexperience.MarkiscurrentlyapartnerinBondCapital
Partners,aNon-ExecutiveDirectorofEntertainmentOneLimited,Non-
ExecutiveChairmanofSomoGlobalLimited,andadviseratForwardInternet
GroupLimited.Previousnon-executivedirectorshipsincludeWebReservations
InternationalLimited,NewbaySoftwareLimited,AutonomyplcandMivaInc.
PreviousoperatingexperienceincludesCEOofRamblerMediaLimited,regional
Vice-PresidentofYahoo!Europe,deputychiefexecutiveofHodderHeadlineplc,
CommercialandFinanceDirectorofSegaEuropeLtdandCommercialDirector
ofVirginCommunicationsLtd.Markqualifiedasacharteredaccountant
throughtheCanadianInstituteofCharteredAccountantsandhasanM.B.A.
fromIMD,Lausanne,Switzerland.
22 JUDY VEZMAR
FormerLexisNexisInternationalChiefExecutiveOfficerJudyVezmarjoinedthe
BoardofDirectorsin2014asanIndependentNon-ExecutiveDirector.Judy
bringsovertwodecadesofsuccessfulinternationalexpansion,digitalcontent
distributionandmarketing,businesstransformationandboardexperiencesto
blinkx.LexisNexisisamemberoftheglobalmediagroupReedElsevierplc,a
leadingworldwideproviderofcontent-enabledworkflowsolutionsfor
professionalsinthelegal,riskmanagement,corporate,government,law
enforcement,accountingandacademicmarkets.Underherleadership,the
internationalgrouptransformedthebusinessfromatraditionalprint-based
publishertoanonlineanddigitalsolutionsleader,expandingtherangeof
successfulcontentandonlineservicestoover100countries.Earlier,Judyheld
variousseniorexecutiverolesatXeroxCorporationintheUSandEurope.Judy
previouslyservedasaNon-ExecutiveDirectorofRightmoveplcsince2006,
whereshesatontheAudit,NominationandRemunerationcommittees.Judy
holdsanExecutiveM.B.A.fromColumbiaUniversityandaB.S.degreeinBusinessandMarketingfromMarianUniversity
andButlerUniversity.
RAJ CHELLARAJ
BasedinPaloAlto,California,RajcurrentlyservesasAssociateDeanfor
FinanceandAdministrationattheStanfordBusinessSchool.Heisalsothe
ChiefOperatingOfficerattheStanfordInstituteforInnovationinDeveloping
Economies(SEED).PriortojoiningStanfordUniversity,Rajheldseveralsenior
governmentpositions.Mostrecently,hewastheAssistantSecretaryofStatefor
AdministrationintheUnitedStatesDepartmentofState,towhichhewas
nominatedbyPresidentGeorgeW.Bushandconfirmedunanimouslybythe
UnitedStatesSenate.Previously,hewasaSeniorExecutiveOfficeratthe
UnitedStatesMintinWashingtonDC.Inadditiontohispublicsectorexpertise,
Mr.Chellarajhasseveralyearsofseniorcorporateleadershipexperience,most
recentlyasVicePresident,Planning,atHostessBrandsCorporation,partof
RipplewoodHoldings,wherehewasamemberoftheCEO’sSeniorLeadership
Team.Earlier,heservedasDirectorofCorporateDevelopmentatCelanese
Corporation,aBlackstoneGroupCompany;healsoheldvariousmanagement,
finance,operationsandplanningrolesatExxonCorporation,StrategicAnalysis
Inc.andFMCCorporation.RajholdsanM.P.A.inBusinessandGovernmentPolicyfromHarvardUniversity,anM.B.A.in
FinancefromNewYorkUniversity,anM.S.inChemicalEngineeringfromClarksonUniversityandaB.S.inChemical
EngineeringfromMadrasUniversity,India.
23 REMUNERATIONCOMMITTEEREPORT
(UNAUDITEDUNLESSSTATEDOTHERWISE)
STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIR OF THE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
ThisyeartheCommitteehasreviewedremunerationarrangementsatblinkxtoensurethattheycontinuetobesetatan
appropriatelevelandsupportthedeliveryofourcorporateobjectives.Thereviewwasparticularlyimportantgiventhe
changingnatureofourindustry,withanincreasingfocusonmobileandothertechnologiesattheexpenseofdesktops,
whichhasresultedinourownrebalancingofproductmix.
Asaresultofthisreviewandinconsultationwithkeyshareholders,wearemakinganumberofchangestothe
remunerationstructureofourseniormanagersandChiefExecutiveinFY2016,withaviewtobetteralignthemtoourre-
shapedbusinessandtoincentivizeourexecutiveteamtocapturetheemergingopportunitiesintheonlineadvertising
industrysoastodrivegrowthandlongtermshareholderreturns.
InconsideringtherevisionsthatwearemakingtoourChiefExecutive’sremunerationthataredetailedbelow,itshouldbe
notedthatwhilsttheCompanyislistedontheAIMLondonStockExchange,itsoperationsareintheUSand,specifically,
SiliconValleywhichmeansthatitisrelevanttotakeaccountofwhatisanincreasinglycompetitivemarketfortalentin
SiliconValleyatthesametimeasrecognizingUKinstitutionalinvestors’expectations.ThechangesfortheChief
Executive’sremunerationhavebeendevelopedinthiscontextandalsoinlinewiththefollowingprinciples:
» basesalaryandtargetbonusshouldbere-settotakeaccountofmarketconditions;
» remunerationshouldbeweightedmoretowardsperformance-relatedpay;and
» thefairvalueoftotalremunerationshouldhaveahigherpotentialrewardavailableforsuperiorperformance.
Inlinewiththeaboveobjectives,thekeychangeswehavemaderesultedinamarketadjustmenttotheChiefExecutive’s
basesalarybutwiththegreatestchangebeingtheremovaloftime-basedincentivepay,specificallyRestrictedShareUnits
[RSU],infavorofgreaterperformance-relatedpay.RSUsarebeingreplacedinthecurrentyearwithahigher
performance-relatedannualbonusopportunity,andanawardofMarketValueShareOptions(MVSOs)whichwillbe
subjecttotargetspurelyalignedwithshareholdervaluecreationabovethestrikepriceasofthegrantdate.Further
detailsonthesechangesaresetoutbelow,togetherwiththeremunerationoutcomesforthisfinancialyear.Finally,the
Committeeproactivelyengageswithkeyblinkxshareholdersasitdidinrelationtotheabovechanges.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
TheRemunerationCommittee(hereafterreferredtoas“theCommittee”inthisreport)isappointedbytheBoard,andis
formedofNon-ExecutiveDirectors.Duringtheyear,theCommitteewaschairedbyJudyVezmar.Othermembersofthe
committeeincludedAnthonyBettencourtandUjjalKohli.Dr.LynchwasalsoamemberoftheCommitteeuptothedatehe
resignedfromtheBoardon31December2014.Ms.VezmarresignedfromtheBoardeffective19May2015,andher
responsibilitieswereabsorbedbyUjjalKohli.TheChiefExecutivemay,attheCommittee’sinvitation,attendmeetings
exceptwherehisownremunerationisdiscussed.
TheCommittee’sprincipalresponsibilitiesare:
» toreviewandmakerecommendationsinrelationtotheremunerationpolicy;
» consultwithkeyshareholdersoncompensation-relatedproposalsandrecommendations;
» applytheserecommendationstotheExecutiveDirector,andseniormembersoftheexecutivemanagementteam;
» determinethemetricsforthebonusschemeoftheexecutivemanagementteam;
» ensurethatthepoliciesandmetricsarealignedwiththeCompanystrategy;and
» toconsiderandawardotherperformance-relatedbenefitssuchasRSUsandMVSOs,asandwhenappropriate.
TheCommitteemetthreetimesduringtheyear,anddetailsoftheattendanceatthemeetingsoftheCommitteeareas
shownbelow.TheCommittee’stermsofreferenceareavailableforpublicinspectionontheCompany’swebsite–
www.blinkx.com
15JULY2014 25MARCH2015 30MARCH2015
JudyVezmar ✓✓✓
UjjalKohli ✓✓✓
AnthonyBettencourt ✓ --
Dr.MichaelLynch - - -
Anexternalconsultant,NewBridgeStreet(NBS),wasappointedtoadviseonallaspectsofseniorexecutiveremuneration.
NBShasnootherconnectionwiththeCompanyotherthanintheprovisionofadviceonexecutiveandemployee
remuneration.Inaddition,theCompanyparticipatesintheGlobalTechnologySurveyconductedbyRadford,adivisionof
theAONHewittCompany,tobenchmarkcompensationstructuresacrossfunctions,levelsandlocations.
24 PAYPHILOSOPHY
TheremunerationpolicycontinuestobedesignedtoensurethatseniormanagersandExecutiveDirectorsare
appropriatelyincentivizedandrewardedfortheirperformance,responsibilityandexperience.TheRemuneration
CommitteeaimstoensurethatthepolicyalignstheinterestsoftheExecutiveDirectorwiththoseoftheshareholders.
Historically,blinkxhassoughttorewarditsseniorexecutiveswithalowerthanmarketbasesalaryandaUK-centric
modelofawardingannualequityawards.Equityawardshavebeendeliveredbothinmarketvalueshareoptions(MVSOs)
andtimevaluerestrictedshareunits(RSUs).Thisisincontrasttoblinkx’sUSpeerswherebothcashcompensationand
equityawardsarehigherandlinkedtodeliveringontheCompany’sstrategicobjectivesandgeneratingequityreturnsfor
shareholders.
Followingthereviewconductedin2014,blinkxhasmodifieditspaypolicysothatsalariesandbonusamountsarepaidat
oraroundmarketlevels.Inaddition,thequantumofequityawardswasenhanced,butwithagreaterfocusonlong-term
performanceandarelinkedtoperformanceconditions.Asaresult,remunerationismorecloselyalignedwithlong-term
valuecreationforshareholdersandUKinvestorexpectations,andthemixbetweenfixedandvariableremunerationisset
inlightoftheCompany’sriskappetiteandcompetitivemarketconditionsforkeyemployees.
PAYPOLICYFOREXECUTIVEDIRECTORS
RemunerationattheCompanyforExecutiveDirectorsiscomprisedofthreeelements:basesalary,annualbonusand
long-termequityincentives.Asstatedabove,remunerationhasbeenrestructuredforFY2016tobringbasesalaryto
marketlevels,toreplacetimevalueelementsofremunerationsuchasRSUswithperformance-basedMSVOs,andto
bringtheannualbonustocompetitivelevels.DetailsofCEO’sremunerationareindicatedbelow.
BASESALARYANDANNUALBONUS
TheChiefExecutive’sbasesalaryandbonusopportunityforFY2016hasbeenincreasedtobringtheseinlinewithmarket
levelswhencomparedtobothUSandUKcompetitors.Basedonreshapingthebusinessforchangingmarketconditions
andtheachievementofFY2015Revenue,AdjustedEBITDAtargetsandManagementBusinessObjectives(‘MBOs’)the
ChiefExecutiveearnedabonusof$138k,whichwaspaidentirelyincash.
LONG-TERMINCENTIVES
TheCompany’srecentpracticewastogranttimevalueRSUawardsbasedonindividualperformanceperiodicallyduring
theyear,whichvestedquarterlyoverthreeyears,subjecttocontinuedservice.WhileRSUsareanincreasinglycommon
formofequityawardsinthehighlycompetitiveUSmarket,arelessdilutivetoshareholdersandmoretaxefficientforthe
Companyandemployee,thetimeratherthanperformancecomponentofRSUswereconsideredunusualwithintheUK
market.ThereforenoRSUsweregrantedtotheCEOinFY2015.Also,giventhesignificantchangesintheindustrythat
impactedtheCompany’sbusinessmodelduringtheyear,neitherwereanyMVSOsgrantedtotheCEOinFY2015.
ForFY2016,equityawardswillbemadeinMVSOsthatvestquarterlyandhavebeeninusewithintheCompanysincethe
IPO,butwithanadditionalperformancecomponentwheretheequityawardsrequireaminimumstockpricethresholdfor
optionstovestandanacceleratedvestingscheduleuponthestockpricereachingcertainpredeterminedthresholdsabove
thestockpriceatgrant.TheCommitteebelievesthatalongwiththeperformancecriteriaforbonuseligibilitythat
addressesoperationalexcellence,thequantumandperformancecriteriafortheequitygrantsfullyalignstheinterestsof
theshareholdersandmanagementteamtodrivelong-termvalue.
25 ThetablebelowsetsoutthebeneficialinterestsinsharesandvestedshareoptionsoftheDirectorsholdingofficeatyear
end(audited).
INTERESTSIN
ORDINARYSHARES
INTERESTSIN
SHAREOPTIONS
INTERESTSIN
RSUs TOTAL
DIRECTOR
AT
31MARCH
2014
NUMBER
AT
31MARCH
2015
NUMBER
AT
31MARCH
2014
NUMBER
AT
31MARCH
2015
NUMBER
AT
31MARCH
2014
NUMBER
AT
31MARCH
2015
NUMBER
AT
31MARCH
2014
NUMBER
AT
31MARCH
2015
NUMBER
AnthonyBettencourt 50,000 50,000 - - - - 50,000 50,000
Suranga
Chandratillake 26,433 93,102 2,487,179 2,487,179 166,667 100,000 2,680,279 2,680,281
UjjalKohli 13,000 46,867 - - - - 13,000 86,867
Subhransu(“Brian”)
Mukherjee 100,000 550,000 2,080,000 2,080,000 500,000 300,000 2,680,000 2,930,000
MarkOpzoomer 175,000 400,000 - - - - 175,000 400,000
JudyVezmar 20,000 20,000 - - - - 20,000 20,000
RajChellaraj - 50,000 - - - - - 84,000
PAYPOLICYFORNON-EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS
FeesforNon-ExecutiveDirectorsaresetwithreferencetotimecommitment,thenumberofcommitteeschairedand
relevantexternalmarketbenchmarks.Otherthancoveringtravelexpenses,noadditionalfeesorequitycompensationis
providedtoNon-ExecutiveDirectorsforadhocservices,suchasCommitteememberships,Boardmeetings,etc.
RSUswereissuedtocertainNon-ExecutiveDirectorsduringtheyearunderreviewinlinewithindividualcontractual
entitlements,thesevestedimmediatelyandconvertedintosharesinthenextopenperiodwithanexercisepriceequalto
marketprice.Assuch,thesedidnotconstitutepartofanylong-termincentiveschemes.
PAYANDCONDITIONSELSEWHEREINTHEGROUP
NoelementofremunerationisoperatedexclusivelyforExecutiveDirectorsandthephilosophyofusingvariable
remunerationtodrivetheCompany’sperformanceisappliedtoallrolesthroughouttheGroup.Allemployeesareeligible
foranannualbonusandsomeseniorrolesareeligibletoreceiveshareoptions.Whensettingthequantumofremuneration
forExecutiveDirectors,theCommitteeconsidersthepaydifferentialbetweenExecutiveDirectorsandotherroles.
SERVICEAGREEMENTS
TheChiefExecutive’sServiceAgreementprovidesthathisemploymentwiththeCompanyisonan‘atwill’basiswhich
meansthateithertheExecutiveortheCompanyshallbeentitledtoterminateemploymentatanytime,andforanyreason,
withorwithoutcause.InlinewithtypicalUSpractice,theServiceAgreementincludesanumberofprotectionsforthe
ChiefExecutiveintheeventofaterminationofhisemploymentincertaincircumstances.
AllNon-ExecutiveDirectors’appointmentsareterminableonatleastthreemonths’noticeoneitherside.
ThecurrentservicecontractsandlettersofappointmentoftheDirectorsincludethefollowingterms:
DIRECTOR DATEOFCONTRACT NOTICEPERIOD
EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS:
Subhransu(“Brian”)Mukherjee 19July2012 3months
NON-EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS:
JudyVezmar,Chairman 16January2014 3months
AnthonyBettencourt 9May2007 3months
SurangaChandratillake 9May2007 3months
MarkOpzoomer 9May2007 3months
UjjalKohli 20February2014 3months
RajChellaraj 1October2014 3months
26 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (AUDITED)
TheDirectorsreceivedthefollowingremunerationfortheyearsended31March2015and31March2014.
DIRECTOR
BASE
SALARY/
NEDFEES
4
$
ANNUAL
BONUS
1
$
LONG-TERM
INCENTIVES
2
$
OTHER
FEESPAID
IN
RSUs
3
YEARENDED
31MARCH
2015TOTAL
$
YEARENDED
31MARCH
2014TOTAL
$
EXECUTIVEDIRECTORAND
HIGHESTPAIDDIRECTOR
Subhransu(“Brian”)Mukherjee 400,000 138,000 454,000 992,000 1,367,000
NON-EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS
AnthonyBettencourt 81,000 - 81,000 83,000
SurangaChandratillake 83,000 - 92,000 175,000 440,000
MichaelLynch 61,000 - 61,000 83,000
MarkOpzoomer 81,000 - 81,000 83,000
UjjalKohli 81,000 - 28,000 109,000 21,000
JudyVezmar 81,000 - 81,000 21,000
RajChellaraj 41,000 - 28,000 69,000 -
AGGREGATEEMOLUMENTS 907,000 63,000 454,000 148,000 1,649,000 2,098,000
1
BonuspaymentsaremadetoExecutiveDirectorsonlyandaredeterminedbasedonthefollowingperformanceconditions:
individualExecutiveDirector’sMBOsandCompanyoperatingperformanceasdetailedonpage25.
2
Long-termincentiveawardsrepresentawardsofMVSOsandRSUsissuedtoExecutiveDirectorswhichvestedduringtheyear.
Long-termincentivevaluerepresentsthenotionalgainonMVSOsorRSUs,butarenotrealiseduntiltheawardsaresold.
3
CertainNon-ExecutiveDirectors,inlinewiththeircontractualentitlements,wereissuedRSUsduringtheyearunderreviewand
vestedimmediately.
4
Non-ExecutiveDirector’sfeesaresetat£50,000withtheabovetableincludingthevaluein$usinganexchangerateof$1.62to£1.
NoneoftheDirectorshadpension,retirementbenefitsorsimilarentitlement.Nopaymentorawardsweremadetoformer
Directorsduringtheyear,andnopaymentsweremadeincompensationforlossofoffice.
AggregateemolumentsdisclosedabovedonotincludeanyamountsforthevalueofMVSOstoacquireordinarysharesor
restrictedstockunitsintheCompanygrantedtoorheldbyanyDirectors.DetailsoftheoptionsandRSUsexercisedduring
theyearareasfollows:
DIRECTOR SCHEME NUMBER
RANGEOF
MARKET
PRICESAT
VESTDATE£
GAINSON
VESTIN
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015$
GAINSON
VESTIN
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014$
Subhransu(“Brian”)
Mukherjee RSUs 200,000
0.31-
0.60 125,000 256,000
blinkxUSshareoptionplan - - - 328,000
Suranga
Chandratillake RSUs 66,667
0.31-
0.60 42,000 85,000
blinkxUSshareoptionplan - - - 94,000
UjjalKohli RSUs 78,856 0.25 28,000 -
RajChellaraj RSUs 78,856 0.25 28,000 -
TOTAL 424,379 223,000 763,000
27 DetailsofoptionsandRSUsforDirectorswhoservedduringtheyearareasfollows:
DIRECTOR SCHEME(S)
AT31MARCH
2014
NUMBER
GRANTED
NUMBER
VESTED
NUMBER
LAPSED
NUMBER
AT31MARCH
2015
NUMBER
Subhransu(“Brian”)Mukherjee Options
RSU
2,080,000
500,000
-
-
-
(200,000)
-
-
2,080,000
300,000
SurangaChandratillake Options
RSU
2,487,179
166,667
-
-
-
(66,667)
-
-
2,487,179
100,000
UjjalKohli RSU - 78,856 (78,856) - -
RajChellaraj RSU - 78,856 (78,856) - -
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES
DetailsofthecontractualRSUawardsgrantedduringtheyearareasfollows:
DIRECTOR SCHEME
NUMBEROF
OPTIONS/RSUs
GRANTED
MARKETPRICEAT
AWARDDATE£
UjjalKohli RSUs 78,856 0.25
RajChellaraj RSUs 78,856 0.25
TOTAL 157,712
DetailsofthecontractualRSUawardsandlong-termincentiveawardsvestingduringtheyearareasfollows:
DIRECTOR SCHEME(S)
NUMBER
VESTED
RANGEOF
MARKETPRICES
ATAWARDDATE£
RANGEOFMARKET
PRICESAT
VESTINGDATE£
Subhransu(“Brian”)Mukherjee blinkxUSshareoptionplan
RSUs
853,333
200,000
0.40–0.85
1.55
0.66–0.32
0.61–0.30
SurangaChandratillake blinkxUSshareoptionplan
RSUs
116,667
66,667
0.17–0.85
1.55
0.74–0.31
0.61–0.30
UjjalKohli RSUs 78,856 0.25 0.37
RajChellaraj RSUs 78,856 0.25 0.37
TOTAL 1,127,712
28 AUDITCOMMITTEEREPORT
TheAuditCommittee(hereafterreferredtoas“theCommittee”inthisreport)isappointedbytheBoard,andisformedof
Non-ExecutiveDirectors,chairedbyMarkOpzoomer.OthermembersoftheCommitteeareUjjalKohliandRajChellaraj.
Ujjaljoinedthecommitteeon1May2014toreplaceDr.LynchpriortoDr.Lynch’sresignationfromtheBoard,andRaj
joinedtheCommitteeon6November2014toreplaceAnthonyBettencourt.
Itsprincipalresponsibilitiesare:
» monitoringtheintegrityofthefinancialstatementsoftheGroupandanyformalannouncementsrelatingtothe
Group’sfinancialperformance;
» overseeingtheinvolvementoftheGroup’sexternalauditors,inplanningandreviewingtheauditofthefinancial
statements;
» recommendingtheappointmentandfeesoftheexternalauditor,includingmaintaininganappropriatepolicyon
thelevelofnon-auditfees;
» reviewingandmonitoringtheindependenceandobjectivityoftheexternalauditor,andtheeffectivenessofthe
externalauditprocess;
» reviewing,atleastannually,theneedforaninternalauditfunction;
» reviewingtheriskmanagementprocess,andtheeffectivenessofinternalcontrols,includingidentifyingand
implementingimprovements;and
» reviewingthearrangementsthroughwhichstaffmayraiseconcernsaboutpossibleimproprietiesinconfidence.
TheCommitteemetfourtimesduringtheyear,anddetailsoftheattendanceatthemeetingsoftheCommitteeareas
shownbelow.TheCommittee’stermsofreferenceareavailableforpublicinspectionontheCompany’swebsite–
www.blinkx.com
11APRIL2014 29APRIL2014
3NOVEMBER
2014
15JANUARY
2015 5MARCH2015
MarkOpzoomer,Chairman ✓✓✓✓✓
AnthonyBettencourt ✓✓ ---
UjjalKohli - - ✓✓✓
MichaelLynch - ✓ ---
RajChellaraj - - ✓✓✓
UjjalKohliandRajChellarajattendedallCommitteemeetingsaftertheirformalappointmentstotheBoard.
TheCommitteepromotesthehigheststandardsofintegrity,financialreporting,riskmanagementandinternalcontrol.In
additiontothemembersoftheCommittee,meetingsaretypicallyalsoattendedbytheChiefExecutiveOfficerandthe
ChiefFinancialOfficer.TheCommitteemeetstheexternalauditorsatleastthreetimesayear,includingatleastone
meetingeachyearwithoutmembersofexecutivemanagementpresent.TheCommitteeshouldincludeatleastone
financiallyqualifiedindividualwithrecentandrelevantexperience,andcurrentlyMarkOpzoomer,aqualifiedchartered
accountantwhotrainedwithCoopers&Lybrand,andRajChellaraj,whohasanM.B.A.inFinancefromNewYork
University,fulfillthesecriteria.
TheBoardhasoverallresponsibilityfortheestablishmentandoversightoftheGroup’sriskregister,includingthe
identificationandevaluationofanynewlyrecognizedrisksandimplementingmitigatingactionsonatimelybasis.The
CommitteeassiststheBoardinitsoversightandmonitoringoffinancialreporting,riskmanagementandinternalcontrols.
TheCommitteehasconsideredtherecentFRCguidanceonauditcommittees,andhasexpandeditsreporttoincludemore
informationonsignificantmattersconsideredbytheCommittee.
TherehasbeenaparticularfocusthroughouttheyearonensuringthattheGroup’sriskmanagementandinternal
controlsareadequatelyevolvinganddevelopinginlinewithchangesintheGroupandbestpracticesintheindustry.
Duringtheyear,theCommitteeengagedMossAdamsLLPtocompleteareviewofitscontrolsoverthekeyfinancial
reportingcycles,includingFinancialCloseandReportingandBilling,CreditandCollection,toensurethatsuchcontrols
remainedrobustandenabledexecutivemanagementtobesatisfiedastothereliabilityoftheGroup’sinternalsystems
andprocesses.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR TENDER PROCESS
TheCommitteeconsideredtherecommendationsoftheFinancialReportingCouncilandtheproposedrevisionsto
EuropeanDirectivesonAuditorsand,havingconsultedwithmajorshareholders,electedtoinitiateatenderprocessforthe
externalauditoftheGroup.WhilstnotrequiredtoconductsuchaprocessasanAIMcompany,theGroupseekstoadhere
tobestpracticewhereverpracticable.
29 Toassistintherunningofthetenderprocess,theCommitteeengagedthirdpartyconsultants,IndependentAuditLimited,
toensurethattheprocesswascarriedoutfairlyandindependently.Subsequenttoaninitialscreeningprocess,fourfirms
wereinvitedtotender,includingtheincumbentauditor.Acomprehensiveandthoroughtenderprocesswascarriedout,
involvingpresentationsfromeachfirmtotheAuditCommittee,theChiefExecutiveOfficer,theChiefFinancialOfficerand
theexternalconsultant.TheCommitteewasdelightedwiththequalityandenthusiasmofthetenderingfirms,and
followingthisprocess,recommendedtheappointmentofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLP(PwC)asauditorfortheyear
ended31March2015.TheproposalwillbeputtotheshareholdersattheAGMon25August2015forPWCtobe
reappointedfortheyearended31March2016.
ASSESSMENT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR
EachyeartheCommitteeassessestheexpertise,independenceandqualityoftheexternalauditor,andtheobjectivityand
effectivenessoftheauditprocess.ThisassessmentwascarriedoutonthebasisoftheCommittee’sownappraisalofthe
performanceoftheauditorandtheviewsofitsseniormanagementteamaswellasconsiderationofmaterialsprovidedby
theauditor.
Thecriteriausedforthisassessmentremainedunchangedfromlastyearandwereasfollows:
» deliveryofathoroughandefficientauditincompliancewithagreedplanandtimescales;
» provisionofaccurate,robustandperceptiveadviceonkeyaccountingandauditjudgments,technicalissuesand
bestpractices;
» ahighlevelofprofessionalismandtechnicalexpertiseconsistentlydemonstratedbyallauditstaff;
» plansforensuringthemaintenanceofcontinuitywithinthecoreauditteam;and
» Strictadherencetoindependencepoliciesandotherregulatoryrequirements.
IndependenceandobjectivityareregularlyconsideredbytheCommittee,takingintoconsideration,therelevantUK
professionalandregulatoryrequirementsandtheauditfirm’sownpoliciestomaintainauditorindependence,which
includerotationoftheSeniorStatutoryAuditoreveryfiveyears.
Ourpolicyonnon-auditservicesistoappointtheadviserwhowebelieveisinthepositiontobestadvisetheCompanyon
thematterinquestion,andwherewebelievewearebestservedbyourauditfirm,auditorobjectivityandindependenceis
carefullyconsideredandsafeguardedviathemonitoringoffeespaidinrespectofauditandnon-auditworkandapproving
alladditionalworkperformedbytheexternalauditor.
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDIT
FINDINGS
TheCommitteereviewsthefull-andhalf-yearfinancialstatements,andthereportsfromtheauditoronthesestatements.
Ittakestheopportunitytodiscusskeyaccountingmatterswiththeauditoranddiscusstherangeofapproachestoeach.
SignificantmatterswhichwerespecificallyconsideredbytheCommitteeintheyearwereasfollows:
ISSUE SPECIFICCONSIDERATIONS
Impairmentofgoodwillandintangibleassets InlightofthecurrenttradingconditionsandinaccordancewithIAS
36,managementpreparedanimpairmentreviewonaCGUbasis.
TheCommitteediscussedthecalculations,includingthe
assumptionswithin,themethodologyappliedandtheanticipated
forecasts.Italsoreviewedtheauditor’sreportdetailingtheresults
andconclusionoftheaudittesting.
Accountingforacquisitions AcquiredintangiblesmustbefairvaluedinaccordancewithIFRS3.
TheCommitteereviewedthevaluationsreportsoneach
acquisition,preparedbytheexternalvaluer,toensurethatthe
assumptionsinherentinthevaluationmodelwerereasonableand
appropriate,andthatthedisclosuresinthefinancialstatements
werepreparedinaccordancewithIFRS3.
Revenuerecognition TheCommitteekeepsunderclosereview,therevenuerecognition
policiesoftheGroup,withparticularreferencetothe
appropriatenessoftherevenuerecognitionpoliciesofacquired
businesses,andthecontinuedpertinenceofthepoliciesinthe
legacyblinkxbusiness.
30 INTERNAL AUDIT
TheCommitteeconsiderstheneedforaninternalauditfunctionatleastannually.GiventhesizeoftheGroupandthe
organizationofthefinanceteamintocentersofexcellence,whichareoverseenbyanexperiencedCFO,andconsidering
therobustnessandintegrityoftheinternalcontrolsoftheGroupwhichareoverseencentrally,theCommitteeisofthe
opinionthatnointernalauditfunctionisrequiredatthistime,butwillkeepthismatterunderclosescrutiny.
TheCommitteehashowever,engagedMossAdamstodocumenttheGroup’skeycontrols,andinitiatearollingtesting
strategyofthosecontrols,similartothecontrolsoversightthatwouldbeexercisedbyaninternalauditfunction.
31 NOMINATIONSCOMMITTEEREPORT
TheNominationsCommitteeisappointedbytheBoardandisresponsiblefor:
» thestructure,sizeandcompositionoftheBoard;
» thediversityontheBoard,andacrosstheGroup;
» advisingtheBoardonareaswherefurtherrecruitmentmaybeappropriate;
» theoverallleadershipneedsoftheorganization;
» considerationofsuccessionplanningforDirectors;and
» thesearchforandselectionofsuitablecandidatesfortheappointmentorreplacementofadditionalDirectors.
TheNominationsCommittee(hereafter“theCommittee”throughoutthissection)waschairedbyDr.MichaelLynch,upto
hisresignationdateof31December2014,andsubsequentlychairedbyAnthonyBettencourt.SurangaChandratillakeis
alsoamemberoftheCommittee.
TheCommitteemetthreetimesduringtheyear,anddetailsoftheattendanceatthemeetingsoftheCommitteeareas
shownbelow.TheCommitteemeetsasrequiredtoinitiatetheselectionprocessof,andmakerecommendationstothe
BoardwithregardtotheappointmentofnewDirectors.TheCommittee’stermsofreferenceareavailableforpublic
inspectionontheCompany’swebsite–www.blinkx.com
15JULY2014 4SEPT2014 5MARCH2015
AnthonyBettencourt(Chairman) ✓✓ ✓
SurangaChandratillake ✓✓ ✓
APPOINTMENT OF NEW DIRECTORS
Duringtheyear,theCommitteemetandmaderecommendationstotheBoardregardingtheappointmentofRajChellaraj
asNon-ExecutiveDirector.
Raj’sappointmentwasmadeinordertoincreasetheBoard’sindependentDirectorbase,strengthentherecentand
relevantfinancialexperience,enhancetheBoard’sindependenceandtomaintaintheBoard’ssizeandcomposition
followingDr.Lynch’sdecisiontostepdownfromtheBoardfrom31December2014.
Whereconsideredappropriate,theCommitteewillengagerecruitmentconsultantstoassistintheidentificationofand
communicationwithpotentialBoardmembers.Nosuchrecruitmentconsultationwascarriedoutintheyear.
TheArticlesofAssociationrequirethatanyDirectorappointedbytheBoardshall,unlessappointedatsuchmeeting,hold
officeonlyuntilthedissolutionofthenextAnnualGeneralMeetingoftheCompanyfollowingappointment.
RE-ELECTION TO THE BOARD
FollowingevaluationoftheBoard,weconsiderthattheperformanceofallmembersoftheBoardcontinuestobeeffective,
andthatallindividualsdemonstrateappropriatecommitmenttotheirroles.Inaccordancewithbestpracticeandthe
Company’sarticlesofAssociation,whichrequireatleastonethirdofDirectorstobesubjecttore-electionateachAnnual
GeneralMeeting,Subhransu(“Brian”)MukherjeeandAnthonyBettencourtretirebyrotationandwillstandfor
reappointmentwhileRajChellarajwillstandforappointmentattheAGMon25August2015.
DIVERSITY POLICY
TheBoardrecognizesthevalueindiversityinitsrichestsense,andconsidersitessentialinmaximizingitseffectiveness.
TheGroupapproachesdiversitycomprehensively,inordertorecruitthebesttalentavailableatalllevelsinthebusiness,
basedonmerit,andassessedagainstcriteriasuchas:rangeofskills,experienceandindependence.
32 DIRECTORS’REPORT
TheDirectorspresenttheirannualreportontheaffairsoftheGroup,togetherwiththeFinancialStatementsandauditor’s
reportfortheyearended31March2015.Thisreportcontainscertainstatutory,regulatoryandotherinformationand
incorporates,byreference,thestrategicreportandCorporateGovernancereportsincludedearlierinthisdocument.
Thetablebelowsetsoutthelocationofcertaininformationspecificallyrelatedtothebusinessreview:
CONTENT SECTION PAGE(S)
ReviewoftheBusinessandFutureDevelopments StrategicReview,ChairmanandCEOReports 1–7
PrincipalRiskandUncertainties CFOReport 10–11
CorporateGovernance CorporateGovernanceReport 17–20
Directors,Re-electionandAppointment CorporateGovernance 21–23
Directors’Interests RemunerationReport 24–28
KeyPerformanceIndicators CFOReport 8–9
ResearchandDevelopment CFOReport 8–9
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Detailsoftheissuedsharecapital,togetherwithdetailsofthemovementsintheCompany’sissuedsharecapitalduring
theyear,includingtheissueof2,418,132shares,areshowninnote19.TheCompanyhasoneclassofordinaryshares,
whichcarrynorighttofixedincome.EachsharecarriestherighttoonevoteatgeneralmeetingsoftheCompany.
Therearenospecificrestrictionsonthesizeofaholdingnoronthetransferofshares,whicharebothgovernedbythe
generalprovisionsoftheArticlesofAssociationandprevailinglegislation.TheDirectorsarenotawareofanyagreements
betweenholdersoftheCompany’ssharesthatmayresultinrestrictionsonthetransferofsecuritiesoronvotingrights.
Detailsofemployeeshareschemesaresetoutinnote23.
TherearesharesreservedtobeissuedrelatingtoformerBurstshareholders,aspartoftheconsideration,whohavenot
yetsubmittedthepaperworktoaffecttheexchangeofBurstsharesforblinkxsharesandtoRhythmNewMedia
shareholdersaspartofconsideration.NopersonhasanyspecialrightsofcontrolovertheCompany’ssharecapitalandall
issuedsharesarefullypaid.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
TheGroup’sfinancialriskmanagementobjectiveistominimizeriskwhilstachievingmaximumreturnonliquidassets.
TheDirectorsareaversetoprincipallossandmanagethesafetyandpreservationoftheGroup’sinvestedfundsbylimiting
defaultandmarketrisksbyinvestingonlywithhighly-ratedfinancialinstitutions.
TheGroup’sfinancialinstrumentsprimarilycomprisecashandcashequivalents,loans,tradereceivablesandpayables
fromoperations.Noderivativefinancialinstrumentsareused.Foreigncurrencyrisksaremanagedthroughnatural
hedgesarisingfromcurrencybankaccounts.
TheGrouphasnotfacedanymaterialexposuretopricerisk,liquidityrisk,orcashflowriskthatwouldaffecttheultimate
objectivesofthebusiness.Seenote24.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
TheresultsoftheGrouparesetoutintheConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncomeonpage40.
TheDirectorsdonotrecommendthepaymentofadividend(2014:$nil).TheGroup’scurrentpolicy,whichiskeptunder
regularreview,istoretainfutureearningsforthedevelopmentandexpansionofthebusiness.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS
Nocharitableorpoliticaldonationsweremadeduringtheyear.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
TheGrouphasmadequalifyingthirdpartyindemnityprovisionsforthebenefitofitsDirectorswhichremaininforceatthe
dateofthisreport.
33 EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION
TheGroupplacesconsiderablevalueontheinvolvementofitsemployeesandhascontinuedtokeeptheminformedon
mattersaffectingthemasemployeesandonthevariousfactorsaffectingtheperformanceoftheGroup.Thisisachieved
throughformalandinformationmeetings,theGroupIntranetsiteandinternalcommunicationsfromthemanagement
team.
Employeesareconsultedregularlyonawiderangeofmattersaffectingtheircurrentandfutureinterests.Wevalue
employees’opinionsandseektoactivelyconsulttheminthedecisionmakingprocessandkeepthemapprisedofcompany
news.Company-widebriefingsandcommunicationsareheldandfeedbackisactivelysoughtfromallemployees.
Theemployeeshareoptionschemehasbeenrunningsuccessfullysinceitsinceptionandisopentoallemployees.In
addition,employeestypicallyreceiveanannualbonusrelatedtotheoverallprofitabilityoftheGroup.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
Ouremploymentpolicies,includingacommitmenttoequalopportunity,aredesignedtoattractandretainhigh-caliber
individuals,regardlessofage,sex,religion,disability,maritalstatus,race,ethnicity,nationalityorsexualorientation.
blinkxisanequalopportunitiesemployerandensuresthatapplicationsforemploymentfrompeoplewithdisabilitiesand
otherunder-representedgroupsaregivenfullandfairconsideration.
Applicationsforemploymentbydisabledpersonsarealwaysfullyconsidered,bearinginmindtheaptitudesofthe
applicantconcerned.Intheeventofmembersofstaffbecomingdisabled,everyeffortismadetoensurethattheir
employmentwiththeGroupcontinuesandthatappropriatetrainingisarrangedandsupportprovided,includingflexible
workingtoassistre-entryintotheworkplaceandmakinganynecessaryalternateprovisions.Itisourpolicytoprovide
equallytoallstaff,trainingandcareerdevelopmentforgrowthwithintheCompany,andtoexploreobjectively,through
performanceappraisal,opportunitiesforemployeeadvancement.
Wetakemeasurestoensuregoodworkingconditions.Employeesareexpectedatalltimestoacthonestly,respectfully,
andinaccordancewithourCompanyethos.TheCompanydoesnottoleratemisconductorharassmentinanyformand
willdiligentlyinvestigateand,wherenecessary,takeactionagainstanycomplaintstherein,includingthoseofconfidential
“whistleblowers.”
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
On31March2015,theCompanyhadbeennotifiedofthefollowingvotingrightsasashareholderoftheCompany:
NUMBERSHARES %
Mr.RichardGriffiths 40,491,526 10.06%
HargreavesLansdownAssetMgt 31,541,150 7.84%
BarclaysWealthMgt(UK) 27,310,784 6.79%
TDDirectInvesting 22,672,522 5.64%
Totalsharesoutstandingat31March2015 402,326,511
Duringtheperiodbetween31March2015and1June2015theCompanyreceivednotificationofthefollowingvotingrights
asashareholderoftheCompany:
NUMBERSHARES %
Mr.RichardGriffiths 40,502,050 10.07%
HargreavesLansdownAssetMgt 30,377,287 7.55%
BarclaysWealthMgt(UK) 26,157,521 6.50%
ToscafundAssetManagement 23,582,977 5.86%
Totalsharesoutstandingat1June2015 402,339,006
34 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
Ms.JudyVezmarindicatedherintentiontoresignfromtheBoardofDirectors,whichwasacceptedbytheBoardon19May
2015.Ms.VezmarwillserveouthernoticeperiodontheBoard,through18August2015,Mr.UjjalKohliwillChairthe
RemunerationCommitteeandMr.SurangaChandratillakewilljointheCommittee.
GOING CONCERN
TheDirectorshaveconsideredthefinancialresourcesoftheGroupandtherisksassociatedwithdoingbusinessinthe
currenteconomicclimateandbelievetheGroupiswellplacedtomanagetheseriskssuccessfully.IndoingthistheBoard
hasreviewedmanagement’sbusinessplanandcashflowforecastsettingoutkeybusinessassumptions,includingthe
rateofrevenuegrowth,marginsandcostcontrol.TheDirectorsconsidertheassumptionsthereintobereasonableand
thattheGrouphasadequateresourcestocontinueinoperationalexistencefortheforeseeablefuture,beingaperiodofno
lessthan12monthsfromthedateofsigningthisannualreport.Accordingly,theycontinuetoadoptthegoingconcern
basisinpreparingthesefinancialstatements.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
TheAGMwillbeheldat200AldersgateStreet,LondonEC1A4HDon25August2015at9:30AMBST.Membersofthe
Boardwillpresentonrecentdevelopmentsandtheperformanceofthebusinessandshareholderswillhavethe
opportunitytoaskquestionsoftheBoardmemberspresent.
AUDITOR
EachofthepersonswhoisaDirectoratthedateofapprovalofthisannualreportconfirmsthat:
» sofarastheDirectorisaware,thereisnorelevantauditinformationofwhichtheCompany’sauditorisunaware;
and
» theDirectorhastakenallofthestepsthathe/sheoughttohavetakenasaDirectorinordertomakehim/herself
awareofanyrelevantauditinformationandtoestablishthattheCompany’sauditorisawareofthatinformation.
Thisconfirmationisgivenandshouldbeinterpretedinaccordancewiththeprovisionsofsection418oftheCompaniesAct
2006.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
TheDirectorsareresponsibleforpreparingtheAnnualReportandthefinancialstatementsinaccordancewithapplicable
lawandregulations.
CompanylawrequirestheDirectorstopreparefinancialstatementsforeachfinancialyear.UnderthatlawtheDirectors
havepreparedthegroupandparentcompanyfinancialstatementsinaccordancewithInternationalFinancialReporting
Standards(IFRSs)asadoptedbytheEuropeanUnion.UndercompanylawtheDirectorsmustnotapprovethefinancial
statementsunlesstheyaresatisfiedthattheygiveatrueandfairviewofthestateofaffairsoftheGroupandtheCompany
andoftheprofitorlossoftheGroupforthatperiod.Inpreparingthesefinancialstatements,theDirectorsarerequiredto:
» selectsuitableaccountingpoliciesandthenapplythemconsistently;
» makejudgementsandaccountingestimatesthatarereasonableandprudent;
» statewhetherapplicableIFRSsasadoptedbytheEuropeanUnionhavebeenfollowed,subjecttoanymaterial
departuresdisclosedandexplainedinthefinancialstatements;and
» preparethefinancialstatementsonthegoingconcernbasisunlessitisinappropriatetopresumethatthe
CompanyandtheGroupwillcontinueinbusiness.
TheDirectorsareresponsibleforkeepingadequateaccountingrecordsthataresufficienttoshowandexplainthe
company’stransactionsanddisclosewithreasonableaccuracyatanytimethefinancialpositionoftheCompanyandthe
GroupandenablethemtoensurethatthefinancialstatementscomplywiththeCompaniesAct2006.Theyarealso
responsibleforsafeguardingtheassetsoftheCompanyandtheGroupandhencefortakingreasonablestepsforthe
preventionanddetectionoffraudandotherirregularities.
TheDirectorsareresponsibleforthemaintenanceandintegrityoftheCompany’swebsite.LegislationintheUnited
Kingdomgoverningthepreparationanddisseminationoffinancialstatementsmaydifferfromlegislationinother
jurisdictions.
35 FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS INDEPENDENTAUDITOR’SREPORTTOTHE
MEMBERSOFBLINKXPLC
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OUROPINION
Inouropinion:
» blinkxplc’sGroupFinancialStatementsandCompanyFinancialStatements(the“financialstatements”)givea
trueandfairviewofthestateoftheGroup’sandoftheCompany’saffairsasat31March2015andoftheGroup’s
lossandtheGroup’sandtheCompany’scashflowsfortheyearthenended;
» theGroupfinancialstatementshavebeenproperlypreparedinaccordancewithInternationalFinancialReporting
Standards(“IFRSs”)asadoptedbytheEuropeanUnion;
» theCompanyfinancialstatementshavebeenproperlypreparedinaccordancewithIFRSsasadoptedbythe
EuropeanUnionandasappliedinaccordancewiththeprovisionsoftheCompaniesAct2006;and
» thefinancialstatementshavebeenpreparedinaccordancewiththerequirementsoftheCompaniesAct2006.
WHATWEHAVEAUDITED
blinkxplc’sfinancialstatementscomprise:
» theConsolidatedandCompanyBalanceSheetsasat31March2015;
» theConsolidatedIncomeStatementandtheConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncomefortheyearthen
ended;
» theConsolidatedandCompanyCashFlowStatementsfortheyearthenended;
» theConsolidatedandCompanyStatementsofChangesinEquityfortheyearthenended;and
» thenotestothefinancialstatements,whichincludeasummaryofsignificantaccountingpoliciesandother
explanatoryinformation.
CertainrequireddisclosureshavebeenpresentedelsewhereintheAnnualReportandAccounts,ratherthaninthenotes
tothefinancialstatements.Thesearecross-referencedfromthefinancialstatementsandareidentifiedasaudited.
Thefinancialreportingframeworkthathasbeenappliedinthepreparationofthefinancialstatementsisapplicablelaw
andIFRSsasadoptedbytheEuropeanUnionand,asregardsthecompanyfinancialstatements,asappliedinaccordance
withtheprovisionsoftheCompaniesAct2006.
Inapplyingthefinancialreportingframework,thedirectorshavemadeanumberofsubjectivejudgements,forexamplein
respectofsignificantaccountingestimates.Inmakingsuchestimates,theyhavemadeassumptionsandconsideredfuture
events.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBED BY THE
COMPANIES ACT 2006
Inouropinion,theinformationgivenintheStrategicReportandtheDirectors’Reportforthefinancialyearforwhichthe
financialstatementsarepreparedisconsistentwiththefinancialstatements.
OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO
REPORT BY EXCEPTION
ADEQUACYOFACCOUNTINGRECORDSANDINFORMATIONANDEXPLANATIONSRECEIVED
UndertheCompaniesAct2006wearerequiredtoreporttoyouif,inouropinion:
» wehavenotreceivedalltheinformationandexplanationswerequireforouraudit;or
» adequateaccountingrecordshavenotbeenkeptbytheCompany,orreturnsadequateforouraudithavenotbeen
receivedfrombranchesnotvisitedbyus;or
» theCompanyfinancialstatementsarenotinagreementwiththeaccountingrecordsandreturns.
Wehavenoexceptionstoreportarisingfromthisresponsibility.
DIRECTORS’REMUNERATION
UndertheCompaniesAct2006wearerequiredtoreporttoyouif,inouropinion,certaindisclosuresofdirectors’
remunerationspecifiedbylawarenotmade.Wehavenoexceptionstoreportarisingfromthisresponsibility.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND THE AUDIT
OURRESPONSIBILITIESANDTHOSEOFTHEDIRECTORS
AsexplainedmorefullyintheStatementofDirectors’Responsibilitiessetoutonpage35,theDirectorsareresponsiblefor
thepreparationofthefinancialstatementsandforbeingsatisfiedthattheygiveatrueandfairview.
37 Ourresponsibilityistoauditandexpressanopiniononthefinancialstatementsinaccordancewithapplicablelawand
InternationalStandardsonAuditing(UKandIreland)(“ISAs(UK&Ireland)”).Thosestandardsrequireustocomplywith
theAuditingPracticesBoard’sEthicalStandardsforAuditors.
Thisreport,includingtheopinions,hasbeenpreparedforandonlyforthecompany’smembersasabodyinaccordance
withChapter3ofPart16oftheCompaniesAct2006andfornootherpurpose.Wedonot,ingivingtheseopinions,accept
orassumeresponsibilityforanyotherpurposeortoanyotherpersontowhomthisreportisshownorintowhosehandsit
maycomesavewhereexpresslyagreedbyourpriorconsentinwriting.
WHATANAUDITOFFINANCIALSTATEMENTSINVOLVES
WeconductedourauditinaccordancewithISAs(UK&Ireland).Anauditinvolvesobtainingevidenceabouttheamounts
anddisclosuresinthefinancialstatementssufficienttogivereasonableassurancethatthefinancialstatementsarefree
frommaterialmisstatement,whethercausedbyfraudorerror.Thisincludesanassessmentof:
» whethertheaccountingpoliciesareappropriatetothegroup’sandthecompany’scircumstancesandhavebeen
consistentlyappliedandadequatelydisclosed;
» thereasonablenessofsignificantaccountingestimatesmadebythedirectors;and
» theoverallpresentationofthefinancialstatements.
Weprimarilyfocusourworkintheseareasbyassessingthedirectors’judgementsagainstavailableevidence,formingour
ownjudgements,andevaluatingthedisclosuresinthefinancialstatements.
Wetestandexamineinformation,usingsamplingandotherauditingtechniques,totheextentweconsidernecessaryto
provideareasonablebasisforustodrawconclusions.Weobtainauditevidencethroughtestingtheeffectivenessof
controls,substantiveproceduresoracombinationofboth.
Inaddition,wereadallthefinancialandnon-financialinformationintheAnnualReportandAccountstoidentifymaterial
inconsistencieswiththeauditedfinancialstatementsandtoidentifyanyinformationthatisapparentlymateriallyincorrect
basedon,ormateriallyinconsistentwith,theknowledgeacquiredbyusinthecourseofperformingtheaudit.Ifwe
becomeawareofanyapparentmaterialmisstatementsorinconsistenciesweconsidertheimplicationsforourreport.
JaskamalSarai(SeniorStatutoryAuditor)
forandonbehalfofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLP
CharteredAccountantsandStatutoryAuditors
Uxbridge
18June2015
38 CONSOLIDATEDINCOMESTATEMENT
FORTHEYEARENDED31MARCH2015
NOTE
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
Revenue 5 214,969 247,214
Costofrevenue (120,445) (120,781)
Researchanddevelopment (30,068) (24,690)
Salesandmarketing (58,591) (57,733)
Administrativeexpenses (13,651) (12,140)
Totalcostandexpenses (222,755) (215,344)
(Loss)/profitfromoperationsbeforeacquisitionandexceptionalcostsandamortizationof
purchasedintangibles* (7,786) 31,870
Amortizationofpurchasedintangibles
Researchanddevelopment (3,525) (2,191)
Salesandmarketing (8,763) (4,487)
Administrativeexpenses (72) -
(12,360) (6,678)
Acquisitionandexceptionalcosts 26 (4,662) (8,066)
(Loss)/profitfromoperations (24,808) 17,126
Other(expense)/income (12) 344
Investmentrevenue 9 58 139
Financecosts 9 (38) -
(Loss)/Profitbeforetaxation (24,800) 17,609
Tax 10 4,001 (5,439)
(Loss)/Profitfortheyearattributabletoequityholdersoftheparentbeforeacquisition
andexceptionalcosts,amortizationofpurchasedintangiblesandnetinvestment
revenue** (3,765) 26,570
(Loss)/Profitfortheyearattributabletoequityholdersoftheparent 6 (20,799) 12,170
EARNINGSPERSHARE
NOTE CENTS CENTS
BASIC 11 (5.19) 3.23
ADJUSTEDBASIC* 11 (0.94) 7.05
DILUTED 11 (5.19) 3.18
ADJUSTEDDILUTED* 11 (0.94) 6.94
*Adjustedforacquisitionandexceptionalchargesof$4.7m(2014:$8.1m)andamortizationofpurchasedintangiblesof$12.3m
(2014:$6.7m).
**Adjustedforacquisitionandexceptionalchargesof$4.7m(2014:$8.1m),amortizationofpurchasedintangiblesof$12.3m(2014:
$6.7m)andnetinvestmentrevenueof$(0.02m)(2014:$0.1m).
39 CONSOLIDATEDSTATEMENTOFCOMPREHENSIVE
INCOME FORTHEYEARENDED31MARCH2015
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
(Loss)/Profitfortheyear (20,799) 12,170
Othercomprehensive(loss)/incomewhichispotentiallyreclassifiabletoprofitor
loss:
Exchangedifferenceontranslationofforeignoperations (333) 824
TOTALCOMPREHENSIVE(LOSS)/INCOMEFORTHEYEAR,NETOFRELATEDTAX
EFFECTS (21,132) 12,994
40 CONSOLIDATEDBALANCESHEET
ASAT31MARCH2015
NOTE
ASAT
31MARCH2015
$’000
ASAT
31MARCH2014
$’000
ASSETS
NON-CURRENTASSETS
Goodwill 12 87,520 73,658
Intangibleassets 13 43,806 41,732
Property,plantandequipment 14 3,340 2,621
Otherreceivablesandrestrictedcash 16 1,071 161
Deferredincometaxasset 17 19,128 17,840
154,865 136,012
CURRENTASSETS
Tradereceivables 16 37,741 36,924
Otherreceivables 16 7,193 2,837
Cashandcashequivalents 95,734 126,909
140,668 166,670
TOTALASSETS 295,533 302,682
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENTLIABILITIES
Deferredincometaxliabilities 17 (59) -
Otherpayables 18 (1,189) (597)
Provisionforliabilitiesandcharges 18 (172) -
(1,420) (597)
CURRENTLIABILITIES
Tradeandotherpayables 18 (49,839) (39,682)
Provisionforliabilitiesandcharges 18 (577) (512)
50,416 40,194
TOTALLIABILITIES (51,836) (40,791)
NETASSETS 243,697 261,891
SHAREHOLDERS’EQUITY
Sharecapital 19 7,502 7,461
Sharepremiumaccount 20 168,008 167,945
Sharestobeissued 21 1,686 3,579
Sharebasedcompensationreserve 22,175 17,322
Currencytranslationreserve (8,802) (8,469)
Mergerreserve 21 63,554 61,681
Retained(deficit)/earnings (10,426) 12,372
TOTALEQUITY 243,697 261,891
Note1tonote28formonintegralpartofthefinancialstatements
Theconsolidatedfinancialstatementsofblinkxplc(registerednumber06223359)wereapprovedbytheBoardofDirectors
andauthorizedforissueon18June2015.Theyweresignedonitsbehalfby:
Subhransu(“Brian”)Mukherjee
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
blinkxplc
18June2015
41 CONSOLIDATEDSTATEMENTOFCHANGESIN
EQUITY FORTHEYEARENDED31MARCH2015
NOTE
ORDINARY
SHARE
CAPITAL
$’000
SHARE
PREMIUM
ACCOUNT
$’000
SHARES
TOBE
ISSUED
$’000
SHAREBASED
COMPENSATION
RESERVE
$’000
CURRENCY
TRANSLATION
RESERVE
$’000
MERGER
RESERVE
$’000
RETAINED
(DEFICIT)/
EARNINGS
$’000
TOTAL
EQUITY
$’000
BALANCEASAT
31MARCH2013 6,850 101,975 750 13,975 (9,293) 33,089 (2,355) 144,991
Netprofitfortheyear - - - - - - 12,170 12,170
Othercomprehensiveincome - - - - 824 - - 824
Totalcomprehensiveincome
fortheyear - - - - 824 - 12,170 12,994
Issueofshares,netofcosts 605 65,970 2,829 - - 28,592 - 97,996
Credittoequityforshare
basedpayments 6 - - 3,347 - - - 3,353
Taxmovementonshare
options - - - - - - 2,557 2,557
BALANCEASAT
31MARCH2014 7,461 167,945 3,579 17,322 (8,469) 61,681 12,372 261,891
Netlossfortheyear - - - - - - (20,799) (20,799)
Othercomprehensiveloss - - - - (333) - - (333)
Totalcomprehensivelossfor
theyear - - - - (333) - (20,799) (21,132)
Issueofshares,netofcosts 41 63 (1,893) - - 1,873 - 84
Credittoequityforshare
basedpayments 23 - - - 4,853 - - - 4,853
Taxmovementonshare
options 10 - - - - - - (1,999) (1,999)
BALANCEASAT
31MARCH2015 7,502 168,008 1,686 22,175 (8,802) 63,554 (10,426) 243,697
42 CONSOLIDATEDCASHFLOWSTATEMENT
FORTHEYEARENDED31MARCH2015
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
CASHFLOWSFROMOPERATINGACTIVITIES
(Loss)/profitfromoperations (24,808) 17,126
Adjustmentsfor:
Depreciationandamortization 18,819 11,097
Share-basedpayments 4,853 3,353
Non-cashacquisitionandexceptionalcosts 240 991
Lossonsalesofcomputerequipment 25 -
Changeinprovision 712 624
Foreignexchangegain 143 (104)
OPERATINGCASHFLOWSBEFOREMOVEMENTSINWORKINGCAPITAL (16) 33,087
CHANGESINOPERATINGASSETSANDLIABILITIES:
Decreaseintradeandotherreceivables 9,863 2,235
(Decrease)/Increaseintradeandotherpayables (10,367) 5,959
NETCASH(USEDIN)/GENERATEDBYOPERATIONS (520) 41,281
Incometaxespaid (2,469) (2,091)
NETCASH(USEDIN)/GENERATEDBYOPERATINGACTIVITIES (2,989) 39,190
CASHFLOWSFROMINVESTINGACTIVITIES
Netinterestreceived 20 139
Purchaseofproperty,plantandequipment (730) (1,257)
Purchaseofsoftware (1,587) -
Capitalizationofinternaldevelopmentcharges (3,885) (3,063)
Proceedsfromthesaleofcomputerequipment 49 -
Acquisitions,netofcashacquired (21,747) (30,906)
NETCASHUSEDININVESTINGACTIVITIES (27,880) (35,087)
CASHFLOWSFROMFINANCINGACTIVITIES
Netpaymentsonfinancelease (92) (82)
Proceedsfromissuanceofshares 84 66,429
NETCASH(USEDIN)/GENERATEDINFINANCINGACTIVITIES (8) 66,347
Net(decrease)/increaseincashandcashequivalents (30,877) 70,450
Beginningcashandcashequivalents 126,909 55,861
Effectofforeignexchangeoncashandcashequivalents (298) 598
CASHANDCASHEQUIVALENTSATTHEENDOFTHEYEAR 95,734 126,909
43 NOTESTOTHECONSOLIDATEDFINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
1 GENERALINFORMATION
blinkxplcisaCompanyincorporatedinEnglandandWalesundertheCompaniesAct2006.Theaddressoftheregistered
officeis40DukesPlace,London,EC3A7NH,UnitedKingdom.ThenatureoftheGroup’soperationsanditsprincipal
activitiesaresetoutintheStrategicReport.
TheCompany’sfunctionalcurrencyisSterling,beingthecurrencyoftheprimaryeconomicenvironmentinwhichthe
Companyoperates.ThepresentationalcurrencyoftheGroupisUSdollarsasthatisthecurrencyoftheprimary
economicenvironmentinwhichtheGroupoperates.Foreignoperationsareincludedinaccordancewithpoliciessetoutin
note3.
2 ADOPTIONOFNEWANDREVISEDSTANDARDS
ThefollowingnewandrevisedStandardsandInterpretationshavebeenadoptedinthecurrentperiod.Theiradoptionhas
nothadanysignificantimpactontheamountsreportedintheseconsolidatedfinancialstatementsbutmayimpactthe
accountingforfuturetransactionsandarrangements.
IFRS10 Consolidatedfinancialstatements
IFRS11 JointArrangements
IFRS12 Disclosureofinterestinotherentities
IFRS13 FairValueMeasurement
IFRS7(amended) Amendmentrelatedtotheoffsettingofassetsandliabilities
IAS19(amended) Amendedstandardresultingfromthepost-employmentbenefitsandterminationbenefitsprojects
IAS27(amended) Separatefinancialstatements
IAS28(amended) Investmentsinassociatesandjointventures
IFRIC20 Strippingcostsintheproductionphaseofasurfacemine
ImprovementstoIFRSs(May2012)
Atthedateofauthorizationoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements,thefollowingStandardsandInterpretationswhich
havenotyetbeenappliedintheseconsolidatedfinancialstatementswereinissuebutnotyeteffective:
IFRS9 FinancialInstruments
IFRS14 RegulatoryDeferralAccounts
IFRS15 RevenuefromContractswithCustomers
IAS16(amended) Amendmentsregardingtheclarificationofacceptablemethodsofdepreciationandamortization
IAS16(amended) AmendmentsbringingbearerplantsintothescopeofIAS16
IAS19(amended) Amendedtoclarifytherequirementsthatrelatetohowcontributionsfromemployeesorthirdpartiesthatare
linkedtoserviceshouldbeattributedtoperiodsofservice
IAS27(amended) Amendmentsforinvestmententities
IAS28(amended) Amendmentsregardingthesaleorcontributionofassetsbetweenaninvestoranditsassociateorjointventure
IAS32(amended2011) OffsettingofAssetsandLiabilities
IAS36(amended) AmendmentsarisingfromRecoverableAmountDisclosuresforNon-FinancialAssets
IAS38(amended) Amendmentsregardingtheclarificationofacceptablemethodsofdepreciationandamortization
IAS39(amended) Amendmentsfornovationsofderivatives
IAS41(amended) AmendmentsbringingbearerplantsintothescopeofIAS16
IFRS10(amended) Amendmentsregardingthesaleorcontributionofassetsbetweenaninvestoranditsassociateorjointventure
IFRS11(amended) Amendmentsregardingtheaccountingforacquisitionsofaninterestinajointoperation
IFRIC21 Levies
TheDirectorsdonotexpectthattheadoptionoftheotherstandardslistedabovewillhaveamaterialimpactonthe
financialstatementsoftheGroupinfutureperiodsotherthanIFRS15“RevenuefromcontractswithCustomers”which
mayimpactthewaytheGrouprecognizesrevenueinfutureperiods.
3 SIGNIFICANTACCOUNTINGPOLICIES
BASISOFACCOUNTING
TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementshavebeenpreparedinaccordancewithInternationalFinancialReporting
Standards(IFRS)andIFRSInterpretationsCommittee(IFRSIC)interpretationsasadoptedbytheEuropeanUnionandthe
CompaniesAct2006applicabletocompaniesreportingunderIFRS.Theconsolidatedfinancialstatementshavebeen
preparedunderthehistoricalconventionasmodified.
ThepreparationofthefinancialstatementsinconformitywithIFRSrequirestheuseofcertaincriticalaccounting
estimates.Italsorequiresmanagementtoexerciseitsjudgementintheprocessofapplyingthegroup’saccounting
policies.Theareasinvolvingahigherdegreeofjudgementorcomplexity,orareaswhereassumptionsandestimatesare
significanttotheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsaredisclosedinnote4.
44 Thefinancialstatementshavebeenpreparedonthehistoricalcostbasis.Theprincipalaccountingpoliciesadoptedare
setoutbelow.
GOINGCONCERN
TheDirectorshave,atthetimeofapprovingthefinancialstatements,areasonableexpectationthattheCompanyandthe
Grouphaveadequateresourcestocontinueinoperationalexistencefortheforeseeablefuture.Theycontinuetoadoptthe
goingconcernbasisofaccountinginpreparingthefinancialstatements.FurtherdetailiscontainedintheDirectors’
Reportonpage33.
BASISOFCONSOLIDATION
TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsincorporatethefinancialstatementsoftheCompanyandentitiescontrolledbythe
Company(itssubsidiaries)preparedupto31Marcheachyear.ControlisachievedwheretheCompanyhasthepowerto
governthefinancialandoperatingpoliciesofaninvesteeentitysoastoobtainbenefitsfromitsactivities.
Theresultsofsubsidiariesacquiredordisposedofduringtheyearareincludedintheconsolidatedincomestatement
fromtheeffectivedateofacquisitionoruptotheeffectivedateofdisposal,asappropriate.Wherenecessary,adjustments
aremadetothefinancialstatementsofsubsidiariestobringtheaccountingpoliciesusedintolinewiththoseusedbythe
Group.
Allintra-Grouptransactions,balances,incomeandexpensesareeliminatedonconsolidation.
GOODWILL
GoodwillarisingonconsolidationrepresentstheexcessofthecostofacquisitionovertheGroup’sinterestinthefair
valueoftheidentifiableassetsandliabilitiesofasubsidiary,associateorjointlycontrolledentityatthedateofacquisition.
Goodwillisinitiallyrecognizedasanassetatcostandissubsequentlymeasuredatcostslessanyaccumulated
impairmentlosses.Goodwillwhichisrecognizedasanassetisreviewedforimpairmentatleastannually.Any
impairmentisrecognizedimmediatelyinprofitorlossandisnotsubsequentlyreversed.
Goodwillistestedforimpairmentannually,ormorefrequentlywhenthereisanindicationthattheunitmaybeimpaired.
Iftherecoverableamountislessthanthecarryingamount,theimpairmentlossisallocatedtoreducethecarrying
amountofgoodwill.Animpairmentlossrecognizedforgoodwillisnotreversedinasubsequentperiod.
REVENUERECOGNITION
TheGroupearnsitsrevenuefromprovidingonlineadvertisingservices.
TheGroup’sbusinessisbasedontheprincipleoffacilitatingfreeaccesstotechnologyandcontentviaanadvertising-
supporteddistributionmodelanditsrevenuesarederivedfromadvertisingontheInternet.TheGroupappliesits
technologyacrossasetofstandardandinter-relatedproductstoconnectitsaudiencewithcontextuallyrelevant
advertisinginavarietyofformats.Advertisersselectfromtheseformatswhicharepricedondifferentpricingschemes
thatincludebothimpression-based,CostperMille(CPM),andperformance-based,CostperClick(CPC)andCostper
Action(CPA)options.
Contractscontainingmultipledeliverablesaresplitintotheirconstituentpartsandeachdeliverable’sfairvalueis
separatelydeterminedandrecognizedaccordingly.
ThepoliciesforeachoftheGroup’skeyrevenuestreamsinrelationtoservicesaresetoutbelow:
ADVERTISINGREVENUE
Whensalesvaluesarebasedonthevolumeofimpressions(CostperMille),revenueisbasedonanagreedamountper
impressionandthenumberofimpressionsdisplayed.Thisrevenueisrecognizedasthevolumesarereportedeitherby
theGroup’scustomers,theGroup’sinternalreportingsystemoranauthoritativethirdparty,basedonthecontractual
terms.Whensalesvaluesarebasedonvolumeofclicks(payperclick),revenueisbaseduponanagreedamountperclick
thattheendusermakesafterviewingtheadvertisementandthenumberofclicksmadebytheusers,intheperiodin
whichtheclicksoccur.
SHAREOFADVERTISINGREVENUES
Wherecustomersusetheblinkxtechnologytoretrievetheirowncontent,contractualarrangementsmayprovideforthe
Grouptoreceiveashareofthecustomer’sadvertisingrevenues.Theamountofrevenueisdependentupontheamount
paidperclickorperadvertshown.ThisrevenueisrecognizedasreportedbytheGroup’scustomers,intheperiodto
whichitrelates.
MEDIABUYINGREVENUES
Revenuefrommediabuyingservicesmayconsistofvariousarrangementsinvolvingcommissions,fees,incentive-based
revenueoracombinationofthethree,asagreeduponwitheachclient.Revenuearisingisrecognizedrateablyoverthe
termofanagreement.
45 E-COMMERCEREVENUES
TheGroupgeneratesrevenuesfrome-commercepartnerswhenane-commercetransactionisreferredtothepartner
fromanothervendor.Revenuesarerecognizeduponcompletionofthetransaction.
UPFRONTLICENSEPAYMENTANDRELATEDREVENUES
Incertaincasescustomerswillenterintoalicenseagreementtolicensetherighttousetheblinkxtechnology.The
revenueisintheformofanup-frontnon-refundablepaymentwithallfutureadvertisingrevenuesaccruingdirectlytothe
customer.
Revenuesfromsoftwarelicenseagreementsarerecognizedwherethereispersuasiveevidenceofanagreementwitha
customer(asignedcontractand/orbindingpurchaseorder),deliveryofthesoftwarehastakenplace,thepriceisagreed
andcollectabilityisprobable.
Revenuefromsubscription-basedservicesisrecognizedrateablyoverthecontracttermbeginningonthe
commencementdateofeachcontract.
INVESTMENTREVENUE
Investmentrevenuesincludebankinterestandincomefromshorttermdeposits.
CLASSIFICATIONOFEXPENSES
COSTOFREVENUES
Costofrevenuesconsistsprimarilyoftrafficacquisitioncosts(TAC)thataredirectlyattributabletorevenuegeneratedby
theGroup.
RESEARCHANDDEVELOPMENT
Researchanddevelopmentexpensesconsistprimarilyofcompensationandrelatedcostsforpersonnelresponsiblefor
theresearchanddevelopmentofnewandexistingproductsandservices,inadditiontoco-locationsandfacilities
charges.
Whererequired,developmentexpendituresarecapitalizedinaccordancewiththeGroup’sstandardinternalcapitalized
developmentpolicy.Allresearchcostsareexpensedwhenincurred.
SALESANDMARKETING
Salesandmarketingexpensesconsistprimarilyofcompensationandrelatedcostsforpersonnelengagedincustomer
service,sales,andsalessupportfunctions,aswellasadvertisingandpromotionalexpendituresthatarenotdirectly
attributabletorevenue,inadditiontofacilitiescharges.
GENERALANDADMINISTRATIVE
Generalandadministrativeexpensesconsistprimarilyofcompensationandrelatedcostsforpersonnelandfacilities,and
includecostsrelatedtoourfacilities,finance,humanresources,informationtechnology,andlegalorganizations,and
feesforprofessionalservices.Professionalservicesareprincipallycomprisedofoutsidelegal,audit,information
technologyconsulting,andoutsourcingservices.
ACQUISITIONANDEXCEPTIONALCOSTS
InlinewiththewaytheBoardandchiefoperatingdecisionmakerreviewthebusiness,largeone-offacquisitionand
exceptionalcostsareseparatelyidentifiedandshowninthefinancialstatements.Thetypesofcostsincludedwithin
acquisitioncostsarethosewhicharedirectlyattributabletoanacquisition,forexamplelegalandaccountingexpenses,
integrationcosts,severanceandretentionremuneration.Anexampleofthetypeofcostconsideredexceptionalis
severancecosts.
LEASING
Leasesareclassifiedasfinanceleaseswheneverthetermsoftheleasetransfersubstantiallyalltherisksandrewardsof
ownershiptothelessee.Allotherleasesareclassifiedasoperatingleases.
AssetsheldunderfinanceleasesarerecognizedasassetsoftheGroupattheirfairvalueor,iflower,atthepresentvalue
oftheminimumleasepayments,eachdeterminedattheinceptionofthelease.Thecorrespondingliabilitytothelessoris
includedinthebalancesheetasafinanceleaseobligation.
Leasepaymentsareapportionedbetweenfinanceexpensesandreductionoftheleaseobligationsoastoachievea
constantrateofinterestontheremainingbalanceoftheliability.Financeexpensesarerecognizedimmediatelyinprofit
orloss,unlesstheyaredirectlyattributabletoqualifyingassets,inwhichcasetheyarecapitalizedinaccordancewiththe
Group’sgeneralpolicyonborrowingcosts.
Rentalspayableunderoperatingleasesarechargedtoincomeonastraight-linebasisoverthetermoftherelevantlease
exceptwhereanothermoresystematicbasisismorerepresentativeofthetimepatterninwhicheconomicbenefitsfrom
theleaseassetareconsumed.Contingentrentalsarisingunderoperatingleasesarerecognizedasanexpenseinthe
periodinwhichtheyareincurred.
46 Intheeventthatleaseincentivesarereceivedtoenterintooperatingleases,suchincentivesarerecognizedasaliability.
Theaggregatebenefitofincentivesisrecognizedasareductionofrentalexpenseonastraight-linebasis,exceptwhere
anothersystematicbasisismorerepresentativeofthetimepatterninwhicheconomicbenefitsfromtheleasedassetare
consumed.
FOREIGNCURRENCIES
Transactionsincurrenciesotherthanthefunctionalcurrencyoftheentityconcernedarerecordedattheratesof
exchangeprevailingonthedatesofthetransactions.Ateachbalancesheetdate,monetaryassetsandliabilitiesthatare
denominatedinforeigncurrenciesareretranslatedintothepresentationalcurrency,USdollars,attheratesprevailingon
thebalancesheetdate.TheGrouphasselectedUSdollarsasitspresentationalcurrencyasthatisthecurrencyofthe
principaleconomicenvironmentinwhichtheGroupoperates.
Non-monetaryassetsandliabilitiescarriedatfairvaluethataredenominatedinforeigncurrenciesaretranslatedatthe
ratesprevailingatthedatewhenthefairvaluewasdetermined.Gainsandlossesarisingonretranslationareincludedin
netprofitorlossfortheperiod,exceptforexchangedifferencesarisingonnon-monetaryassetsandliabilitieswherethe
changesinfairvaluearerecognizeddirectlyinequity.
Exchangedifferencesarerecognizedinprofitorlossintheperiodinwhichtheyariseexceptforexchangedifferenceson
monetaryitemsreceivablefromorpayabletoaforeignoperationforwhichsettlementisneitherplannednorlikelyto
occur(thereforeformingpartofthenetinvestmentintheforeignoperation),whicharerecognizedinitiallyinother
comprehensiveincomeandreclassifiedfromequitytoprofitorlossondisposalorpartialdisposalofthenetinvestment.
Onconsolidation,theassetsandliabilitiesoftheGroup’sforeigndenominatedoperationsaretranslatedatexchange
ratesprevailingonthebalancesheetdate.Incomeandexpenseitemsaretranslatedattheaverageexchangeratesfor
theperiodunlessexchangeratesfluctuatesignificantly.Exchangedifferencesarising,ifany,areclassifiedasequityand
transferredtotheGroup’stranslationreserve.Suchtranslationdifferencesarerecognizedasincomeorasexpensesin
theperiodinwhichtheoperationisdisposedof.
TAXATION
Thetaxexpenserepresentsthesumofthetaxcurrentlypayableanddeferredtax.
Thetaxcurrentlypayableorreceivableisbasedontaxableloss/profitfortheyear.Taxableloss/profitdiffersfromnet
loss/profitasreportedintheincomestatementbecauseitwillexcludeitemsofincomeorexpensethataretaxableor
deductibleinotheryearsanditfurtherexcludesitemsthatarenevertaxableordeductible.TheGroup’sliabilityfor
currenttaxiscalculatedusingtaxratesthathavebeenenactedorsubstantivelyenactedbythebalancesheetdate.
Deferredtaxisthetaxexpectedtobepayableorrecoverableondifferencesbetweenthecarryingamountsofassetsand
liabilitiesinthefinancialstatementsandthecorrespondingtaxbasesusedinthecomputationoftaxableprofit,andis
accountedforusingthebalancesheetliabilitymethod.
Deferredtaxliabilitiesarerecognizedforalltaxabletemporarydifferencesanddeferredtaxassetsarerecognizedtothe
extentthatitisprobablethattaxableprofitsareavailableagainstwhichdeductibletemporarydifferencescanbeutilized.
Suchassetsandliabilitieswillnotberecognizedifthetemporarydifferencearisesfromgoodwillorfromtheinitial
recognition(otherthaninabusinesscombination)ofotherassetsandliabilitiesinatransactionthataffectsneitherthe
taxprofitnortheaccountingprofit.
Deferredtaxliabilitiesarerecognizedfortaxabletemporarydifferencesarisingoninvestmentsinsubsidiariesand
associates,andinterestsinjointventures,exceptwheretheGroupisabletocontrolthereversalofthetemporary
differenceanditisprobablethatthetemporarydifferencewillnotreverseintheforeseeablefuture.
Thecarryingamountofdeferredtaxassetsisreviewedateachbalancesheetdateandreducedtotheextentthatitisno
longerprobablethatsufficienttaxableprofitsareavailabletoallowallorpartoftheassettoberecovered.
Deferredtaxiscalculatedatthetaxratesthatareexpectedtoapplyintheperiodwhentheliabilityissettledortheasset
isrealized.Deferredtaxischargedorcreditedintheincomestatement,exceptwhenitrelatestoitemschargedor
crediteddirectlytoequity,inwhichcasethedeferredtaxwillalsobedealtwithinequity.
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesareoffsetwhenthereisalegallyenforceablerighttosetoffcurrenttaxassetsagainst
currenttaxliabilitiesandwhentheyrelatetoincometaxesleviedbythesametaxauthorityandtheGroupintendsto
settleitscurrenttaxassetsandliabilitiesonanetbasis.
PROPERTY,PLANTANDEQUIPMENT
Property,plantandequipmentisstatedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciationandanyrecognizedimpairmentloss.Cost
includesexpenditurethatisdirectlyattributabletotheacquisitionoftheassets.
47 Depreciationischargedsoastowriteoffthecostofassets,overtheirestimatedusefullives,usingthestraight-line
method,onthefollowingbases:
Fixtures,fittings,officeandcomputerequipment Over3–5years
Leaseholdimprovements Overshorterofeconomiclifeorleaseterm
Thegainorlossarisingonthedisposalorretirementofanassetisdeterminedasthedifferencebetweenthesales
proceedsandthecarryingamountoftheassetandisrecognizedinincome.
INTERNALLY-GENERATEDINTANGIBLEASSETS–RESEARCHANDDEVELOPMENTEXPENDITURE
Expenditureonresearchactivitiesisrecognizedasanexpenseintheperiodinwhichitisincurred.
Aninternally-generatedintangibleassetarisingfromtheGroup’sproductdevelopmentisrecognizedonlyifallofthe
followingconditionsaremet:
» theproductfromwhichtheassetarisesmeetstheGroup’scriteriafortechnicalfeasibility,soitwillbeavailable
foruse;
» theassetisintendedtobecompleted,andwillbeusedorsold;
» theassetcreatedisexpectedtogeneratedemonstrablefutureeconomicbenefits;
» thedevelopmentcostoftheassetcanbemeasuredreliably;and
» adequatetechnical,financialandotherresourcesareavailabletocompletedevelopmentoftheasset.
Internally-generatedintangibleassetsareamortizedonastraight-linebasisovertheirusefullife,whichisconsideredto
bethreeyearsstartingwhentheassociatedtechnologyisavailableforuse.Wherenointernally-generatedintangible
assetcanberecognized,developmentexpenditureisrecognizedasanexpenseintheperiodinwhichitisincurred.
OTHERINTANGIBLEASSETSEXCLUDINGGOODWILL
Otherintangibleassetsexcludinggoodwillaremeasuredinitiallyatpurchasecostoratfairvalueifacquiredaspartofa
businesscombination,andareamortizedonastraight-linebasisovertheirestimatedusefullives,onthefollowingbases:
Tradenames,patentsandtrademarks 3–10years
Softwarelicences 3years
Purchasedtechnology 3–5years
Relationshipswithpublishersandcustomers 3–12years
IMPAIRMENTOFASSETSEXCLUDINGGOODWILL
Ateachbalancesheetdate,theGroupwillreviewthecarryingamountsofitstangibleandintangibleassetstodetermine
whetherthereisanyindicationthatthoseassetshavesufferedanimpairmentloss.Ifanysuchindicationexists,the
recoverableamountoftheassetisestimatedinordertodeterminetheextentoftheimpairmentloss(ifany).Wherethe
assetdoesnotgeneratecashflowsthatareindependentfromotherassets,theGroupestimatestherecoverableamount
ofthecash-generatingunittowhichtheassetbelongs.
Recoverableamountisthehigheroffairvaluelesscoststosellandvalueinuse.Inassessingvalueinuse,theestimated
futurecashflowsarediscountedtotheirpresentvalueusingapre-taxdiscountratethatreflectscurrentmarket
assessmentsofthetimevalueofmoneyandtherisksspecifictotheassetforwhichtheestimatesoffuturecashflows
havenotbeenadjusted.
Iftherecoverableamountofanasset(orcash-generatingunit)isestimatedtobelessthanitscarryingamount,the
carryingamountoftheasset(cash-generatingunit)isreducedtoitsrecoverableamount.
Animpairmentlossisrecognizedasanexpenseimmediately,unlesstherelevantassetiscarriedatarevaluedamount,
inwhichcasetheimpairmentlossistreatedasarevaluationdecrease.
Whereanimpairmentlosssubsequentlyreverses,thecarryingamountoftheasset(cash-generatingunit)isincreasedto
therevisedestimateofitsrecoverableamount,butsothattheincreasedcarryingamountdoesnotexceedthecarrying
amountthatwouldhavebeendeterminedhadnoimpairmentlossbeenrecognizedfortheasset(cash-generatingunit)in
prioryears.Areversalofanimpairmentlossisrecognizedasincomeimmediately,unlesstherelevantassetiscarriedat
arevaluedamount,inwhichcasethereversaloftheimpairmentlossistreatedasarevaluationincrease.
PROVISIONS
ProvisionsarerecognizedwhentheGrouphasapresentobligationasaresultofapastevent,itisprobablethatthe
Groupwillberequiredtosettlethatobligationandareliableestimatecanbemadeoftheamountoftheobligation.
ProvisionsaremeasuredattheDirectors’bestestimateoftheexpenditurerequiredtosettletheobligationatthebalance
sheetdate,takingintoaccountrisksanduncertaintiessurroundingtheobligation.Whereaprovisionismeasuredusing
thecashflowsestimatedtosettlethepresentobligation,itscarryingamountisthepresentvalueofthosecashflows.
48 ArestructuringprovisionisrecognizedwhentheGrouphasdevelopedadetailedformalplanfortherestructuringand
hasraisedavalidexpectationinthoseaffectedthatitwillcarryouttherestructuringbystartingtoimplementtheplanor
announcingitsmainfeaturestothoseaffectedbyit.Themeasurementofarestructuringprovisionincludesonlythe
directexpendituresarisingfromtherestructuring,whicharethoseamountsthatarebothnecessarilyentailedbythe
restructuringandnotassociatedwiththeongoingactivitiesoftheentity.
Presentobligationsarisingunderonerouscontractsarerecognizedandmeasuredasprovisions.Anonerouscontractis
consideredtoexistwheretheGrouphasacontractunderwhichtheunavoidablecostsofmeetingtheobligationsunder
thecontractexceedtheeconomicbenefitsexpectedtobereceivedunderit.
SHARE-BASEDPAYMENTS
TheGroupappliesIFRS2Share-basedPaymentsinaccountingforitsShare-BasedCompensationplans.
TheGroupissuesequity-settledshare-basedpaymentstocertainemployees.Equity-settledshare-basedpaymentsare
measuredatfairvalueatthedateofgrantbyuseofanappropriatevaluationmodel.Thefairvaluedeterminedatthe
grantdateoftheequity-settledshare-basedpaymentsisexpensedonastraight-linebasisoverthevestingperiod,based
ontheGroup’sestimateofsharesthatwilleventuallyvest.
FairvalueismeasuredbyuseoftheBlack-Scholesmodel.Theexpectedlifeusedinthemodelhasbeenadjusted,based
onmanagement’sbestestimate,fortheeffectsofnon-transferability,exerciserestrictions,andbehavioral
considerations.
Ateachbalancesheetdate,theGrouprevisesitsestimateofthenumberofequityinstrumentsexpectedtovestasa
resultoftheeffectofnonmarket-basedvestingconditions.Theimpactoftherevisionoftheoriginalestimates,ifany,is
recognizedinprofitandlosssuchthatthecumulativeexpensereflectstherevisedestimate,withacorresponding
adjustmenttoequityreserves.
Whentheoptionsareexercised,theCompanyissuesnewshares.Theproceedsreceived,netofanydirectlyattributable
costsarecreditedtosharecapital(nominalvalue)andsharepremium.
RETIREMENTBENEFITS
Paymentstoadefinedcontributionschemearechargedasanexpenseastheyfalldue.
FINANCIALINSTRUMENTS
FinancialassetsandfinancialliabilitiesarerecognizedintheGroup’sbalancesheetwhentheGroupbecomesapartyto
thecontractualprovisionsoftheinstrument.
LOANSANDRECEIVABLES
Tradereceivables,loansandotherreceivablesthathavefixedordeterminablepaymentsthatarenotquotedinanactive
marketareclassifiedasloansandreceivables.Loansandreceivablesaremeasuredatamortizedcostusingtheeffective
interestmethod,lessanyimpairment.Interestincomeisrecognizedbyapplyingtheeffectiveinterestrate,exceptfor
short-termreceivableswhentherecognitionofinterestwouldbeimmaterial.
RESTRICTEDCASH
Whererequired,theGroupkeepsamountsondepositwithfinancialinstitutionsasaconditionofcertainpropertyleases.
ThiscashmaynotbeusedbytheGroupandisheldassecurityagainstthelease.Atthecessationofthelease,thecash
restrictionscease,andthecashwillbeimmediatelyaccessible.Untilthistime,thecashisclassifiedas“Restrictedcash”
innon-currentassets.
IMPAIRMENTOFFINANCIALASSETS
Forcertaincategoriesoffinancialasset,suchastradereceivables,assetsthatareassessednottobeimpaired
individuallyaresubsequentlyassessedforimpairmentonacollectivebasis.Objectiveevidenceofimpairmentfora
portfolioofreceivablescouldincludetheGroup’spastexperienceofcollectingpayments,anincreaseinthenumberof
delayedpaymentsintheportfoliopasttheaveragecreditperiod,aswellasobservablechangesinnationalorlocal
economicconditionsthatcorrelatewithdefaultonreceivables.
Forfinancialassetscarriedatamortizedcost,theamountoftheimpairmentisthedifferencebetweentheasset’s
carryingamountandthepresentvalueoftheestimatedfuturecashflows,discountedatthefinancialasset’soriginal
effectiveinterestrate.
Thecarryingamountofthefinancialassetisreducedbytheimpairmentlossdirectlyforallfinancialassetswiththe
exceptionoftradereceivables,wherethecarryingamountisreducedthroughtheuseofanallowanceaccount.Whena
tradereceivableisconsidereduncollectible,itiswrittenoffagainsttheallowanceaccount.Subsequentrecoveriesof
amountspreviouslywrittenoffarecreditedagainsttheallowanceaccount.Changesinthecarryingamountofthe
allowanceaccountarerecognizedinprofitorloss.
CASHANDCASHEQUIVALENTS
Cashandcashequivalentscomprisecashonhandanddemanddeposits,andothershort-termhighlyliquidinvestments
thatarereadilyconvertibletoaknownamountofcashandaresubjecttoaninsignificantriskofchangesinvalue.
49 FINANCIALLIABILITIESANDEQUITY
Financialliabilitiesandequityinstrumentsareclassifiedaccordingtothesubstanceofthecontractualarrangements
enteredinto.
EQUITYINSTRUMENTS
AnequityinstrumentisanycontractthatevidencesaresidualinterestintheassetsoftheGroupafterdeductingallofits
liabilities.EquityinstrumentsissuedbytheGrouparerecordedattheproceedsreceived,netofdirectissuecosts.
FINANCIALLIABILITIES
Allfinancialliabilitiesareclassifiedas‘otherfinancialliabilities.’
OTHERFINANCIALLIABILITIES
Otherfinancialliabilities,includingborrowings,areinitiallymeasuredatfairvalue,netoftransactioncosts.Other
financialliabilitiesaresubsequentlymeasuredatamortizedcostusingtheeffectiveinterestmethod,withinterest
expenserecognizedonaneffectiveyieldbasis.Theeffectiveinterestmethodisamethodofcalculatingtheamortizedcost
ofafinancialliabilityandofallocatinginterestexpenseovertherelevantperiod.Theeffectiveinterestrateistheratethat
exactlydiscountsestimatedfuturecashpaymentsthroughtheexpectedlifeofthefinancialliabilityor,whereappropriate,
ashorterperiod,tothenetcarryingamountoninitialrecognition.
DERECOGNITIONOFFINANCIALLIABILITIES
TheGroupderecognizesfinancialliabilitieswhen,andonlywhen,theGroup’sobligationsaredischarged,canceledorthey
expire.
DERIVATIVEFINANCIALINSTRUMENTS
TheGroupdoesnotusederivativefinancialinstruments:
BUSINESSCOMBINATIONS
Acquisitionsofsubsidiariesandbusinessesareaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethod.Theconsiderationforeach
acquisitionismeasuredattheaggregateofthefairvalues(atthedateofexchange)ofassetsgiven,liabilitiesincurredor
assumed,andequityinstrumentsissuedbytheGroupinexchangeforcontroloftheacquiree.Acquisition-relatedcosts
arerecognizedinprofitorlossasincurred.
Whereapplicable,theconsiderationfortheacquisitionincludesanyassetorliabilityresultingfromacontingent
considerationarrangement,measuredatitsacquisition-datefairvalue.Subsequentchangesinsuchfairvaluesare
adjustedagainstthecostofacquisitionwheretheyqualifyasmeasurementperiodadjustments.Allothersubsequent
changesinthefairvalueofcontingentconsiderationclassifiedasanassetorliabilityareaccountedforinaccordance
withrelevantIFRSs.Changesinthefairvalueofcontingentconsiderationclassifiedasequityarenotrecognized.
Whereabusinesscombinationisachievedinstages,theGroup’spreviously-heldinterestsintheacquiredentityare
remeasuredtofairvalueattheacquisitiondate(i.e.thedatetheGroupattainscontrol)andtheresultinggainorloss,if
any,isrecognizedinprofitorloss.Amountsarisingfrominterestsintheacquireepriortotheacquisitiondatethathave
previouslybeenrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincomearereclassifiedtoprofitorloss,wheresuchtreatmentwould
beappropriateifthatinterestweredisposedof.
Theacquiree’sidentifiableassets,liabilitiesandcontingentliabilitiesthatmeettheconditionsforrecognitionunder
IFRS3(Revised2008)arerecognizedattheirfairvalueattheacquisitiondate,exceptthat:
» deferredtaxassetsorliabilitiesandliabilitiesorassetsrelatedtoemployeebenefitarrangementsare
recognizedandmeasuredinaccordancewithIAS12IncomeTaxesandIAS19EmployeeBenefitsrespectively;
» liabilitiesorequityinstrumentsrelatedtothereplacementbytheGroupofanacquiree’sshare-basedpayment
awardsaremeasuredinaccordancewithIFRS2Share-basedPayment;and
» assets(ordisposalgroups)thatareclassifiedasheldforsaleinaccordancewithIFRS5Non-currentAssetsHeld
forSaleandDiscontinuedOperationsaremeasuredinaccordancewiththatStandard.
Iftheinitialaccountingforabusinesscombinationisincompletebytheendofthereportingperiodinwhichthe
combinationoccurs,theGroupreportsprovisionalamountsfortheitemsforwhichtheaccountingisincomplete.Those
provisionalamountsareadjustedduringthemeasurementperiodoradditionalassetsorliabilitiesarerecognized,to
reflectnewinformationobtainedaboutfactsandcircumstancesthatexistedasoftheacquisitiondatethat,ifknown,
wouldhaveaffectedtheamountsrecognizedasofthatdate.
ThemeasurementperiodistheperiodfromthedateofacquisitiontothedatetheGroupobtainscompleteinformation
aboutfactsandcircumstancesthatexistedasoftheacquisitiondate,andissubjecttoamaximumofoneyear.
AcquisitioncostsareasdefinedinIFRS3andarewrittenoffasincurred.
Exceptionalcostsaredefinedasnon-recurringcostsincurredoutsideoftheGroup’snormaloperations.
50 4 CRITICALJUDGEMENTSANDKEYSOURCESOFESTIMATIONUNCERTAINTY
CRITICALJUDGMENTSINAPPLYINGTHEGROUP’SACCOUNTINGPOLICIES
Thefollowingarethecriticaljudgmentsapartfromthoseinvolvingestimations(whicharedealtwithseparatelybelow),
thattheDirectorshavemadeintheprocessofapplyingtheGroupaccountingpoliciesandthathavethemostsignificant
effectontheamountsrecognizedinthefinancialstatements.
REVENUERECOGNITION
Inmakingitsjudgmentwithregardtorevenuerecognition,theDirectorshaveconsideredthedetailedcriteriaforthe
recognitionofrevenuefortheprovisionofservicessetoutinIAS18‘Revenue’andthepolicyinnote3,inparticular
regardingwhetherthedebtiscollectable.
ThereisapolicyinrelationtothesalesanddoubtfuldebtallowanceandtheDirectorshaveexercisedjudgmentin
relationtothis.
CAPITALIZATIONOFRESEARCHANDDEVELOPMENTCOSTS
Inmakingjudgmentsinrelationtoresearchanddevelopmentcosts,theDirectorshaveconsideredthedetailedcriteria
forthecapitalizationofresearchanddevelopmentsetoutinIAS38‘Intangibleassets’,andassessedwhichoftheongoing
projectsmeetsthecriteriaandisthereforeCapitalizedwhethertheprojectmeetsalltherecognitioncriteriaissubjective
andmanagementmustmakejudgmentsoverrecognitionofanintangibleasset.
IDENTIFICATIONANDVALUATIONOFACQUIREDINTANGIBLES
Inmakingjudgmentsinrelationtotheidentification,valuationandusefuleconomiclifeofacquiredintangibles,the
Directorsbasetheirassessmentonvaluationreportspreparedbyanexpertthirdpartyatthetimeofanacquisition.
KEYSOURCESOFESTIMATIONUNCERTAINTY
Thekeyassumptionsconcerningthefuture,andotherkeysourcesofestimationuncertaintyatthebalancesheetdate,
thathaveasignificantriskofcausingamaterialadjustmenttothecarryingamountsofassetsandliabilitieswithinthe
nextfinancialperiod,arediscussedbelow.
SHAREOPTIONCHARGE
IncalculatingtheshareoptionchargetheDirectorshaveconsideredtheexpectedlifeoftheoption,thevolatilityofthe
Company’sshareprice,theriskfreerateandanticipatedrateofleavers.
SUBSIDIARYINVESTMENTS
TheCompany’sinitialvaluationofitsinvestmentsinitssubsidiaryundertakingsarebasedoncostandsubsequentcapital
contributions.TheDirectorshaveconsideredthecriteriainIAS36,ImpairmentofAssets,inassessingthecarryingvalue.
IMPAIRMENTOFGOODWILL
Determiningwhethergoodwillisimpairedrequiresanestimationofthevalueinuseofthecashgeneratingunit(CGU)to
whichgoodwillhasbeenallocated.Thevalueinusecalculationrequirestheentitytoestimatethefuturecashflowsofthe
CGUandasuitablediscountrateinordertocalculatepresentvalue.Thecarryingamountofgoodwillatthebalancesheet
datewas$87,520,000(2014:$73,658,000).
DEFERREDTAXASSET
IndeterminingthelevelofrecognitionofthedeferredtaxassetstheDirectorshaveconsideredtheleveloffuturetaxable
profitsthatareexpectedtobereceivedintheforeseeablefuture.
5 SEGMENTALANALYSIS
blinkxplcisorganizedinternallyalongfunctionlineswitheachlinereportingtotheGroup’schiefoperatingdecision
maker,theChiefExecutiveOfficer.Theprimaryfunctionlinesinclude:finance,humanresources,operations,marketing,
sales,businessdevelopment,technologyandproductdevelopment.Eachofthesefunctionssupportstheoverallbusiness
activities;however,theydonotengageinactivitiesfromwhichtheyearnrevenuesorincurexpenditureintheiroperations
witheachother.Nodiscretefinancialinformationisproducedforthesefunctionallines.TheGroup’schiefoperating
decisionmakerisultimatelyresponsibleforentity-wideresourceallocationdecisionsandevaluatestheperformanceof
theGrouponagroupwidebasis.TheCompanyintegratesacquiredbusinessesandproductsintotheblinkxbusiness
modelsuchthatseparatemanagementfinancialdataontheseentitiesisnotgenerallymaintainedpostacquisition.
Acquiredbusinessesimmediatelybenefitfromtheprimaryfunctionlinesnotedaboveandtheirproductsandservicesare
enhancedbytheinclusionofblinkxtechnology,functionalityandtheGroup’swidersaleschannelstothemarket.
TheGroupoperatesaglobalInternetbusinessanditscommercialactivityisnotgeneratedfromdistinguishable
geographicorigins.AlthoughtheGrouphasoperationsinseveralgeographiclocations,nodiscretefinancialperformance
informationismaintainedonaregionalbasisbecauseofthegloballydistributednatureoftherevenuesandhighdegree
offunctionalintegrationamongthedifferentgeographiclocations.Consequently,decisionsaroundtheallocationof
resourcesarenotdeterminedonaregionalbasisandthechiefoperatingdecisionmakerdoesnotassesstheGroup’s
performanceonageographicbasis.Consequently,theGroup’schiefoperatingdecisionmakerreviewsfinancial
informationfortheGroupasawhole,determiningwheretoallocateresourcesanddrivebusinessforwardbyexamining
51 consolidatedresultsshowingunderlyingresultsadjustedforacquisitionandexceptionalchargesandamortizationof
purchasedintangibles.
TheGroup’sbusinessisbasedontheprincipleoffacilitatingfreeaccesstocontentviaanadvertising-supported
distributionmodelanditsrevenuesarederivedfromadvertisingontheInternet.TheGroupappliesitstechnologyacross
asetofstandardandinter-relatedproductstoconnectitsaudiencewithcontextuallyrelevantadvertising.Advertisers
selectfromseveralproducttypeswhicharepricedondifferentpricingschemes.Eachoftheproductsgenerates
revenuesfromamixofthevariouspricingmethodologies.Thereisconsiderableoverlapamongtheproductsand
advertisersanditisnotmeaningfultoseparatetherevenuesbyprimarypricingschemeorproduct.Consequently,
separatefinancialinformationisnotreviewedbythechiefoperatingdecisionmakerforthevariousproductstoassess
theirperformanceorforthepurposeofresourceallocationdecisions.
AsaconsequenceoftheabovefactorstheGrouphasoneoperatingandreportablesegmentinaccordancewithIFRS8
“OperatingSegments”.
IFRS8alsorequiresinformationonanycustomerwhoaccountsfor10%ormoreofthecombinedrevenue.Thereisone
customerwhoaccountsfor10.02%ofthecombinedcurrentyearrevenue(2014:nocustomersaccountedfor10%ormore
ofcombinedrevenue).
GeographicalanalysisoftheGroup’srevenues,includinganalysisbetweentheGroup’scountryofdomicileandother
countries,isnotdisclosedunderIFRS8astheinformationisnotreadilyavailableandthecosttodevelopitisconsidered
tobeexcessive.
AsrequiredinaccordancewithIAS18“Revenue”ananalysisoftheGroup’srevenueisasfollows:
NOTE
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
CONTINUINGOPERATIONS
Renderingofservices 214,969 247,214
6 (LOSS)/PROFITFORTHEYEAR
(Loss)/Profitfortheyearisstatedaftercharging/(crediting):
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
Netforeignexchange(gains)/losses 143 (1,032)
Operatingleasepayments(seenote22) 3,463 2,797
Researchanddevelopmentcosts(excludingamortizationofintangiblesbelow) 21,961 19,329
Depreciationofproperty,plantandequipment:(seenote14)
-Owned 1,776 1,244
-Leased 100 2
Amortizationofintangibles:(seenote13)
-Relationshipswithcustomers&publishers(includedinSalesandMarketing) 4,557 3,799
-Purchasedtechnology(includedinResearchandDevelopment) 3,525 2,191
-Capitalizeddevelopmentcosts(includedinResearchandDevelopment) 3,836 2,167
-Tradenames,trademarksandpatents(includedinSalesandMarketing) 4,206 691
-Softwarelicenses(includedinResearchandDevelopment) 746 1,003
-Non-competeagreement(Administrativeexpenses) 72 -
Lossondisposalofcomputerequipment 25 -
Acquisitionandexceptionalcosts(seenote26) 4,662 8,066
Staffcosts(seenote8) 50,434 48,435
Impairmentlossrecognisedontradereceivables 1,846 2,086
52 7 AUDITORSREMUNERATION
Theanalysisofauditor’sremunerationisasfollows:
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
FeespayabletotheCompany’scurrentauditorfortheauditoftheCompany’sannual
financialstatements 371 340
FeespayabletotheCompany’sauditorandtheirassociatesforotherservicestotheGroup
-Theauditofthecompany’ssubsidiariespursuanttolegislation 33 33
-Auditrelatedassuranceservices - 89
Totalauditfees 404 462
Taxservices 36 347
Corporatefinanceservices -94
Totalnon-auditfees 36 441
Total 440 903
2014non-auditservicesincludedpost-acquisitionrestructuringandR&Dtaxcreditadvice.
FollowingthechangeofauditorsasexplainedintheAuditCommitteeReportonpage29,thefeespayabletotheauditors
fortheyearended31March2015areinrespectofservicesprovidedbyPricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,andintheprior
yearareinrespectofservicesprovidedbyDeloitteLLP.Intheyearended31March2015,DeloitteLLPwaspaid$100,000
inrespectofAuditRelatedAssuranceservicespriortoresigningfromofficeasauditor.
8 STAFFCOSTS
Theaveragemonthlynumberofemployees(includingDirectors)andrelatedstaffcostswas:
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
NO’S
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
NO’S
Salesandmarketing 191 167
Researchanddevelopment 90 78
Administrationandoperations 40 37
TOTAL 321 282
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
Wagesandsalaries 41,869 40,746
Sharebasedcompensation 4,853 3,352
Socialsecuritycosts 2,892 3,156
Otherpensioncosts 912
49,623 47,266
Otheremployeebenefitsandcosts 4,297 3,794
Costsallocatedtointernallygeneratedassets (3,486) (2,625)
INCLUDEDINLOSS/PROFITFROMOPERATIONS 50,434 48,435
RefertoDirectors’RemunerationReportfordetailsofamountspaidtoDirectors.
53 9 INVESTMENTINCOMEANDEXPENSE
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
Interestreceivableoncashandcashequivalents 58 139
Interestonobligationsunderfinanceleases (38) -
NETFINANCEINCOME 20 139
10 TAX
NOTE
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
Currenttax (331) 3,985
Deferredtax 17 (3,670) 1,454
TOTAL (4,001) 5,439
TheFinanceAct2013whichprovidedforreductionsinthemainrateofcorporationtaxfor23%to21%effectivefrom
1April2014andto20%effectivefrom1April2015,wassubstantivelyenactedon22July2013,Theseratereductionshave
beenreflectedinthecalculationofdeferredtaxatthebalancesheetdate.Taxationforotherjurisdictionsiscalculatedat
theratesprevailingintherespectivejurisdictions.
Thecharge/(credit)fortheyearcanbereconciledtotheloss/profitpertheincomestatementasfollows:
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
(Loss)/profitbeforetax (24,800) 17,609
TaxatUKcorporationrateof21%(2014:23%) (5,208) 4,050
Adjustmentforoverseastaxrate (2,694) 819
Taxeffectofexpensenotdeductibleindeterminingtaxableprofit/loss 185 120
AdjustmentarisingfromchangeinrateofUKcorporationtax - 8
Reducedtaxinsubsidiariesoperatinginotherjurisdictions (2,695) (1,307)
Researchanddevelopmenttaxcredits (1,245) (16)
Deferredtaxnotrecognized/utilizationoftaxlosses 3,273 299
Impactofshare-basedpayments 1,303 (566)
Adjustmentinrespecttoprioryears 3,080 2,032
TAX(CREDIT)/CHARGEANDEFFECTIVERATEFORTHEYEAR (4,001) 5,439
UnderIAS12IncomeTaxestheamountoftaxbenefitthatcanberecognisedintheincomestatementislimitedby
referencetotheIFRS2“Share-Basedpaymentcharge.”Theexcessamountof$1,999,000taxbenefitinrespectofshare
optionswasrecognizedinequity.Thiscomprisesacurrenttaxbenefitrecognizedinequityof$40,000(2014:$2,727,000
benefit)andadeferredtaxbenefitrecognizedinequityof$1,959,000(2014:$170,000charge).
54 11 EARNINGSPERSHARE
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
(LOSS)/PROFIT
(Loss)/profitusedincalculationofbasicanddilutedearningspershare (20,799) 12,170
(Loss)/profitusedincalculationofadjustedbasicearningspershare* 3,765 26,570
SHARES SHARES
NUMBEROFSHARES
Weightedaveragenumberofsharesforthepurposeofbasicandadjusted*basicearnings
pershare 400,908,111 376,697,045
Weightedaveragenumberofsharesforthepurposeofdilutedandadjusted*diluted
earningspershare 400,908,111 382,883,292
*Adjustedforacquisitionandexceptionalchargesof$4.7m(2014:$8.1m),amortizationofacquiredintangiblesof$12.4m(2014:
$6.7m),andnetinvestmentrevenueof$0.02m(2014:$0.1m).
InaccordancewithIAS33“Earningspershare”astheGroupmadealossfortheyear,theinclusionofpotentiallydilutive
optionsandsharestobeissuedwouldhaveanantidilutiveeffectonthelosspersharefortheperiod.Theimpactofthese
hasthereforebeenexcludedfromthecalculationfortheyearended31March2015.
Thedifferencebetweentheweightedaveragenumberofordinarysharesusedforthebasicearningspershareandthe
dilutedearningspershareat31March2014was6,186,247,beingtheeffectofallpotentiallydilutiveordinaryshares,
derivedbythenumberofshareoptionsgrantedtoemployeesandsharestobeissuedtoBurstandRhythmNewMedia
shareholderswheretheexercisepriceismorethantheaveragemarketprice.
12 GOODWILL
$’000
COST
At31March2013 49,080
Recognizedonacquisitionofsubsidiaries 24,578
At31March2014 73,658
Recognizedonacquisitionofsubsidiaries(note25) 13,862
At31March2015 87,520
ACCUMULATEDIMPAIRMENTLOSSES
At1April2012,31March2013,31March2014and31March2015 -
CARRYINGAMOUNT
At31March2015 87,520
At31March2014 73,658
55 TheGrouptestsgoodwillforimpairmentannuallyormoreoftenifthereareindicationsthatitmaybeimpaired.The
carryingamountofgoodwillhasbeenallocatedbetweentheCGUsaccordingtotheentitiesfromwhichtheyoriginatedas
aresultofanacquisitionasfollows:
ASAT
31MARCH2015
$’000
ASAT
31MARCH2014
$’000
Burst 25,000 25,000
PVMG 21,663 21,663
blinkx 2,417 2,417
RhythmNewMedia 24,306* 24,578
LYFEMobile 2,242 -
AdkarmaLLC 10,000 -
AllMediaNetworkLLC 1,892 -
87,520 73,658
Thekeyassumptionsforthevalueinusecalculationsarethoseregardingthediscountrates,revenuegrowthrates,
expectedchangesindirectandindirectcostsduringtheforecastperiod,andterminalgrowthrate.
TheGrouppreparescashflowforecastsderivedfromthemostrecentfinancialbudgetsapprovedbymanagementforthe
nextfiveyearsandextrapolatescashflowsintoperpetuityusingaterminalgrowthrateof2%(2014:2%)forallCGUs.
Thisrateisbasedonanestimatedlong-termgrowthratefortheindustryandcountriesinwhichblinkxoperates,and
doesnotexceedtheaveragelong-termgrowthratefortherelevantmarketsbasedonthehistoricalConsumerPrice
IndexintheUnitedStates.
Therateusedtodiscounttheforecastcashflowsis16%(2014:10%)forallCGUs.Managementestimatesdiscountrates
usingpre-taxratesthatreflectcurrentmarketassessmentsofthetimevalueofmoneyandtherisksspecifictothe
CGUs.
*ThereductioninthegoodwillarisingontheacquisitionofRhythmNewMediarelatestoanadjustmenttothevalueofthe
deferredtaxasset,resultinginacorrespondingreductiontothegoodwillastheadjustmentoccurredduringthemeasurement
period.
Theassumptionsforgrowthratesandexpectedchangesindirectandindirectcostsarebasedonpastexperienceofeach
CGUstradingperformanceandareconsistentwithindustryanalystexpectations.Theassumptionsuseddifferbetween
CGUs,reflectingthedifferencesinproducts,customersandsuppliersbetweeneachCGU.Thecompoundannualgrowth
ratesoftheassumptionsappliedovertheforecastperiodforeachCGUareasfollows:
2015 2014
REVENUE
GROWTH
RATE
OPERATING
EXPENSES
RATE
REVENUE
GROWTH
RATE
OPERATING
EXPENSES
RATE
Burst 4.42% 0.94% 8.67% 3.35%
PVMG 1.52% -0.47% 5.00% -2.15%
blinkx 5.00% 3.87% 6.23% 6.19%
RhythmNewMedia 8.32% -3.76% 27.23% 8.56%
LYFEMobile 33.37% -1.02% n/a n/a
AdKarma 17.90% 15.40% n/a n/a
AllMedia 15.55% 9.82% n/a n/a
56 13 INTANGIBLEASSETS
RELATIONSHIPS
WITH
CUSTOMERS&
PUBLISHERS
$’000
PURCHASED
TECHNOLOGY
$’000
CAPITALIZED
DEVELOPMENT
COSTS
$’000
TRADENAMES,
TRADEMARKS
&PATENTS
$’000
SOFTWARE
LICENCES
$’000
TOTAL
$’000
COST
At31March2013 17,179 9,167 7,334 3,514 4,890 42,084
Additions 1,930 800 2,625 257 381 5,993
Acquiredthroughacquisitions 11,600 5,700 - 3,300 - 20,600
Exchangedifferences 38 58 564 46 154 860
At31March2014 30,747 15,725 10,523 7,117 5,425 69,537
Additions - - 3,885 - 1,592 5,477
Acquiredthroughacquisitions 8,480 2,100 - 3,110 - 13,690
Exchangedifferences (47) (71) (871) (50) (215) (1,254)
At31March2015 39,180 17,754 13,537 10,177 6,802 87,450
ACCUMULATEDAMORTIZATION
At31March2013 (6,694) (4,479) (1,722) (1,169) (3,342) (17,406)
Amortization (3,799) (2,191) (2,167) (691) (1,003) (9,851)
Exchangedifferences (38) (58) (268) (29) (155) (548)
At31March2014 (10,531) (6,728) (4,157) (1,889) (4,500) (27,805)
Amortization (4,629) (3,525) (3,836) (4,206) (746) (16,942)
Exchangedifferences 76 71 725 16 215 1,103
At31March2015 15,084 10,182 7,268 6,079 5,031 (43,644)
NETBOOKVALUE
At31March2015 24,096 7,572 6,269 4,098 1,771 43,806
At31March2014 20,216 8,997 6,366 5,228 925 41,732
InMarch2015,theGroupacquiredasoftwarelicensefor$1.5m,whichhasacarryingvalueatthebalancesheetdateof
$1.5million.Thisisbeingamortizedoverausefuleconomiclifeofthreeyears.
57 14 PROPERTY,PLANTANDEQUIPMENT
COMPUTER
EQUIPMENT
$’000
FIXTURES,FITTINGS
ANDOFFICE
EQUIPMENT
$’000
LEASEHOLD
IMPROVEMENTS
$’000
TOTAL
$’000
COST
At1April2013 3,614 1,348 546 5,508
Additions 1,055 145 127 1,327
Acquiredonacquisitionsofsubsidiaries 429 - - 429
Exchangedifferences 34 9 - 43
At31March2014 5,132 1,502 673 7,307
Additions 2,146 257 50 2,453
Acquiredonacquisitionsofsubsidiaries 88 136 20 244
Disposal (180) - - (180)
Exchangedifferences (50) (13) (15) (78)
At31March2015 7,136 1,882 728 9,746
ACCUMULATEDDEPRECIATION
At1April2013 (2,629) (534) (242) (3,405)
Depreciation (827) (335) (84) (1,246)
Exchangedifferences (32) (3) - (35)
At31March2014 (3,488) (872) (326) (4,686)
Depreciation (1,418) (358) (100) (1,876)
Disposal 106 - - 106
Exchangedifferences 44 6 - 50
At31March2015 (4,756) (1,224) (426) (6,406)
NETBOOKVALUE
At31March2015 2,380 658 302 3,340
At31March2014 1,644 630 347 2,621
Thecarryingvalueofassetsunderfinanceleaseat31March2015was$1.6m(2014:$nil).
15 SUBSIDIARIES
Alistofthesignificantinvestmentsinsubsidiaries,includingthename,countryofincorporationandproportionof
ownershipinterestisgiveninnote30totheblinkxplcCompanyonlyfinancialstatements.
58 16 OTHERRECEIVABLESANDRESTRICTEDCASH
(i)Tradeandotherreceivables
ASAT
31MARCH2015
$’000
ASAT
31MARCH2014
$’000
CURRENTASSETS
Tradereceivables 39,846 38,313
Salesanddoubtfuldebtsallowance (2,105) (1,389)
NETTRADERECEIVABLES 37,741 36,924
Otherreceivablesanddeposits 466 437
Prepayments 6,727 2,400
OTHERRECEIVABLES 7,193 2,837
NONCURRENTASSETS
Otherreceivables 237 161
Restrictedcashamounts 834 -
OTHERRECEIVABLESANDRESTRICTEDCASH 1,071 161
Theaveragecreditperiodtakenonsalesofgoodsis63days(2014:54days).
Refertothefinancialinstrumentsnote24forinformationoncreditrisk.
Movementinthesalesanddoubtfuldebtsallowanceisasfollows:
ASAT
31MARCH2015
$’000
ASAT
31MARCH2014
$’000
Balanceatbeginningoftheperiod 1,389 766
Receivableswrittenoffduringtheyearasuncollectible (1,130) (1,463)
Provisionforreceivablesimpairment 1,846 2,086
Balanceatendoftheperiod 2,105 1,389
AGINGOFPASTDUEBUTNOTIMPAIREDRECEIVABLES
Asat31March2015,tradereceivablesof$11.3million(2014:$11.8million)werepastduebutnotimpaired.Theserelate
toanumberofindependentcustomersforwhomthereisnorecenthistoryofdefault.Theaginganalysisofthesetrade
receivablesisasfollows:
ASAT
31MARCH2015
$’000
ASAT
31MARCH2014
$’000
1–90days 10,578 9,742
Inexcessof90days 731 2,040
Totalpastduebutnotimpaired 11,309 11,782
AGINGOFPASTDUEANDIMPAIREDRECEIVABLES
Asat31March2015,tradereceivablesof$1.7million(2014:$1.4million)wereimpaired.Theagingofthesereceivables
isasfollows:
ASAT
31MARCH2015
$’000
ASAT
31MARCH2014
$’000
1–90days 41 876
Inexcessof90days 1,620 513
Totalpastdueandimpaired 1,661 1,389
59 TheDirectorshaveconsideredthecreditqualityofassetsneitherpastduenorimpairedanddonotconsiderfurthercredit
provisionisrequiredinexcessoftheallowanceforsalesanddoubtfuldebts.Nointeresthasbeenchargedforoverdue
debtsintheperiod.
TheDirectorsconsiderthatthecarryingamountoftradeandotherreceivablesapproximatestheirfairvalue.
(ii)CashandCashEquivalents
CashandcashequivalentscomprisecashheldbytheGroupandshort-termbankdepositswithanoriginalmaturityof
onemonthorless.Thecarryingamountoftheseassetsapproximatestheirfairvalue.
(iii)RestrictedCash
Restrictedcashisclassifiedinnon–currentassetsasitisnotimmediatelyaccessiblebytheGroup.
17 DEFERREDINCOMETAX
DeferredTaxiscalculatedinfullontemporarydifferencesundertheliabilitymethodusingthesubstantivelyenactedtax
ratesofthejurisdictionsinwhichthetemporarydifferencesareexpectedtoreverse.
(i)RecognizedDeferredTaxAssets/Liabilities
Deferredtaxassetshavebeenrecognizedinrespectoftaxlossesandotherdeductibletemporarydifferenceswhereitis
probablethattheseassetswillberecovered.
Themovementsindeferredtaxassetsandliabilities(includingoffsettingofbalanceswithinthesamejurisdictionas
permittedunderIAS12)duringtheperiodisshownbelow.Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesareonlyoffsetwherethereis
alegallyenforceablerightofoffsetandthereisanintentiontosettlethebalancesnet.
ASSETS
2015
$’000
ASSETS
2014
$’000
LIABILITIES
2015
$’000
LIABILITIES
2014
$’000
NET
2015
$’000
NET
2014
$’000
Property,plantandequipmentandintangible
assets (2) (102) 12,568 10,816 12,566 10,714
Taxcreditandlosscarryforward (26,120) (22,796) - - (26,120) (22,796)
Sharebasedpayments (562) (3,168) - - (562) (3,168)
Otherdeductibletemporarydifferences (4,953) (2,590) - - (4,953) (2,590)
Deferredtax(assets)/liabilities (31,637) (28,656) 12,568 10,816 (19,069) (17,840)
Offsettax 12,509 10,816 (12,509) (10,816) - -
Netdeferredtax(assets)/liabilities (19,128) (17,840) 59 - (19,069) (17,840)
(ii)UnrecognizedDeferredTaxAssets
Thereisanunrecognizeddeferredtaxassetarisingfromunrecognizedtemporarydifferencesof$7.3m(2014:$1.3m)
whichhasnotbeenrecognizedduetoinsufficientcertaintythattaxableprofitswillbeavailableagainstwhichthisasset
couldbeused.
(iii)MovementinTemporaryDifferences
BALANCEAT
31MARCH2014
$’000
RECOGNIZED
ININCOME
$’000
RECOGNIZED
INGOODWILL
$’000
RECOGNIZED
INEQUITY
$’000
BALANCEAT
31MARCH2015
$’000
Property,plantandequipmentandintangible
assets 10,714 1,853 - - 12,567
Taxcreditandlossescarryforward (22,796) (3,768) 444 - (26,120)
Sharebasedpayments (3,168) 647 - 1,959 (562)
Otherdeductibletemporarydifferences (2,590) (2,363) - - (4,953)
Total (17,840) (3,631) 444 1,959 (19,069)
TheamountofcreditthatcanberecognizedintheincomestatementislimitedunderIAS12andanyremainingcreditis
takentoequity.
60 18 OTHERPAYABLESANDPROVISIONFORLIABILITIES
TRADEANDOTHERPAYABLES
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
CURRENTLIABILITIES
Tradepayables 25,977 24,914
Customerdeposits 1,214 1,285
Onerousleaseprovision 577 512
Otheraccruedliabilities(includingtheamountoffinanceleasesduewithin12months) 22,648 13,483
50,416 40,194
NONCURRENTLIABILITIES
Onerousleaseprovision 172 -
Noncurrentliabilities 1,189 597
Tradecreditorsandaccrualsprincipallycompriseamountsoutstandingfortradepurchasesandongoingcosts.The
averagecreditperiodtakenfortradepurchasesis82days(2014:76days).Nointeresthasbeenchargedbysuppliersin
respectofoverdueamountsintheyear.
Noncurrentliabilitiesincludedeferredrentof$0.6m(2014:$0.6m)andobligationsunderfinancingleasesof$0.6m
(2014:$nil).
TheDirectorsconsiderthatthecarryingamountoftradepayablesapproximatestotheirfairvalue.
PROVISIONSFORLIABILITIESANDCHARGES
ONEROUS
LEASE
PROVISION
$’000
Balanceatbeginningoftheperiod 512
Additionalprovisionintheyear 237
Balanceatendoftheperiod 749
Theonerousleaseprovisioncomprisesobligationsforfuturerentspayableonpropertiesthatarevacantorpartially
utilize.Theseprovisionsareexpectedtobeutilizedby31March2019.
Obligationsunderfinancelease:
ASAT
31MARCH2015
$’000
ASAT
31MARCH2014
$’000
AMOUNTSPAYABLEUNDERFINANCELEASES:
Withinoneyear 92 14
Inthesecondtofifthyearsinclusive 1,644 -
1,736 14
Less:Amountsdueforsettlementwithin12months(shownundercurrentliabilities) (92) (14)
Amountsdueforsettlementafter12months 1,644 -
Fortheyearended31March2015,theaverageeffectiveborrowingratewas11.6%(2014:7.9%).
Leaseobligationsaredenominatedindollars.Thereisnomaterialdifferencebetweentheminimumleasepaymentand
theirpresentvalues.
61 ThefollowingtabledetailstheGroup’sremainingcontractualmaturityforitsnon-derivativefinancialliabilitieswith
agreedrepaymentperiod
LESSTHAN
3MONTHS
$’000
3–12
MONTHS
$’000
1–5
YEARS
$’000
TOTAL
$’000
Financeleaseliability 160 845 639 1,644
TheGroup’sobligationsunderfinanceleasesaretypicallysecuredontheassetstowhichtheleaserelates.
19 SHARECAPITAL
ASAT
31MARCH2015
$’000
ASAT
31MARCH2014
$’000
ISSUEDANDFULLYPAID
402,326,511ordinarysharesof1penceeach 7,502 7,461
(2014:399,908,379ordinarysharesof1penceeach)
TheCompanyhasoneclassofordinarysharewhichcarrynorighttofixedincome.
Duringthecurrentyear2,418,132shareswereissued,ofwhich511,197sharesrelatedtotheacquisitionofRhythm
NewMediaInc.,541,408shareswereissuedrelatedtoexerciseofemployeeshareoptions,1,258,973shareswereissued
relatedtorestrictedstockunits,and106,554sharesrelatedtoconsiderationfortheacquisitionofBurstMedia
Corporation(2014:37,500,770shareswereissued,ofwhich20,000,000relatedtotheDecember2013shareplacement,
8,269,834shareswereissuedrelatedtoexerciseofemployeeshareoptionsand228,542relatedtoconsiderationforthe
acquisitionofBurstMediaCorporation).
20 SHAREPREMIUMACCOUNT
SHARE
PREMIUM
$’000
Balanceat31March2013 101,975
Premiumarisingonissueofequityshares,netofcosts 65,970
Balanceat31March2014 167,945
Premiumarisingonissueofequityshares,netofcosts 63
Balanceat31March2015 168,008
21 SHARESTOBEISSUEDANDMERGERRESERVE
ThesharestobeissuedreserverelatestosharesthatareexpectedtobeissuedtoformerBurstshareholdersaspartof
theconsiderationwhohavenotyetsubmittedthepaperworktoeffecttheexchangeofBurstsharesforblinkxsharesand
toRhythmNewMediashareholdersaspartofconsideration.
Themergerreservearisesinbusinesscombinationswheresharesareissuedaswholeorpartconsideration.The
differencebetweenthefairvalueandthenominalvalueofthesharestransferredasconsiderationistakentothemerger
reserve.
22 OPERATINGLEASEARRANGEMENTS
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
Minimumleasepaymentsunderoperatingleasesrecognizedasanexpenseintheyear 3,463 2,797
62 Atthebalancesheetdate,theGrouphadoutstandingcommitmentsforfutureminimumleasepaymentsundernon-
cancellableoperatingleaseswhichfalldueasfollows:
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
Withinoneyear 2,933 2,742
Inthesecondtofifthyearsinclusive 7,545 8,137
Morethanfiveyears 182 906
10,660 11,785
OperatingleasepaymentsrepresentrentalspayablebytheGroupforcertainofitsofficeproperties,computerequipment
andsoftware.Leasetermsrangefromtwototenyears.
23 SHARE-BASEDPAYMENTSANDEQUITYSETTLEDSHAREOPTIONSCHEMES
OnthedemergerfromAutonomyCorporationplctheCompanyestablishedthefollowingshareoptionsschemes:
» Theblinkx2007EnterpriseManagementIncentivePlan(the‘blinkxEMIScheme’)
» TheblinkxUSShareOptionPlan(the‘blinkxUSPlan’)
» TheblinkxAutonomyEmployeeDiscretionaryShareOptionScheme2007(the‘AutonomyDiscretionaryScheme’)
» TheblinkxAutonomyEmployeeUSShareOptionPlan(the‘AutonomyUSPlan’)
TheblinkxEMISchemeandtheblinkxUSPlanallowforthegrantofoptionsoverordinarysharestoemployeesofthe
Companyanditssubsidiaries.Atthetimeofdemergertwospecialgrantsweremadeundertheseplans.Thefirstallowed
afullyvestedgrantatnominalvalueandthesecondwasagrantatnominalvaluebutwithathreeyearvestingperiod.
Sincethengrantshavebeenmadeatmarketvalueandwitha3or4yearvestingperiodwithoptionsvestinginvarying
sizedtranchesoverthatperiod(apartfromreplacementoptionsgrantedtoBurstMediaemployeesonacquisitionwhich
weregrantedatmarketvaluebutfollowedtheoriginalvestingpattern).Nooptionmaybegrantedforaterminexcessof
10years.Vestedoptionsareexercisablefollowingterminationofemploymentforaperiodrangingfrom40to90days.
VestingcriteriaisbasedoncontinuedemploymentwiththeCompany.
On16September2013theBoardofDirectorsapprovedtheamendmentofblinkxPlcUSShareOptionPlantoallowthe
grantofRestrictedStockUnitstobemadeunderitsterms.
TheAutonomyDiscretionarySchemeandtheAutonomyUSPlanallowedaone-timegrantofblinkxoptionstocertain
AutonomyemployeeswhoatthetimeofthedemergerhadvestedAutonomyoptions.Optionsgrantedunderthisplan
weregrantedatmarketpriceandvestoveraperiodofthreeyears.
Share-basedcompensationchargeshavebeenchargedintheincomestatementwithinthefollowingfunctionalareas:
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
Salesandmarketing 2,004 866
Researchanddevelopment 852 861
Administrativeexpenses 1,997 1,626
4,853 3,353
Thefollowingtablesummarizesoptionsoutstandingat31March2015relatingtotheblinkxEMIschemeandtheblinkx
USplan.Alloptionexercisepricesarequotedinsterling.
NUMBER
2015
WEIGHTED
AVERAGE
£ NUMBER
2014
WEIGHTED
AVERAGE
£
Outstandingbalanceatbeginningofyear 14,102,777 0.69 20,242,280 0.50
Grantedduringtheyear 11,642,000 0.30 2,940,000 1.21
Exercisedduringtheyear (516,952) 0.05 (7,919,616) 0.38
Lapsedduringtheyear (1,537,673) 0.92 (1,159,887) 0.89
Outstandingbalanceatendofyear 23,690,152 0.50 14,102,777 0.69
Exercisableatendofyear 9,882,822 0.59 2,650,397 1.28
63 Theweightedaveragesharepriceatthedateofexerciseforshareoptionsexercisedduringtheperiodwas£0.08
(2014:£0.38).Theoptionsoutstandingat31March2015hadaweightedaverageexercisepriceof£0.50(2014:£0.69).The
weightedaverageremainingcontractuallifeoftheoptionswas8years(2014:3years).
TheinputstotheBlack-Scholesmodelwereasfollows:
2015 2014
Weightedaverageshareprice 0.30 1.21
Weightedaverageexerciseprice 0.30 1.21
Expectedvolatility 46-58% 50-112%
Expectedlife 6years 3-4years
Riskfreerate 2.00-2.75% 2.50-2.75%
Expecteddividend --
ExpectedvolatilitywasdeterminedbycalculatingthehistoricalvolatilityoftheGroup’ssharepriceforthelast90days
priortogrant.Theexpectedlifeusedinthemodelhasbeenadjusted,basedonmanagement’sbestestimate,forthe
effectsofnon-transferability,exerciserestrictions,andbehavioralconsiderations.
Optionsweregrantedon7August2014,15January2015,17March2015and31March2015.Theweightedaverageofthe
fairvalueoftheoptionsgrantedintheyearwas£0.17pershare,(2014:£0.71pershare).
Thefollowingtablesummarizesoptionsoutstandingasat31March2015inrelationtotheAutonomyDiscretionaryShare
SchemeandAutonomyUSPlanoptions.
NUMBER
2015
WEIGHTED
AVERAGE
£ NUMBER
2014
WEIGHTED
AVERAGE
£
Outstandingbalanceatbeginningofyear 604,286 0.45 1,032,506 0.45
Exercisedduringtheyear - - (374,674) 0.45
Lapsedduringtheyear (60,348) 0.45 (53,546) 0.45
Outstandingbalanceatendofyear 543,938 0.45 604,286 0.45
Exercisableatendofyear 543,938 0.45 604,286 0.45
NooptionswereexercisedduringtheyearfromtheAutonomyplan.(2014:theweightedaveragesharepriceatthedateof
exerciseforshareoptionsexercisedduringtheperiodwas£0.45).Theoptionsoutstandingat31March2015hada
weightedaverageexercisepriceof£0.45(2014:£0.45).Theweightedaverageremainingcontractuallifeoftheoptions
was2years(2014:3years).
Nooptionsweregrantedduringthecurrentorprioryear.
RSUsweregrantedon7August2014,27January2015,15January2015and17March2015.Theweightedaverageofthe
fairvalueoftheRSUsgrantedintheyearwas£0.29(2014:£1.39)
ThefollowingtablesummarizesRestrictedStockUnits(RSUs)outstandingasat31March2015.
NUMBER
OFRSUs
NUMBER
2015
WEIGHTED
AVERAGE
£
NUMBER
OFRSUs
NUMBER
2014
WEIGHTED
AVERAGE
£
Outstandingbalanceatbeginningofyear 2,231,667 1.36 - -
RSUsgranted 2,257,712 0.29 2,565,000 1.39
RSUsvested (1,258,973) 0.50 (283,333) 1.55
RSUscanceled (297,222) 0.50 (50,000) 1.55
Exercisableatendofyear 2,933,184 1.00 2,231,667 1.36
ThemajorityofRSUsthatvestedinfiscalyear2015werenet-sharesettledsuchthattheCompanywithheldshareswith
valueequivalenttotheemployees’minimumstatutoryobligationfortheapplicableincomeandotheremploymenttaxes,
andremittedthecashtotheappropriatetaxingauthorities.
64 24 FINANCIALINSTRUMENTS
CAPITALRISKMANAGEMENT
TheGroupmanagesitscapitaltoensurethatentitiesintheGroupwillbeabletocontinueoperatingasagoingconcern
whilemaximizingshareholderreturns.ThecapitalstructureoftheGroupconsistsofcashandcashequivalentsand
equityattributabletoequityholdersoftheparent,comprisingissuedcapital,reservesandretainedearnings.TheGroup’s
overallstrategyremainsunchangedfromtheprioryear.TheGroupfinancesitsoperationsthroughacombinationof
retainedprofitsandinterestreceivedonbankaccounts.Managementmaintainsitscapitalstructureandmakes
adjustmentsasnecessaryinlightofchangesintheeconomicenvironmentandstrategicobjectivesoftheGroup,ensuring
thattherearesufficientliquidresourcesavailabletotakeadvantageofopportunitiesastheyarise.
TheGroup’scapitalriskmanagementpoliciesareunchangedfromprioryear.TheGroupisnotsubjecttoexternally
imposedcapitalrequirements.
Categoriesoffinancialinstrument:
NOTE
2015
$’000
2014
$’000
FINANCIALASSETS
Cashandcashequivalents 95,734 126,909
Loansandreceivables 16 37,741 37,067
FINANCIALLIABILITIES
Amortizedcost (47,003) (35,926)
FINANCIALRISKMANAGEMENT
ManagementisresponsibleformonitoringandmanagingthefinancialrisksrelatingtotheoperationsoftheGroup,which
includecreditrisk,marketriskarisingfrominterestrateriskandcurrencyrisk,andliquidityrisk.TheBoardofDirectors
andtheAuditCommitteereviewandapprovetheinternalpoliciesformanagingeachoftheserisksassummarizedbelow.
TheGroupisnotsubjecttoanyexternallyimposedcapitalrequirements.
TheGroup’sfinancialfunctionprovidesservicestothebusiness,monitorsandmanagesthefinancialrisksrelatingtothe
operationsoftheGroup.Theserisks(togetherwiththerelatedriskmanagementpolicy)include:
CREDITRISK
Creditriskreferstotheriskthatacounterpartywilldefaultonitscontractualobligationsresultinginfinanciallosstothe
Group.TheGroup’screditriskisprimarilywithcashandcashequivalentsandamountsowingfromcustomers.The
Group’sprincipalfinancialassetsarecashandcashequivalents,tradeandotherreceivables.
TheGroup’scustomerbaseishighlydiversified,onecustomerrepresents10.02%ofrevenueintheyear.Thisisnot
consideredIndicativeofahighcreditrisk.(2014:nocustomerrepresentedasignificantpercentageofrevenue).The
Groupdoesnothaveanysignificantcreditriskexposuretoanysinglecounterpartyoranygroupofcounterpartieshaving
similarcharacteristics.TheGroupdefinescounterpartiesashavingsimilarcharacteristicsiftheyarerelatedentities.
Concentrationofcreditriskdidnotexceed7%ofgrossmonetaryassetsatanytimeduringtheyear.Beforeacceptingany
newcustomer,theGroupusesanexternalcreditratingsystemtoassessthepotentialcustomer’screditquality.All
customershavecreditlimitssetbycreditmanagersandaresubjecttostandardtermsofpayment.TheGrouphas
adoptedapolicyofonlydealingwithcounterpartiesthatareconsideredtobecreditworthybymanagement,having
completedvariouscreditchecks.
Theriskofdefaultfromafinancialinstitutionisconsideredlimitedbecausecounterpartiesareanumberofdifferent
bankswithhighcreditratingsassignedbyinternationalcredit-ratingagencies,whichrangefromAtoAA.
Thecarryingamountoffinancialassetsrecordedinthefinancialstatements,whichisnetofimpairmentlosses,
representstheGroup’smaximumexposuretocreditrisk.
MARKETRISK(INCLUDINGINTERESTRATERISKANDCURRENCYRISK)
Interestraterisk
TheGrouphasnoloansandborrowingsoutsidefinanceleasesandassuch,theDirectorsaresatisfiedthatinterestrate
riskisnegligible.
Currencyrisk
TheGroupdoesnotenterintoortradefinancialinstruments,includingderivativefinancialinstruments,foranypurpose.
TheGroupmaintainsthemajorityofitscashinUSdollarsasanaturalhedge,inlinewithourrevenueandcostswhichare
predominantlyUSbased.
65 TheGroup’sactivitiesexposeitprimarilytothefinancialrisksofchangesinforeigncurrencyexchangeratesasit
undertakescertaintransactionsdenominatedinforeigncurrencies.TheGroup’spresentationalcurrencyisUSdollars
andtheCompany’sfunctionalcurrencyissterling.TheGroupoperatessubsidiariesintheU.S.,U.K.andCanadaandasa
resultcashisheldpredominantlyinsterlingandU.S.dollars.TheGroupholdsitsfundsinseveraldifferentfinancial
institutions.
ThecarryingamountsoftheGroup’sforeigncurrencydenominatedmonetaryassetsandmonetaryliabilitiesatthe
reportingdateareasfollows:
2015
LIABILITIES
$’000
2014
LIABILITIES
$’000
2015ASSETS
$’000
2014ASSETS
$’000
Sterling 1,567 1,532 3,092 8,200
Liquidityrisk
TheGroupseekstomanagefinancialrisktoensuresufficientliquidityisavailabletomeetforeseeableneedsandtoinvest
cashsafelyandprofitablybymaintainingadequatereservesandcashonhandbycontinuouslymonitoringforecastand
actualcashflowsandbymatchingthematurityprofilesoffinancialassetsandliabilities.TheGroupreviewsitscashflow
requirementsonamonthlybasis,toensurethatitmaintainsadequatecashreserves,diversifyingitscashaccounts
acrossseveralbankinginstitutionsandconstantlymonitoringforecastandactualcashflows.
ThefollowingtabledetailstheGroup’ssensitivitytoa20%increaseanddecreaseinthefunctionalcurrencyoftheentity
againsttherelevantforeigncurrencies.20%isthesensitivityrateused(2014:20%)whenreportingforeigncurrencyrisk
internallytokeymanagementpersonnelandrepresentsmanagement’sassessmentofthereasonablypossiblechangein
foreignexchangerates.Thesensitivityincludesoutstandingforeigncurrencydenominatedmonetaryitemsandadjusts
theirtranslationattheyearendfora20%change(2014:20%)inforeigncurrencyrates.Thesensitivityanalysisincludes
loanstoforeignoperationswithintheGroupwherethedenominationoftheloanisinacurrencyotherthanthecurrency
thelenderortheborrower.Apositivenumberindicatesanincreaseinprofitandotherequitywherethesterling
strengthens20%againsttherelevantcurrency.Fora20%weakeningofthesterlingagainsttherelevantcurrencythere
wouldbeanequalandoppositeimpactontheprofitandotherequityandthebalancesbelowwouldbenegative.
2015
$’000
2014
$’000
Cashandcashequivalents 484 1,336
Amountsduefromcustomers 134 304
Tradepayables 313 348
Nosensitivityhasbeenperformedonachangeininterestrates,astheimpactofinterestrateriskissolow.
ThefairvalueofalloftheGroup’sfinancialinstrumentsisderivedfrominputsotherthanunadjustedquotedpricesthat
areobservablefortheassetorliability,eitherdirectlyorindirectly.Thecarryingamountoffinancialassetsandfinancial
liabilitiesrecordedatamortizedcostinthefinancialstatementsapproximatetheirfairvalues.Thereforethereisno
differencebetweenthecarryingvalueandfairvalueoftheabovefinancialassetsandliabilities.
FAIRVALUEOFASSETSANDLIABILITIES
TheGrouphasassetsandliabilitiesthathavebeenfairvalued,onanon-recurringbasis,whichhavearisenthroughthe
acquisitionsofLYFEMobile,AdKarmaandAllMediaNetworksintheyear.
Theseassetshavebeenfairvaluedbyanexternal,specialistvaluer.Theassetsandliabilitiesareallatlevel3inthefair
valuehierarchysetoutinIFRS13.Level3isfairvaluemeasurementsthatarederivedfromvaluationtechniquesthat
includeinputsfortheassetorliabilitynotbasedonobservablemarketdata(unobservableinputs).
TheGroupdoesnothaveanyassetsorliabilitiesatlevels1or2inthefairvaluehierarchy,andtherehavebeenno
movementsintheyearbetweenlevels.
25 ACQUISITIONSOFSUBSIDIARIES
(i)LYFEMobile
On1May2014,theGroupacquired100%oftheissuedsharecapitalofLYFEMobileInc(“Lyfe”).Lyfeisaninnovative
mobileDemandSidePlatform(DSP)andDataManagementPlatform(DMP).Lyfeoffersasmartmobiletechnologyto
Programmaticallydeliverrelevantadstoconsumersbasedontheirgeographiclocationandotherattributes.Withaccess
toover100millionusersintheUSand600millionworldwide,throughitsintegrationswithsupplysidepartners,Lyfe’s
crosschannelplatformoffersafullrangeofmobileadvertisingformats,includingmobiledisplayvideoandnativeads
withcustomised,dynamicaudiencesegmentationandtargetingcapabilities.
66 Acquisitionrelatedexpensesof$0.1millionwereincurredandexpensedwithinacquisitionandexceptionalcosts.
Considerationwascashtotaling$2.6million,withanadditional$0.3millionpayablein2yearsfromtheclosingdateof
thetransaction.Uptoafurther$0.8milliondeferredcontingentconsiderationispayableafteroneyear,contingentupon
theproductlinemeetingcertainfinancialconditions.
Theacquisitionincrementallyadded$1.6millionofrevenuetotheGroupinthecurrentfiscalyearandgeneratedaloss
beforetaxof$1.6million.Iftheacquisitionhadbeencompletedonthefirstdayofthefinancialyear,Grouprevenuesfor
theperiodwouldhavebeen$215.3millionandalossbeforetaxof$24.9million.
PROVISIONAL
FVASATDATE
OFPURCHASE
(ASREPORTED
ATINTERIM)
$’000
MEASUREMENT
PERIOD
ADJUSTMENTS
$’000
UPDATED
FVASATBALANCE
SHEETDATE$’000
Intangibles 1,800 - 1,800
Tradereceivables 576 - 576
Trade&otherpayables (1,025) - (1,025)
Deferredtaxliability (656) (40) (696)
Totalidentifiableassets 695 (40) 655
Goodwill 2,402 (160) 2,242
Totalconsideration 3,097 (200) 2,897
Satisfiedby:
Cash 2,597 - 2,597
Deferredcashconsideration 300 - 300
Deferredcontingentconsideration 200 (200) -
Totalconsiderationtransferred 3,097 (200) 2,897
Netcashoutflowarisingonacquisition:
Cashconsideration 2,597 - 2,597
Less:cashandcashequivalentbalancesacquired - - -
Totalnetcashoutflowarisingonacquisition 2,597 - 2,597
Atthetimeoftheinterimmanagementstatement,thebestestimateofthedeferredcontingentconsiderationthatwould
bepayablewas$0.2m.
However,duringthemeasurementperiod,asmanagementwasfinalizingitsfairvalueaccounting,additionalinformation
wasassessed,whichcausedmanagementtoreassessitsmeasurementofthedeferredcontingentconsiderationwhereit
becameapparentthatthefinancialconditionscouldnotbemet.Assuch,managementreviseditsestimateofthefair
valueofthecontingentconsiderationto$nil,resultinginareductioninthegoodwillarisingonacquisition.Furthermore,
therewasanincreaseinthevaluationofthedeferredtaxliabilityof$40,000,withacorrespondingincreasetogoodwill.
Thefairvalueofthefinancialassetsincludestradereceivableswithafairvalueof$0.6millionandagrosscontractual
valueof$0.6million.Thebestestimateatacquisitiondateofthecontractualcashflowsnottobecollectedis$nil.The
goodwillof$2.2millionarisingfromtheacquisitionwasprimarilyattributabletotheassembledworkforceoftheacquired
businessandthesynergiesexpectedtoarisepostacquisitionandintegrationofthebusiness.Noneofthegoodwill
recognizedisexpectedtobedeductiblefortaxpurposes.TheGroupengagedanindependentvaluertoassessand
determinetheacquiredintangiblesandgoodwillbalances.
(ii)AdKarma
On19December2014,theGroupacquired100%oftheissuedsharecapitalofAdKarmaLLC(“AdKarma”).AdKarmaisa
VideoSupplySidePlatform(SSP).TheacquisitionisexpectedtosignificantlybolsterandacceleratetheCompany’s
positionwithintheProgrammaticorautomatedtradingsegmentofthedigitalvideoadvertisingmarket.AdKarmabrings
extensivesupplyanddemandsiderelationships,alongwithaccesstokeyProgrammaticvideotechnology.Consideration
wasentirelyforcash,totaling$20million,ofwhich$15millionwaspaidand$5millionispayable12monthsfromthe
closingdateofthetransaction.
Acquisitionrelatedexpensesof$0.3millionwereincurredandexpensedwithinacquisitionandexceptionalcosts.
67 Theacquisitionincrementallyadded$12.9millionofrevenuetotheGroupinthecurrentfiscalyearandgeneratedaprofit
beforetaxof$0.3million.Iftheacquisitionhadbeencompletedonthefirstdayofthefinancialyear,Grouprevenuesfor
theperiodwouldhavebeen$235.3millionandalossbeforetaxof$22.0million.
PROVISIONAL
FVASATDATE
OFPURCHASE
$’000
Property,plantandequipment 227
Intangibles 9,400
Otherassets 39
Cash 300
Tradeandotherreceivables 11,495
Tradeandotherpayables (11,461)
Totalidentifiableassets 10,000
Goodwill 10,000
Totalconsideration 20,000
Satisfiedby:
Cash 15,000
Deferredcashconsideration 5,000
Totalconsiderationtransferred 20,000
Netcashoutflowarisingonacquisition:
Cashconsideration 15,000
Less:cashandcashequivalentbalancesacquired (300)
TotalNetcashoutflowarisingonacquisition 14,700
Thefairvalueofthefinancialassetsincludestradereceivableswithafairvalueof$11.5millionandagrosscontractual
valueof$11.5million.Thebestestimateatacquisitiondateofthecontractualcashflowsnottobecollectedis$nil.The
goodwillof$10.0millionarisingfromtheacquisitionwasprimarilyattributabletotheassembledworkforceofthe
acquiredbusinessandthesynergiesexpectedtoarisepostacquisitionandintegrationofthebusiness.Noneofthe
goodwillrecognizedisexpectedtobedeductiblefortaxpurposes.TheGroupengagedanindependentvaluertoassess
anddeterminetheacquiredintangiblesandgoodwillbalances.
(iii)AllMediaNetworks
On11March2015theGroupacquiredAllMediaNetwork,LLC(“AMN”)gaininganumberofpremiumconsumer
properties,forcashconsiderationof$4.5million.AMNrepresentsanimportantstepforwardintheCompany’sstrategy
tobuildacompletedigitaladvertisingplatformforbrand-safe,cross-screenadvertisingatscale.Owningandoperatinga
sizeable,highqualityaudienceenhancestheCompany’sabilitytocontinuouslytest,filterandscoreitsaggregatesupply
toenhancetrafficqualityandperformance.
Acquisitionrelatedexpensesof$0.1millionwereincurredandexpensedwithinacquisitionandexceptionalcosts.
68 Duetotheproximityoftheacquisitiondatetothedateofthisreport,andongoingintegrationoftheCompanyintothe
Group,ithasnotbeenpracticabletodeterminetherevenueattributabletoAMNpostacquisition,ortheimpactofthe
acquisitionontherevenueandresultfortheyearasifithadbeenpartoftheGroupfortheentireyear.Managementhas
commenceditsfairvalueexerciseinrelationtotheassetsandliabilitiesacquired,andthesearedisclosedbelow.
PROVISIONAL
FVASATDATE
OFPURCHASE
$’000
Property,plantandequipment 17
Intangibles 2,490
Tradereceivables 1,113
Trade&otherpayables (1,012)
Totalidentifiablenetassets 2,608
Goodwill 1,892
Totalconsideration 4,500
Satisfiedby:
Cash 3,900
Deferredcashconsideration 600
Totalconsiderationtransferred 4,500
Netcashoutflowarisingonacquisition:
Cashconsideration 3,900
Less:cashandcashequivalentbalancesacquired -
Totalnetcashoutflowarisingonacquisition 3,900
Thefairvalueofthefinancialassetsincludestradereceivableswithafairvalueof$1.1millionandagrosscontractual
valueof$1.1million.Thebestestimateatacquisitiondateofthecontractualcashflowsnottobecollectedis$nil.The
goodwillof$1.9millionarisingfromtheacquisitionwasprimarilyattributabletotheassembledworkforceoftheacquired
businessandthesynergiesexpectedtoarisepostacquisitionandintegrationofthebusiness.Noneofthegoodwill
recognizedisexpectedtobedeductiblefortaxpurposes.TheGroupengagedanindependentvaluertoassessand
determinetheacquiredintangiblesandgoodwillbalances.
26 ACQUISITIONANDEXCEPTIONALCOSTS
InlinewiththewaytheBoardandchiefoperatingdecisionmakerreviewsthebusiness,largeone-offacquisitionand
exceptionalcostsandothercostsrelatedtoacquisitionsareseparatelyidentifiedandadjustedresultsshown.Thetypes
ofcostsincludedwithinacquisitioncostsarethosewhicharedirectlyattributabletoanacquisition,suchaslegaland
accountingexpenses,integrationcosts,severanceandretentionremuneration.Thetypesofcostswhichareconsidered
exceptionalincluderestructuringandonerousleasecharges.
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
$’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
$’000
Acquisitioncosts:
Severanceandretentioncosts 2,255 4,526
Professionalfees 838 1,521
Totalacquisitioncosts 3,093 6,047
Exceptionalcosts:
Restructuringcharges 643 2,019
Severancecosts 926 -
Totalexceptionalcosts 1,569 2,019
Totalacquisitionandexceptional 4,662 8,066
69 27 RELATEDPARTYTRANSACTIONS
BalancesandtransactionsbetweentheCompanyanditssubsidiaries,whicharerelatedparties,havebeeneliminatedon
consolidationandarenotdisclosedinthisnote.
TheremunerationoftheDirectors,whoaretheGroup’skeymanagementpersonnel,inaccordancewithIAS24Related
PartyDisclosures,isdisclosedintheDirectors’RemunerationReportonpages27to28.
Therewerenootherrelatedpartytransactionsineitherthecurrentorprioryear.
28 EVENTSAFTERTHEBALANCESHEETDATE(GROUPANDCOMPANY)
Ms.JudyVezmarindicatedherintentiontoresignfromtheBoardofDirectors,whichwasacceptedbytheBoardon
19May2015.Ms.VezmarwillserveouthernoticeperiodontheBoard,through18August2015.Mr.UjjalKohliwill
becometheChairmanoftheRemunerationCommittee.
70 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH 2015
NOTE
ASAT
31MARCH2015
£’000
ASAT
31MARCH2014
£’000
NON-CURRENTASSETS
Investmentinsubsidiaries 30 209,381 206,386
CURRENTASSETS
Amountsduefromsubsidiaryundertakings 31 19,135 1,756
Otherreceivables 31 9 9
Cashandcashequivalents 31 22,708 39,711
Totalassets 41,852 41,476
CURRENTLIABILITIES
Tradeandotherpayables 31 (188) (111)
Amountsduetosubsidiaryundertakings 31 (7,114) (9,022)
Totalliabilities (7,302) (9,133)
NETASSETS 243,931 238,729
CAPITALANDRESERVES
Sharecapital 34 4,023 3,999
Sharepremiumaccount 35 98,096 98,059
Stockcompensationreserve 8,129 5,134
Sharestobeissuedreserve 1,033 2,192
Mergerreserve 138,031 136,881
Retainedloss 36 (5,381) (7,536)
TOTALEQUITY 243,931 238,729
Note29tonote38formanintegralpartofthisbalancesheet.
Thefinancialstatementsofblinkxplc(registerednumber06223359)wereapprovedbytheBoardofDirectorsand
authorizedforissueon18June2015.Theyweresignedonitsbehalfby:
Subhransu(“Brian”)Mukherjee
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
blinkxplc
18June2015
71 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015
NOTE
ORDINARY
SHARE
CAPITAL
£’000
SHARE
PREMIUM
ACCOUNT
£’000
SHARES
TOBE
ISSUED
RESERVE
£’000
STOCK
COMPENSATION
RESERVE
£’000
MERGER
RESERVE
£’000
RETAINED
LOSS
£’000
TOTAL
£’000
BALANCEASAT1APRIL2013 3,624 57,989 460 4,698 119,359 (4,986) 181,144
Netlossfortheyear - - - - - (2,550) (2,550)
Othercomprehensiveincome - - - - - - -
Totalcomprehensivelossforthe
year - - - - - (2,550) (2,550)
Issueofshares,netofcosts 375 40,070 1,732 - 17,522 - 59,699
Capitalcontribution 37 - - - 436 - - 436
BALANCEASAT31MARCH2014 3,999 98,059 2,192 5,134 136,881 (7,536) 238,729
Netprofitfortheyear - - - - - 2,155 2,155
Othercomprehensiveincome - - - - - - -
Totalcomprehensiveincomefor
theyear - - - - - 2,155 2,155
Issueofshares,netofcosts 24 37 (1,159) - 1,150 - 52
Capitalcontribution 37 - - - 2,995 - - 2,995
BALANCEASAT31MARCH2015 4,023 98,096 1,033 8,129 138,031 (5,381) 243,931
72 COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015
NOTE
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
£’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
£’000
NETCASH(USEDIN)/GENERATEDBYOPERATINGACTIVITIES 38 (17,055) 5,313
-
CASHFLOWSFROMINVESTINGACTIVITIES -
Acquisitionsofsubsidiaries,netofcashacquired - (18,455)
Interestreceived -25
NETCASHGENERATEDBY/(USEDIN)INVESTINGACTIVITIES - (18,430)
CASHFLOWSFROMFINANCINGACTIVITIES
Proceedsfromissuanceofshares 52 42,521
NETCASHGENERATEDBYFINANCINGACTIVITIES 52 42,521
Net(decrease)/increaseincashandcashequivalents (17,003) 29,404
Beginningcashandcashequivalents 39,711 10,307
CASHANDCASHEQUIVALENTSATTHEENDOFTHEYEAR 22,708 39,711
73 29 SIGNIFICANTACCOUNTINGPOLICIES
TheseparatefinancialstatementsoftheCompanyarepresentedinaccordancewiththeCompaniesAct2006.As
permittedbythatAct,theseparatefinancialstatementshavebeenpreparedinaccordancewithInternationalFinancial
ReportingStandardsadoptedbytheEuropeanUnion.TheCompanyhasoneExecutivedirectorandsixNon-Executive
Directors.TheirremunerationisshownintheDirectors’RemunerationReportonpages27to28.
Thefinancialstatementshavebeenpreparedonthehistoricalcostbasis.Theprincipalaccountingpoliciesadoptedare
thesameasthosesetoutinnote3totheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsexceptasnotedbelow.
Investmentsinsubsidiariesarestatedatcostless,whereappropriate,provisionsforimpairment.
TheseCompanyfinancialstatementsarepresentedinsterlingasthatisthecurrencyoftheprimaryeconomic
environmentinwhichtheCompanyoperates.
Aspermittedbysection408oftheCompaniesAct2006,theincomestatementoftheparentCompanyisnotpresentedas
partofthesefinancialstatements.TheparentCompany’sprofitforthefinancialyearamountedto£2,155,000(2014:loss
of£2,550,000).TheCompany’slossforeachyearisthesameasitstotalcomprehensiveincomeandhencenoseparate
statementhasbeenpresented.
30 INVESTMENTSINSUBSIDIARIES
£’000
COSTANDNETBOOKVALUE
At31March2013 170,317
Investmentinsubsidiaries 36,069
At31March2014 206,386
Capitalcontribution 2,995
At31March2015 209,381
Investmentsinsubsidiarycompaniesaresubjecttoreviewforimpairment.
Thecapitalcontributionisinrespectofequitysettledshare-basedpaymentsmadetoemployeesoftheCompany’s
subsidiariesforwhichtheCompanyreceivesnoreimbursement.Refertonote37forfurtherdetailsontheGroupsShare
OptionSchemes.
TheprincipalsubsidiarycompanieswithintheGroup’soperationat31March2015areasfollows:
PLACEOFINCORPORATION
(ORREGISTRATION)
ANDOPERATION
PERCENTAGE
OWNED
NATUREOF
BUSINESS
blinkxUKLimited England&Wales 100% Non-Trading
blinkxUKHoldingLimited USA 100% HoldingCompany
blinkx(Canada),Inc Canada 100% Non-Trading
Operatingsubsidiariesoftheabovecompanieshavebeenexcludedtotheextentsuchsubsidiaries’operationsare
consolidatedintheoperatingcompanies’operationsandresults.TheseincludeoperatingsubsidiariesintheUK,USand
Canada.
31 FINANCIALINSTRUMENTS
FINANCIALASSETS
AMOUNTSDUEFROMSUBSIDIARYUNDERTAKINGS
AtthebalancesheetdatetherearereceivablesfromfellowGroupcompaniesamountingto£19,135,000(2014:
£1,756,000).Thecarryingamountoftheseassetsapproximatestheirfairvalue.Therearenopastdueorimpaired
receivablebalances(2014:none).Amountsduefromsubsidiaryundertakingsareunsecured,interestfree,havenofixed
dateofrepaymentandarerepayableondemand.
CASHANDCASHEQUIVALENTS
ThesecomprisecashheldbytheCompanyandshort-termbankdepositswithanoriginalmaturityofthreemonthsor
less.
Thecarryingamountoftheseassetsapproximatestheirfairvalue.
74 FINANCIALLIABILITIES
AMOUNTSDUETOSUBSIDIARYUNDERTAKINGS
AtthebalancesheetdatetherearepayablestofellowGroupcompaniesamountingto£7,114,000(2014:£9,022,000).The
carryingamountoftheseliabilitiesapproximatestotheirfairvalue.Amountsduetosubsidiaryundertakingsare
unsecured,interestfree,havenofixeddateofrepaymentandarerepayableondemand.
TRADEANDOTHERPAYABLES
Tradepayablesprincipallycompriseamountsoutstandingfortradepurchasesandongoingcosts.Theaveragecredit
periodtakenfortradepurchasesis18days(2014:22days).
Thecarryingamountoftradepayablesapproximatestotheirfairvalue.
ThefinancialriskandriskmanagementpoliciesarethesameasthoseoftheGroup,whicharediscussedinnote24.
FOREIGNCURRENCYRISKMANAGEMENT
TheCompanyismainlyexposedtomovementsinUSdollar.Thetablebelowshowsthecarryingamountsofthe
Company’sforeigncurrencymonetaryassetsandmonetaryliabilitiesatthereportingdate:
2015
LIABILITIES
£’000
2014
LIABILITIES
£’000
2015
ASSETS
£’000
2014
ASSETS
£’000
USDollar 5,671 8,143 41,275 38,260
FOREIGNCURRENCYSENSITIVITYANALYSIS
TheCompanyhasmaintaineditssensitivityat20%in2015(2014:20%).
ThefollowingtabledetailstheCompany’ssensitivitytoa20%increaseanddecrease(2014:20%)inthefunctional
currencyoftheentityagainsttherelevantforeigncurrencies.20%isthesensitivityrateusedwhenreportingforeign
currencyriskinternallytokeymanagementpersonnelandrepresentsmanagement’sassessmentofthereasonably
possiblechangeinforeignexchangerates.Thesensitivityanalysisincludesonlyoutstandingforeigncurrency
denominatedmonetaryitemsandadjuststheirtranslationattheyearendfora20%changeinforeigncurrencyrates.The
sensitivityanalysisincludesloanstoforeignoperationswherethedenominationoftheloanisinacurrencyotherthanthe
currencyofthelenderortheborrower.Apositivenumberbelowfor2015indicatesanincreaseinprofitandotherequity
wheretheSterlingstrengthens20%againsttherelevantcurrency.Fora20%weakeningoftheSterlingagainstthe
relevantcurrency,therewouldbeanequalandoppositeimpactontheprofitandotherequity,andthebalancesbelow
wouldbenegative.
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Cashandcashequivalents 4,428 7,476
Amountsduefromsubsidiaryundertakings 3,826 175
Amountsduetosubsidiaryundertakings 1,134 1,629
Categoriesoffinancialinstrument:
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
£’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
£’000
FINANCIALASSETS
Cashandcashequivalents 22,708 39,711
Otherreceivables 99
Amountsduefromsubsidiaryundertakings 19,135 1,756
41,852 41,476
FINANCIALLIABILITIES
Tradepayables 188 110
Amountsduetosubsidiaryundertakings 7,114 9,022
7,302 9,133
ThefairvalueofalloftheGroup’sfinancialinstrumentsisderivedfrominputsotherthanunadjustedquotedpricesthat
areobservablefortheassetorliability,eitherdirectlyorindirectly.Thecarryingamountoffinancialassetsandfinancial
liabilitiesrecordedatamortizedcostinthefinancialstatementsapproximatetheirfairvalues.Thereforethereisno
differencebetweenthecarryingvalueandfairvalueoftheabovefinancialassetsandliabilities.
75 32 DEFERREDTAX
NodeferredtaxassetsorliabilitieshavebeenrecognizedbytheCompanyintheyear.Atthebalancesheetdatethereis
anunrecognizeddeferredtaxassetof£0.9m(2014:£nil).
33 RELATEDPARTYTRANSACTIONS
Transactionsrelatetorechargesandareconductedonanarm’slengthbasis.Theamountowedbysubsidiary
undertakingsis£19,135,000(2014:£1,756,000).Theamountowedtosubsidiaryundertakingis£7,114,000(2014:
£9,022,000).Amountsarerepayableondemand.Nointerestispayableandtheamountsareunsecured.
TheremunerationoftheDirectors,whoaretheGroup’skeymanagementpersonnel,inaccordancewithIAS24Related
PartyDisclosures,isdisclosedintheDirectorsRemunerationReportonpages27to28.
34 SHARECAPITAL
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
£’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
£’000
ISSUEDANDFULLYPAID
402,326,511ordinarysharesof1penceeach 4,023 3,999
(2014:399,908,379ordinarysharesof1penceeach)
TheCompanyhasoneclassofordinarysharewhichcarriesnorighttofixedincome.
Duringthecurrentyear2,418,132shareswereissued,ofwhich511,197sharesrelatedtotheacquisitionofRhythm
NewMediaInc.,541,408shareswereissuedrelatedtoexerciseofemployeeshareoptions,1,258,973shareswereissued
relatedtorestrictedstockunits,and106,554sharesrelatedtoconsiderationfortheacquisitionofBurstMedia
Corporation.(2014:37,500,770shareswereissued,ofwhich20,000,000relatedtotheDecember2013shareplacement,
8,269,834shareswereissuedrelatedtoexerciseofemployeeshareoptionsand228,542relatedtoconsiderationforthe
acquisitionofBurstMediaCorporation).
35 SHAREPREMIUM
SHARE
PREMIUM
£’000
Balanceat31March2013 57,989
Premiumarisingonissueofequityshares,netofcosts 40,070
Balanceat31March2014 98,059
Premiumarisingonissueofequityshares,netofcosts 37
Balanceat31March2015 98,096
36 RETAINEDEARNINGS
£’000
Balanceat31March2013 (4,986)
Netlossfortheyear (2,550)
Balanceat31March2014 (7,536)
Netprofitfortheyear 2,155
Balanceat31March2015 (5,381)
76 37 SHARE-BASEDPAYMENTS
Seenote23,ShareBasedPaymentsEquitySettledShareOptionSchemes.
38 NOTESTOTHECASHFLOWSTATEMENT
YEARENDED
31MARCH2015
£’000
YEARENDED
31MARCH2014
£’000
CashFlowFromOperatingActivities
Profit/(loss)fromoperations 6,212 (3,198)
Foreignexchange(gains)/loss (4,057) 623
OPERATINGCASHFLOWSBEFOREMOVEMENTSINWORKINGCAPITAL 2,155 (2,575)
Decrease/(increase)inamountsduefromtogroupundertakings (19,287) 7,912
(Increase)/Decreaseinreceivables - 23
Decreaseinpayables 77 (47)
CASHGENERATEDBY/(USEDIN)OPERATIONS (17,055) 5,313
77 SHAREHOLDERINFORMATIONANDADVISORS
REGISTRARS AND BLINKX SHAREHOLDER SERVICES
Alladministrativeinquiriesregardingshareholdingssuchasquestionsaboutlostsharecertificatesshouldbedirected
totheCompany’sregistrarsasfollows:
ComputershareInvestorServicesPLC
ThePavilions
BridgwaterRoad
Bristol
BS996ZY
UK
Tel:+448707071593
email:web.queries@computershare.co.uk
STOCK EXCHANGES
blinkx’sordinarysharesarelistedontheLondonStockExchange(AIM)underthesymbol“BLNX.”blinkxdoesnot
maintainlistingsonanyotherstockexchanges.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS
TopicsfeaturedinthisAnnualReportcanbefoundviatheblinkxhomepageontheInternet(http://www.blinkx.com).
Financialresults,newsonblinkxproducts,servicesandotheractivitiescanalsobefoundviathataddress.
ADVISORS/AUDITOR
AIMNOMINATED
ADVISORANDBROKER CO-BROKER INVESTORRELATIONS
PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP CitigroupGlobalMarkets NumisSecuritiesLimited FTIConsulting,Inc.
TheAtrium CitigroupCentre TheLondonStock 200Aldersgate
1HarefieldRoad CanadaSquare ExchangeBuilding AldersgateStreet
Uxbridge,UB81EX CanaryWharf 10PaternosterSquare London,EC1A4HD
UnitedKingdom London,E145LB LondonEC4M7LT UnitedKingdom
UnitedKingdom
CORPORATELEGALADVISORS REGISTEREDOFFICE
Bird&BirdLLP DLAPiperLLP 40DukesPlace
15FetterLane 2000UniversityAvenue London
London,EC4A1JP EastPaloAlto,CA94303 EC3A7NH
UnitedKingdom USA UnitedKingdom
Headquarters:OneMarketPlaza,SpearTowerSuite1810,SanFrancisco,CA94105,USA
//Tel:+1(415)655-1450//Fax:+1(415)665-1440
78 GLOSSARY
AdExchange–Anonlinemarketplaceforadvertisersandpublisherstobuyandsellinventory,oftenthroughreal-time
auctions.
AdNetwork–AcompanythathasdealswithadvertisersandpublisherstomanuallybuyandselladsacrosstheWeb.
AdServer–Companywhosetechnologyrelaysanadbuytoawebsiteandreportsonhowitperformed.
AgencyTradingDesk–Adivisionwithinanadagencyfocusedonbuyingadsusingadtechnology.
AudienceExtension–Sometimescalled“look-alikemodeling,”aprocessthattakesaknownaudiencesegmentand
catalogsvarioussharedcharacteristicsthatcanbeusedtotargetpeoplewhobearsimilarities.
AudienceVerification–Third-partyreportingtoprovidesvalidationthatasite,andtheadsonit,reachalegitimate,
verifiableaudience.
BehavioralTargeting–Showingadstopeoplebasedonthetypeofsitestheyvisit.
ClickThroughRate(CTR)–Measureofhowmanypeopleclickedonanadorapieceofdigitalcontent.Usedasaproxyto
determinethelevelofengagementoftheadorcontentbytheconsumer.
ConnectedTV–Televisionsetsandset-topboxeswithbuilt-inintegrationofWebfeatures,suchasstreamingservicesand
apps.AlsoknownasSmartTVs.
Cookie–Identifierattachedtoaperson’sInternetbrowsertotrackthesiteheorshevisits.
CostPerClick(CPC)–Representsthecostanadvertiserpayseachtimeauserclicksontheirad.
CostPerDownload/Install(CPD/CPI)–Representsthecostanadvertiser/softwareproviderpayseachtimeaconsumer
downloadsorinstallstheirsoftware.
CostPerMille/ThousandAdvertisingImpressions(CPM)–Representsthecostofanadvertisingplacementdividedbythe
numberofimpressionsgenerated(inthousands).
CostPerView(CPV)–Thepriceanadvertiserpaysforasingleviewoftheircontentorad,typicallymeasuredandpricedin
incrementsofonethousandviews.
Data-ManagementPlatform(DMP)–Companythatprovidestechnologytostoreandcatalogmarketerdata.
Demand–Advertisers’needforadvertisinginventorytoplacetheiradsondigitalproperties.Typicallyrepresentedby
volume,priceandadformatforaspecifiedtimeframe.Demandistypicallyexecutedonbehalfofadvertisersbytheir
agencywhomayalsouseaseriesofintermediaries,suchastradingdesks,DemandSidePlatformsandadvertising
exchangestoexecuteadcampaigns.
DemandSidePlatform(DSP)–Acompanythatprovidestechnologyformediabuyerstopurchaseadplacements,typically
viabidsinexchange’sreal-timeauctions.
First-PartyData–Datathatacompanyhascollecteddirectly,likearetailer’slistofloyaltymembers.
FraudulentAdvertising–Whenacompanyknowinglyservesadsthatnoonewillactuallyseeasawaytodrive“views”and
revenue(AdFraud).
Geo-targeting–Showingadstopeoplebasedontheirmobiledevice’slocation;ZIPcodeinformationtheysubmitwhen
registeringforasite/service;orGPScoordinatescollectedbyasite/service.
Hashing–Awayforseparatecompaniestomatchtheirdatasetswithouteithersidebeingabletoaccesstheother’sdata.
IdentifierforAdvertisers(IDFAorIFA)–Atemporarydeviceidentifierusedonmobiledevicesfortargetedadvertising,
whichprovidesdeviceidentificationwithoutcompromisingpersonallyidentifiableinformation.ReplacesApple’sUnique
Identifier(UDID)andAndroidIDandusedinsteadofcookiesthatarecommonondesktopdevices.
Impression–Measureofthenumberoftimesanadisseen.
In-Stream–Anadthatappearswithinapieceofcontent.
MobileApps–Specializedcomputerprogramsdesignedtorunonsmartphones,tabletsandothermobiledevices.
MobileWeb–AccesstotheWebfromahandheldmobiledevice,suchasasmartphoneortablet.
Pixel–Apieceofcodeplacedonwebsitessocompaniescanrecognizewhichcookieshavealreadybeendroppedona
person’sbrowserandputinnewcookies.
79 ProgrammaticDirect–Anadbuydonedirectlybetweenapublisherandadvertiserthroughautomatedad-buyingsystems.
Real-TimeBidding(RTB)–Thepurchaseandsaleofadsthroughcomputer-runauctionsthathappenwithinmilliseconds.
Retargeting–Showinganadtoapersonwhovisitedyoursitewhilethatpersonisvisitinganothersite.
Second-PartyData–Whenacompanymakesitsfirst-partydatadirectlyavailabletoanothercompany.
Supply–Advertisinginventoryofferedbypublishersorownersofdigitalproperties.Typicallysupplyisrepresentedby
volume,priceandadformatforaspecifiedtimeperiod.Supplymaybeofferedupdirectlybytheownersoftheinventory
(ownedandoperatedsupply)orthroughaseriesofintermediaries(suchasadnetworks,exchangesandSupplySide
Platforms).
SupplySidePlatform(SSP)–Anad-techcompanythatworkswithpublisherstohelpthemselltheirinventoryatscale.
Third-PartyData–Informationthatacompanycollectsindirectly(suchasthroughcookies)oraggregatedfromothers
(suchascreditcardcompaniesandmagazinepublishers)andthensellstoadbuyerstoaidintargeting.
Traffic–TheresultoftheactofbrowsingtheInternetorotherdigitalpropertiesbyconsumers.Suchbrowsingbehavior
generatesadvertisinginventory.Usedasaproxyforthevolumeandlevelofuserattentionorengagementandtypically
pricedandaggregatedintoandsoldasaudiencestoagencieswhorepresentadvertisers.
Unique-User/DeviceID–Identifierassignedtoadeviceoruserthatlastsuntilthedeviceinresetortheaccountis
deleted.
Viewability–Measuringanadtomakesurethatitwasvisibletotheuser.Theindustryismovingtowardthisasanew
standardforimpression.
VTR(View-ThroughRate)–Themeasurementofhowmanypeoplesawanadandeventuallyvisitedtheadvertiser’ssite.
80 [THISPAGEINTENTIONALLYLEFTBLANK] [THISPAGEINTENTIONALLYLEFTBLANK] ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015 BLINKX
BLINKX ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015
Headquarters: 
One Market Plaza 
Spear Tower, Suite 1810 
San Francisco, CA 94105 
USA 
Tel: +1 415 655 1450 
