  B u il d in g  
 a le ad i n g  
 h ealt h c a r e  
 b u si n e ss
BT G plc Annual Report  
and Accounts 20 1 5
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 About BTG
At BTG we are focused on 
bringing to market innovative 
products in specialist areas  
of medicine to serve doctors  
and patients better . 
Our growing portfolio of Interventional Medicine products is designed  
to advance the treatment of liver tumours, advanced emphysema,  
severe blood clots and varicose veins, while our Specialty Pharmaceuticals  
portfolio offers antidotes that alleviate toxicity and treat rare conditions.
Healthcare is constantly evolving – so BTG never stands still.  
Inspired by a deep understanding of our customers’ needs, we’ re  
working to meaningfully improve the lives of patients and their  
healthcare experience.
Our competitive advantage is our dedication to finding smart,  
often unconventional solutions to complex medical problems.  
Many of our products combine medicines, device technology  
and new techniques in order to deliver more targeted treatments.  
We also invest in the clinical evidence that helps demonstrate the  
value of our products to doctors, patients and healthcare systems.
Whether developed in our own labs or in partnership with  
clinicians, academics and other companies, we believe passionately  
that medical innovation has the power to improve human health.
Imagine where we can go.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Contents
Strategic Report
At a glance 02
Business model 03
Chairman’s statement 04
Chief Executive Officer’s review  06
Delivering our growth strategy: Geographic expansion 08
Delivering our growth strategy: Indication expansion 10
Delivering our growth strategy: Product innovation 1 2
Delivering our growth strategy: Expanding our business: PneumRx 1 4
Our objectives  16
Group financial review 20
Market overview  24
Our business model  26
Corporate responsibility  30
Risk management and principal risks  33
Governance
Board of Directors 38
Corporate governance report 40
Audit Committee report 50
Nomination Committee report  54
Directors’ remuneration report 56
Directors’ report  76
Statement of directors’ responsibilities  78
Financials
Independent auditor’s report 80
Consolidated income statement 83
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 84
Consolidated statement of financial position 85
Consolidated statement of cash flows 86
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 87
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 88
Company statement of financial position 1 24
Company statement of cash flows 1 25
Company statement of changes in equity 1 25
Notes to the Company financial statements 1 26
Five year financial record 1 29
Shareholder information 1 3 1
Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements 1 32
 02 – 3 6
 3 7 –7 8
 7 9– 13 2
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
02
Strategic 
Report
37 
Governance
79
Financials W e are a fast growing specialist healthcare  
company , headquartered in London and  
employing over 1 , 1 00 people worldwide. 
W e operate in three discrete business segments: 
Interventional Medicine (IM) ( oncology , vascular and 
pulmonology products ), Specialty Pharmaceuticals 
(antidote products ) and Licensing (royalties from 
licensed assets ).
Business segments
Medical discipline Product Medical use Geographic  
availability
Interventional Medicine
Read more on page 24
Oncology Beads Liver tumours US, EU, Asia
TheraSphere
®
Liver tumours US, EU, Asia
Vascular EkoSonic
®
Severe blood clots US, EU
Varithena
®
Moderate to severe  
varicose veins
US
Pulmonology RePneu
® 
Coil Emphysema US, EU, Asia
Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals
Read more on page 25
Acute care,  
antidote 
products
CroFab
®
Crotalid snakebites US
DigiFab
®
Digoxin toxicity US, EU, Aus
Voraxaze
®
High-dose methotrexate 
toxicity
US, EU
Licensing
Read more on page 25
Royalties from 
out-licensed 
intellectual 
property
Abiraterone acetate 
(Zytiga
®
)
Advanced prostate cancer Global
Alemtuzumab 
(Lemtrada
™
)
Multiple sclerosis Global
T wo-Part Hip Cup Hip replacement Global
02
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
BTG at a glance Business model overview
W e create value by acquiring, developing, 
manufacturing and commercialising innovative 
products that meet the needs of specialist 
physicians and their patients.
Business model
Core purpose
T o advance the treatment of 
underserved patient populations  
by bringing to market innovative 
medical products.
Read more on page 26
Key activities
Key activities include identifying unmet 
medical needs, acquiring and developing 
innovative products, manufacturing 
those products to the highest  
standards and selling them directly  
or commercialising through partners.
Read more on pages 28 to 29
Our objectives
Our near and medium-term corporate 
objectives focus on delivering our 
financial targets, developing products 
for our stakeholders, improving our 
operating efficiency and investing  
for growth.
Read more on pages 1 6 to 1 9
Group financial key performance indicators (KPIs)
Revenue
£36 7.8m
Contribution
£ 128.3m
Operating profit
1
£6 7.9m
Adjusted EPS
1
 15 . 7 p
2013/1 4: £290.5m 201 3/1 4: £111.5m 2013/1 4: £62.3m 201 3/14: 14.5p
+27% +1 5% +9% +8%
1  Excluding acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs.
Operating effi  ciency
Financial management
Delivering products
Investing for growth
Core  
purpose
Customer insight
Acquire & develop
Commercialise
Manufacture
For more details on Group financial KPIs see page 1 7
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
03
Strategic 
Report “ We have had a very good year , 
executing our growth strategy and 
building the organisational capability  
and capacity to deliver sustainable, 
profitable growth.”
Garry Watts
Chairman
I am delighted to say the business has performed very well in 
201 4/1 5. We have achieved a number of key milestones over 
the year and we are well positioned for sustainable growth.
Strong revenue growth has enabled us to make investments  
to expand our commercial footprint, develop our pipeline  
of innovative products and build a portfolio of innovative and 
patient-centric products.
Within Interventional Medicine, a new, dedicated US sales 
force commenced selling Varithena
®
, our novel varicose veins 
treatment, in August 201 4. We expanded our European sales 
force for TheraSphere
®
, the radiation therapy for liver cancer, 
from three to 25 people and subsequently started selling 
DC Bead
®
 for the treatment of liver tumours, through the same 
sales force in April 201 5. DC Bead
®
 was approved in China,  
and we started selling the product directly in T aiwan.
In January 201 5 we completed the acquisition of 
PneumRx, Inc. which makes the RePneu
®
 Coil system, 
a minimally invasive treatment for advanced emphysema. 
PneumRx offers an exciting growth opportunity and expands 
our expertise into Interventional Pulmonology, an emerging 
medical discipline. Currently available in Europe, this product 
also has significant potential in the US through a fully 
recruited pivotal clinical trial that could lead to marketing 
approval in late 2016.
We also invested in our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business 
to maintain our leadership position in rescue therapies. 
In October 201 4 we settled our patent action against parties 
we believed were infringing our patent on the US snakebite 
treatment CroFab
®
, removing uncertainty for our investors 
and allowing us to concentrate on continuing to deliver this 
first-class treatment to our customers and their patients.
Further details of operating progress during the year are 
provided throughout the strategic review and the 
performance against our corporate objectives is described 
on pages 16 to 1 9.
BT G has reported another strong financial 
performance and is well positioned to deliver 
sustainable returns through investment in  
multiple growth drivers. 
04
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Chairman’ s statement Governance
Achieving high standards of governance is fundamental 
to the successful growth of our business. During the year, 
we acquired PneumRx and have rapidly incorporated that 
business into our governance framework. We have also 
paid particular attention to the geographic expansion 
of the business, to ensure uniform standards apply 
wherever we operate.
The governance performance of the Board was evaluated 
by independent consultants during the year. We have made 
good progress in areas we identified for improvement at the 
time of the last evaluation three years ago, and we have new 
areas to focus on. Further details can be found in the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 37 to 78.
Oversight of our risk management processes remains 
a priority. We provide an update on our approach and the 
key areas of focus in the Risk Report on pages 33 to 36.
Strong leadership and  
dedicated employees
Our company has changed significantly over recent 
years as we have grown organically and through acquisition. 
The successful transformation of our business to date is 
a result of the hard work, enthusiasm and dedication of our 
employees. My thanks go to them and to our shareholders, 
who have continued to support the business through a period 
of investment and growth.
I would also like to thank my Board colleagues and the 
Leadership T eam for their guidance and oversight of the 
business, in particular Melanie Lee who has expanded her 
involvement with the Company as its first Chief Scientific 
Officer and as a consequence has retired from the Board 
after four years of service. Dr Susan Foden joined the Board 
in March 201 5. Susan has an excellent track record in the 
field of Biotech and Healthcare and her extensive industry 
experience will be a great asset to BTG.
Outlook
The healthcare industry is competitive. Our strategy for 
success is to find specialist areas where we can become 
a commercial and technological leader by delivering 
clinically proven, differentiated treatment options to 
specialist physicians and underserved patient populations. 
This approach has led us to become a leading provider of 
rescue medicines and it is now enabling us to become a 
leader in Interventional Medicine, where favourable macro 
trends and our investment strategy support the growth of 
our portfolio of innovative and patient-centric products.
This is an exciting time for BTG. As we implement our organic 
growth plans in Interventional Medicine, we are continuing 
to seek new opportunities that complement our existing 
platforms and capabilities to ensure the sustainable, 
profitable growth of our business.
Garry Watts
Chairman
BTG share price performance vs FTSE 250 index in pence
700
400
100
BTG
Mar-09 Mar-15 Mar-14 Mar-13 Mar-12 Mar-11
Source: Thomson Reuters
Mar-10
FTSE 250 Index
 
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in BTG plc on 31 March 2009 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index on the same date. The other 
points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
05
Strategic 
Report “ We have built our company to  
have the characteristics for success 
in today’ s healthcare environment, 
creating a scalable platform that  
will enable us to continue to grow  
over the long term.”
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
A leader in Interventional Medicine
Following recent acquisitions, the commercial launch of 
Varithena
®
 and the growth of our Interventional Oncology 
products, BTG is a leading company in the fast growing world 
of Interventional Medicine. During the year we added to our 
portfolio with the acquisition of PneumRx and its RePneu
®
 
Coil system, a leading interventional product in the treatment 
of advanced emphysema. This acquisition gave us a third  
area to our Interventional Medicine business: Interventional 
Pulmonology , a growing medical discipline. 
We now have the platform to deliver our goal of organic  
growth in the Interventional Medicine business from revenue 
of approximately $200m today to over $ 1.25bn by 2021. This 
will be achieved through continued geographic expansion, 
product innovation and indication expansion. See pages 8 to 
1 3 for more details.
Delivering this growth target requires a commitment to 
investment in product innovation and development, in 
expanding our commercial footprint and in our people. 
As we have grown we have created a company culture that will 
enable us to capitalise on the opportunities offered by today’s 
healthcare environment. Alongside our financial resources, 
this gives us a scalable platform for sustainable value creation.
Underpinning our financial investments are the highly cash 
generative Specialty Pharmaceutical and Licensing segments. 
In the former we guide to mid single-digit revenue growth and 
the latter , which is no longer an active strategy , continues to 
provide a solid financial underpin to the business.
Creating value through acquisitions
BTG has a strong track record of expansion through 
acquisitions. We have clear criteria when considering 
our opportunities. In addition to being able to generate 
an appropriate return on investment for our shareholders, 
we look for opportunities that bring us new capabilities 
and expertise, and that provide a platform for further growth. 
In January 201 5 we completed the acquisition of PneumRx 
for an initial cash consideration of $23 1 m. PneumRx owns, 
manufactures and distributes the RePneu
®
 Coil System. 
This complements our Interventional Medicine business by 
expanding into an exciting and fast-growing area of medicine 
that uses a minimally invasive product, backed by clinical 
data, and which provides access to a specialty physician base.
See pages 1 4 and 1 5 for more details.
Through organic growth and acquisitions,  
BT G is delivering on its strategy to become 
a world leader in Interventional Medicine. 
Key events and achievements in 201 4/1 5
1 .   E k o So n i c
®
 receives FDA clearance to treat 
pulmonary embolism, May 20 1 4
2.   First commercial patient treated with 
Varithena
®
, August 20 1 4
3.   DC Bead
®
 approved in China for the  
treatment of hypervascularised tumours, 
August 20 14
4.  Acquisition of PneumRx, January 20 1 5
06
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Chief Executive Officer’ s review Patient-centric treatment options
During the year we initiated our controlled US launch  
of Varithena
®
, the first and only FDA approved microfoam  
for the treatment of great saphenous vein (GSV) system 
incompetence. The first commercial patients were treated  
in August 201 4 and feedback from both patients and 
physicians has been very encouraging. More than 420 
physicians are progressing through qualification, with over 
21 5 having treated patients or in the process of scheduling 
patients for treatment. We are increasing our sales force as 
we expand physician outreach.
As a new product and procedure operating with interim 
reimbursement codes, with permanent codes not anticipated 
until approximately two years post-launch, we are providing 
support to help ensure the appropriate level of reimbursement 
for each procedure. T o date, payers who insure approximately 
50 million Americans (of 320 million people with insurance 
coverage) have established favourable insurance coverage 
policies and have paid claims at the appropriate rates for both 
the product and the procedure.
Our controlled launch strategy is designed to ‘build the 
system’ to demonstrate the product’s clinical profile 
and patient acceptability, and to establish a smooth 
reimbursement process. This lays the foundations for us to 
target a $500m+ global Varithena
®
 franchise, which will result 
from expanding access to additional clinics, gaining dedicated 
reimbursement codes, developing the self-pay market and 
progressing indication and geographic expansion plans. 
In May 201 5, BTG purchased the residual financial interest of 
the originator of the Varithena
®
 foam sclerotherapy technology 
for a one-off cash payment of £23m, ensuring that BTG retains 
100% of the future value of Varithena
®
.
Sales of our EkoSonic
®
 blood clot treatment device continue 
to grow strongly, driven largely by a greater awareness of 
the potential benefits of interventional treatment over the 
standard anticoagulation therapy. The 510(k) clearance 
received in May 201 4 to treat patients with pulmonary 
embolism makes this the only device on the market with 
such a label, giving us a competitive advantage. 
Since combining the Beads and TheraSphere
®
 sales forces in 
the US, we now have an established Interventional Oncology 
franchise that is uniquely positioned to offer the two main 
intravascular locoregional treatment modalities for primary 
liver cancer. Subsequently, we have expanded our direct sales 
force in the EU for TheraSphere
®
 which, from April 201 5, has 
also sold our Bead products and again gives us the distinctive 
opportunity to adopt a patient-centric approach.
Future growth
Expanding the global reach of our products is fundamental 
to our organic growth plans. In addition to our European 
expansion, we are building our commercial offering in Asia. 
We gained approval for DC Bead
®
 in China, where our partner 
SciClone Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is now preparing for market 
launch. In T aiwan we established a direct sales force and 
opened an office in Hong Kong to provide support in 
commercial, medical and regulatory affairs for the region.
For Varithena
®
, we are exploring options to gain approval 
in other geographic markets and our file has been accepted 
for review by Health Canada. We are also making investments 
to take EkoSonic
®
 into more EU territories. 
Investing in clinical studies and expanding the approved 
uses of our products should also drive future growth. A fully 
recruited trial in the US for the RePneu
®
 Coil could lead to US 
approval in late 2016 and would provide access to a significant 
market opportunity. We are investing in a study to expand the 
label for EkoSonic
®
 into the treatment of chronic deep vein 
thrombosis and post-thrombotic syndrome. We are 
accelerating three Phase III trials of TheraSphere
®
 that are 
intended to gain pre-market approval (PMA) in the US for 
treating patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC) and to support PMA approval as a second-line 
treatment for patients with metastatic tumours in the 
liver from colorectal cancer (mCRC).
Our innovation team continues to work in collaboration 
with physicians and key opinion leaders (KOLs) to identify 
new product development opportunities. A new generation 
of the EkoSonic
®
 control unit will allow bilateral treatment 
of pulmonary embolism for the first time. Within interventional 
oncology we are working on ways to innovate our Bead products.
The following pages describe how we are 
delivering our growth strategy through:
• Geographic expansion
Pages 08 and 09
• Indication expansion
Pages 1 0 and 1 1
• Product innovation
Pages 1 2 and 1 3
• Acquisitions
Pages 1 4 and 1 5
Values and people
BTG is a rapidly growing company and key to our success 
is the quality of our people and the way we conduct our 
business. Everything we do is guided by our values and 
behaviours, which are designed to underpin and foster 
a culture of always doing the right thing for the business 
and its stakeholders. See page 30 for more details.
Outlook
We are making good progress against our growth plans and 
this is underlined by the consistent delivery of our financial 
goals. With our portfolio of technologically leading products, 
we are confident that our strategy will enable us to succeed in 
today’s healthcare environment and that we can continue to 
build significant value in the business for all our stakeholders. 
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
07
Strategic 
Report  G e o gr ap h i c 
expansion
T aking Interventional Medicine to new territories 
W e have built a platform for international expansion 
of our Interventional Medicine business. W e develop 
optimum regulatory pathways to gain product 
approvals in new markets that present significant 
commercial opportunities, which we then address 
by establishing our own direct sales forces or  
through distributor networks. 
08
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Delivering our growth strategy New Hong Kong  
office strengthens  
our global presence
Establishing a  
new direct sales  
force in Europe
3. Direct sales in T aiwan
In the year we completed recruitment of a direct sales 
force in T aiwan to sell our embolic and chemoembolising 
beads. T aiwan represents an important early step in our Asia 
strategy; it has a large addressable market for our products 
and a healthcare system that supports the use of advanced 
treatment options.
4. Increasing our European  
commercial footprint
During the year we significantly expanded our direct sales 
force for TheraSphere
®
 in major European markets and 
in April 201 5 this team also commenced direct sales of 
DC Bead
®
 and Bead Block
®
. We are unique in providing 
both main locoregional treatment modalities to our European 
customers. This patient-centric approach with physicians 
provides us with valuable insights into treatment practice 
and unmet medical needs that will help guide our future 
innovation and development focus. 
“ We are expanding our commercial 
operations into new markets that 
represent an important opportunity  
for us.”
Duncan Kennedy
Head of Interventional Oncology
1 . Support hub established for Asia
Asian countries have become important markets for medical 
products manufacturers as economic growth has led to wider 
access to healthcare and has fuelled demand for the best 
treatments available. BTG’s oncology products are relevant 
to Asian countries owing to the high prevalence of hepatitis B 
and therefore liver cancer. T o support our expansion in Asia we 
have opened a new office in Hong Kong, which serves as a hub 
to support commercial, regulatory and medical affairs across 
the region.
2. DC Bead
®
 approved in China
In August 201 4 the China Food and Drug Administration 
approved DC Bead
®
 for the embolisation of malignant 
hypervascularised tumours. Approximately half of the 
world’s liver cancer patients are in China and there is a 
great interest among Chinese physicians to offer new, 
differentiated treatment options. Following this approval, 
our partner SciClone Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is progressing 
launch activities.
Taiwan
South Korea
Japan
China
Hong Kong
New regional  
regulatory and  
medical hub
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
09
Strategic 
Report  I nd i c a t i on  
 e x p a n si o n
Maximising the potential  
of our current portfolio 
W e are investing in clinical trials in  
specific patient populations to expand  
the approved uses and addressable  
patient populations of our products,  
and to provide the high quality efficacy  
and safety data that give physicians  
confidence when treating their patients.
10
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Delivering our growth strategy 1. EkoSonic
®
 cleared to treat PE
Pulmonary embolism (PE) occurs in approximately 600,000 
patients annually in the US, causing or contributing to around 
200,000 deaths each year, which is approximately 1 5% of all 
hospital deaths. Improved outcomes were demonstrated 
for PE patients treated with our EkoSonic
®
 Endovascular 
System in a clinical study that led to the US FDA clearing the 
device for the treatment of PE in May 201 4. EkoSonic
®
 is the 
only interventional blood clot treatment product with a label 
to treat PE.
2. Chronic DVT /PTS study underway
If a clot does not dissolve within a few weeks it can 
permanently damage both the vein and the valves that 
control blood flow in limbs, creating the condition known 
as post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS). An estimated 50% 
of patients with chronic deep vein thrombosis (DVT) may 
develop PTS, which can impact quality of life and lead 
to long-term disability. An ongoing study in the US is 
evaluating whether PTS symptoms improve after 
treatment with EkoSonic
®
.
3. TheraSphere
®
 Phase III clinical trials
Patients are currently being enrolled in three Phase III 
clinical trials of TheraSphere
®
, which is approved in the 
EU and Canada to treat liver tumours and in the US under 
a Humanitarian Device Exemption to treat patients with 
unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most 
common form of primary liver cancer. The trials are designed 
to secure PMAs in the US for treating unresectable HCC  
and as a second-line treatment for metastatic colorectal 
cancer (mCRC).
4. Bringing RePneu
®
 to the US
The RePneu
®
 Coil System is intended to improve exercise 
capacity , lung function and quality of life in patients with 
both heterogeneous and homogeneous emphysema. 
Approved in the EU in late 20 1 0, a fully recruited pivotal 
Phase III trial in the US is expected to lead to submission of 
a PMA application, which has been granted fast-track review 
status by the FDA, and may lead to approval in late 20 1 6. There 
are more than five million people in the US and the major five 
EU markets with advanced emphysema, who presently have 
limited treatment options.
5. Varithena
®
 label expansion
We are exploring regulatory pathways to develop variations 
of our Varithena
®
 product. These include one for use in treating 
aesthetic leg veins and another for treating a serious venous 
condition that occurs in other parts of the body. Both these 
require clinical studies to establish safety and efficacy, 
and could lead to new product launches from 201 7 .
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
11
Strategic 
Report Product 
innovation
Developing breakthrough technologies 
W e are building a strong reputation for our 
commitment to innovation. It’ s what drives 
our partnership with clinicians, researchers 
and other c ompanies. W e start with the needs 
of patients and an in-depth knowledge of our 
customers; we build or acquire the requisite 
technology solutions and then we deliver 
products that make a real difference to 
specialist physicians and their patients. 
Whether it’ s spotting opportunities 
to improve our existing products 
or identifying new unmet needs, 
we are constantly learning  
from our partners. 
12
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Delivering our growth strategy An in-depth  
knowledge of  
our customers
Expanding our 
Interventional  
Medicine portfolio
1 . Imageable bead
We are working on a radiopaque visible bead for the treatment 
of hypervascularised tumours that will help physicians 
more precisely identify bead location and potential areas 
of undertreatment both during and after the procedure.
2. Bioresorbable bead
For the use in non-malignant tumours such as uterine 
fibroids or benign prostate hyperplasia where life expectancy 
is not threatened in the same way as primary liver cancer, our 
innovation team is developing a biodegradable bead product 
that will treat the tumour and then be absorbed by the body 
over time. 
3. Advancing the treatment  
of severe blood clots
The latest generation of our EkoSonic
®
 control unit is smaller 
in size to aid portability and convenience in the ICU. It has a 
clearer , touch screen user interface for ease of use during 
treatment. The increased power and second catheter allows 
physicians to treat bilateral cases of pulmonary embolism with 
one control unit instead of needing two control units previously.
“ Innovation is a continuous process 
at BTG. We are constantly looking 
for ways to develop our pipeline and 
deliver new treatment options to our 
customers and their patients.”
Melanie Lee
Chief Scientific Officer
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
13
Strategic 
Report Expanding 
our business: 
PneumRx
Leading the interventional  
treatment of advanced 
emphysema with the RePneu
®
  
Coil System 
In January 20 1 5 BT G  
completed the acquisition  
of PneumRx, a growing  
interventional pulmonology  
business headquartered  
in Mountain View , California. 
14
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Delivering our growth strategy Acquisition of PneumRx 
Through its acquisition of PneumRx, BTG owns, 
manufactures and distributes the RePneu
®
 Endobronchial 
Coil, an implantable shape-memory Nitinol device that 
is designed to increase exercise capacity, lung function,  
and quality of life in patients with advanced emphysema. 
The Coil is designed to improve the lung’s elasticity, holding 
small airways open and preventing airway collapse during 
exhalation. T reatment with the RePneu
®
 Coil has been 
shown in European clinical studies to improve quality 
of life for emphysema patients.
Market opportunity for the interventional 
treatment of emphysema
Emphysema is a progressive disease in which the natural 
architecture of the lungs is damaged and lung function 
declines. There are more than 10 million people in the US 
and five largest EU countries diagnosed with emphysema, 
resulting in a significant economic burden on healthcare 
systems from in-patient and out-patient care costs. There is 
no cure, and the current standard of care involving drug and 
supplemental oxygen therapy becomes much less effective  
at relieving symptoms over time.
RePneu
®
 is sold in 1 1 European countries including Germany, 
Switzerland, Italy and Spain. A fully recruited US pivotal 
clinical trial has the potential to lead to US approval in 
late 2016.
Strategic fit
• Complements our Interventional Medicine business, 
providing access to the developing medical area of 
Interventional Pulmonology
• Adds RePneu
®
, a minimally invasive, clinically proven 
product that is used by a specialist physician base and 
addresses a market with high unmet needs and significant 
growth potential
• Enhances our European commercial platform and provides 
a significant US opportunity
• Provides a platform for further growth with annual sales 
potential over $250m
“ PneumRx brings a clinically  
proven product that can make a 
real difference to the lives of people 
with advanced emphysema and 
is a significant addition to our 
Interventional Medicine portfolio.”
Matt Gantz
Head of Interventional Pulmonology
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
15
Strategic 
Report W e set corporate objectives to measure the 
performance of the business, grouped into  
four main categories: financial metrics; delivering 
products for our key stakeholders; operational 
efficiency and investing for growth. The financial 
metrics all measure performance during the year; 
other objectives span a number of years and should 
demonstrate progress towards our 20 2 1 goals. 
Four key objectives
1 . Financial management
2. Delivering products for our key stakeholders
Progress against priorities set for 201 4/1 5 
Achieved 6 Ongoing 2
3. Operating efficiency
Progress against priorities set for 201 4/1 5 
Achieved 3 Ongoing 1
4. Investing for growth
Progress against priorities set for 201 4/1 5 
Achieved 2 Ongoing 4
Read more on page 1 7
Read more on page 1 8
Read more on page 1 9
Read more on page 1 9
Linking our objectives  
to our business model
See pages 26 to 29 for more information about our business model.
16
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Our objectives Objective 1 
Financial management
We monitor several financial KPIs related to delivery of our annual and longer-term goals. 
From this year we will report revenue, contribution, operating profit and earnings per share (EPS). 
This change in our approach reflects BTG’ s maturing financial profile and progress in delivering 
sustainable profitable growth. Similar metrics are also used in the Group’ s various incentive plans.
See pages 56 to 75 in the directors’ remuneration report
Progress in 20 1 4/1 5 Priorities set for 20 1 5/1 6 Key execution risks
Revenue
Revenue increased by 27% to £367 .8m, 
driven by strong growth in the 
Interventional Medicine portfolio.
£367.8m
£290.5m
£233.7m
£197.0m
£111.4m
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
+27%
• Continue to drive double-digit 
organic revenue growth across 
each operating segment. 
• Slower growth or reduced sales 
of interventional and licensed 
products as a result of competitor 
activity, poor uptake by physicians 
or poor reimbursement coverage.
Contribution
Contribution (gross profit less  
SG&A) grew 1 5% to £1 28.3m.  
This reflects our commercial  
growth activities. 
£128.3m
£111.5m
£108.5m
£91.8m
£43.6m
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
+1 5%
 • Manage overheads alongside 
investment in commercial footprint 
to grow contribution margin.
• Failure to control overheads or 
commercial expenses, or higher 
than expected cost of sales.
Operating profit
1
Underlying profitability grew 9% to 
£67 .9m driven by higher sales 
and strict cost control.
£67.9m
£62.3m
£69.0m
£54.0m
£1.7m
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
+9%
• Grow underlying profitability whilst 
managing investments in innovation.
• Higher than expected commercial, 
overhead and innovation and 
development costs.
Adjusted EPS
1
The underlying earnings per share 
rose 8%.
15.7p
14.5p
14.5p
11.4p
1.0p
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
 +8%
• Focus on growing sales, strict 
cost control and demonstrate 
sustainable, progressive underlying 
earnings growth. 
• Lower than expected product  
sales/reimbursement; higher than 
expected costs.
1  Excluding acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
1 7
Strategic 
Report Objective 2 
Delivering products for our key stakeholders
Our goal is to bring to market key products that benefit our customers and their patients. 
We continue to explore innovative solutions to complex medical problems through clinical 
studies and product development. We work closely with regulators and health insurance 
companies to navigate complex processes and we engage with medical communities to  
inform our Innovation and Development programmes.
Progress against priorities  
set for 20 1 4/1 5
Interventional Medicine
• Complete Varithena
®
 US commercial launch
 Achieved
  First commercial patient treated with Varithena
®
  
in August 201 4; controlled launch ongoing
• Progress US self-pay segment, ROW expansion and 
indication expansion plans for Varithena
®
  O ngo i ng
  ROW and indication expansion planned from 201 7
• Deliver EKOS product and pipeline opportunities
  Ac h i e ve d
  FDA granted clearance for EkoSonic
®
 Endovascular System 
to treat pulmonary embolism following successful study 
in May 201 4
• Accelerate TheraSphere
®
 Phase III trials
 Ongoing
  Activation of 66 sites, including first site in Asia 
• Deliver Beads innovation products
 Ongoing
  Imageable bead and Bioresorbable bead under 
development
• Execute Beads, TheraSphere
®
 and EKOS geographic 
expansion plans in EU and Asia
 Ongoing
  Direct sales of IO franchise established in EU and T aiwan. 
Asian hub opened in September 201 4, and DC Bead
®
 
approved in China in August 201 4. Ongoing expansion of 
EKOS in EU
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
• Establish rescue therapy leadership: support growth 
through clinical demonstration of product value, 
customer education
 Achieved
  Copperhead study initiated for CroFab
®
 and patent  
litigation settled. Education materials for DigiFab
®
 
and Voraxaze
®
 
• Supply DigiFab
®
 in Australia
 Achieved
 First patient sales in June 201 4
• Finalising US New Drug Application (NDA) for uridine 
triacetate and develop commercial launch plans
 Ongoing
  Supported Wellstat Therapeutics throughout the NDA 
which will receive priority review by the FDA
Priorities set for 20 1 5/1 6
• Varithena
®
: continue expansion in the US reimbursed 
sector; progress additional indications; progress expansion 
into new geographies
• EkoSonic
®
: deliver US PE market expansion; build US  
DVT /Peripheral Arterial Occlusion (P AO) business; 
implement ROW growth plans
• Interventional Oncology: continue expansion in existing 
territories; execute direct sales transition in EU; progress 
Asian expansion activities; launch new Bead product; 
accelerate TheraSphere
®
 Phase III trials
• RePneu
®
: continue EU expansion; complete US pivotal trial, 
prepare PMA submission and launch activities 
• Specialty Pharmaceuticals: maintain rescue therapy 
leadership by education around optimal product  
usage and optimising commercial footprints; progress  
uridine triacetate launch planning
Key execution risks
• Failure to secure adequate reimbursement in the US or 
elsewhere, could limit product adoption and revenue growth
• Lower growth resulting from competitor activities; failure 
to secure new hospital accounts; failure of clinical trials or 
failure to secure regulatory approvals for new products in 
existing or new geographies
• Failure to optimise commercial strategy would impact 
revenues; delay in submission of PMA for RePneu
® 
or NDA 
for Xuriden
®
 (uridine triacetate) by partner or failure to gain 
approval would delay or remove ability to build sales
18
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Our objectives continued Objective 3 
Operating efficiency
We strive to meet the day-to-day demands 
of a fast growing company . T o achieve this we 
ensure that our internal systems and processes 
are fit for purpose and scalable.
Objective 4 
Investing for growth
At BTG we make sure that we have the 
organisational structure and capabilities 
in place to deliver our growth strategy .
Progress against priorities  
set for 20 1 4/1 5
• Implement electronic document management system (eDMS)
 Achieved 
• Ensure inspection readiness
 Achieved
  Enhanced quality systems and audit processes  
established which have resulted in successful site  
inspections by the FDA and the Medicines and Healthcare 
products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) 
• Embed Environment Health and Safety (EHS) metric 
reporting in the business
 Achieved
• Ensure Sunshine Act and overall healthcare law compliance
 Achieved and ongoing
 Additional progress
• Process Improvement and Process Automation (PIP A) 
project established and implemented across global sites
Priorities set for 20 1 5/1 6
• Compliance: enhance framework and oversight in line 
with global expansion; expand partner/supplier monitoring, 
audit, investigation
• Quality Systems: support compliance throughout 
supply chain; expand inspection-readiness capabilities 
to new sites
• Innovation & Development: enhance portfolio  
management/reporting
Key execution risks
•  Failure to expand third party oversight in a timely fashion or 
effectively could result in potential compliance failures, 
financial penalties or other adverse consequences
•  Failure to ensure supply chain quality compliance or 
inspection readiness could jeopardise product supply
• Failure to continue to improve processes and systems 
could lead to slow development timelines or poor 
investment decisions
• General failure on compliance could result in financial 
exposure and regulatory action
Progress against priorities  
set for 20 1 4/1 5
• Identify/prioritise potential acquisition opportunities in 
Interventional Medicine and Specialty Pharmaceuticals
 Achieved 
  Acquisition of PneumRx, commercial leader in the 
treatment of advanced emphysema
• Implement EU go-direct strategy and Asia expansion plans 
for Interventional Oncology
 Achieved
  European direct sales force established for Interventional 
Oncology franchise
  Asian hub opened in Hong Kong to support commercial, 
medical and regulatory affairs. Direct sales commenced 
in Taiwan
 Additional progress
• Internal reorganisation and hiring made in commercial, 
medical and regulatory affairs
Priorities set for 20 1 5/1 6
• Sustainability: prioritise Innovation & Development 
portfolio to deliver near- and long-term goals; identify 
opportunities to expand product portfolio through  
in-licensing/acquisition; progress prioritised 
environmental efficiency activities
• Organisational capabilities: optimise Learning & 
Development agenda; create development opportunities 
aligned with growth strategy
Key execution risks
• Failure to deliver innovative products or to expand indicated 
uses of products would limit growth potential; failure to 
expand portfolio would limit longer-term growth potential; 
failure to continue to improve environmental performance 
could lead to higher energy costs and reputational damage
• Failure to provide appropriate development opportunities 
could lead to poor motivation and loss of skilled employees
Read more about risk management and principal risks on pages 33 to 36
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
19
Strategic 
Report “ We have delivered another  
good financial performance,  
reflecting the ongoing execution  
of our growth strategy .”
Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Financial Officer
Revenue
Group revenue grew 27% to £367 .8m (201 3/1 4: £290.5m). 
Each business segment delivered strong double-digit 
percentage growth: recurring Interventional Medicine revenue 
was 44% higher at £1 1 2.7m (201 3/1 4: £78.4m), revenue 
in Specialty Pharmaceuticals increased by 1 8% to £1 21. 1 m 
(201 3/1 4: £102.3m) and Licensing revenues grew by 23% 
to £1 34.0m (201 3/1 4: £109. 1 m). When adjusting for constant 
currency and allowing for the full year impact of EKOS and 
TheraSphere
® 
acquisitions, like-for-like revenue growth 
was 21%.
Within Interventional Medicine, our Interventional Oncology 
products for treating liver cancer grew by 30%, generating 
revenue of £75.5m (201 3/1 4: £58. 1 m). This growth resulted 
from the continued US expansion of TheraSphere
®
 following 
the merger of the Beads and TheraSphere
®
 sales forces and 
from a full year of TheraSphere
® 
ownership. This was partially 
offset by lower EU Beads revenue owing to reduced distributor 
shipments as we prepared to commence direct sales of 
DC Bead
®
 and Bead Block
®
 in the EU.
Interventional Vascular revenue increased by 72% to £34.9m  
(201 3/1 4: £20.3m). The continued growth of EkoSonic
®
 is  
due to increasing penetration of US hospitals and was further 
enhanced by the FDA clearance for use in the treatment of 
pulmonary embolism, and by a full year of BTG ownership.  
The first commercial sales of the varicose veins treatment 
Varithena
®
 were also recorded following the commencement 
of the controlled launch in the US reimbursed sector.
We also saw our first revenues of £2.3m in Interventional 
Pulmonology based on EU sales of the RePneu
®
 Coil 
treatment for advanced emphysema following the 
acquisition of PneumRx in January 201 5.
The 1 8% increase in Specialty Pharmaceuticals revenue 
resulted mainly from higher revenues of the digoxin toxicity 
treatment DigiFab
®
 following a price rise and a cyclic increase 
in demand from US hospitals as they replaced expired stock. 
Revenue from Voraxaze
®
, the treatment for high-dose 
methotrexate toxicity, also continued to grow as awareness 
in US hospitals and named-patient sales outside the US 
increased. Sales of the snakebite treatment CroFab
®
 
were steady.
BT G has delivered strong revenue growth across 
each of its business segments which, combined 
with a focus on cost control, has enabled us to make 
investments to support our objective of long-term 
sustainable profit growth.
Revenue
£36 7.8m
Contribution
£ 128.3m
2013/1 4: £290.5m 201 3/1 4: £111.5m
+27% +1 5%
20
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Group financial review  Revenue in the Licensing segment continued to be dominated 
by royalties from Johnson & Johnson’s treatment for 
advanced prostate cancer, Zytiga
®
 (abiraterone acetate), 
which grew by 26%. Other changes included an increase 
in royalties on Sanofi’s Lemtrada
™
 (alemtuzumab) treatment 
for multiple sclerosis following US approval and modest 
growth in the T wo-Part Hip Cup, with lower royalties from 
the remaining licensed portfolio as patent expiries occur.
Detailed product sales and Licensing revenues, including 
growth rates adjusted for constant currency and pro forma 
ownership of EKOS and TheraSphere
®
, are shown in the 
table above.
Gross profit
Gross profit was 29% higher at £253. 1 m (201 3/1 4: £1 95.5m). 
The Group gross margin was 69% (201 3/1 4: 67%). 
The Interventional Medicine gross margin of 70% 
(201 3/1 4: 72%) was suppressed by a fair value acquisition 
adjustment of £0.9m on PneumRx and by the Varithena
®
 
launch; it is expected to increase over time as sales revenues 
build across the portfolio. In Specialty Pharmaceuticals the 
gross margin increased to 86% (201 3/1 4: 80%) driven mainly 
by the expiry of a royalty obligation. Licensing gross margin 
was slightly lower at 52% (201 3/1 4: 53%) owing to 
the increased proportion of lower-margin Zytiga
®
 revenue.
The Group gross margin is expected to remain stable 
at approximately 70% in the near term.
Contribution
Contribution is defined as gross profit less SG&A expenditure. 
Contribution increased to £1 28.3m (201 3/1 4: £1 1 1.5m). 
The increase in SG&A to £1 24.8m (201 3/1 4: £84.0m) and 
reduction in contribution margin primarily reflect increased 
investment in the commercial capabilities of the Interventional 
Medicine segment. Investments include costs associated with 
the US launch of Varithena
®
, the EU interventional oncology 
sales force and expansion in Asia. In addition, during the year 
BTG settled a patent dispute with Instituto Bioclon, securing 
the CroFab
®
 business to October 201 8. T otal expenses and 
one-off settlement costs were £8m. 
The Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Licensing segments  
are more established and delivered contribution margins 
of 65% and 30% respectively. Driving cost efficiency in these 
segments enables us to invest in the commercial capabilities 
that will generate revenue in the Interventional Medicine 
segment, which currently has an 8% contribution margin.  
As we deliver revenue growth in the various Interventional 
Medicine businesses we expect the contribution of that 
segment, and of BTG overall, to increase.
Product revenues
2014/15
£m
2013/14
£m
Change
(%)
Change at
CC
1
(%)
I nt e rv e nt i on a l Med i c i ne
Interventional Oncology TheraSphere
®
44.9 24.7 82 31
*
Beads 30.6 33.4 (8) (7)
T otal Interventional Oncology 75.5 58.1 30 13
*
Interventional Vascular EkoSonic
®
33.9 20.3 67 32
*
Varithena
®
1.0 – – –
T otal Interventional Vascular 34.9 20.3 72 35
*
Interventional Pulmonology RePneu
®
 Coil 2.3 – – –
T otal Interventional Medicine 112.7 78.4 44 21
*
Specialty Pharmaceuticals 
CroFab
®
61.8 62.7 (1) 4
DigiFab
®
44.7 27.3 64 65
Voraxaze
®
/Other 14.6 12.3 19 20
T otal Specialty Pharmaceuticals 121.1 102.3 18 22
Licensing 
Zytiga
®
105.2 83.8 26 24
T wo-Part Hip Cup 13.8 13.0 6 3
Lemtrada™ 4.9 0.4 1,125 1,093
Others 10.1 11.9 (15) (15)
T otal Licensing 134.0 109.1 23 21
Total 367.8 289.8 27 22
*
Non-recurring (Brachytherapy) – 0.7 – –
T otal revenue 367.8 290.5 27 21
*
1 At constant currency GBP vs USD ($1.61 vs $1.59 in prior year); 
  *  Based on pro forma 1 2 month revenues
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
21
Strategic 
Report Operating profit
1
£6 7.9m
Adjusted EPS
1
 15 . 7 p
2013/1 4: £62.3m 201 3/14: 14.5p
+9% +8%
1  Excluding acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs
Operating profit
Investment in research and development increased to 
£68.3m (201 3/1 4: £47 .2m). This planned increase reflects 
greater investment in a broader portfolio of innovation and 
development programmes, including the acceleration of the 
TheraSphere
®
 Phase III trials, development of a radiopaque 
Bead, hardware development and studies to support 
indication expansion for the EkoSonic
®
 products, ongoing 
regulatory, clinical and medical affairs support for the 
marketed products, and studies to support US approval 
of RePneu
®
. Investment in research and development is 
expected to increase further in the year ahead as these 
activities continue and the full annual costs of the RePneu
®
 
studies are absorbed.
Other operating expenses include the impact of foreign 
exchange. The £:$ exchange rate moved from $ 1.67 at the 
beginning of the year to $ 1.48 at the end of the year. BTG’s 
exposure to US$ revenue, costs and assets resulted in a 
net foreign exchange gain of £6.7m (201 3/1 4: loss of £5.0m).
Operating profit before acquisition adjustments and 
reorganisation costs was £67 .9m (201 3/1 4: £62.3m).
Acquisition adjustments include the fair value of inventory 
acquired with PneumRx (£0.9m). Amortisation of intangible 
assets of £28.4m (201 3/1 4: £23.3m) has increased to reflect 
the full year ownership of EKOS and TheraSphere
®
, as  
well as the impact of PneumRx from January 201 5.  
Acquisition costs, predominantly associated with the 
acquisition of PneumRx, were £3.7m (201 3/1 4: £9.8m –  
EKOS and TheraSphere
®
).
Operating profit after acquisition adjustments was  
£34.9m (201 3/1 4: £27 .3m) reflecting the underlying  
growth in the business.
Financial expense/income
The Group’s net financial expense was £8.2m (201 3/1 4: 
net financial income of £6.0m). This primarily comprised a loss 
on the mark-to-market of foreign exchange forward contracts 
of £6.2m (201 3/1 4: gain of £7 .5m) and an increase of £1.0m in 
the fair value of the contingent milestones for the EKOS and 
PneumRx acquisitions.
Profit before tax and taxation
The profit before tax was £26.7m (201 3/1 4: £33.3m), principally 
reflecting higher revenues offset by increased investment 
in SG&A and research and development and the impact of the 
acquisition and foreign exchange movements. Group profits 
arise in the UK, the US and other overseas territories and as a 
consequence the effective tax rate is a blend of the varying tax 
rates in different jurisdictions.
For the current year BTG has a tax credit of £6.9m (201 3/1 4: 
£9.0m charge). The tax credit is principally due to the 
recognition of prior losses relating to Voraxaze
®
 and EKOS and 
to the acquisition of PneumRx. The overall tax credit of £6.9m 
comprises a current tax charge of £1 1.0m (201 3/1 4: £1 3.7m), 
which reflects the benefits of the UK Patent Box legislation 
that allows for a lower tax charge on certain qualifying assets, 
and a deferred tax credit of £1 7 .9m (201 3/1 4: £4.7m).
The Group has additional unutilised tax losses that may be 
recognisable in future years, depending on the commercial 
success of various assets. The timing and magnitude of the 
losses that can be recognised are uncertain, and the Group’s 
anticipated effective tax rate over the medium term is 
around 26%.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share on a profit after tax of £33.6m 
were 9. 1 p (201 3/1 4: 6.8p). The adjusted earnings per share 
excluding acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs 
were 1 5.7p (201 3/1 4: 1 4.5p) on adjusted profit after tax of 
£57 .8m (201 3/1 4: £51.5m).
22
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Group financial review continued Balance sheet
Non-current assets
Non-current assets increased at 3 1 March 201 5 to £838.3m  
(3 1 March 201 4: £565.5m), primarily reflecting the acquisition 
of PneumRx. This resulted in gross additions to goodwill 
of £51.6m and to intangible assets of £1 89.9m which, 
when offset by amortisation and foreign exchange, 
resulted in net increases of £52.3m to goodwill and £1 90.7m 
to intangible assets.
The net increase of £4.2m to property, plant and equipment 
comprises gross additions of £10.3m mainly relating to 
investment in our underlying manufacturing capacity and 
foreign exchange offset by depreciation.
The Group’s defined benefit pension scheme as measured 
under IAS 1 9 Revised – Employee Benefits changed from 
an asset of £8.0m at 3 1 March 201 4 to an asset of £1 3.2m 
at 3 1 March 201 5, reflecting contributions during the year 
of £2.9m, an income statement credit of £0. 1 m and an 
actuarial gain of £2.2m.
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents have increased from £38.2m 
to £73.8m as a result of profitable growth. The Group did 
not draw on its £60m multi-currency revolving credit facility 
during the year.
Inventory and trade and other receivables increased during 
the year as a result of the manufacturing of Varithena
®
 for 
the US launch, underlying business growth and the acquisition 
of PneumRx. Inventory increased to £40.5m (3 1 March 201 4: 
£27 .0m) and receivables to £91.9m (3 1 March 201 4: £75. 1 m). 
The fair value of forward contracts as at 3 1 March 201 5 
was a liability of £0.9m compared to an asset of £5.3m 
at 3 1 March 201 4.
T otal liabilities
Non-current liabilities increased to £1 71.7m (3 1 March 201 4: 
£93.5m) mainly as a result of an increase in the deferred tax 
position to £1 52.4m, predominantly arising as a result of the 
acquisition of PneumRx.
T rade and other payables increased to £1 28.9m (3 1 March 
201 4: £82.5m), reflecting the underlying growth of the 
business and the contingent consideration payable on the 
acquisition of PneumRx.
Cash flow
The business generated £47 .5m from operating activities 
(201 3/1 4: £48.5m), reflecting business growth offset 
by increased investments in SG&A and research and 
development, together with increased working capital. 
During the year BTG raised £1 45.7m net of expenses 
through a placing of 1 8.9m new ordinary shares to 
fund the initial cash consideration of $23 1 m to 
acquire PneumRx.
BTG ended the year with cash and cash equivalents 
of £73.8m (3 1 March 201 4: £38.2m).
Summary and outlook
The business has delivered a strong overall performance 
and pleasingly each business segment has performed well. 
In addition to the continued strong financial underpin from 
our Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Licensing business, 
we are now also seeing growth in our Interventional 
Medicine portfolio.
T o realise the full potential of our business and achieve our 
target of $ 1.25bn+ revenue in Interventional Medicine by 2021 
requires ongoing investment. We will continue to expand 
our commercial footprint in existing and new geographies, 
to develop and commercialise new products and to conduct 
trials intended to extend the approved uses of our current 
products for new medical indications and patient populations.
Investing in these multiple areas to drive future growth 
is possible because of the strong revenue growth we 
are generating. 
With our balanced portfolio of fast-growing and highly 
profitable products, and our ability to invest to drive further 
growth, we are confident that we can deliver sustainable, 
profitable growth.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
23
Strategic 
Report The global context
T oday’s healthcare environment is changing. At the macro-
economic level, affordability and value are under increasing 
scrutiny as governments adjust to ageing populations, 
increasing demand for access to improved medical 
treatments and breakthrough treatments that command 
high prices. In the private sector, payers are also adjusting to 
these changes and are examining the value and clinical benefit 
of treatment options to formulate their coverage policies. 
Doing more with less is an overarching theme of today’s 
healthcare system. In a cost-conscious environment, 
marginal improvement is not enough and products need 
to demonstrate real patient benefit and value in order to 
gain reimbursement coverage.
The cost of developing pharmaceuticals continues to rise in 
line with the need to develop differentiated products and to 
demonstrate health economic data in addition to high quality 
clinical data. This is now no longer limited to the development 
of pharmaceuticals: it has become increasingly important in 
the world of medical devices.
At the clinician level, there is a growing desire to treat ‘smarter’ . 
Patients have more information and control over the 
management of their disease than in the past. Both parties 
are looking for more targeted treatments that have a better 
safety profile and are less invasive. Innovation is playing  
its part with ongoing strides in imaging enabling physicians  
to direct treatments to the exact part of the body where they 
are needed most, resulting in faster treatment and recovery 
and better outcomes. 
Our markets
We choose to operate in niche market segments where there 
are underserved patient populations and specialist physician 
groups that can be served by small sales forces. We look for 
opportunities to differentiate our products through innovation, 
and for medical areas where innovation is rewarded through 
appropriate product pricing and reimbursement.
We believe that in order to succeed in today’s healthcare 
environment, it is important to get three things right: the 
customer experience; the clinical data package; and 
demonstrating value to payers. This means developing 
Despite macro-economic challenges, there is a 
growing need for improved healthcare treatments. 
BT G ’ s products are sold in selected markets 
worldwide and we operate within three distinct 
segments: Interventional Medicine, Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals and Licensing. 
new treatment options that are backed by level 1 clinical data 
and offer patients improvements in efficacy, safety, and/or 
quality of life, and giving physicians access to new products 
and procedures that they can be confident address their 
patient’s needs.
We have found opportunity in two areas: Interventional 
Medicine and Specialty Pharmaceuticals. We also have 
a Licensing business that generated royalties, although  
this is no longer a core activity.
Interventional Medicine
The trend towards minimally invasive, locoregional treatment 
is growing, enabled by advances in imaging technologies and 
by the development of innovative products that allow 
interventional specialists to undertake new procedures.
Within our Interventional Vascular portfolio we have a novel 
treatment for varicose veins and a device to treat blood clots. 
It is estimated that there are around 30 million Americans  
who have varicose veins of which, every year , 2.5 million 
become symptomatic and thus eligible for reimbursed 
treatment. In 201 2, only 500,000 people received treatment 
which equates to approximately 750,000 great saphenous 
vein  (GSV) procedures. We expect this number to grow by 8% 
annually to approximately 1 .25 million by 202 1 . Varithena
®
  
is a comprehensive patient-centric treatment that has the 
potential to overcome many of the reasons why the majority  
of Americans with symptomatic varicose veins do not currently 
receive treatment. As a result, we are targeting Varithena
®
 
sales in the US reimbursed sector of over $250m by 202 1 .  
In addition, we are progressing pathways to develop a self-pay 
market for Varithena
® 
in the US and to expand its use into other 
venous conditions and geographic territories.
In the US approximately 1 million people experience some  
form of serious blood clot every year , of which we estimate 
700,000 are candidates for interventional treatment. 
This is  still at a nascent stage, although the number of 
interventional procedures grew to 1 20,000 in 201 4, from 95,000 
in 201 2, thanks to emerging clinical data showing benefits 
over standard anticoagulant therapy. EkoSonic
®
 is a unique 
device that uses an ultrasound catheter to assist the delivery of 
a thrombolytic agent deeper into the clot. The device is backed 
by clinical data and is the only product on the market with a 
24
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Market overview clearance to treat pulmonary embolism, a condition that 
results in approximately 200,000 US deaths per year.  
In 201 4, sales were approximately $55m and our goal 
is to build EkoSonic
®
 sales to $ 1 00m to $200m by 202 1 . 
Our Interventional Oncology franchise comprises two main 
products; TheraSphere
®
, radioembolising glass spheres  
and our polymer beads, both of which are used in the 
treatment of liver tumours. We sell both products through 
direct sales forces in the US and in selected markets in Europe. 
We also have a direct sales force to sell beads in T aiwan and  
we use distributor contracts in other markets where we have 
approval. In August 201 4 we received approval from the  
China Food and Drug Administration for DC Bead
®
 for the 
embolisation of malignant hypervascularised tumours. 
Approximately half of the world’s liver cancer patients  
are in China and there is a great interest among Chinese 
physicians to offer new, differentiated treatment options.  
We are now working with our distribution partner SciClone 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on launch plans. In 201 4/1 5, total sales 
for the franchise amounted to approximately $ 1 20m. Based on 
technical suitability of patients and affordability , we estimate 
that the global market for interventional treatment of liver 
tumours will be approximately $ 1 .3bn by 202 1 ; our target  
is to expand our sales to $300m to $400m by then.
In January 201 5 we completed the acquisition of PneumRx,  
a commercial leader in the interventional treatment of 
advanced emphysema. It is estimated that there are more 
than 10 million people in the US and largest five EU countries 
with emphysema resulting in a significant economic burden 
on healthcare systems relating to both in-patient and 
out-patient care costs. There is no cure, with the current 
standard of care seeking to relieve symptoms through drug 
therapy and pulmonary rehabilitation. Until recently there was 
little doctors could do to help these patients, the only options 
being major surgery to remove the diseased portion of their 
lungs or give them a lung transplant. PneumRx manufactures 
and sells the RePneu
®
 Coil System, a shape memory metal 
coil that is planted in the patient’s lung that compresses the 
diseased tissue and allows healthy tissue to function  
more efficiently. Approved in the EU, sales in 201 4 were 
approximately $25m. Now, with a fully recruited US pivotal 
trial, our target is to reach $250m in sales by 2021.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
Our portfolio of antidote products is used in the emergency 
room setting and is sold throughout the US through our 
Acute Care field force of 1 9 representatives. CroFab
®
, the 
only currently available treatment for North American 
crotalid snake envenomation, is only sold in the US whereas 
DigiFab
®
 and Voraxaze
®
 are also sold through partners in 
other countries where approved or where permitted to be 
made available on a named patient basis. All these products 
address markets that are bounded by the number of toxic 
events occurring each year. In the case of CroFab
®
 there are 
approximately 5,000 envenomations. For DigiFab
®
 there is an 
average range of between 1 % and 4% of the 16 million digoxin 
prescriptions that result in patient toxicity. Voraxaze
®
 is an 
antidote to the toxic side effects of high dose use of the 
chemotherapeutic agent, methotrexate, which affects 
approximately 200-300 patients in the US each year. 
We currently have one late-stage product in the pipeline: 
uridine triacetate, which is being developed by our partner 
Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation. This product is an antidote  
for the potentially life-threatening toxic side effects of 
overexposure to the chemotherapeutic 5-fluorouracil. 
Wellstat plans to submit a US NDA to the FDA which could 
result in approval and commercial launch in late 2016. 
BTG has acquired EU and US commercial rights to uridine 
triacetate, which it currently supplies in the EU through 
a distribution partner on a named patient basis.
Licensing
Although not an active strategy for BTG, we receive royalties 
relating to the sales of products that are subject to intellectual 
property and licence agreements between BTG and various 
partners. These royalties vary but are on average around 
mid-single digit percentages of partners’ sales revenues. 
Within this segment, royalties from sales of Johnson & 
Johnson’s prostate cancer drug Zytiga
®
 (aberaterone acetate) 
are the largest contributor.
Competition
Our industry is highly competitive. Our strategy to mitigate 
this is to focus on niche therapeutic areas where we develop 
leading positions because we can compete effectively in 
terms of commercial footprint and the capability and 
resources to undertake product innovation and clinical 
development. Focusing on specialist areas of medicine places 
BTG in a strong position to in-license or acquire assets from 
third parties. 
Regulation
The healthcare industry is highly regulated and companies 
operating within this are subject to strict rules governing 
research, clinical development, pharmacorigilance, 
manufacturing and commercial activity. At BTG we have built 
up extensive quality, pharmacovigilance and compliance 
systems and procedures, as well as recruiting and training 
highly skilled and experienced employees, to ensure that we 
comply with all regulatory matters. We also pay close 
attention to the future regulatory landscape and the potential 
impact of healthcare reforms. This is of particular importance 
when reviewing new product or acquisition opportunities.
Risks
The market for pharmaceutical products and medical 
devices has inherent risks. Safety issues, competition, loss of 
intellectual property , regulatory issues and challenges and poor 
reimbursement or adoption by physicians are among the key 
risks for the industry . See pages 33 to 36 for BTG-specific risks.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
25
Strategic 
Report Core purpose: At BT G we are focused on bringing 
to market innovative products in specialist areas 
of medicine to serve doctors and patients better . 
Our growing portfolio of Interventional Medicine 
products is designed to advance the treatment 
of liver tumours, severe blood clots, varicose veins 
and advanced emphysema, while our Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals portfolio offers antidotes that 
alleviate toxicity and treat rare conditions. 
Core purpose
T o advance the treatment  
of underserved patient 
populations by bringing to 
market innovative products.
Key activities
Key activities include 
identifying unmet medical 
needs, acquiring and 
developing innovative 
products, manufacturing 
those products to the 
highest standards and 
selling them either directly 
or through partners.
Read more on pages 28 and 29
Operating effi  ciency
Financial management
Delivering products
Investing for growth
Core  
purpose
Customer insight
Acquire & develop
Commercialise
Manufacture
26
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Our business model Creating value
At BTG we acquire, develop, manufacture and commercialise 
specialist medical products that meet the needs of our 
customers and advance the treatment of their patients. 
The core activities we undertake are designed to maximise 
shareholder value by using our unique customer insights, 
experience and internal capabilities to execute our growth 
strategy across a range of therapy areas and geographies.
We add value at each stage of our key activities. Our close 
customer relationships enable us to identify new product 
opportunities or ways in which our current products can be 
improved. We constantly assess the competitive landscape 
and look for ways to move into new medical areas that fit 
with our strategy and complement our existing portfolio and 
capabilities. Manufacturing feasibility is assessed at an early 
stage and we take appropriate precautions to de-risk our 
supply chain. We seek a commercial advantage by targeting 
specialist physicians and providing them with new treatment 
options that better serve their patients. We commercialise our 
products through small, relatively low-cost sales forces that 
have deep insight into their customers’ needs. 
Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals:  
focus on rescue 
medicine
CroFab
®
 antivenom mitigates  
long-term damage
Walnut Hill, Alabama 
Sandy Marsh was outside her home picking weeds that  
were popping through the rocks in her well-manicured lawn.  
She reached under a bench to pull a small weed, and that’s  
when she was bitten on the finger by a poisonous snake. 
Marsh said she remained calm and called 91 1. She told  
the operator that she was bitten by a pygmy rattler and  
she was 40 miles from Pensacola. 
“The person at 91 1 told me to put my arm down. It’s good 
that she said that, because I always thought you were 
supposed to put your arm up. She (the 91 1 dispatcher) 
was really great, telling me that you must keep it below 
the heart.”
Within moments of her 91 1 call, the local Fire and Rescue,  
Atmore Ambulance and air paramedics were on their way  
to her remote home. 
“I really did not realize the seriousness of it all until about  
half an hour later, when my arm began to swell. When the  
swelling got to here, she said, (pointing at a spot nearing  
her elbow) they decided to give me the antivenom.”
She ended up with four doses of CroFab
®
 antivenom.
Sandy’s story is a great example of how a snake bite can  
happen while doing daily chores and how the venom can  
progress quite quickly. Not only did the emergency  
personnel act quickly, and responsibly, but they  
demonstrated textbook knowledge in controlling  
envenomation, so as to mitigate long-term damage.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
27
Strategic 
Report Key activities
Customer insight
Our products are used by specialist groups of physicians 
with whom we engage in a number of ways. We promote  
and provide training on the approved uses of our products;  
we offer dedicated medical support to physicians regarding 
the safety, efficacy or use of our products and provide data 
when requested; we invite proposals for funding to explore the 
use of our products in different patient populations to inform 
our innovation strategy.
These interactions give us unique insights into our customers 
and the way they choose to treat their patients. At BTG we see 
ourselves as a trusted partner with these physicians. Our 
innovation team specifically engages with them and the wider 
scientific and medical community in order to get a deeper 
understanding of treatment practice and trends, and to 
identify areas where we may focus our development efforts. 
We supplement these insights from customers and others 
with formal market research, using the information to identify 
potential new market opportunities. These may be 
addressable with our current products and technology 
platforms, or they may require us to acquire and/or develop 
new technologies.
Acquire and develop
BTG has a rich history of acquisition and in-licensing activity. 
We look for opportunities where we can add value through 
our existing capabilities, such as products (or late-stage 
programmes) that we can sell through our own sales channels, 
or through a new sales team that can be supported by our 
existing commercial infrastructure. 
We also seek to exploit our strong capabilities in areas of 
technology convergence, such as drug-device-procedure 
combination products. Here we look for opportunities where 
we can drive further growth by investing in development, 
regulatory approvals and commercial activities.
For every technology, whether developed organically 
or acquired, we create a lifecycle plan to maximise value. 
This may include product innovation, clinical trials to broaden 
the indicated uses, and commercial activities to expand the 
geographical availability.
Our development programmes take place once a feasibility 
study has been assessed. T ypically we look to expand the 
approved use of a product where the safety and efficacy 
profiles have already been established as this is a lower-risk 
approach. We prefer to focus on opportunities where proof 
of concept has been established and we apply strict criteria 
which allow us to pursue those opportunities that have the 
greatest chance of success. 
Having identified additional patient populations that may 
benefit, we liaise with clinicians, regulators and others to 
determine the appropriate trial designs. Our development 
personnel manage these activities and oversee the contract 
research organisations involved in conducting many of our 
studies in order to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals 
to access new commercial opportunities. We also support 
significant large-scale clinical studies which often 
differentiates us from our competition within the medical 
devices sector. See pages 1 4 and 1 5 for more details.
W orking in partnership 
with our customers
Developing a radiopaque bead
The ongoing advances in imaging are central to the growth  
in Interventional Medicine. At BTG we work closely with 
Key Opinion Leaders (KOLs) and have collaborated with 
Philips Healthcare, the US National Institute for Health 
and Johns Hopkins University to advance image guided 
transarterial embolisation procedures and develop 
new treatment protocols in interventional oncology. 
This has contributed to the development of an imageable 
bead that will help the interventional radiologist guide 
the therapy and potentially treat more effectively.  
See pages 1 2 and 1 3 for more details.
“ Our strategy has the potential  
to create significant value for  
our stakeholders.”
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
28
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Our business model continued Manufacture
Our Bead products and Varithena
®
 are manufactured at our 
site in Farnham, UK, with Bead product development activities 
also taking place at our site in Alzenau, Germany and 
Camberley, UK. TheraSphere
®
 is currently manufactured for 
us by Nordion, Inc. in Canada. Our EkoSonic
®
 Endovascular 
System is manufactured at our site in Seattle, Washington and 
the RePneu
®
 Coil System is manufactured and assembled 
in-house at our facility in Mountain View, California. 
We manufacture the ovine polyclonal antibodies CroFab
®
 
and DigiFab
®
. The supply chain involves raising antibodies 
in dedicated sheep flocks in Adelaide, Australia, processing 
and converting into bulk substance at our manufacturing 
plant in Llandysul, Wales, and then filling and freeze-drying 
by a third party in the US.
Certain aspects of our manufacturing supply chain are 
outsourced, though we remain responsible for meeting 
regulatory and quality requirements and for the overall  
safety of our products. We continue to invest in upgrading  
our manufacturing operations and capabilities to ensure  
we continue to meet all relevant standards as they evolve  
and to provide further capacity as the business grows.
Commercialise
We sell our products directly in the US, where we have 
dedicated sales teams for Varithena
®
, our Interventional 
Oncology products, for EkoSonic
®
 and our acute care 
products. In 201 4 we expanded our direct sales force in  
Europe that sells TheraSphere
®
 and more recently we  
have added our Bead products to this team following the 
expiry of a distributor contract. 
We have identified significant cross-selling opportunities 
across our four sales forces. For example, our EKOS sales 
team calls on specialist hospital physicians, some of whom 
are conducting varicose vein procedures in addition to using 
the EKOS products in treating blood clots.
Our Specialty Pharmaceuticals field force calls on emergency 
room doctors with our acute care products. Approximately 
50% of blood clots present in emergency rooms.
Elsewhere we sell mainly through partners or distributors. 
We will continue to review options to sell directly in territories 
outside the US as we build sufficient critical mass to justify 
the additional investment.
Outside the US we also sell certain products on a named 
patient basis where those products are not yet approved 
but meet the required criteria to be made available. 
Although no longer a core part of our activities, we may 
also commercialise programmes that we do not intend 
to develop into products to sell ourselves. These may 
be assets we acquire in transactions we undertake that 
are deemed non-core or legacy assets from our historic 
licensing business.
Focus on  
manufacturing
CroFab
®
The production of CroF ab
®
, BT G ’ s antidote for North 
American snakebites, involves a complex global 
supply chain. Here we describe the process that 
from start to finish can take up to eight months. 
1.  Salt Lake City, Utah Venom collection from  
live snakes at BTG’s controlled facility
2.  T urretfield, South Australia Dedicated sheep 
flock in Australia are immunised with venom  
to raise the required antibody serum
3.  Llandysul, Wales Frozen serum arrives at  
our manufacturing plant in Wales where the 
antibodies are extracted and then shipped  
to the US
4.  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Final product is 
processed into vials, packaged and stored 
ready for sale by BTG’s acute care sales force
1
4
3
2
“ Rigorous quality control  
procedures ensure the safety  
and availability of our products.”
Anthony Higham
Head of Manufacturing and Supply
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
29
Strategic 
Report Approach
In this section of our Annual Report we summarise our 
approach and key data for the areas of social responsibility, 
environment, and governance that are most relevant to our 
business. Additional information is available on the 
Responsibility section of our website (www.btgplc.com/
responsibility), which has recently been expanded to include 
information on a broader range of Social, Environmental and 
Governance topics. 
Social responsibility
Values 
Our values and the behaviours that support them are an 
important differentiator for BTG. These are a core part of our 
hiring, development, and performance review processes. As 
the Company grows, we invest time and effort in activities to 
deliberately preserve our culture and ensure that our values 
are reflected in the way we do business.
• Integrity
We will build trust in all interactions by displaying 
consistently high standards of ethical and professional 
business practice.
 
• Accountability
We will accept that we have an obligation to take 
responsibility and account for our actions.
• Delivery
We will always strive to deliver what we have committed 
to do, on time and to the highest standard.
• T eamwork 
We will collaborate to achieve common goals through 
mutual respect, openness and flexibility.
• Openness 
We will be open in giving, accepting and sharing ideas, 
knowledge, help, advice and constructive challenge.
• Continuous learning
We will encourage individuals and teams to generate new 
ideas, share knowledge, and adapt business practices to 
be the best in our industry.
W e aim to deliver sustainable growth and value for 
all of our stak eholders, be they patients, employees, 
in vestors, or the c ommunities where we live and work. 
By fostering a culture of trust, integrity , and responsibility , 
our business will c ontinue to pla y a role in improving the 
health and well-being of people around the world. 
People
BTG values the contribution of every employee, and the part 
each employee plays in bringing products to market that 
deliver benefits to patients. 
The results of this year’s employee engagement survey, 
conducted by the Great Place to Work
®
 institute, showed that 
79% of employees feel BTG is a great place to work, up from 
70% in 201 2. The survey results showed improvement across 
all 1 7 categories measured as compared with our 201 2 results, 
including a 6% improvement in employee engagement and a 
6% improvement in our overall ‘T rust Index’ score.
This year we have made particular investments in 
‘Continuous Learning’ , including dedicated oversight of 
our Learning & Development programmes, the addition of two 
Learning & Development Specialists, and specific training 
offerings tailored to the needs of our business. Our induction 
programme, ‘Bridging The Gap’ , is now offered globally to 
introduce new employees to the business and reinforce our 
values and culture. We have also expanded enrolment in our 
Management Development Programme for new managers. 
Our online HR system, MyHR, now helps facilitate the 
performance appraisal process for all employees, which 
includes both self-assessment and evaluation by an 
employee’s manager. 
Despite the growing number of employees and facilities, and 
our expanding geographic footprint, we continue to provide 
opportunities for all employees to interact with the Leadership 
T eam, including monthly companywide meetings hosted by 
the CEO that connect employees around the world by video 
and teleconference.
BTG is an equal opportunities employer with a diverse 
employee population, and we are committed to fostering an 
inclusive environment and an atmosphere of mutual respect.
Corporate responsibility
30
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Data on gender
1
Number of females who are: 2014/15 2013/14
Employees 522 (47%) 424 (50%)
Senior Managers 78 (41%) 39 (30%)
Leadership T eam Members 3 (23%) 2 (18%)
Board Directors 2 (25%) 2 (25%)
1 This data excludes PneumRx, which will be included in next year’s report. 
Charitable giving 
We see charitable giving as an important way to support and 
build relationships with the communities in which we live and 
work. Each year Corporate Charities are chosen locally by 
employees at each of our major sites. Wherever possible we 
aim to support initiatives that build stronger community 
relationships in the locations where we operate. During this 
fiscal year we donated £4 1 ,000 (201 3/1 4: £23,363) to 
charitable causes. 
In June of 201 4 BTG supported 45 employees from across all 
four UK sites who took part in T rekfest, a 3 1 mile bike ride and 
54 mile trek across the Brecon Beacons in Wales. Participants 
raised over £1 1 ,000 for Cancer Research UK. 
In January of 201 5, fires in South Australia personally 
impacted many in our T urretfield and Martindale facilities, 
prompting employees to hold regular fundraising events for 
local Country Fire Service (CFS) units. BTG also authorised a 
donation of surplus feed to local farmers who lost their crops 
and hay stocks due to the fires and who were struggling to 
feed their animals 
Other employee activities in the year raised funds for charities 
including Cancer Research UK, American Cancer Society, 
St Jude’s Children’s Research Hospital, Leukaemia & 
Lymphoma Society, and Kinderhospiz Sternenzelt 
Mainfranken (a children’s hospice association). A complete list 
of the charities which we supported during the financial year 
can be found on our website.
Environment 
We continue to monitor all of our sites worldwide using 
the Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Management 
Standards we introduced in 201 2. These include carbon 
emissions, waste production, water and electricity usage and 
lost time accidents. This year’s data does not reflect facilities 
and production related to the PneumRx acquisition completed 
in January of 201 5, which will be included in next year’s report. 
Our carbon dioxide emissions and electricity usage have 
increased driven by increases in production, the full utilisation 
of the laboratory and expansion of office space in Camberley, 
increased headcount in our Philadelphia office, an expanding 
sales force, and the first year of reporting for the recently 
acquired facilities in Ottawa and Seattle. Efficiency projects 
at our production sites have helped mitigate the increase in 
consumption in other non-producing parts of the business.
The increase in waste is largely driven by a full year of 
reporting for EKOS production. Partly counteracting this 
increase, our Farnham and Camberley facilities now use 
a waste contractor that does not deliver to landfill, but 
instead burns any waste that cannot be recycled in a 
process that produces electricity. The rise in water 
consumption is in line with our increased production 
and growing number of employees.
Our rate of lost time accidents remains steady and in 
an effort to be open and honest in our reporting we have 
enhanced this metric by additionally reporting the number 
of work-related illnesses. 
Data 2014/15 2013/14 % Change
Total CO 2 equivalent emissions generated (tonnes)
1–5
6,145 5,229 +18
CO
2 equivalent emissions scope 1 1,367 1,576 -13
CO
2 equivalent emissions scope 2 4,778 3,653 +31
T otal production units 234,939 201,228 +17
T otal kg CO
2 generated per production unit 26 26 0
T otal employees 1,121 895 +25
T otal kg CO
2 generated per employee 5,481 5,842 -6
T otal electricity consumed (MWh) 8,251 6,973 +18
T otal electricity consumed (MWh) per production unit 0.0351 0.0347 +1
T otal waste from our production and research sites (metric tonnes)
6
573 471 +22
Waste recycled 258 128 +101
Hazardous waste – incinerated or other treatment 114 112 +2
Waste to landfill 200 136 +47
T otal water consumption at production sites (cubic metres)
7
34,123 28,900 +18
T otal lost time accidents and illnesses (days per 100,000 hours worked)
8, 9
0.69 0.50 +38
9
Notes
This data excludes facilities and production related to PneumRx, which will be included in next year’s report. 
1 GHG protocol used for data. Scope 3 emissions have not been calculated.
2 Covers 100% of BTG controlled operations, third-party manufacturing has not been included in either the carbon dioxide generated or the intensity figures.
3 Data from operational sites with more than 20 employees based on energy bills.
4 Emissions from field based and smaller offices estimated based on average US consumption – as this is where majority are based, 3% of data is estimated.
5 Conversion factors used: Defra/DECC 2014.
6 Waste from our manufacturing and research sites in Australia, USA and UK.
7 Water consumption measured at our production sites in Australia, USA and UK.
8 Includes all accidents and illnesses where one or more days are lost. UK companies usually only report when three or more days are lost. This figure also includes accidents where people 
have returned to work and were given alternative duties as they were not able to fulfil their normal roles.
9 Work-related illnesses included for the first time in 2015. A like for like comparison of lost time attributed only to accidents show rate increase of 10% (0.55 vs 0.50). 
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
31
Strategic 
Report Corporate responsibility continued
Governance
T o achieve our goals and maintain the trust and confidence 
of all of our stakeholders, we must ensure the management 
of our business is underpinned by our values and 
ethical standards.
Code of Conduct 
Our Code of Conduct encourages each employee to take 
individual responsibility for behaving ethically and compliantly, 
abiding by the letter and spirit of our Code in everything we do. 
All BTG employees worldwide, within all regions and functions 
are trained annually in the principles, policies and procedures 
described in the code and the ethical behaviours that are 
expected of them. Our MyHR system tracks adherence to 
code-related training requirements. The latest version of our 
full Code of Conduct is available on the Responsibility section 
of our website.
Anti-bribery and corruption 
Our anti-bribery and corruption policy prohibits BTG 
employees, and those acting on their behalf, from offering 
anything of value as a bribe or inducement to make decisions 
that favour BTG’s interests. The policy applies to individuals 
and organisations worldwide including those working within 
governments and those serving public interests, healthcare 
professionals, patients, suppliers, charities and advocacy 
groups. These policies are designed to promote compliance 
with the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
(FCP A), and other local law equivalents.
BTG employees are expected to report potentially corrupt 
behaviour and BTG maintains an ‘Open Door’ policy to 
encourage open lines of communication. In no event will an 
employee suffer any retaliation for making a good faith report 
of a suspected violation. We also maintain a third party hotline 
for confidential reporting of illegal and unethical activity.
The Sunshine Act and Open 
Payments Programme
BTG is committed to upholding and maintaining standards 
that promote transparency of our relationship with healthcare 
providers. BTG collects, tracks, and reports payments to 
healthcare professionals (HCPs) and organisations in 
accordance with the US Physician Payment Sunshine Act 
of 2009. This year the Center for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services began displaying data regarding the financial 
relationships between manufacturers and physicians 
and hospitals via their Open Payments website. 
Human rights and anti-slavery
BTG has publicly committed to respecting numerous 
international standards including the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. We obtain certifications and 
third party verification for key suppliers, conduct audits, 
and provide training on standards and procedures for 
employees and contractors to identify and eradicate slavery 
or human trafficking, were it to exist in our direct supply chain. 
These efforts address the requirements of the California 
T ransparency in Supply Chain Act.
Incremental 
Improvements
T aking steps to increase efficiency  
and reduce environmental impact
We continue to invest in projects across the business designed 
to improve our efficiency. For example, our Wales production 
facility has retrofitted the Heating, Ventilation and Air 
Conditioning (HVAC) system with high efficiency variable 
speed motors that use less electricity. In Frankfurt our 
engineers worked closely with the FDA to find an acceptable 
way to lower the airflow in our clean rooms at night when they 
are not in use, saving electricity while maintaining the carefully 
controlled environment required by the regulator. These 
projects demonstrate our commitment to running our 
business in a responsible, sustainable way, and each small 
step helps reduce our impact on the environment.
32
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 Risk management framework
Maintenance of the Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems is the responsibility of and a key focus for 
the Board of Directors. The Board’s role is to ensure that 
the risks taken by the Group are understood and appropriate 
in light of its strategy and corporate goals, and that adequate 
internal processes are in place to identify, assess, monitor, 
manage and mitigate key risks effectively.
The Company has adopted a risk management strategy 
intended to achieve that objective, regarding both risks 
arising from the internal operations of the Group and also 
those arising from the continually changing business 
environment and markets in which it operates. While the 
Company aims to identify and manage such risks, no risk 
management strategy can provide absolute assurance 
against loss or unforeseen events occurring, or mitigations 
proving ineffective. The Company operates in a relatively 
high risk sector and risk is inherent in its growth strategy.
Risk management is embedded throughout the Group’s 
operations and functions. Risks are identified and assessed 
by operational staff and managers and are collated Group-
wide into a composite Risk Register for review by a Risk 
Committee, which comprises senior members of staff 
representing relevant parts of the business and key functions 
as well as members of the Leadership T eam.
Key changes during the year were to embed further the risk 
process in day-to-day business unit operations and assess 
the risks in relation to their potential impact on the business 
units and the wider Group achieving its 2021 corporate goals. 
The timeframe for assessing risks has increased from looking 
forward three years to assessing the risk to 2021. In addition, 
the materiality of each risk is assessed in relation to its impact 
on achieving forecast revenues and other key measures of 
success, in particular the 2021 target of achieving over 
$ 1.25bn in revenue in Interventional Medicine.
The Risk Committee is chaired by the CFO, Rolf Soderstrom. 
Individuals in the business managing discrete risks on a 
day-to-day basis update their business unit Risk Registers 
regularly and the overall Risk Register is reviewed at least 
twice yearly by the Risk Committee and formally reported to 
the Audit Committee, following which it is considered by the 
Board. In the intervening periods the status of key risks are 
tracked and reported to the Leadership T eam and the Board. 
The focus is on identifying and understanding newly emergent 
The system of internal 
controls utilised to 
identify , assess, manage 
and mitigate the key risks 
facing the business.
risks, progress of agreed mitigation strategies and any 
changes to the likelihood or potential impact of key risks. 
Each key risk is allocated a business owner, overseen by 
the relevant member of the Leadership T eam.
The Audit Committee review focuses on those risks that  
could have most impact on achieving the 2021 financial 
targets. Included within the reports to the Audit Committee 
is an explanation of any changes in the risks, controls or 
mitigation since the last report, so the Audit Committee can 
clearly understand what has changed in the business, how the 
risks are being addressed and the adequacy and impact of the 
mitigation efforts.
The Audit Committee then summarises the risk report 
and its findings to the whole Board. The Board discussion 
focuses on the level of comfort that the risks being taken are 
appropriate in light of the Group’s strategy. As part of the 
review the Board considers what would represent an 
appropriate ‘risk appetite’ in key areas.
Occasionally the Audit Committee will undertake a ‘deep dive’ 
assessment of a key risk to better understand its nature and 
to consider available mitigation options that could be deployed 
to better manage that risk, together with the costs, timelines 
and likelihood of success of those options. This process 
assists the Board to shape the definition of the Group’s risk 
appetite, having ensured it is appropriate with regard to the 
Group’s strategy. The Board also considers new material risks 
in a timely fashion as they arise.
The risk group works in coordination with the Internal Audit 
group and compliance, development, quality and other 
assurance groups to integrate governance activities to 
ensure an overall robust risk management process.
Principal risks
Here we describe what we believe are the most significant 
risks that could materially affect the Group’s ability to achieve 
its financial goals and operating objectives. The list is not 
exhaustive although other risks are deemed less material  
at this time. Given the nature of our business, risks 
continually change.
As a general risk the existing and future products launched by 
the Company may not be a commercial success:  depending 
on the receipt and scope of the applicable required marketing 
approvals (and the time and investments required to obtain 
approvals); product acceptance by physicians and patients; 
commercially viable levels of product reimbursement being 
established; safety and efficacy continuing to be 
demonstrated; the impact of competition and the successful 
enforcement of protecting or blocking third party intellectual 
property rights. 
The pharmaceutical and device industries are competitive  
and require substantial ongoing product innovation, 
investment and product development to sustain  
a competitive advantage. Existing products could be 
rendered obsolete, uncompetitive or uneconomic having 
regard to product development by other companies or 
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
33
Strategic 
Report
Risk management and principal risks reimbursement levels. The Company’s success will continue 
to depend on its ability to develop, in-license or acquire new 
products and businesses and to realise the expected benefit 
from such activities by the application of resources and 
effectively integrating the opportunities into the Group. Failure 
to in-license, acquire or develop and effectively progress or 
integrate new product opportunities on a commercially  
viable basis, could have a material adverse effect on the 
Company’s revenues.
The following specifically assessed risks (not ranked) 
have  the highest potential impact on the Group achieving 
its 2021 targets.
1 . Competition
Impact: The Group operates in competitive markets.  
The products on which BTG currently earns revenues,  
or from which it anticipates earning revenues once on 
the market, face competition from other products that are 
already approved or in development. Competing products 
may have superior attributes, including better efficacy  
or side effect profiles, cost less to produce or be offered  
at a lower price than BTG’s product. Such competition  
could materially adversely impact Group revenues.
There are currently no competitive products on the market to 
the Specialty Pharmaceuticals products CroF ab
®
, DigiF ab
®
 
or Voraxaze
®
. However , future competition is possible in some 
cases and competing products could materially adversely 
impact BTG’ s financial results. Instituto Bioclon obtained US 
approval for a competitor product to CroF ab
®
 in May 20 1 5. 
During the year we settled a legal action which we had initiated 
against Instituto Bioclon and as a result, notwithstanding 
US approval of their product, it is unlikely they can commercially 
enter the US market until October 20 1 8 at the earliest.
Within Interventional Medicine, the Beads products 
compete with products from Merit Medical Limited and 
CeloNova Biosciences, Inc.; TheraSphere
®
 competes globally 
with a product from Sirtex Medical Limited; Varithena
®
 
competes with other treatment modalities including heat 
ablation, vein stripping and physician-compounded sclerosing 
foam; EKOS competes with other interventional clot treatment 
products from US companies like Boston Scientific 
Corporation. In Licensing, Zytiga
®
 (abiraterone acetate) 
competes with a number of recently approved treatments for 
advanced prostate cancer including Xtandi
®
 (enzalutamide).
Mitigation: BTG focuses on select opportunities addressing 
specialist segments where there are high barriers to entry , 
for example, relating to the development and manufacturing 
processes, or the need to generate significant supportive 
clinical data to gain approval and commercial acceptance. 
We seek to differentiate our products by demonstrating,  
in clinical trials, safety and efficacy benefits, or greater 
patient acceptance.
Change in 201 4/1 5: We commenced a controlled launch 
of Varithena
® 
in the US reimbursed sector , following which 
another non-tumescent product has been cleared for use 
in the treatment of varicose veins in the US (VenaSeal
TM
). 
We commenced direct sales of our TheraSphere
® 
and Beads 
products in certain EU countries; previous US and EU 
distributors (AngioDynamics and T erumo respectively) have 
announced plans to launch embolic beads of their own. 
In January we completed the acquisition of PneumRx 
adding the RePneu
®
 Coil to our portfolio. There is an existing 
competitor in the form of the Pulmonx, Inc. valve. As noted, 
Bioclon have received US approval for a competitor to CroFab
®
. 
2. Research and development
Impact: Failure to implement our research and development 
strategy or failure to achieve the desired safety and efficacy 
product profiles in our research and development 
programmes, could result in an inability to deliver new 
products and new approved indications for existing products, 
which would have a material detrimental effect on the 
sustainability of the business and on its medium- to long- 
term growth prospects. Failure of programmes could  
result from lack of organisational resource or capability 
deficiencies, from not aligning R&D programmes with 
commercial objectives; from changes in the regulatory 
landscape making it more difficult to conduct the planned 
R&D programmes or to achieve clinical results and approvals; 
or from the products not having the clinical benefits or safety 
profiles that were anticipated.
Mitigation: Capabilities and organisational capacity enhanced 
through recruitment; monthly monitoring of performance 
against goals; monitoring of regulatory landscape. The use  
of external resources such as contract clinical research 
organisations (CROs) are being more effectively leveraged 
alongside active development of R&D, regulatory strategies 
and delivery plans.
Change in 201 4/1 5: The R&D and Innovation groups  
have been restructured following the appointment of  
Dr Melanie Lee as Chief Scientific Officer. In addition a 
portfolio review board has been established to oversee 
the execution of the Group’s R&D strategy. The acquisition 
of PneumRx has further increased the number of studies 
being undertaken by the Group and its reliance on the 
successful execution and outcome of clinical studies 
to achieve its 2021 financial targets. 
3. Sales compliance, reimbursement  
and regulatory affairs
Impact: Changes in the regulatory environment could 
materially adversely impact the Group’ s ability to commercialise 
or sell existing or new products in one or more geographies 
(whether due to an inability to obtain or the loss of marketing 
approvals or narrowing or withdrawal of existing approvals). 
The regulations and laws to which the Group is subject are 
complex, leading to an inherent degree of uncertainty and 
risk. New legislation, changes in existing legislation and/or 
regulatory guidance or enforcement policies or practice 
may result in delays or failures in bringing products to market, 
additional material costs or the imposition of restrictions on 
approval or the sale of a product or its manufacture, 
distribution or reimbursement, including the possible 
withdrawal of a product from the market or narrowing of its 
approval or indicated uses. Any of these actions could have a 
material adverse effect on the business or prospects of the 
Group. This is particularly the case for drug-eluting beads 
34
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Risk management and principal risks continued which are deemed by some regulatory authorities as 
combination products (comprising a drug and a device), 
in respect of which the regulatory requirements may be 
less clear in certain territories.
The pharmaceutical and device industries are highly regulated 
and, in addition to the broad range of regulations relating to the 
development, approval and manufacturing of its products, the 
Group must comply with many regulations relating to the 
marketing of its products. 
The regulations and laws, particularly in the US, are complex 
and often strictly enforced by governmental and regulatory 
authorities. Defending actual or alleged violations may require 
significant management time and financial commitment, even 
if not proven. The incidence of these investigations has risen  
in the US in recent years. Failure by BTG (or its commercial 
partners where BTG has a liability) to comply with certain rules, 
laws and regulations, including the US False Claims Act, 
Anti-Kickback Statute and the US Foreign and Corrupt 
Practices Act among others, for alleged improper conduct, 
including corrupt payments to medical professionals, 
inaccurate regulatory submissions, off-label marketing of 
products, or the submission of false claims for reimbursement 
to the Federal government may result in criminal and civil 
proceedings against the Group. Resultant financial and other 
potential sanctions against the Group (or their commercial 
partners or their respective employees or directors) could 
materially adversely affect their business, financial position 
and prospects of the Group, in the loss of product licences or 
exclusion from sale of certain products.
Furthermore, the Group may be subject to price limits on 
reimbursement of products which are outside of its control, 
reducing product reimbursement or sales prices, which may 
have a negative impact on Group revenues. This is particularly 
the case in the US where a significant proportion of the Group’s 
revenues are derived, and in light of the ongoing US healthcare 
reform, requiring increased rebates or discounts to be provided 
where products are reimbursed or paid for by public payments, 
including Medicaid and Medicare. Reimbursement and 
healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country and 
there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will 
be received or sustained. There can be no assurance that a 
product, even if approved, will obtain adequate levels of 
reimbursement to support commercial success. This is the 
case for Varithena
®
 as a new product class in the varicose vein 
treatment sector. The Company has a reimbursement strategy 
and team supporting the commercial launch of Varithena
®
 but 
ultimately there can be no assurance sufficient reimbursement 
will be universally adopted to support the full potential of the 
product in the US or elsewhere.
Mitigation: The Company has expert internal teams  
dedicated to each of these areas including: a Regulatory Affairs 
group which was strengthened and restructured during the 
year. That group works with a network of external advisors in 
relevant territories to ensure the appropriate regulations are 
understood and that regulatory strategies are in place and that 
actions are taken in a timely fashion to meet requirements to 
effectively support both products in development and those 
already approved and sold. The Regulatory Affairs group work 
closely with the wider R&D team to co-ordinate activities and 
maximise the chances of success. 
The Company also has a Healthcare Compliance team which 
establishes robust processes and a framework intended to 
provide assurance that applicable sales compliance 
requirements are met. However , as with other areas of risk 
management, no assurance can be provided regarding the 
ability of those systems to totally mitigate compliance risk.  
As a consequence, ongoing monitoring and auditing is 
undertaken to seek to ensure any material failures are 
identified where possible and remediated.
The Company has also strengthened its market access 
(reimbursement) group over the year with a focus on Varithena
®
 
to support the commercial launch in the US.
Changes in 201 4/1 5: The launch of Varithena
®
 in the US in 
201 4 highlighted the work necessary to establish appropriate 
reimbursement of new products. Progress on that will continue 
to be a focus and a critical success factor for that product.
In July 201 4, BTG announced that it had received a 
subpoena from the US Department of Justice, seeking 
documents in relation to an investigation regarding LC Bead
®
, 
covering the period since 2003. BTG continues to cooperate 
fully with this investigation and at this time is unable to predict 
its duration or outcome. PneumRx marketing and other 
activities have been incorporated into BTG’s global 
compliance programme.
Discussions with the UK MHRA and BSi continue with respect 
to the reclassification of the DC Bead
®
 product in the EU which, 
if not resolved, could reduce the scope of the indicated uses of 
the product, adversely impacting the Group.
4. Intellectual property , know-how, trade secrets
Impact: BTG may be subject to challenges relating to 
the validity of its patents or alleging infringement by BTG 
of intellectual property rights of others, which might result 
in cessation of product sales, litigation and/or settlement 
costs and/or loss of earnings. BTG might elect to sue third 
parties for their infringement of its patents or other intellectual 
property (IP) rights in order to protect current or future product 
revenue streams. Litigation involves significant costs and 
uncertainties. Failure by BTG to maintain or renew key patents 
might lead to loss of earnings and liabilities to licensees or 
licensors. BTG may not be able to secure or maintain the 
necessary intellectual property rights in relation to products 
acquired or in development, limiting the potential to generate 
value from these products and investments.
Changes in patent laws and other intellectual property 
regulations in territories where BTG or its licensees conduct 
business that make it more difficult or time-consuming to 
obtain or enforce patents, or which reduce the available term 
of granted patents or periods of market exclusivity protection, 
could adversely impact the Group’s financial performance.
Patent expiries can adversely impact the Group’s revenues. 
Currently, BTG earns significant royalties from sales of 
Johnson & Johnson’s Zytiga
®
 (abiraterone acetate), which 
may be subject to generic competition in the US from our 
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
35
Strategic 
Report 2016/1 7 financial year when the US composition of matter 
patent expires, and in the EU from our 2020/21 financial year 
when the ten-year data post-approval exclusivity period ends.
BTG’ s patent portfolio is currently subject to several challenges. 
Enforcement of third-party patents against BTG may 
prevent BTG selling products or require BTG to pay royalties 
or other compensation to the patent holder . The landscape is 
generally more complex in the Interventional Medicine market 
place rendering IP management more challenging.
BTG may rely upon know-how and trade secrets to protect 
its products and maintain a competitive advantage. BTG may 
have to sue third parties to protect its know-how and trade 
secrets. T rade secrets may be inadvertently disclosed leading 
to loss of competitive advantage and loss of earnings.
Mitigation: Dedicated internal resource, supplemented by 
external expertise, monitors third-party patent portfolios 
and patent applications and intellectual property rights; 
development and implementation of BTG patent filing, 
defence and enforcement strategies; robust processes 
are in place to automate patent renewals; internal controls 
established to avoid disclosure of patentable material prior 
to filing patent applications and to protect know-how.
Change in 201 4/1 5: IP management has been made more 
complex by the acquisition of PneumRx. BTG settled its 
patent litigation against a potential competitor to CroFab
®
. 
The commercial launch of Varithena
®
 may lead to further 
IP challenges or competition requiring the Group to 
initiate litigation. The innovation and development of new 
products may result in IP challenges by third parties.
5. External supply chain
Impact: We rely on third-party contractors for the supply 
of many key materials and services. These processes 
inherently carry risks of failure and loss of product and are 
risks over which the Company has a lower degree of control. 
Problems at contractors’ facilities, such as technical issues, 
contamination and regulatory actions may lead to delays 
and disruptions or loss of supply or available capacity. Some 
materials and services may only be available from one source 
and regulatory requirements may make substitution costly, 
time-consuming or commercially unviable.
Mitigation: Rigorous monitoring of suppliers; maintenance 
of adequate product and component inventories; dual 
sourcing implemented or being investigated where 
practicable. In accordance with the risk rating the Company 
will continue to focus on this area to ensure market demand 
for products can continue to be met (as has historically 
been the case).
Change in 201 4/1 5: The launch of Varithena
®
 results in 
increased reliance on third parties for key components.
6. Internal supply chain
Impact: BTG relies on its single site in Wales for supply 
of manufactured antibodies and a single site in Farnham, UK, 
for the manufacture of the Beads and Varithena
®
 with the 
consequent possibilities for disruption to, or loss of supplies 
resulting from, technical issues, contamination or regulatory 
actions. BTG’s polyclonal antibody products rely on serum 
produced from our sheep flocks in Australia, which could be 
subject to disease outbreaks or fire. BTG manufactures its 
EKOS products at a single site in Seattle, Washington, USA, 
and its RePneu
®
 Coil at a single site in Mountain View, 
California, USA, with the consequent possibilities for 
disruption to or loss of supply.
Mitigation: Dual sourcing is being investigated; inventories are 
being monitored; production changes implemented to ensure 
continued product supply; rigorous quality control procedures 
in place; regular checks made on sheep flock health; disaster 
recovery plans under regular review. In accordance with the 
risk rating the Company will continue to focus on this area to 
ensure market demand for products can continue to be met 
(as has historically been the case).
Changes in 201 4/1 5: The acquisition of PneumRx and the 
launch of Varithena
®
 has increased BTG’s reliance on single 
manufacturing sites.
7 . Quality and regulatory process documentation
Impact: Our quality systems and regulatory processes 
and documentation (including those relating to Good 
Manufacturing Practice and Good Clinical Practice) are 
regularly audited by regulators such as the US FDA. Any 
inadequacies identified can result in observations, major 
findings and/or warnings, which would need to be addressed 
through remedial actions but if not addressed adequately, 
could lead to regulatory action such as cessation of product 
development, public censure, product recalls, an inability  
to release manufactured product, loss of manufacturing 
or product licences or forced temporary or permanent 
shutdown of facilities and the consequential disruption 
to product supply.
Mitigation: We have invested in upgrading our processes, 
capabilities and people capacity to ensure appropriate 
resources are available to support all required control 
measures. A Global Quality System has been established 
and implementation across the Group is nearing completion.
Change in 201 4/1 5: PneumRx was acquired during the year 
and continuing improvements are being made to the 
applicable quality systems to bring them into full 
conformation with the Company’s Global Quality 
Pharmacovigilance and other systems, which will be fully 
implemented during the 201 5/16 year.
The strategic report was approved by the Board on  
1 8 May 201 5. 
By order of the Board
Dr Paul Mussenden
Company Secretary
36
Strategic 
Report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Risk management and principal risks continued Board of Directors 38
Corporate governance report 40
Audit Committee report 50
Nomination Committee report  54
Directors’ remuneration report 56
Directors’ report  76
Statement of directors’ responsibilities  78
Governance
The Board of Directors  
and our approach to  
corporate governance  
and remuneration.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
37
Governance Our Board of Directors come from a wide range  
of backgrounds to enable us to access a broad 
knowledge base. They define BTG’s strategy  
and oversee its performance.
Garry Watts, FCA, MBE, joined the Board of BTG as non-executive 
Chairman in January 201 2. He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Garry is Chairman of Spire Healthcare and of Foxtons Group plc, 
deputy chairman of Stagecoach Group plc. and non-executive 
director of Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Until December 2010, he was 
for seven years CEO of SSL International plc and before that its CFO. 
Garry is a former partner at KPMG. He was previously an executive 
director of Celltech plc and of Medeva plc and a non-executive 
director of Protherics PLC. Other roles have included 17 years as a 
member of the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory 
Agency Supervisory Board.
Dame Louise Makin, MA, PhD (Cantab), MBA, DBE, joined BTG as  
Chief Executive Officer in October 2004. She is a non-executive 
director of Intertek Group plc and the Woodford Patient Capital Trust, 
and a T rustee of the Outward Bound T rust.
From 2001, she was President, Biopharmaceuticals Europe of 
Baxter Healthcare, where she was responsible for Europe, Africa 
and the Middle East. Louise joined Baxter Healthcare in 2000 as Vice 
President, Strategy & Business Development Europe. Before joining 
Baxter, she was Director of Global Ceramics at English China Clay and 
prior to that she held a variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998.
Susan Foden, MA, DPhil, joined BTG as a non-executive director in 
March 2015 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Susan is currently Chair of BerGenBio AS and Cizzle Biotech Ltd,  
a non-executive director with Vectura Group plc, Evgen Ltd, Source 
Bioscience plc and is an advisory board member for CD3 (a joint 
initiative between Leuven University and the European Investment 
Fund). Previously Susan was an Investor Director with the venture 
capital firm Merlin Biosciences, CEO of the technology transfer 
company, Cancer Research Campaign Technology Ltd and Head  
of Academic Liaison at Celltech Ltd.
Ian Much joined BTG as a non-executive director in August 2010. He is 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit 
and Nomination Committees.
Ian is currently a non-executive director and the senior independent 
director of Chemring Group PLC. Ian was Chief Executive of De La Rue 
plc between 1998 and 2004 and Chief Executive of T&N plc between 
1996 and 1998. Previous non-executive director appointments 
include Manchester United plc, Camelot plc and Admiral plc.
Garry Watts 
Chairman
Dame Louise Makin 
Chief Executive Officer
Susan Foden 
Non-Executive Director
Ian Much 
Non-Executive Director
38
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Board of Directors What are the responsibilities 
of the Board?
Our Board of Directors are responsible for governing the 
Company and are ultimately accountable to our shareholders 
for our activities, strategy and performance. Each year we 
hold an Annual General Meeting at which the Board provide  
a report to shareholders on the performance of the business, 
what its future plans and strategies are and also submit 
themselves for re-election to the Board.
Rolf Soderstrom, BA, ACA, joined BTG as Chief Financial Officer  
in December 2008 from Protherics PLC, where he was Finance 
Director from August 2007 .
From 2004, he was a Divisional Finance Director of Cobham plc, 
managing a portfolio of businesses across Europe and the USA.  
From 2000 he was a Director of Corporate Finance at Cable & Wireless 
plc. Prior to this, he worked in the Corporate Recovery and Corporate 
Finance Department of PricewaterhouseCoopers after qualifying  
as a Chartered Accountant.
Jim O’Shea joined BTG as a non-executive director in April 2009  
and he is a member of the Nomination Committee.
He is a director of Cardiome Pharma, Prostrakan Group Plc, and 
Trevi Therapeutics, Inc. and a former Chairman of the US National 
Pharmaceuticals Council. From 2007 to 2008, he was Vice Chairman 
of Sepracor, Inc., where he was also President and Chief Operating 
Officer from 1999 to 2007 . Previously, Jim was Senior Vice President 
of Sales & Marketing and Medical Affairs for Zeneca Pharmaceuticals 
(US), a business unit of Zeneca Inc. While at Zeneca, he held several 
management positions of increasing responsibility in international 
sales and marketing in the US and the UK. 
Giles Kerr, FCA, joined BTG as a non-executive director in  
October 2007 and is the Company’s Senior Independent director. 
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees. 
Giles is currently the Director of Finance with the University of Oxford, 
UK. He is also a Director of Victrex plc, Isis Innovation Ltd and Senior 
plc. Previously Giles was the Group Finance Director and Chief  
Financial Officer of Amersham plc, acquired by GE Healthcare in 
2004. Prior to his role at Amersham, he was a partner with Arthur 
Andersen in the UK. He is a graduate of the University of York.
Richard Wohanka joined BTG as a non-executive director in January 
201 3 and is a member of the Audit Committee. 
Richard has more than 20 years’ experience in building asset 
management businesses. He was CEO of Union Bancaire Privée Asset 
Management between October 2009 and June 201 2, and from 2001 
to 2009 he was CEO of Fortis Investment Management. Richard is a 
board member of the Nuclear Liabilities Fund and of Scottish Widows.
Rolf Soderstrom 
Chief Financial Officer
Giles Kerr 
Non-Executive Director
Jim O’Shea 
Non-Executive Director
Richard Wohanka 
Non-Executive Director 
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
39
Governance Garry Watts 
Chairman
Dear Shareholder ,
At BTG we are committed to achieving high  
standards of corporate governance which we 
believe is fundamental to the success of our business. 
The Board is ultimately responsible for this and looks 
to improve standards as part of building a successful 
Company. We have a strong governance framework 
embedded within the culture of our organisation 
which goes beyond compliance to the integrity with 
which we operate. The standards of behaviour we 
require from our employees are guided by our Code  
of Conduct with its underlying supporting policies, 
procedures and management processes. During  
the year the Company has continued to grow both 
organically and by acquisition and as it does so,  
the principles of good governance give us the 
infrastructure for long-term success and will 
enable us to achieve our strategic goals. We seek 
to apply BTG’s approach to governance following 
an acquisition, such as following the PneumRx 
transaction, to ensure governance is well embedded 
throughout the Group. As part of our growth strategy 
we have, during the year , commenced direct sales 
in a number of European geographies. As a part of 
that expansion, we have focused on establishing 
effective governance controls. The annual Strategy 
Day is an essential part of the Board calendar and 
is a crucial area of focus. Regular Board meetings 
also concentrate on strategic progress and forward 
planning as well as operational issues, resulting  
in well informed debate and decision making. 
T o achieve this requires the right leadership and 
accordingly the Board is composed of directors  
with a range of professional and sector -specific 
experience. The balance of the Board is regularly 
reviewed to ensure we continue to have the right  
skills and experience to operate in a fast -changing 
environment. During the year we have seen a change 
to the Board, with Dr Melanie Lee leaving to take up 
We have continued our focus on corporate governance 
as the business has continued to grow .
Key actions in 2014/15
Review and evolution of our approach 
to risk management
External Board evaluation
Integration of PneumRx
Expansion of our governance framework 
to oversee operations in new geographies
40
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance report the position of Chief Scientific Officer of the 
Company, and the appointment of Dr Susan Foden 
to the Board and Remuneration Committee. Details 
of directors can be found on pages 38 and 39.
The Board is committed to maintaining an open 
dialogue with shareholders and all members of 
the Board make themselves available to meet 
any shareholders throughout the year . Louise held 
over 1 50 meetings with investors, including current 
shareholders, and Rolf met with over 60 investors. 
Louise also presented at a number of conferences 
attended by existing and potential shareholders. 
Communications with shareholders are coordinated 
during the year by the Vice President of Corporate 
and Investor Relations, who reports directly to 
the CFO.
The Company’s AGM will be held on 1 5 July 201 5 
and as usual the Board will be available to 
meet investors.
Our corporate governance report can be found 
on pages 40 to 49 and includes our statement of 
compliance with the Code and its principles on 
page 4 1 . The directors’ remuneration report can 
be found on pages 56 to 75.
Garry Watts
Chairman
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code)
The Company supports the principles of the 201 2 edition of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) as published  
by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC). 
Statement of Compliance  
with the provisions of the Code
The Board considers that the Company has complied fully 
with the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2015.  
The Company has not undertaken a tender of audit services 
but has considered carefully the applicable regulations 
regarding audit firm rotation and the performance and 
independence of the current auditor KPMG, and recommends 
their reappointment. Further details are provided on page 52 
of the Audit Committee report. In September 2014, the FRC 
published a new edition of the Code, applicable to accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014. Next year’s 
report will comment on the Company’s compliance with the 
new provisions and it will aim to comply fully with the revised 
Code. However, the Company has sought to reflect these 
provisions in its current practices where possible. This 
corporate governance report, together with the directors’ 
remuneration report, explains how the Company has applied 
the principles of the Code.
The Company’s auditor, KPMG LLP , is required to review 
whether this corporate governance statement reflects 
the Company’s compliance with the provisions of the 
Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules of the 
UK Listing Authority. Having conducted such a review 
KPMG is obliged to report if it considers this statement 
of corporate governance does not reflect such compliance. 
The Company confirms that no such report has been made.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
41
Governance Governance framework 
This report details how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code:
Leadership
The Board
The Board is responsible for the 
long-term success of the Company 
and the overall management of 
the business and has a schedule 
of matters reserved specifically 
for its decision or approval. The 
Board determines strategy and 
risk appetite.
Risk Committee
Responsible for monitoring 
risks throughout the organisation 
and assessing the effectiveness 
of the risk control and mitigation 
measures implemented by 
the Group.
Portfolio Review Board
Ensures BTG is investing in its assets efficiently and in relation to opportunities with well-
targeted business cases where the value to the customer and to BTG is clearly understood and 
articulated. Oversees the definition of activities and priorities of the Innovation Leadership 
Team and Development Leadership Team.
Innovation Leadership T eam
Investigates the opportunity to develop new products, product line extensions and new 
indications to address identified unmet medical needs, providing strategic and operational 
leadership of innovation activities up to proof of principle in man.
Development Leadership T eam
Evaluates and is intimately involved in the definition and execution of development activities, 
beyond proof of principle in man, to support the Company’s commercial strategies.
Operational Leadership T eam
Responsible for ensuring that the manufacturing and supply chain are tightly controlled and their 
operations are optimised, as far as practicable, meeting all applicable regulatory requirements.
Global Quality Leadership T eam
Reviews progress with overall Quality Strategy and objectives, this includes inspection 
readiness, QMS effectiveness and enhancements, product delivery on time and to required 
quality, safety and efficiency. Ensures continued regulatory compliance.
Performance Management Review
Monthly meeting of the Leadership Team and senior staff to review progress against business 
plans and targets, both financial and operational.
Corporate Responsibility Committee
Ensures the Group maintains high standards in this area.
The Leadership T eam
The Leadership Team  
is chaired by the CEO  
and members include 
the CFO and senior 
management from 
different areas of the 
business. 
The team is responsible  
for the day-to-day running 
of Group operations and  
for making 
recommendations  
to the Board on the 
Company’s strategy 
and subsequent 
implementation. 
It also ensures the  
internal controls in place  
to manage and assess  
risk are fully complied 
with. The fundamental 
elements of the Group’s 
internal control and risk 
management framework 
are described here.
This includes responsibility 
for maintaining a system 
to ensure that the Group 
is compliant with all 
applicable healthcare 
compliance laws (such 
as US Federal and State 
requirements) that 
relate to the commercial 
operations of the Group 
including the activities 
of the US sales and 
marketing team.
Disclosure Committee
Responsible for ensuring 
the Company’s compliance 
with applicable 
transparency and 
disclosure obligations.
Internal Audit
T esting of the effectiveness of 
the internal control systems.
Remuneration Committee
Determines executive director and 
senior management remuneration, 
and ensures the policy supports the 
Company’s strategy.
Read more on page 56
Audit Committee
Assists the Board on the 
oversight of financial results, 
internal control and management 
of risk and compliance.
Read more on page 50
Nomination Committee
Considers the structure, size and 
composition of the Board and 
its Committees and overseas 
succession planning for senior roles.
Read more on page 54
The Board and its Committees
42
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance report continued The Board of Directors
A Board and Committees meeting programme is set 
annually for core activities which forms the basic structure 
of Board operation. 
While, as a unitary board, the executive and non-executive 
directors are collectively responsible for the success of the 
Company and have fiduciary duties to shareholders, their 
roles are strictly delineated. The roles of the Chairman and 
Chief Executive are separate and distinct and the division of 
their responsibilities is clear. The executive directors have 
direct responsibility for the business operations of the 
Company, while the non-executive directors are responsible 
for bringing independent and objective judgment to Board 
decisions and the Chairman’s primary responsibility is for the 
effective running of the Board. The non-executive directors’ 
duties include helping to develop the Company’s strategy, 
shaping proposals on succession planning and constructively 
challenging the executive directors where they consider  
it appropriate. 
Matters reserved specifically  
for the Board include:
1. Reviewing the overall strategic development of the 
Company and setting its objectives, direction and policies, 
whilst ensuring the necessary financial and human 
resources are in place to support strategy. Determining 
the significant risks that the Company is willing to take 
to achieve its strategic aims and ensuring effective risk 
management controls are in place.
2. Setting budgets and long-term plans. Approving major 
investments, acquisitions and disposals, major capital 
expenditure and dividend policy.
3. Monitoring and reviewing Company and management 
performance and making key risk decisions.
4. Executive remuneration and appointments. Appointment 
or removal of any director or the Company Secretary.
5. Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary 
and interim financial and management statements, and 
major public announcements.
6. Succession planning, health, safety and environmental 
performance and standards of ethical and social behaviour .
7. Developing robust corporate governance, legal,  
compliance, quality and risk management procedures 
aimed at safeguarding the Company’s reputation and 
assets, staff and patients and meeting its legal, regulatory 
and other obligations and ensuring the integrity of its 
financial information and business conduct. Agreeing and 
overseeing the application of an appropriate corporate 
governance framework.
8. Ensuring the proper discharge of the Company’s statutory 
and other legal, regulatory and ethical responsibilities.
Effective division of responsibilities
The Chairman
Garry Watts joined the Board on 1 January 201 2 and has been 
Chairman since that date. He is responsible for leading the Board, 
creating conditions for overall Board and individual director 
effectiveness, promoting constructive debate and for ensuring:
• A robust decision making process is in place by ensuring the 
appropriate information is made available to the Board in a 
timely manner and that clear decisions are made, communicated 
and effected.
• That the Board devotes adequate time to the right issues, 
such as its role in shaping strategy and managing risk.
• That the Board environment is productive and the composition  
and diversity, experience and expertise of the Board and its 
Committees is appropriate having regard to the Company’s needs.
• The Board discharges its responsibilities with respect to 
risk management.
• Board Committees are properly structured with appropriate 
terms of reference, membership and collective experience.
• Necessary relationships of mutual respect and open 
communication are fostered between directors, with  
non-executive directors providing support and advice while 
respecting the executive responsibility.
• Effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Executive directors
Louise Makin, CEO, is primarily responsible for the running of the  
Group and for executing the Group strategy in line with the risk appetite 
defined by the Board and the Company values. Rolf Soderstrom, CFO, 
is responsible for all financial reporting, tax and financial control 
aspects of the Group, providing support to the CEO and the wider 
business activities of the Group as required. In addition the executive 
directors are also responsible for:
• Communicating to the Board their views on business issues to 
improve the standard of Board discussion and, prior to final decision 
on an issue, explaining in a balanced way any divergence of view in 
the executive team.
• Providing input to the strategy formulation process to enable an 
effective and evidence based approach and to ensure that the Board 
is well informed about all aspects of the business and its operation 
which bear on its strategy.
• Delivering high quality information to the Board to enable it to 
monitor the performance of the whole business including the 
management of risk, and to make critical decisions.
The Senior Independent Director (SID)
Giles Kerr has been the Company’s SID since July 2008 and as such  
his principal role is to support the Chairman in his role and to work  
with him and other directors to resolve any significant issues that 
may arise. He is also responsible for:
• Supporting the Chairman’s delivery of objectives, and leading 
his evaluation.
• Leading the non-executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman 
and ensuring there is a clear division of responsibility between the 
Chairman and CEO.
• Being available to shareholders to express concerns which 
the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would 
be inappropriate.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors bring wide-ranging skills and experience 
for the Board to draw on. They provide independent judgment and 
constructively challenge matters such as Company performance, 
strategy and risk management.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
43
Governance Board activity during the year:
Activity over the year encompassed a number of typical 
cyclical items, such as approval of the 2015/16 budget, 
preliminary results announcement, 2015 Annual Report 
and Accounts and the 2014 interim financial statements 
and announcement. Other matters included:
• Regular reviews of risk management.
• A Strategy Review day to allow the Board to 
oversee  progress 
• Commercial launch of Varithena
®
 in the US
• The progression and ultimate approval of the 
acquisition of PneumRx
• Go-direct in Europe launch plan for DC Bead
®
 
and the establishment of direct sales in T aiwan
• Bioclon litigation
• Acquisition of manufacturing facility in the UK
• Analysts’ review
• Pension investment strategy
• Expansion of Camberley site
• Feedback from investors 
Governance matters included review of the Board 
and committee evaluations and recommendations from 
the Board committees, such as proposed amendments 
to the terms of reference for each of the Nomination, 
Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
Strategy day
Having transitioned the Company from being a licensing 
and development vehicle, following the launch of Varithena
®
 
in 201 4 the Company had evolved to become a specialist 
healthcare business focusing in the areas of interventional 
vascular (Varithena
®
 and EKOS) and interventional oncology 
(Therasphere and Beads).
The Company continued to consider other developing areas 
of interventional medicine represented by unmet patient 
needs and market opportunities.
The strategy review highlighted interest in the area of 
interventional pulmonology following which the acquisition 
of PneumRx during the year has established the Company 
as a leading business in this area.
PneumRx acquisition
Following the acquisition of PneumRx, in addition to 
seeking to grow the RePneu
®
 coil business, there has 
been a focus on integrating PneumRx into the BTG Group 
governance framework covering aspects such as financial 
controls, healthcare compliance, quality, environmental 
health & safety, and risk management.
Risk management process
We recognise that whilst risk is inherent in our business, 
it is critical that we define and operate an effective risk 
management process. As such we have continued to evolve 
our approach to ensure risk management is embedded 
in each of the business units. We have enhanced the risk 
management function to better support the work of the 
Risk Committee and increased tracking and reporting of 
key risks and progress with mitigations to the Leadership 
T eam and the Board. 
The enhanced framework is intended to ensure risk is 
both managed effectively on a day-to-day basis within the 
business units but also that key risks are transparent to 
the Board and integral to our strategy discussions. 
44
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance report continued Attendance by individual directors at Board  
and Committee meetings since the last Annual Report
Board and committee 
composition and attendance
Committee  
memberships Independent
Board
meetings
Nomination
Committee
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
T otal number of meetings held 7 3 3 5
Number of meetings attended
Executive directors
Louise Makin (CEO) None No 7/7 n/a n/a n/a
Rolf Soderstrom (CFO) None No 7/7 n/a n/a n/a
Non-executive directors
Garry Watts Nom
2
No
1
7/7 3/3 n/a n/a
Giles Kerr Aud
2
, Rem, Nom Yes 7/7 2/3 3/3 4/5
Melanie Lee
5
Rem Yes 1/2 n/a n/a 1/1
Ian Much Aud, Rem
2
, Nom Yes 7/7 3/3 3/3 5/5
James O’Shea
3
Nom, Rem Yes 6/7 2/3 n/a 2/2
Richard Wohanka Aud Yes 6/7 n/a 3/3 n/a
Susan Foden
4
Rem Yes 2/2 n/a n/a 2/2
1 Garry Watts is excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of his role as Chairman of the Company.
2  Committee Chairman.
3  James O’Shea was only a member of the Remuneration Committee from 25 September 2014 to 1 March 2015 and attended all applicable meetings. 
4 Susan Foden joined the Board on 1 March 2015.
5 Melanie Lee resigned as director and member of the Remuneration Committee on 25 September 2014.
Notes
Richard Wohanka was unable to attend the July Board meeting (and AGM) due to a standing engagement in place prior to his appointment to the Board. Giles Kerr did not attend one 
Nomination Committee meeting where his reappointment was discussed and one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a late change of venue. James O’Shea did not attend one 
Nomination Committee meeting where his reappointment was being discussed and one Board meeting due to a pre-arranged engagement.
The external auditor usually attends the Audit Committee meetings and the remuneration advisers usually attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
The table shows, for each director, number of meetings attended/number of meetings eligible to attend.
Additional specific Board sub-committee telephone meetings were held as appropriate to approve specific business activities such as the acquisition of PneumRx.  
There were Board update calls when there was a larger break between scheduled meetings.
Board composition, membership  
and election of directors
The Board currently comprises six non-executive directors, 
including the Chairman, and two executive directors. On 25 
September 2014, having served as a non-executive director 
since 2010, Melanie Lee resigned from the Board to take up 
the position of Chief Scientific Officer for the Company. 
Following an extensive recruitment process, Susan Foden 
joined the Board as non-executive director on 1 March 2015. 
Susan has a strong background in the field of Biotech and 
Healthcare and her significant industry experience offers a 
great benefit to the Company as growth plans are implemented. 
The names and brief biographical details of all the current 
directors are set out on pages 38 and 39. The Company 
recognises the importance of diversity, including gender 
diversity, and, following the changes, 25% of the members of 
the Board are women. Details of gender diversity in the Group 
below Board level can be found in the corporate responsibility 
area of the strategic report on pages 30 to 32. 
The change of directors during the year did not affect the 
gender balance of the Board. As reported in the Nomination 
Committee report on page 54, the Committee reviews the 
composition of the Board on a regular basis to ensure that, 
as the business evolves, the Board continues to have the 
necessary skills to support the development of the business. 
All non-executive Board appointments are for three-year 
terms, subject to re-election at each year’s AGM, apart from 
Giles Kerr and James O’Shea, who were each reappointed  
for a one-year term, having both served on the Board for more 
than six years. Following the formal evaluation process, the 
Chairman is satisfied that each of the directors continues to 
Board by gender
75% Male
25% Female
Balance of directors
1 Chairman
2
5
Executive directors
Non-executive directors
T enure of non-executive directors and Chairman
2 More than 6 years
1
2
1
4-6 years
2-4 years
0-2 years
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
45
Governance perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to their 
role, including time for Board and Committee meetings and 
their other duties.
Independence
The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy 
itself that its non-executive directors remain independent. 
The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive 
directors every year, using its own judgment when applying 
the criteria in the Code. Having undertaken this review, the 
Board confirms that all the non-executive directors are 
considered to be independent in character and judgment. 
In line with the recommendations of the Code, at least half 
the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-
executive directors. Garry Watts was considered to be 
independent at the time of his appointment although, 
in accordance with the Code, he is excluded from the 
determination of whether at least half the Board are 
independent non-executive directors thereafter.
Conflicts of interest
T o address the effect of Section 1 75 of the Companies Act 
2006, the Company’s Articles of Association enable the 
Board to authorise situations that might give rise to directors’ 
conflicts of interest. Directors complete a declaration form 
in order to determine whether any actual or potential 
conflicts need authorisation. The forms are reviewed annually 
to ensure that the information provided is up to date and 
includes any disclosures made during the past year . 
At the March 2015 Board meeting all directors were asked to 
review and make any necessary amendments to their existing 
declarations. The Company Secretary has reviewed the latest 
declarations and has confirmed that no conflicts have arisen. 
Board members are regularly reminded to disclose any 
conflicts should they arise. Any such notifications are kept in a 
conflicts register maintained by the Company Secretary. Any 
director who considers they may have a potential conflict of 
interest is required to report this to the Chairman in the first 
instance, who may consult the Nomination Committee and 
report its findings to the Board.
Effectiveness
Information, training and support
In advance of each meeting the directors receive an agenda 
and a full set of papers for each item to be discussed via a 
secure Board portal, accessible on an electronic device. 
Directors receive sufficiently detailed strategic and 
operational reports. The Board calendar includes an annual 
strategy day and senior executives regularly attend meetings 
to enhance the non-executive directors’ understanding of 
the business and current issues and to make presentations 
on the results and strategies in their areas of responsibility. 
Board meetings are occasionally held at different office 
locations in the UK and US enabling non-executive directors 
an additional opportunity to visit other Company sites. 
When they join the Company, each director receives a 
comprehensive induction package. The induction process 
includes written information and is tailored to their experience. 
Sue Foden joined the Company in March and met with 
appropriate members of staff and visited different 
Company sites. 
The time commitment of the non-executive directors 
depends on the number of committees that they are a 
member of but the expectation is that they would normally 
work approximately two days per month, subject to any 
increased demand driven by business activity.
All directors refresh their knowledge regularly through 
publications and conferences and through information 
provided by the Company and its advisers. Specific training 
during the year has included updates on social, environmental 
and ethical matters.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent 
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense. 
They also have direct access to the advice and services of 
the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed. The Company also provides 
appropriate directors’ and officers’ liability insurance.
Performance evaluation
The Board recognises that a review of its own performance 
is beneficial in ensuring its continued effectiveness and 
development.
The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of 
the CFO. The Chairman and non-executive directors review 
the performance of the CEO. The non-executive directors led 
by the SID and following input from the executive directors, 
evaluate the performance of the Chairman each year . 
The Committees also review their performance and report 
the results to the Chairman and the Board as a whole. 
The non-executive directors meet at least once a year 
without the executive directors in order to discuss the 
performance of the executive directors and any concerns 
over their management of the Company’s affairs.
The Corporate Governance Code (the Code) requires that 
the evaluation be carried out by external consultants at 
least every three years. For the last two years the evaluation 
had been carried out internally via a series of web-based 
comprehensive questionnaires. This year, SCT consultants, 
who had carried out the evaluation three years ago, were 
again asked to facilitate the evaluation. 
The review was based on a number of things, including 
observation, a questionnaire, analysis of documentation and 
interviews, both with the Board and the Leadership Team. 
The process confirmed that the Board provided effective 
leadership to the Group, being well structured with a broad 
range of skills and the right expertise. It is well chaired and 
works in a robust, evidence-based and decisive way.
46
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance report continued Progress had been made against the objectives set for 
last year:
• To respond to the growing complexity of the business as well 
as pace of activity leading to the requirement for increased 
communication, additional Board calls were set up.
• T o continue to improve the monitoring of progress on 
delivering the strategy and its component parts and 
understanding the long-term sustainability of the business 
model.
• T o continue to focus on people and leadership development 
and succession planning ensuring the Group has adequate 
capability and capacity in terms of people and resources to 
meet its diversifying objectives.
Following the evaluation by SCT consultants this year, 
the Board objectives are to:
• Continue evolution of the development of the approach 
to risk management including ‘deep dives’ on key risks 
and ‘top down’ risk reviews, integrating the risk and 
strategy discussions.
• Enhance the annual strategy review with additional interim 
discussions regarding specific elements of the strategy.
• Continue progression with enhancing the capabilities of the 
Group, including those of the Board and having in place 
succession plans for senior staff and Board members, 
taking into account its evolving strategy.
• Continue to enhance the induction programme for new 
directors, tailored for individual needs and understanding. 
Accountability
Financing reporting and internal control
The statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation to the 
preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 78 
and the auditor’s statement on the respective responsibilities 
of directors and the auditor is included within its report set out 
on pages 80 to 82. 
Communications with shareholders, such as results 
announcements, interim reports, annual reports or AGM and 
trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved by the 
Board, or a sub-committee of the Board, to ensure they are 
accurate, transparent, balanced and understandable in the 
view they give of the Company’s progress and prospects.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the 
Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and 
risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. The 
Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the 
detailed monitoring of the controls, at least annually, and 
reports to the Board on its findings. The Board has reviewed 
the system of internal controls including financial controls for 
the year under review and up to the date of approval of this 
Annual Report and Accounts. Such a system is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The criteria applied by the directors, in judging the effectiveness 
of these controls, are that they allow the maximisation of 
shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities whilst 
ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed and 
the Group’s legal, regulatory and other obligations are met. 
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they 
enable the proper management of business risks. 
To strengthen the control framework of the business, the 
Group has established an Internal Audit group supported 
externally by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). Further 
information can be found in the Audit Committee report on 
pages 50 to 53.
Structure and reporting
The Group has a well-defined management structure with 
clear lines of responsibility and accountability. The Board 
is responsible for setting the overall strategy and reviewing 
the performance of the Group.
The Leadership Team generally meets weekly and more 
formally on a monthly basis to review business performance 
measured against annual budgets, longer -term plans, an 
agreed set of objectives and performance criteria for each 
business unit. In addition, it will assess and respond to issues 
arising across the Group. Forecasts are monitored monthly 
on the basis of detailed reviews of progress and prospects. 
Reporting to the Board is based on the information provided 
to and reviewed by the Leadership Team as well as their 
assessment and recommendations regarding how to deliver 
the Group’s objectives. The reports include non-financial as 
well as financial information and a review of progress within 
the development portfolio.
Compliance and the review of risk and risk management are 
embedded throughout the Group. The Audit Committee has 
reviewed the detailed reports on Risk, Internal Audit and 
Compliance and reported its findings to the Board (see the 
Audit Committee report on pages 50 to 53 for more detail). 
The Board has reviewed the risk management process and 
confirms that ongoing processes and systems ensure that 
the Group continues to be compliant with the guidance on 
internal control issued by the Code.
The Group has a system and key experts responsible for 
supporting the protection and maintenance of patents and 
other intellectual property rights on the products in which 
BTG has an interest. The Group also actively monitors its 
royalty revenue streams and from time-to-time will audit its 
major licensees to ensure compliance with the terms of the 
relevant agreements.
Delegated authority structures ensure that decisions are 
taken at an appropriate level, with an appropriate level of 
input by internal and external expert advisers. The delegated 
authority structure prescribes financial limits of approval at 
each level and requires decisions with significant financial, 
legal risk or reputational impact for the Group to be approved 
by the Board.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
47
Governance Corporate policies, values and compliance
All employees receive periodic training on the key 
requirements of BTG’s Code of Conduct. It covers all aspects of 
ethics, business practices and compliance, including a 
whistle-blowing policy, an anti-bribery and anti-corruption 
policy and policies related to the ethical conduct of research 
and development and interactions with doctors and other 
healthcare professionals. Relevant employees meet regularly 
to discuss external changes in the regulatory, legal and 
financial environments in which the Group operates to ensure 
it remains fully compliant with new legislation and best 
practice. Periodic ‘lunch and learn’ sessions are run updating 
staff on key issues affecting the business and online tools are 
utilised for training.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed  
the effectiveness of the internal controls of the Group.  
The controls described above operate and are embedded 
within the day-to-day business. There is an ongoing process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks 
faced by the Group. A reporting structure has been in place 
throughout the year up to the date of approval of the financial 
statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors and is in 
accordance with the Code. Further information is given in the 
Audit Committee report on pages 50 to 53.
BTG places great emphasis on the embedded behaviours 
and values that define the Company and have been integral 
in building the Company that it is today and believe them to be 
key for continuing success. A Companywide meeting is held 
each month where all sites join via videoconference. Louise 
Makin updates employees on different aspects of the 
business and presentations are given by employees from 
all areas of the business.
Related parties and conflicts of interest
The Group maintains robust procedures to ensure that related 
party transactions and potential conflicts of interest are 
identified, disclosed and managed. Directors declare interests 
in other businesses on appointment to the Board, as they arise 
and also complete an annual self-certification. Where it is 
identified that a related party relationship exists, the Board 
agrees specific additional procedures to ensure the effective 
management of potential conflicts of interest.
Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of the Board, is also the 
Director of Finance for Oxford University and a director of 
Isis Innovations Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Oxford University. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the 
Company entered into technology commercialisation 
and revenue sharing agreements with these organisations 
prior to Giles Kerr joining the Board. The Group has licensed 
the intellectual property rights covered by these agreements 
to independent third-party companies that are developing 
and/or selling the licensed products. Under these licence 
agreements, the Group is entitled to receive milestone 
payments and/or royalties on sales of the products sold 
by the third-party licensees. 
Under the various revenue sharing agreements, the Group 
pays a share of any income it receives to Oxford University 
or Isis Innovations, depending on the specific technology 
that generated the income. As the revenue sharing 
agreements do not permit these organisations to have any 
input over the commercialisation of the licensed products 
or the amount payable under the relevant revenue sharing 
agreement, Giles Kerr is not able to influence the amounts 
received in his position outside the Group. Because he has 
no influence over any aspect of these agreements in his 
role outside the Group, the Company considers that his 
independence in relation to the Group is not compromised.
Within the Group, to avoid any possible conflict of interest,  
it has been agreed that Giles Kerr will not participate in any 
discussions or decisions concerning the relevant agreements 
either within the Board or in any other discussions or meetings 
with the executives of its subsidiaries.
The Board has considered, and is satisfied with, the separation 
of duties and safeguards. 
On 4 December 201 4 the Company completed a placing of 
18,867 ,925 new ordinary shares at a price of £7 .95 per share, 
raising a total of approximately £150m (before expenses). 
The purpose of the placing was to fund the completion of the 
acquisition of PneumRx which was announced on 4 December 
201 4 and completed on 8 January 201 5. As part of that 
placing, Invesco Asset Management (who immediately prior to 
the undertaking of the placing held 22.95% of the issued share 
capital of the Company) subscribed for 3,255,000 ordinary 
shares at the placing price representing a total consideration 
at the placing price of £25.9m, representing 0.896% of the 
market capitalisation of the Company as at the close of 
business on 4 December 201 4. The completion of the placing 
resulted in Invesco holding a total of 23.85% of the issued 
share capital of the Company as at 5 December 2014. Invesco 
participated in the placing on the same terms as other 
subscribers and no commission was payable to them in 
respect of that participation. As Invesco held greater than 10% 
of the issued share capital of the Company immediately prior 
to the placing they were deemed a ‘related party’ for the 
purposes of the Listing Rules.
See note 29 on page 1 19 for additional related party 
disclosures.
Market abuse directive
The Company has a Disclosure Committee, as required by 
the Market Abuse Directive, comprising the CEO, CFO, Vice 
President of Corporate and Investor Relations and Company 
Secretary. The Committee reviews all significant items of 
business within the Group regularly, and on an ad hoc basis if 
required, and maintains an Insider List recording both those 
employed within the Group and at external advisers who may 
have access to inside information. Whenever individuals are 
placed on or removed from the List they are notified 
accordingly and advised of their responsibilities.
48
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Corporate governance report continued Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing 
remuneration policy and the individual remuneration of all 
executive and non-executive directors and members of the 
Leadership Team. The Remuneration Committee is formed 
exclusively of non-executive directors and its report can be 
found on pages 56 to 75.
Relations with shareholders
The Group maintains good communications with 
shareholders through formal and informal dialogue. 
The Company formally reports its results twice a year 
with full year results announced in May and interim 
results in November, and Close Period and AGM statements. 
The CEO and CFO give presentations of these results to the 
Company’s institutional shareholders, analysts and the media. 
The presentations are broadcast live on the internet for the 
information of all shareholders. 
During the year the Company hosted two site visits at our 
facility in Camberley, Surrey for analysts and investors. 
Both visits were based around our Interventional Medicine 
business and visitors received presentations from the 
commercial leaders responsible for Varithena
®
, EKOS and 
Interventional Oncology. A tour of the laboratories was given 
as well as demonstrations of the products.
As part of our ongoing efforts to broaden our investor base, 
we launched a Level 1 sponsored ADR programme in February 
2015. This offers US investors a platform on which to invest in 
our Company and aims to raise our profile with a large pool of 
potential investors.
The CEO and CFO meet regularly with institutional investors 
with support from the Investor Relations department. 
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other 
directors are available to meet with major shareholders on 
request. As part of his role as the Senior Independent Director, 
Giles Kerr is available to shareholders when contact with the 
executive directors or the Chairman may not be appropriate. 
No other requests were received from major shareholders to 
meet with the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or other 
non-executive directors during the year. The Investor Relations 
department acts as a contact point for investors throughout 
the year.
The directors receive a report from the Investor Relations 
department at each Board meeting giving information on 
material changes in shareholdings and any feedback from the 
Company’s brokers and investors. Following the twice-yearly 
results announcements and any subsequent shareholder 
meetings held by management, detailed feedback from 
external advisers and brokers is provided to the Board, 
outlining the views and reactions of investors and analysts. 
This enables the Board to develop an understanding of the 
issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Extensive information, including annual and interim reports 
and all press releases, is published in the Investor Relations 
area on the Group’s website (www.btgplc.com) for access by 
all shareholders. In addition, through the website, individuals 
can register to receive electronic copies of all Company 
announcements on the day they are issued.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM gives private shareholders the opportunity to meet 
and discuss the Group’s business with the Board and other 
senior management. A full business presentation is given and 
there is an open question and answer session during which 
shareholders may ask questions both about the resolutions 
being proposed and the business in general. The Chairmen of 
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be 
present at the AGM to answer shareholders’ questions and 
the Board is available after the meeting for an informal 
discussion with shareholders.
The AGM will be held at 10.30 am on Wednesday 15 July 2015, 
at the offices of Stephenson Harwood LLP , 1 Finsbury Circus, 
London EC2M 7SH. The Notice convening the meeting is 
distributed separately to shareholders at least 20 working 
days before the meeting. It is also available on the Company’s 
website: www.btgplc.com/investors/reports-and-presentations. 
The letter accompanying the AGM Notice includes details of 
the resolutions and explanatory notes thereon.
Members of the Company unable to attend the meeting 
may elect to vote electronically or using the proxy form 
accompanying the Notice. In order to vote electronically, 
members should log on to Capita Asset Services’ (BTG’s 
registrars) website (www.capitashareportal.com) and follow 
the instructions on the screen. Crest members may send their 
proxy votes to the Company’s registrars electronically.
In line with best practice, the Company has decided to 
introduce mandatory poll voting this year on all resolutions 
put to the AGM. The results of the voting on all resolutions 
will be disclosed and subsequently published in a market 
announcement and on the Company’s website following 
the meeting.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
49
Governance Audit Committee report
Dear Shareholder ,
The Audit Committee’s key objectives are to provide 
effective governance over the Group’s financial 
activities. It reviews and enhances integrity of the 
Group’s internal controls, its financial reporting and 
the way the Group assesses, manages and reports 
risk and compliance as well as the performance 
of both the internal and external audit functions. 
A significant part of the Committee’s time is spent on 
these areas, and the highly regulated environment 
in which the Company operates only enhances the 
need to ensure our processes remain fit for purpose.
The 201 4 version of the Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code) which will apply to next year’s 
annual report, will further strengthen the role of 
the Committee. The Committee already puts focus 
on areas subject to change in the Code, such as  
the robust assessment of principal risks and how 
these are managed and mitigated as well as internal 
control systems. 
During the year we have spent more time building 
on our understanding of the risk management 
processes and reviewing the risks. The whole 
risk management process has been thoroughly 
reviewed and there have been changes in the Risk 
Management Committee following this review. 
The Board, after taking advice from the Audit 
Committee, confirmed that the Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair , balanced 
and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
position and performance, business model 
and strategy. 
The following report sets out the activities of the 
Committee over the past year and how it has 
discharged its responsibilities.
Giles Kerr
Chairman of the Audit Committee
The Committee and its membership
The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for 
monitoring all aspects of financial reporting and management 
of risk. The Committee’s full terms of reference, reviewed and 
updated during the year, are available on the Company’s 
website, or from the Company Secretary on request.
Committee members Member since
Giles Kerr (Committee Chairman) 
Ian Much
Richard Wohanka
6 November 2007
1 November 201 0
1 January 201 3
There were three Committee meetings during the year . Details 
of attendance can be found on page 45.
Committee members’ qualifications
The Committee’s composition was reviewed during the year 
and the Board is satisfied that the current members have 
the breadth of knowledge and experience necessary to 
effectively fulfil the Committee’s responsibilities. Giles Kerr 
has a strong financial background, he is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants and Director of Finance 
at Oxford University. As required by the Code, he is considered 
to have the necessary significant recent and relevant financial 
experience to qualify him to be the Chairman of the Committee. 
He receives additional remuneration to compensate him for 
his additional responsibilities, as set out on page 75. Other 
members bring substantial experience in international 
business areas as well as financial expertise to the deliberations 
of the Committee. In particular Richard Wohanka has more 
than 20 years’ experience in the finance and asset management 
industry. More information is given in the directors’ biographies 
on pages 38 and 39.
Committee meetings
Only members of the Audit Committee are entitled to attend 
meetings, however the CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller, 
Internal Auditor and Corporate Risk and Compliance Officer 
also normally attend meetings. The external auditor always 
attends Committee meetings. The Company Secretary or his 
deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Time spent by the Committee during the year
13% Internal audit
19%
21%
10%
External audit
(inc. non-audit services)
Financial reporting
Tax
11% Governance/policy/other
26%
Risk management 
and compliance 
(inc. whistleblowing)
50
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Activities
A summary of matters considered at the Committee meetings since the last Annual Report is shown. Each area of review is 
explained in further detail within this report:
Area of review Activities undertaken
Financial reporting Review of the Group’s half year and full year results
Consideration of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable
Review of external auditor reports on the half year and full year results
Consideration of significant accounting issues as detailed on the following page
Review of prospective changes in accounting standards and their potential impact
Review of trading updates issued by the Group and amendments thereto
Assessment of the going concern basis of preparation for the financial statements 
and considering whether there were any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability 
to continue to adopt this basis over a period of at least 1 2 months from the date of 
approval of the financial statements
Current and deferred tax 
External auditor Review of External Auditor independence
Review of the scope, nature and resource planning for half year and full year audits
Approval of external auditor fees
Review (and approval where required) of use of Auditors for non-audit work
Risk management and internal control Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud, anti-bribery and  
anti-corruption procedures
Review of enhanced compliance systems and policies 
Review of the results of internal compliance monitoring and auditing
Review of the Group’s whistle-blowing policy
Review of the Group’s tax affairs
Review of internal investigations and Internal Investigations Policy
Internal audit Review of the integration of the acquisition made in 201 5 so far as it relates to key controls
Review of the Internal Auditor’s work plan
Review of Internal Audit reports produced throughout the year
Review of structure and resources of the Internal Audit group
Committee governance Review and amendment of Committee terms of reference
Externally facilitated effectiveness review
Financial reporting
The detailed monitoring of the integrity of the annual and 
half year results is a key role of the Committee and includes 
a review of the significant financial reporting judgments 
contained in them with the aim of ensuring that they present 
a fair and balanced view of the Company and comply fully  
with the relevant statutes and accounting standards. Where 
requested by the Board, the Committee will advise on whether, 
taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, 
balanced and understandable. As part of this review it 
discusses the audit findings and Auditor’s Report with 
management and the External Auditor and considers 
significant judgments and issues contained in them as  
set out below. Following this discussion the Chairman of the 
Committee reports the results of its review to the full Board. 
The External Auditor meets with the non-executive directors  
in the absence of management at least twice a year, when  
the half and full year results are discussed.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
51
Governance Audit Committee report continued
Significant accounting matters 
The Committee considered the following key accounting 
issues, judgments and disclosures during the course of 
the year:
• Carrying value of Goodwill and Intangible Assets: 
The Committee received and critically reviewed a report 
from management setting out the approach to and results 
of impairment testing in accordance with IAS 36. The report 
covered all asset classes, with a particular focus on goodwill 
and intangible assets as further disclosed in note 1 2 and 
the valuation methodology including discount rates, 
assumed growth rates across and sensitivity analysis 
for these asset classes
• Recognition of Deferred T ax Assets and Liabilities: 
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of deferred 
tax asset recognition and the movements on deferred tax 
assets and liabilities during the year . This included the 
movements arising from the Group’s acquisition and the 
assumptions made in setting up the deferred tax liability 
on acquired intangibles
• Acquisition accounting: The Group completed the acquisition 
of PneumRx during the year. The Committee discussed the 
key assumptions and judgments applied by management 
in satisfying the requirements of IFRS 3 and reviewed 
valuation reports prepared by an independent third party 
including valuation of the contingent consideration. Note 32 
contains further details of acquisition accounting
• Presentation format of Consolidated Income Statement:  
The Group’s Consolidated Income Statement on page 83 
has, for a number of years, been prepared using a three 
column format for each financial year. The Committee 
reviews the appropriateness of this disclosure on an annual 
basis and did so once again this year
• Other matters: During the course of the year, the Committee 
received updates from management on Group corporate 
structure, tax strategy, the adoption of new accounting 
standards and the potential impact of future accounting 
standards. In particular, the Committee discussed the 
potential impacts of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers’. 
Review of external auditor effectiveness, 
independence and appointment
The Committee reviews the overall performance of the 
auditor annually and approves its terms of engagement 
and remuneration. The Committee discussed and agreed 
the auditor’s proposed work plan prior to the commencement 
of the audit of the results for the year to 31 March 2015 
and also reviews the non-audit work carried out by the auditor 
to ensure that such services do not impair its independence 
or objectivity. The external auditor provided a report 
demonstrating how their independence and objectivity 
is maintained when providing non-audit services.
The Committee has a formal policy for approving the use 
of the auditor for non-audit work detailing areas where the 
auditors may not be used, areas where they may be used 
subject to the agreement of the Committee and areas where 
prior approval is not required. Areas where prior approval is not 
required include audit-related services as specified in the APB 
Ethical Standards for Auditors and other services, that are 
routine in nature, where the fee is not significant in the context 
of the audit fee and where the conduct of such services will 
not adversely impact auditor independence or objectivity. 
The Committee receives a written annual report from 
management summarising the fees paid to the auditors for 
non-audit work and whether such services were pre-approved 
or specifically approved by the Committee. Details of the 
amounts paid to the external auditor for non-audit services 
are set out below.
Audit Committee approval T ask Fees
£’000
Pre-approval required:
No US tax compliance services 256
Others –
Total fees paid to the Company’s auditor, KPMG, are shown 
in note 6 on page 99. The Committee believes that the use of 
KPMG was appropriate and efficient in the circumstances 
and that independence was preserved as a partner other 
than the audit partner was responsible for the work and the 
fees paid were insignificant in the context of the size of KPMG 
as a whole. 
Each year, the Committee considers the reappointment of 
the external auditor and makes a recommendation to the 
Board. As part of this process, the Committee also looks at 
the need for the rotation of the audit partner and assesses 
the auditor’s independence. Richard Broadbelt has been audit 
engagement partner as from the year ended 31 March 2014. 
KPMG have been the Group’s sole external auditors since the 
Company listed in 1995 and the audit contract has not been 
put out to tender since their appointment. The Committee 
reviews annually whether it is an appropriate time to 
undertake an external audit tender and this year, taking into 
account the complexity of the business, the speed that 
changes continue to take place and the services offered by 
KPMG and their independence, as well as guidance issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), the Committee 
concluded that it would not be in the Company’s interests 
to commence a tender process. Following this review, which 
included considering auditor performance and independence, 
the Board recommends the reappointment of KPMG as 
external auditor, and to authorise the directors to determine 
the auditor’s remuneration. 
Having regard to the transitional arrangements under the new 
EU Audit reform framework and the Competition & Markets 
Authority’s Order, the Company still intends to consider 
external audit tender, at the latest, nearer the time of the 
next audit partner rotation, currently scheduled for 2018. The 
Company may however put the audit out for tender at any time 
before this date. The Committee will continue to monitor the 
52
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 consultations regarding how the EU Regulation will be 
implemented in the UK, and will comply with any new 
applicable requirements. 
Risk management and internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the 
Group maintains an adequate system of internal control 
and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the 
detailed monitoring of the risk management process and 
internal control effectiveness and reports to the Board on 
its findings twice-yearly. In particular, the Committee’s review 
focuses on financial, operational, healthcare law compliance 
and risk management controls for the year under review and 
up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts. 
Such a system is designed to manage appropriately rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee discharges its risk management duties 
using a combination of reports from management, Internal 
Audit and the external auditor. A risk management reporting 
structure has been in place throughout the year and up 
to the date of approval of the financial statements and 
is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with 
the Code. During the year, a thorough review of the risk 
management reporting structure took place and changes 
made to enhance the process. 
The Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and including 
employees from the appropriate sections of the business, 
reviews risk throughout the business. The membership of 
the Committee was considered as part of the review and 
some changes made. The Risk Committee maintains a risk 
management plan that is designed to identify risks, assess 
the probability of those risks occurring, the impact should 
they occur, how such risks are being appropriately mitigated 
and monitored and the actions and individuals responsible 
for delivering the mitigations. In depth analysis of key risks 
is undertaken periodically to ensure a degree of independent 
assessment of the operational application of the risk 
management process and to seek to identify opportunities 
to apply alternative or enhanced risk mitigation strategies. 
The Committee continues to monitor this process including 
a consideration of what comprises an acceptable level of 
risk in key areas and the optimal mitigation strategy, having 
regard to the costs, timelines and likelihood of success of 
the mitigation options. The Committee reports its findings 
twice-yearly to the Board.
Historically, the Group had a Compliance Steering Committee, 
which was responsible for maintaining and overseeing a 
system to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all 
applicable laws (including US Federal and State requirements) 
that relate to the commercial operations of the Group, 
including its US sales and marketing teams. Given the 
importance of compliance, a change was made during the 
year to move this responsibility to the Leadership Team to 
provide direct oversight. The Leadership Team, therefore, sets 
policy and oversees any investigations required with respect 
to any alleged failures. It also assists in the definition and 
assessment and response to compliance monitoring and 
auditing and the results are reported to the Audit Committee 
alongside the risk management report. 
Additional details of risk management and principal risks 
that may affect the business are given on pages 33 to 36 in 
the strategic report.
Whistle-blowing
In line with best practice, the Group supports an independent 
and confidential whistle-blowing procedure and the 
Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements 
under which employees may raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial performance or other 
matters are operating effectively and that appropriate 
follow-up action takes place. Included within the Employee 
Code of Conduct are details of the Group’s whistle-blowing 
policy and displays at each site give details of what employees 
should do if they have concerns regarding any aspect of the 
business. Employees are encouraged to report any concerns 
without fear of recrimination and an independent telephone 
line is available should staff wish to use it. The arrangements 
were reviewed by the Committee during the year and were 
found to be operating effectively.
UK Bribery Act
The Group has continued to operate its anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption policy introduced in 2010 in response to  
the UK Bribery Act 2010. This has included the conduct of  
due diligence on new key business partners who may act  
on behalf of the Group in higher risk areas of business. 
Enhancements were made to the review process during  
the year to further strengthen our approach.
Internal audit
The Committee monitored and reviewed the work of Internal 
Audit throughout the year . The annual internal audit plan was 
approved by the Committee at the start of the year and any 
subsequent changes to that plan have also been approved 
by the Committee. The internal audit plan focuses on financial 
controls and compliance with healthcare law. The work 
carried out by Internal Audit did not identify any material 
weaknesses in internal controls but included proposals 
to enhance control procedures. The Committee monitors 
management’ s responses to ensure that control improvements 
are instigated on a timely basis. The internal audit function is 
supported by PwC under the direction of the Audit Committee.
Committee evaluation 
As part of corporate governance, the review of the Committee 
and its effectiveness was externally facilitated this year. The 
results and recommendations for improvement were reported 
to the Board. The Committee was found to be functioning well, 
with an effective reporting relationship with the Board and 
providing a good balance between in-depth assessment, 
diagnosis and analysis and a clear practical approach.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
53
Governance Dear Shareholder ,
The Committee is responsible for appointments 
and reviewing the structure of the Board and its 
Committees. The key objective of the Committee is 
to ensure the Board has the balance of individuals 
who have the appropriate mix of skills, experience, 
knowledge and expertise to lead the Company.
Having regard for the key capabilities required for 
the Company to deliver its strategy, I was pleased 
to be able to announce the move of Melanie Lee 
from the Board to join the Leadership T eam as 
Chief Scientific Officer .
As a consequence, we took the opportunity to 
further diversify the breadth of experience on  
the Board with the appointment of Susan Foden, 
someone with rich experience in our sector , in  
March this year .
Garry Watts
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee report
The Committee and its membership
The Committee’s full terms of reference, reviewed and 
updated during the year, are available on the Company’s 
website, or from the Company Secretary on request.
Committee members Member since
Garry Watts (Committee Chairman)
Giles Kerr
Ian Much
James O’Shea
1 January 201 2
1 6 July 2008
1 January 201 2
13 May 2009
There were three Committee meetings during the year . Details 
of attendance can be found on page 45.
Other attendees at Nomination 
Committee meetings
• The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings  
by invitation.
• The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary 
to the Committee
The key responsibilities of the Committee are:
• To regularly review the structure, size and composition 
of the Board looking at its balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge as well as its diversity 
(including gender diversity) and make recommendations 
to the Board on any appropriate changes.
• To identify, via a rigorous and transparent procedure, 
and nominate, for the Board’s approval, suitable candidates 
to fill any vacancies for non-executive directors and, 
with the assistance of the CEO, executive directors.
• T o plan for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
• T o recommend to the Board the membership and 
chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
Time spent by the Committee during the year
8% Diversity matters
42%
42%
8%
Non-executive search
Succession planning and 
reappointment of directors
Governance/other
54
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Activities
The principal activities during the year related to: 
• The appointment of Susan Foden as a  
non-executive director
• The reappointment of the Chairman and non-executive 
directors Giles Kerr and James O’Shea. James and Giles 
were each reappointed for 1 2 months, subject to being 
re-elected at the Annual General Meeting as they each 
had served on the Board for more than six years. It is the 
expectation that any non-executive director reappointment 
beyond six years would be made on an annual basis 
• Discussing succession planning for the Group’s 
Leadership team, including the CEO and CFO and the 
Group’s senior managers
• Considering the expertise and capabilities as well as the 
capacity required of the Group’s management team and 
wider employee group having regard to the Group’s strategy 
and changing needs. This remains an area of focus in light  
of the continued rapid growth of the Group
Appointment process
Following the resignation of Melanie Lee as a non-executive 
director to become the Group’s Chief Scientific Officer, 
Susan Foden was appointed to the Board as an independent 
non-executive director. 
When considering Board appointments, the Committee 
considers what areas of expertise would the Board most 
benefit from and draws up a full description of the role, 
desired skills and capabilities accordingly. Gender diversity 
was an important part of the process, as was diversity in 
background. Russell Reynold Associates was appointed to 
support the appointment process, given their experience of 
fulfilling such roles and have not provided any other 
recruitment services to the Company. 
The Committee carried out a rigorous interview and 
selection process and shortlisted candidates were also 
interviewed by the other non-executive directors and the 
CEO. The Committee, taking into account the views of the 
other directors and the Board’s requirements recommended 
to the Board that Susan Foden be appointed as a non-
executive director and also as a member of the Remuneration 
Committee, given her experience on other Boards. Following 
a discussion, the Board accepted the recommendation and 
Susan Foden was appointed to the Board and as a member of 
the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 March 2015.
Following Susan’s appointment, and that of any new non-
executive director, the Committee ensures that they receive 
a comprehensive induction programme. As part of the 
induction process each new director is given a full briefing on 
the financial and operating history of the Company and details 
of its strategy, operating plans, budgets and forecasts for 
future years. Arrangements are also made for each new 
director to meet with the heads of the various business units 
for a briefing on the areas of business in which the Company 
is involved. A review is undertaken of the content of recent 
Board and Committee discussions including risk management 
reports, minutes and historical actions. A briefing on corporate 
governance and directors’ responsibilities may also be 
given and the opportunity to attend external courses is 
also available.
Succession planning
The development of talent below Board level is seen as 
extremely important and an area of focus for the Board. 
BTG continues to build an internal leadership pipeline 
for senior roles and the director of HR updates the Board 
regularly on progress. In addition to traditional Management 
Development Programmes, the Group has expanded the 
learning and development opportunities for leaders of people 
across the business, allowing a pool of talented leaders to 
be created and increasing the probability of retaining them 
through meaningful development and career opportunity. 
The Committee also reviews succession plans and plans 
for emergency cover of key managers on a regular basis.
Diversity
The benefits of diversity across all areas of the Group are 
recognised by the Board. The Company had two female 
directors on the Board and following the appointment of 
Susan Foden and the stepping down of Melanie Lee, the 
Board retains its 25% female Board representation. This is 
a percentage which the Company would like to retain in the 
future. It is of the utmost importance to maintain strong 
leadership and we will therefore continue to appoint only 
the most appropriate candidates to the Board. 
The policy on diversity applies across all levels of the Group 
and further details can be found in the corporate responsibility 
section on pages 30 to 32.
Committee evaluation
As part of the externally facilitated Board evaluation process,  
a review of the Committee was carried out and was found to be 
functioning effectively, with clear and well-focused processes. 
Garry Watts
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
55
Governance Structure of the report
The report is divided into three parts: (i) the ‘ Annual 
Statement’ summarising the business context in  
which the Committee has operated; (ii) the ‘Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy Report’ ; and (i i i) the ‘ Annual Report 
on Remuneration’ which provides shareholders with 
details of the major decisions made by the Committee 
and the remuneration actually delivered to the 
Company’ s directors during the 20 1 4/ 1 5 financial year .
The full Policy Report has been included again this year 
for information only . The chart showing remuneration 
scenarios on page 62 has however been updated to 
reflect proposed 201 5 remuneration levels. Additional 
information has been included to assist with 
comprehension.
201 5 Annual Statement
The Committee reviews the Company’s remuneration 
strategy at least annually. In light of the significant 
changes to the policy approved by shareholders in 
201 4 no changes have been made during the year . 
We believe executive directors should be incentivised 
to promote the long-term success of the Company and 
rewarded based on performance and by reference to 
transparent and demanding performance targets, 
reflecting best practice. In June 201 4, awards were 
granted under the PSP . The Core award element of the 
awards will be capable of vesting in June 201 7 subject 
to EPS and relative T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) 
performance conditions measured over three financial 
years. In line with our Policy , the executive directors will 
then have the opportunity to roll-over these awards so 
that they are at risk and in return receive a Multiplier 
award that can reduce or enhance the awards based 
on TSR performance measured over five years to 
3 1 March 201 9. In addition, as a result of a successful 
period of sustained growth, 1 00% of the shares 
subject to the 201 1 PSP were due to vest in 201 4. 
However , both of the executive directors instead 
elected to roll-over 1 00% of the shares that would 
otherwise have vested, in order to receive an 
equivalent Multiplier award, putting their entire 
awards at risk for a further two years. Vesting of the 
201 1 Core and Multiplier awards will be assessed in 
201 6 based on relative TSR performance over the 
full five-year period from grant. This election to 
roll-over vesting, at risk, demonstrates the executive 
directors’ commitment to the long-term success 
of the Company .
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the directors’ remuneration 
report for the year ended 3 1 March 201 5.
Overall it has been a positive year for the Company 
and I have taken the opportunity to describe below 
some of the major developments which set the 
context within which remuneration decisions have 
been made.
As previously communicated, the Committee 
undertook a strategic review of the approach 
to remuneration in 201 3 to ensure it was aligned 
with the Company’s goal of sustainable profitable 
growth and the creation of long-term value for our 
shareholders. The revised remuneration policy was 
put to a shareholder vote at the 201 4 Annual General 
Meeting and was approved by 95. 1 % of shareholders. 
There is no requirement to vote on the policy again 
this year as no changes are being proposed at this 
time. The Performance Share Plan (PSP) Multiplier 
award structure introduced in 201 3 will be reviewed 
by the Committee this year and the overall policy will 
be required to be put to a binding shareholder vote 
again in 201 7 . In the interim the Annual Report on 
Remuneration will continue to be subject to the 
advisory shareholder vote at the AGM. The 201 4 
Annual Report on Remuneration was approved by 
99.3% of shareholders at the 201 4 AGM.
56
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report Shareholding guidelines for the executive directors 
were increased two years ago (to 250% of salary for 
Louise Makin and 1 50% of salary for Rolf Soderstrom) 
and both currently have shareholdings significantly in 
excess of these guidelines, aligning their interests with 
those of shareholders. 
Progress during the year: 
The Company has continued its strategy of both organic 
and acquisitive growth and realised a number of 
significant milestones during the year . These include:
• The commercial launch of Varithena
®
 in the United 
States, which represents a significant development 
for the Company’s Interventional Medicine business
• EKOS Corporation securing FDA approval for the 
use of the EkoSonic
®
 device in a new indication 
(pulmonary embolism) and delivering 67% 
revenue growth from prior year reported revenues 
• Establishment of direct sales activities in Europe  
by the Interventional Oncology business, with that 
business unit achieving revenue growth of 30% overall 
from prior year reported revenues
• Opening of offices in T aiwan and Hong Kong as  
part of the Group’s Asia strategy and approval  
of DC Bead
®
 in China where the Company has 
partnered with SciClone Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
• The acquisition of PneumRx completed in January, 
providing the Company with a presence  
in the new area of Interventional Pulmonology
• Settlement of the patent dispute in the US 
relating to use of snake antivenoms, securing the 
Company’s leadership in the area, with the Specialty 
Pharmaceutical business achieving 1 8% revenue 
growth from prior year reported revenues
As a result, there has been a significant increase in 
shareholder value over the course of the year , with  
the share price increasing from 545.5p on 1 April  
201 4 to 71 5.0p on 31 March 201 5. The above events 
contributed to the assessment that the Company and 
executive directors each met substantially all of their 
financial and operations bonus criteria, which will 
result in an 89% bonus payout for the executive 
directors (70% of which related to Company objectives 
and 30% of which related to personal performance).
The personal and corporate objectives are targets 
that are linked to the longer -term development of the 
business. They are therefore commercially sensitive 
as they relate to the measures that will drive 
developments over the next three to five years. 
Whilst the financial targets are being fully 
disclosed the Committee is only able to provide 
a high level summary of the personal and 
corporate non-financial targets.
The Group has seen revenues grow 87% over the 
last three years, an approximate 98% increase in 
the number of employees and an increase in market 
capitalisation of approximately 1 50% over the same 
period. As a result of this financial performance and 
sustained growth, there will be 1 00% vesting under 
the 201 2 Option and PSP awards, subject to the 
decision to be made by each director whether to 
roll-over 50% or 1 00% of the PSP amounts that 
would otherwise vest, in order to receive an equivalent 
Multiplier award that can increase or decrease the 
actual level of awards vesting based on relative TSR 
performance up to the end of year five after grant. 
With respect to the 201 2 PSPs, the actual amount 
vesting will depend on whether the executive directors 
elect to roll-over an award from a Core award to a 
Multiplier award. If no such election is made, vesting 
will occur in June 201 5. Vesting will occur in June 201 7 
in relation to any part of the Award for which an 
election is made.
The 201 5 salary increases for both the executive 
directors were 3%, compared to an average of those  
to be awarded to the wider workforce at 3.9% (with 
the full range of increases across the Company being 
0 to 1 5%). This change resulted in salaries for the year 
starting 1 April 201 5 of £586,327 for Louise Makin 
and £384,31 0 for Rolf Soderstrom.
At the time of his reappointment on 1 January 201 5, 
the annual fee for the Chairman, Garry Watts (which 
had been fixed for his initial three-year term) was 
increased from £1 75,000 to £235,000 (10% p.a.) and 
again fixed for a further three years.
We continue to be committed to maintaining an open 
dialogue with shareholders and welcome feedback. 
We hope for the continued support of shareholders at 
the AGM on 1 5 July 201 5 where you will be invited to 
vote on the 201 5 Annual Remuneration Report.
Ian Much
Remuneration Committee Chairman
 
 
1 8 May 201 5
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
57
Governance Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report  
(restated from the 201 4 Annual Report)
The present Policy was approved by binding shareholder vote 
at the AGM on 16 July 2014 and became formally effective 
from that date.
The Policy enables the Company to offer a package of  
rewards that:
• is sufficiently competitive to enable the Company to attract 
and retain the management talent it needs to ensure the 
Group is successful;
• supports the achievement of the Company’s strategy by 
providing the potential to receive significant rewards linked 
to the long-term performance of the Company;
• aligns executives with shareholders and helps to retain 
them by delivering a significant element of remuneration 
in shares; and
• is flexible enough to cope with the Company’s changing 
needs as it grows and the strategy evolves.
The Committee believes that the salary and bonus structure 
and forfeiture provisions, together with the shareholding 
guidelines and participation in long-term incentive plans with 
performance measured over three to five years from grant, 
provide a balanced market -competitive package for the 
executive team which is aligned with shareholder interests. 
The Committee will, however , keep the approach under 
review in order to ensure it remains appropriate.
The Committee’s specific policy for each element of 
remuneration is as follows.
1,3
Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Base salary Provides market 
competitive fixed 
remuneration that takes 
account of individual 
responsibilities, and 
enables the Company 
to recruit and retain 
executives that are 
capable of delivering 
the Group’s strategic 
objectives.
Set at a broadly 
mid-market level and 
normally reviewed 
annually taking 
account of individual 
responsibilities, 
experience and 
performance.
Benchmarked using 
data for a general 
industry group selected 
on the basis of market 
capitalisation and a 
sector group of UK-
listed pharmaceutical, 
device and biotechnology 
companies.
Other than to reflect 
a change in the size 
and complexity of the 
role or Company or to 
reflect experience in the 
role, salary increases 
will normally be no 
higher than the average 
increases taking place 
across the Company 
(taking into account, 
where appropriate, the 
relevant pay groups).
None, although overall individual and 
corporate performance is a factor 
considered when reviewing salaries.
Details of the salary review in the period 
are set out on page 7 4.
Benefits Provide a competitive 
package of benefits that 
assists with attracting 
and retaining employees.
The main benefits 
currently provided 
comprise medical 
benefits and permanent 
health insurance, but 
the components will 
have regard to the 
market practice in the 
location of any future 
appointment. This 
could include relocation 
allowances or other 
appropriate benefits.
The quantum of benefits 
will be in line with local 
market practice. The 
value of each benefit is 
based on the cost to the 
Company which may 
vary from year to year . 
N/A
58
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Annual bonus A reward that is linked  
to the Company’s short -
term aims and value 
creation objectives.
Deferral of part of the 
bonus under the Deferred 
Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) 
provides an element of 
lock-in and alignment 
with shareholders.
All employees, including 
the executive directors, 
participate (except 
PneumRx employees 
who joined during the 
year and who will be 
integrated into current 
arrangements for the 
next fiscal year).
May be paid as a mix of 
cash and deferred shares 
under the DSBP .
DSBP awards are 
structured as conditional 
awards over shares to be 
held for three years and 
are subject to clawback.
6
The level of deferral is 
linked to the achievement 
of the individual’s 
applicable shareholding 
guidelines as follows:
 – Holding less than 50% 
of guideline – 50% of 
any bonus deferred.
 – Holding equal to 50% 
of guideline – all bonus 
in excess of 50% of the 
maximum deferred.
 – Holding between 50% 
and 100% of guideline 
– defer all bonus in 
excess of percentage 
of guideline achieved 
(i.e. if achieved 75% of 
guideline, only bonus 
in excess of 75% of 
maximum deferred).
 – When the shareholding 
guideline is reached 
no part of the bonus 
would be required to 
be deferred.
Maximum of 100% of 
salary for executive 
directors.
Performance targets for the executive 
directors are set annually by the 
Committee and focus on Company 
financial performance measures such 
as revenue, trading profit, operating 
cash (although the Committee has 
discretion to select other measures) 
and performance against a number 
of corporate and individual objectives 
intended to stimulate future growth.
Financial objectives account for the 
majority of the bonus.
T argets are set annually on a sliding scale 
with 50% of maximum bonus potential 
payable for on-target performance and 
up to 25% of maximum bonus potential 
payable for performance at threshold.
The Committee has discretion to adjust 
the bonus pay-out if in its opinion, 
the pay-out would not otherwise 
appropriately reflect the performance 
achieved. In addition, the Committee 
must be satisfied that a minimum level 
of financial performance has been 
achieved before any bonus is paid.
If, in exceptional circumstances, it was 
decided to apply upward discretion, 
it would first be discussed with major 
shareholders and the reasons fully 
disclosed in the annual report on 
remuneration for the relevant year .
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
59
Governance Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Long-term 
incentives
Support the strategy 
to transition the 
business from an 
R&D-focused specialty 
pharma company to 
an earnings-driven 
international specialist 
healthcare company.
Ensure remuneration 
includes a strong 
emphasis on the 
delivery of growth, 
sustained financial 
performance and 
superior shareholder 
returns. 
Annual awards of 
performance shares 
(Core awards) are made 
under the PSP , vesting 
of which is subject 
to the achievement 
of targets measured 
over a minimum of 
three years.
2,5
Awards of performance 
shares are subject to 
clawback.
6
Executives are offered 
the opportunity to 
rollover 50% or 100% 
of any PSP awards 
(representing up to 1 50% 
of salary) vesting in year 
three in return for a 
Multiplier award, vesting 
of which is subject to TSR 
performance measured 
over five years from 
the date of grant of the 
original Core award.
Executives are entitled 
to receive the value 
of dividend payments 
that would otherwise 
have been paid on 
vested awards. 
Maximum Core award 
of 1 50% of salary 
(200% in exceptional 
circumstances). Award 
can be increased to up to 
300% of salary (subject 
to further performance 
measures) if executive 
directors elect to forego 
vesting of the Core 
award at year three in 
exchange for a Multiplier 
award. They may elect 
to roll over 50 or 100% 
of a Core award vesting 
right to secure the 
opportunity to receive 
a Multiplier award.
Awards prior to 201 3 are subject to 
conditions which are described in the 
annual report on remuneration on 
pages 71 and 72 .
Core awards granted from 201 3 are 
subject to relative TSR and EPS growth 
performance conditions. TSR is 
measured relative to companies in the 
FTSE 250 index and EPS is measured as 
growth in adjusted EPS in the final year 
of the three year performance period.
25% of each element vests at median/
threshold performance, rising to full 
vesting at upper quartile/stretch 
performance. Details of the targets for 
these awards are provided in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
For the 201 3 and 201 4 awards EPS and 
TSR conditions have equal weightings. In 
future years the weighting between EPS 
and TSR conditions would be decided by 
the Remuneration Committee prior to 
each grant.
Multiplier awards are measured by 
reference to TSR performance only over 
a five-year period.
Multiplier awards – 201 3 PSP awards 
onwards: Each 1 % outperformance/
underperformance of the FTSE 250 
index at the end of five years increases 
or decreases the total number of shares 
that would have vested under the PSP 
by 1 % i.e. rolled over awards could be 
increased or decreased by ± 100% (so 
that the number of shares the subject 
of the award could be doubled or be 
reduced to zero).
Multiplier awards – 201 1 and 201 2 PSP 
awards only: Each 1 % outperformance/
underperformance of the FTSE 250 
index at the end of five years increases 
or decreases the total number of shares 
that would have vested under the PSP 
by 1 .5% i.e. rolled over awards could 
be increased by + 1 50% or reduced by 
- 100% (down to zero).
60
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Element
Purpose and
link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Pension Provides competitive 
retirement benefits 
that reward sustained 
contribution. 
For longer serving 
employees: participation 
in contributory defined 
benefit pension 
arrangements up to a 
scheme specific cap or 
HMRC defined limits.
For more recent hires 
and provision above the 
cap: defined contribution 
pension provision and/or 
cash allowances. 
Defined benefit 
provision: 1/60ths 
accrual up to cap 
(reviewed annually), 
normal retirement 
age of 60.
Defined contribution 
or cash allowance: 
25% of salary.
N/A
All-employee 
share plans
Encourages employees 
to acquire shares in BTG, 
increasing alignment 
with shareholders.
Executive directors can 
participate in BTG’s 
HMRC-approved save-
as-you-earn scheme 
which is open to all UK 
employees.
A US Internal Revenue 
Service 423 Plan 
with standard terms 
is operated for 
US employees.
Participation limits are 
those set by the relevant 
tax authorities from 
time to time. 
N/A
4
Shareholding 
guidelines
Provide alignment 
between Executives and 
shareholders.
Executive directors 
are required to build 
significant shareholdings 
in the Company.
7
Executive directors may 
sell vesting shares to 
meet tax liabilities. In 
addition, provided that 
executive directors have 
achieved and continue to 
maintain the guideline 
level, they will be 
permitted to sell shares in 
addition to those required 
to meet their tax liabilities 
within a 30 day period 
from the announcement 
of the Company’s results 
and completion of 
investor road-shows 
for any period.
CEO: 250% of salary.
CFO: 1 50% of salary.
N/A
Footnotes
1 In line with the Investment Association’s Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive structure for executive directors and 
senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance (ESG) risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, the Committee will ensure 
that the overall remuneration policy does not encourage inappropriate operational risk-taking.
2 Prior to 2013, awards consisted of a mix of market value share options granted under the ESOP and performance shares granted under the PSP .
3 A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table for 2015 can be found in the Annual Remuneration Report.
4 All employee share plans do not have performance conditions. Executive directors are eligible to participate in the UK Sharesave Plan on the same terms as other employees.
5 Copies of the PSP and DSBP plan rules are available on request from the Company Secretary.
6 For all awards granted post 1 July 201 1 under the DSBP , PSP and ESOP are subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the financial results of the Company 
for the financial year to which an award relates being discovered, an error in the calculation of performance for an award or individual misconduct resulting in dismissal.
7 Under the shareholding guidelines the executive directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express 
permission of the Board.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
61
Governance Value of remuneration packages at different levels  
of performance
Basic salary , benefits and pension Bonus L TIP award
£705,000
100% 58% 23%
Minimum On-target
Louise Makin, Chief Executive Officer
Maximum
24%
18%
19%
58%
£1,218,000
£3,049,000
£463,000
100% 58% 23%
Minimum On-target
Rolf Soderstrom, Chief Financial Officer
Maximum
24%
18%
19%
58%
£799,000
£1,999,000
3,500
£’000
3,000
2,500
1,500
1,000
500
0
2,000
Assumptions
Minimum = fixed pay only (salary + benefits + pension).
On- T arget = 50% vesting of the annual bonus and 25% 
vesting of the core LTIP award (37 .5% of salary).
Maximum = 1 00% vesting of the annual bonus and 1 00% 
vesting of the core Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) award 
plus 1 00% application of the multiplier (300% of salary).
• Salary levels (on which other elements of the package 
are calculated) are based on those as at 1 April 201 5.
• The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of 
supplying those benefits (as disclosed) for the year  
ending on 31 March 201 5.
• Pension levels have been estimated at 20% of base  
salary levels.
• The maximum vesting for the L TIP award includes both 
Core and Multiplier awards. The normal level of maximum 
L TIP vesting is 1 50% of salary for a Core award and 300% 
if  an executive director elects for a Multiplier award. It is 
assumed that the full Core award is rolled over into a 
Multiplier award.
• The executive directors can participate in all employee 
share schemes on the same basis as other employees.  
The value that may be received under these schemes is 
subject to tax approved limits. For simplicity, the value  
that may be received from participating in these schemes 
has been excluded from the above charts.
• Amounts have been rounded to the nearest £1 ,000.
Committee discretions
The Committee operates the Group’s variable incentive plans 
according to their respective rules and in accordance with 
HMRC rules where relevant. To ensure the efficient 
administration of these plans, the Committee will apply 
certain operational discretions. These include the following:
• Selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis;
• Determining the timing of grants of awards and/or payment;
• Determining the quantum of awards and/or payments 
(within the limits set out in the policy table above);
• Determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment 
of performance;
• Making the appropriate adjustments required in certain 
circumstances (e.g. change of control, rights issues, 
corporate restructuring events, and special dividends);
• Determining ‘good leaver’ status for incentive plan purposes 
and applying the appropriate treatment; and
• Undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance 
measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan 
and PSP from year to year .
If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or 
PSP performance conditions and/or targets being deemed no 
longer appropriate (e.g. a material acquisition or divestment) 
the Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the 
measures and/or targets and alter weightings, provided that 
the revised conditions or targets are not materially less 
difficult to satisfy.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or 
unexercised at the date of this report, as detailed on pages 71 
and 72 of the annual report on remuneration, remain eligible 
for vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
Remuneration at a glance
The Company’s policy results in a significant portion of 
remuneration received by executive directors being dependent 
on Company performance. The chart below illustrates how the 
total pay opportunities for the executive directors vary under 
three different performance scenarios: minimum, target and 
maximum. These charts are indicative only, as share price 
movement and dividend accrual have been excluded. 
All assumptions made are noted below the chart.
62
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Choice of performance measures  
and approach to target setting
Annual bonus arrangements for the executive directors  
are split between individual, corporate financial and  
non-financial objectives with the financial targets 
currently accounting for the majority of the bonus. 
Financial performance targets are based on the budget 
and corporate measures and are linked to the achievement 
of annual objectives that are consistent with BTG’s longer -
term goals. The Remuneration Committee reviews these 
KPIs each year and varies them as appropriate (including 
the weighting of financial and non-financial targets) to 
reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead. 
A sliding scale of targets is set for each KPI to encourage 
continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of 
stretch performance. For each metric, the threshold target 
requires the Company to maintain or improve on the prior 
year performance with the stretch target requiring 
significant out performance above plan.
For current and future awards under the PSP , the metrics 
are split between adjusted EPS and relative TSR 
outperformance of a general market index (FTSE 250), which 
ensures focus on sustainable growth and superior returns 
to shareholders (with the weighting between TSR and EPS 
determined by the Committee annually). The comparator 
index for TSR and weighting between each measure for 
Core awards will remain under review. In order to incentivise 
the achievement of sustained outstanding returns to 
shareholders over the longer term and assist with retention, 
at the end of the normal three-year performance period 
executives are able to elect to roll over some or all of the 
performance shares that would otherwise vest in return for 
the opportunity to receive an enhanced (or reduced) award at 
the end of five years, subject to outperformance of the FTSE 
250 Index over that five year period. This multiplier is intended 
to further align the interests of the executive directors with 
shareholders whilst rewarding performance which 
demonstrably delivers value to shareholders over the longer 
term. Performance over a five-year period both recognises 
and takes into account the Company’s strategic goals 
and its ongoing evolution and increasing maturity as  
an organisation. TSR is measured independently for 
the Committee by New Bridge Street (NBS).
How employees’ pay is taken into  
account in setting the remuneration  
of the executive directors
The Committee considers the base salaries for the Leadership 
T eam and, although it does not directly consult with employees 
regarding remuneration policy , it receives information on general 
pay levels to ensure that the Committee has due regard to salary 
levels across the Group in applying its remuneration policy .
BTG’s workforce includes a high proportion of highly 
qualified scientists, technicians and professionals whose 
skills are highly sought after by competitors. Ensuring 
that levels of remuneration for the general workforce are 
competitive to support staff retention, development in 
expanded roles and motivation is important to BTG’s ongoing 
success and this is reflected in the level and range of salary 
increases awarded to employees. As a result BTG is required 
to benchmark and rebase salaries from time-to-time. The 
average salary increases awarded to BTG’s general workforce 
for 201 4/1 5 were 3.9%. General workforce increases, effective 
June 2015, will range between 0% and 15%.
How executive directors’ remuneration  
policy relates to the wider Group
The remuneration policy described above provides an 
overview of the structure that operates for the most senior 
executives in the Company. A lower incentive opportunity 
is available below executive level, with specific levels driven 
by market comparatives and the impact of the role.
As explained above, salaries for the Company’s wider 
workforce are benchmarked externally against comparable 
companies within the sector and wider industry. The Company 
aims to ensure that all employees’ salaries are positioned 
around a mid-market level for the role taking account of 
performance and individual responsibility.
Employees are provided with a competitive local package 
of benefits that includes participation in the Group’s 
pension arrangements.
All employees (except PneumRx employees who joined during 
the year and will be integrated into current arrangements  
for the next fiscal year) are eligible to participate in the  
bonus arrangements with targets aligned to the financial 
performance of the Group and their individual performance 
within their specific area of responsibility.
The Company believes that broad-based employee 
participation in share schemes is an important alignment 
tool helping to focus employees on delivering value for 
shareholders. Other senior staff who are considered to have 
the greatest potential to influence Company performance are 
also able to receive awards of long-term incentives at a lower 
maximum percentage of salary than the executive directors. 
In addition, share ownership guidelines apply to members of 
BTG’s Leadership T eam with lower levels of holding required 
(50% of salary) than for executive directors. In order to 
encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company 
operates a Sharesave Plan in the UK, with an international 
section for employees in Australia, Germany and Canada, and 
a Stock Purchase Plan in the US. These are described in more 
detail below.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
63
Governance How shareholders’ views are taken into account
When shaping remuneration policy the Remuneration 
Committee considers shareholder feedback received 
in relation to the Annual General Meeting each year 
and guidance from shareholder representative bodies 
more generally.
The Remuneration Committee engages proactively with 
shareholders, and takes seriously their views. When any 
material changes are made to the remuneration policy, 
the Remuneration Committee Chairman will inform major 
shareholders of these in advance, and will offer a meeting 
to discuss these.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve 
last year’ s directors’ remuneration report and matters discussed 
with shareholders during the year are provided in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
Prior to the approval of this remuneration policy , the Committee 
engaged with its largest shareholders regarding changes to 
the executive directors’ remuneration arrangements, in 
particular the changes which were made to the PSP . These 
were approved at BTG’s AGM in July 2013. As a result of this 
engagement, the Committee decided to extend the operation 
of share ownership guidelines to members of BTG’s Leadership 
T eam who are not members of the Board and to clarify that the 
policy formally prohibits the hedging and pledging of shares by 
directors or the Leadership T eam.
All employee share plans
The Company operates other share plans as follows:
• an HMRC-approved save-as-you-earn scheme, open to  
all eligible employees (including executive directors), with a 
36 month savings period enabling UK employees to acquire 
shares at a price not less than 80% of the market value of 
the shares at the date of grant. The Scheme provides an 
international section to allow for the participation of 
Australian, German and Canadian employees;
• a US Internal Revenue Service 423 Plan with a 24 month 
savings period under which its US employees are able to 
acquire shares at not less than 85% of the market value  
of the shares at the date of grant; and
• the non-shareholder approved Senior Management 
Performance Share Plan enables awards over market 
purchased shares to be granted to certain senior  
employees below Board level where it is not appropriate  
to make awards under the PSP . Awards under this plan  
can be made over market purchase shares only and are 
normally subject to different performance criteria to  
awards made under the PSP .
Approach to recruitment and promotions
The remuneration package for a new director will be set  
in accordance with the terms of the Company’s approved 
remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment but 
focusing on the objective of appointing the most appropriate 
incumbent in the right geography.
The salary for a new executive will be set to reflect their skills 
and experience, the Company’s target pay positioning and  
the market rate for the role in the relevant location, subject  
to the overall goal of attracting the right candidate. Where it  
is appropriate to do so, salaries may be set below the normal 
market rate, with phased increases over the first few years  
as the executive gains experience in their new role.
Benefits and pensions will be in line with those offered to 
other executive directors, taking account of local market 
practice with relocation expenses provided if necessary.  
T ax equalisation may also be considered if an executive 
is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment  
with the Company. Legal fees and other costs incurred by  
the individual may also be met by the Company.
It is not anticipated that the aggregate ongoing incentive 
opportunity offered to new recruits will be higher than that 
offered to existing directors. Different measures and targets 
under the bonus plan may be set initially taking account of the 
responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial 
year at which they join. Any increases in quantum offered 
above the policy limit would be contingent on the Company 
receiving shareholder approval to its approved policy at its 
next general meeting.
The Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based 
elements to assist with recruitment (for example to buyout 
existing entitlements) when it considers these to be in the 
best interests of the Company and its shareholders. Existing 
arrangements will be used to the extent possible (subject to 
the higher limits in exceptional circumstances set out in the 
policy) however , the Committee retains discretion to use the 
flexibility provided by the Listing Rules to make such awards. 
Such payments would take account of remuneration 
relinquished when leaving the former employer and would 
reflect (as far as possible) the nature and time horizons 
attached to that remuneration and the impact of any 
performance conditions. Shareholders will be informed 
of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay 
element awarded in respect of the prior role will be allowed 
to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take 
into account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing 
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may 
continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for 
approval at the earliest opportunity.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive 
director , the fee arrangement would be set in accordance 
with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
64
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the Company 
to honour any commitments entered into with current or 
former directors (such as the payment of a pension or the 
unwind of legacy share schemes) that have been disclosed 
to shareholders in this or any previous remuneration reports. 
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in 
the Annual Remuneration Report as they arise.
External appointments
The Board believes that it may be beneficial to the Company 
for executives to hold non-executive directorships outside the 
Group. Any such appointments are subject to approval by the 
Board and the director may retain any fees payable. Louise 
Makin received fees of £65,500 for being on the Board of 
Intertek Group during the year to 31 March 201 5 (201 4: 
£65,500). Rolf Soderstrom does not currently hold any 
outside directorships.
Service contracts and payments for loss of office
Executive directors have rolling service contracts, details of 
which are summarised in the table below:
Provision Detailed terms
Contract dates Louise Makin – 1 9 October 2004
Rolf Soderstrom – 4 December 2008
Notice period T welve months from both the Company and 
from the executive
Termination 
payment
The Company may terminate the contracts of 
the executive directors with immediate effect 
by making a payment in lieu of notice.
With respect to Rolf Soderstrom, any 
payments made would be determined by 
reference to normal contractual principles 
with mitigation being applied wherever 
relevant or appropriate. As Louise Makin’s 
contract was established approximately 
1 1 years ago, it does not provide for mitigation.
Other than as specifically provided for in the 
policy with respect to ‘good leavers’ (where 
for example existing Multiplier awards 
elected for are retained) the directors’ 
contracts do not provide for automatic 
entitlement to bonus or share-based 
payments.
Remuneration 
entitlements
Louise Makin’s contract contains the 
following remuneration related entitlements:
 – salary, membership of Company pension 
scheme or contribution to a personal 
pension, medical benefits and permanent 
health insurance
Rolf Soderstrom’s contract contains the 
following remuneration related entitlements:
 – salary, contribution to a personal pension, 
medical benefits and permanent health 
insurance
The Company’s policy on new directors’ service contracts 
is that, in line with the best practice provisions of the Code, 
they should be terminable by the Company on a maximum 
of one year’s notice and contracts should not provide for 
predetermined compensation in the event of termination or 
provision for enhanced payments in the event of a takeover 
of the Company. Provisions permitting the Company to make 
any termination payments by instalments, and requiring 
directors to mitigate their loss in such circumstances, will 
be included in new contracts. The Remuneration Committee 
will exercise discretion in determining whether termination 
payments should be paid by instalments, taking account of 
the reason for the departure of the director and their prior 
performance. Other than in gross misconduct situations, 
the Company would expect to honour the contractual 
entitlements of terminated directors.
Other than in certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances 
(including, but not limited to, redundancy, ill-health or 
retirement) no bonus would be payable unless the individual 
remains employed and is not under notice at the payment 
date. Any bonuses paid to a ‘good leaver’ would be based 
on an assessment of their individual and the Company’s 
performance over the period, and pro-rated for the proportion 
of the bonus year worked.
With regards to long-term incentive awards, the PSP rules 
provide that other than in certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances, 
awards lapse on cessation of employment. Where an individual 
is a ‘good leaver’ , the Remuneration Committee’s policy for 
future core PSP awards will be to permit awards to remain 
outstanding until the end of the original performance period, 
when a pro rata reduction will be made to take account of the 
proportion of the vesting period that lapsed prior to termination 
of employment, although the Committee has discretion to 
partly or completely disapply pro-rating and the performance 
conditions in certain circumstances. Multiplier awards would 
not be subject to pro-rating. The Remuneration Committee has 
discretion to deem an individual to be a ‘good leaver’ . In doing 
so, it will take account of the reason for their departure and the 
performance of the individual.
Deferred bonus share awards will also normally lapse on 
cessation of employment, unless the executive director 
is deemed to be a ‘good leaver’ by the Remuneration 
Committee, as referred to above.
The Committee will have authority to settle legal 
claims against the Company (e.g. for unfair dismissal, 
discrimination or whistle blowing) that arise on termination. 
The Committee may also authorise the provision of 
outplacement services and pay reasonable legal 
expenses associated with the termination.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
65
Governance The non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but have letters of appointment for an initial period of three years, 
which may be renewed by mutual agreement, normally for a further three-year term. The terms of appointment provide for a 
notice period in the event of early termination of six months for the Chairman and three months for other non-executive 
directors, other than if they are not re-elected at an AGM.
Details of contracts and letters of appointment, for directors serving at the date of this report, are as set out below.
Non-executive Date of first appointment Notice period (months) Date of expiry of current contract
Garry Watts 1 January 2012 6 31 December 2017 
Giles Kerr 1 October 2007 3 30 September 2015
Ian Much 1 August 2010 3 31 July 2016
James O’Shea 2 April 2009 3 31 March 2016
Richard Wohanka 1 January 2013 3 31 December 2015
Susan Foden 1 March 2015 3 28 February 2018
Non-executive directors’ and Chairman’s fees
The table below summarises the Company’s policy in relation to the fees of non-executive directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
T akes account of recognised 
practice and set at a level 
that is sufficient to attract 
and retain high-calibre non-
executives.
Non-executive directors receive fees paid monthly in cash and 
consist of an annual basic fee plus additional fees for additional 
responsibilities such as a Committee Chairmanship and the role 
of Senior Independent Director .
When reviewing fee levels, account is taken of market 
movements in non-executive director fees, Board committee 
responsibilities, ongoing time commitments and the general 
economic environment.
In exceptional circumstances additional fees may be paid where 
there is a substantial increase in the time commitment required 
of non-executive directors.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 April 
each year .
Non-executives do not participate in any pension, bonus or share 
incentive plans and do not receive any benefits.*
N/A N/A
The Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors, is responsible for proposing changes to the non-executive 
directors’ fees. The Senior Independent Director , in consultation with the executive directors, is responsible for proposing 
changes to the Chairman’s fees. In each case this follows advice on market fee levels supplied by NBS. In proposing such fees, 
account is also taken of the time commitments of the Company’s non-executive directors. The decision on fee changes is 
taken by the Board as a whole. Individual non-executive directors do not take part in discussions on their remuneration.
Note
*  Limited benefits relating to travel, accommodation and hospitality are provided in relation to the performance of any director’s duties.
66
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 201 3. The Annual Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM. The information on pages 56 to 73 has been audited.
About the Remuneration Committee and its advisers
The Remuneration Committee has been established by the Board and is responsible for executive remuneration.
During the year the Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference, which are available in full on the Company’s 
website or from the Company on request.
Members
Committee member Member since
Ian Much (Chairman) 28 September 2010
Giles Kerr 3 November 2009
Melanie Lee* 23 March 201 1 to 25 September 201 4
James O’Shea 25 September 201 4 to 1 March 201 5
Susan Foden 1 March 201 5
Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 45.
* Melanie Lee resigned as a director of the Company and member of the Remuneration Committee to join 
the Company’s Leadership Team.
Other attendees at 
Remuneration Committee 
meetings
The Chairman (Garry Watts), Chief Executive Officer (Louise Makin), Chief Financial Officer (Rolf 
Soderstrom) and HR Director (Yvonne Rogers) may attend meetings by invitation, other than when their 
own remuneration is being considered.
The Company Secretary (Paul Mussenden) or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Committee evaluation During the year , the Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness and the results, along with 
recommendations for improvement were reported to the Board. The Committee was found to be operating 
effectively and it was agreed that there would be continued emphasis to ensuring a strong link was 
maintained between remuneration and performance and strategy and aligned with shareholder interests. 
Remuneration risks, whilst not significant, would continue to be carefully managed.
Committee advisers The Committee appoints its own advisers as it sees fit and has appointed NBS (a trading name of Aon 
Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc) to act as advisers to the Committee and a representative usually attends 
the meetings. NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultant Group’s Code of Conduct which sets 
out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free from undue influence. NBS advises the 
Committee on all remuneration issues including the vesting of long-term incentive arrangements. The 
Committee reviews the performance and independence of NBS on an annual basis, and is satisfied that 
it remains independent.
The Group continues to use NBS to advise on other matters including remuneration matters in 
general. NBS also assists with the total shareholder return (TSR) performance measurement and the 
implementation of employee share schemes and, through Aon plc’s Radford brand, provides the Company 
with advice on matters specific to the US employment market. The Group also uses Mercer Ltd and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers to advise on remuneration issues, particularly in relation to pension schemes.
The fees paid to the Committee’s advisers in 201 4/1 5 were: New Bridge Street £1 05,521 (201 3/1 4: £1 65,343).
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
67
Governance Single figure for total remuneration (audited)
Salary/fees
4
 
£’000
Benefits
5 
£’000
Bonus paid 
in cash
4
 
£’000
Bonus paid 
in shares
1
 
£’000
Long-term 
incentives
2
 
£’000
Pension
3
 
£’000
Other
6
 
£’000
T otal 
remuneration 
£’000
Executive directors
Louise Makin 2015 569 2 509 – 402 127 4 1,613
2014 550 1 453 – 622 125 6 1,757
Rolf Soderstrom 2015 373 2 334 – 298 75 – 1,082
2014 361 1 297 – 357 72 – 1,088
Non-executive directors
Garry Watts 2015 190 – – – – – – 190
2014 175 – – – – – – 175
Giles Kerr 2015 60 – – – – – – 60
2014 50 – – – – – – 50
Melanie Lee
7
2015 22 – – – – – – 22
2014 41 – – – – – – 41
Ian Much 2015 55 – – – – – – 55
2014 47 – – – – – – 47
James O’Shea 2015 45 – – – – – – 45
2014 41 – – – – – – 41
Richard Wohanka 2015 45 – – – – – – 45
2014 41 – – – – – – 41
Susan Foden
8
2015 4 4
2014 0 – – – – – – 0
1 Element of bonus deferred into the DSBP .
2 Awards are included in the financial year in which the performance conditions end. The share price used is the closing share price on the date on which performance criteria are met, i.e. 
the final business day of the financial year. For 2015 this figure does not include the Core PSP award as the Core and Multiplier awards are treated as a single award and the Core award 
will be shown in 2016 if no election is made and both Core and Multiplier in 2017 if an election is made. If 50% of a Core award is rolled over into a Multiplier award 50% of the Core award 
will be shown in 2016 and the remainder is part of the Multiplier award in 2017 . The 2014 figure has been restated to reflect the actual share price of vesting of the 201 1 share options 
(6 July 2014: 657 .5p)
3 Pension consists of a cash supplement in lieu of employer pension contributions following the changes to pension legislation. In addition, for Louise Makin, it includes £42, 108 
(2014: £43,694), representing the value of the increase in the year of her pension entitlement in the defined benefit BTG Pension Fund.
4 All directors’ fees, salaries and bonuses are subject to UK income tax.
5  Benefits shown above for Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom relate principally to the provision of life assurance and medical benefits. In addition, all directors receive limited benefits 
relating to travel, accommodation and hospitality in relation to the performance of their directors’ duties.
6 Other shows the value of vested Sharesave options.
7 Fees paid to Melanie Lee in 2015 were for the period to her resignation on 25 September 2014.
8 Fees paid to Susan Foden in 2015 were for the period from her appointment to the Board on 1 March 2015.
Annual bonus for the year to 3 1 March 201 5 (audited)
For the year ended 31 March 201 5 bonuses were subject to a maximum of 1 00% of base salary for executive directors and up 
to 75% for other senior staff.
Bonus targets were set at the start of the financial year for both Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom based on the achievement 
of certain objectives. These were the achievement of targets for revenue growth, a trading profit measure, cash generation and 
individual KPIs intended to drive future growth in the business. The Committee set threshold and stretch as well as intermediate 
target levels for the various targets. The bonus is calculated on base salary with a percentage pay out of between 25% at 
threshold, 80% at on-target and 1 00% at maximum.
The trading profit measure, used for both bonuses and the 201 2 long-term incentive awards, is a normalised measure relating 
to earnings before amortisation of intangibles, restructuring and acquisition costs, group foreign exchange movements and 
movements in derivatives. The cash flow measure adjusts for restructuring and acquisition costs only.
Following the acquisition of PneumRx in January 2015, the Remuneration Committee did not adjust the original bonus targets 
to reflect the budgeted impact of the Board-approved acquisition plans due to the proximity to year end. Consequently, the 
actual metrics for the 201 4/1 5 bonus have been adjusted to exclude the impact of the acquisition.
68
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to adjust the final outcome upwards or downwards in the event that an 
exceptional event outside of the directors’ control occurs which, in the Committee’s opinion, materially affected the bonus 
out -turn. During 201 4/1 5 the Committee assessed that incremental amounts associated with the settlement of an International 
T rade Commission (ITC) filing against Instituto Bioclon of Mexico and Rare Disease Therapeutics, Inc. (RDT) of Tennessee, could 
be adjusted.
For the financial year to 31 March 2015 they are calculated as follows:
Revenue
£m
T rading profit 
£m
Cash flow
£m
Revenue/profit before tax/operating cash flow 367 .8 26.7 35.6
Adjustments:
Derivatives and group foreign exchange movements – 10.7 –
Amortisation and impairment of business combination intangibles – 28.4 –
Proceeds from fundraising – – (145.8)
Payments in relation to PneumRx – – 147 . 1
Restructuring and acquisition costs – 5.5 3.7
ITC settlement – 6.2 6.2
PneumRx (2.3) 2.7 1.5
Revenue/trading profit/operating cash flow for bonus purposes 365.5 80.2 48.3
The performance achieved against the bonus targets is summarised as follows:
Measure
As a percentage 
of maximum 
bonus 
opportunity
Performance required
Actual 
(£m)
Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom
Threshold 
(£m)
T arget 
(£m)
Stretch 
(£m)
Pay out – Cash Pay out – Cash
% of salary % of salary
Corporate financial targets
Revenue 23
1
⁄ 3% 340.0 351.0 360.0 365.5 23% 23%
T rading profit 23
1
⁄ 3% 75.5 77 .5 79.6 80.2 23% 23%
Operating cashflow 23
1
⁄ 3% 46.4 48.4 50.5 48.3 18% 18%
Individual corporate 
objectives
1
30% 25% 25%
Total 100% 89% 89%
Note:
1 Covering execution across the business segments including relating to R&D and Innovation and supply chain; developing the organisational and leadership; and progression of the 
Interventional Medicine strategy including considering appropriate acquisitions. 
The table above shows the financial targets set for the threshold, target and stretch levels.
Deferred share bonus plan awards are structured as conditional awards over shares, to be held for three years.
The level of deferral is linked to the achievement of the Company’s shareholding guidelines and is described in the Policy Report. 
Provided that the guidelines have been fully achieved bonuses are paid entirely in cash. As Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom 
have already met their shareholding guidelines, the entirety of the 201 5 bonus earned is to be paid in cash.
Vesting of L TIP awards
Awards granted on 1 June 201 2 under both the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Performance Share Plan are based on 
performance to the year ending 31 March 201 5. The Performance conditions for these awards are as follows:
201 2 LTIP
Metric Condition
Threshold
 target
Stretch
 target Actual % Vesting
Cumulative trading 
profit (50%)
Three year normalised trading profit period £133.4m £177 .4m £198. 1m 50%
TSR (50%) Three year comparison with index between  
median and upper quartile
Median 
(TSR: 41.4%) 
(Rank 65)
Upper
 Quartile
 (T SR: 110 .5%)
 (Rank 33)
TSR: 130.4%
 Rank: 19
50%
T otal Vesting 100%
TSR has been calculated for the Committee by NBS.
Share options and performance share awards in 2012 were subject to a cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 (both of equal weighting). The cumulative 
trading profit condition required a three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target, range £133.4m to £177 .4m. Both of these figures have been increased by 
£12.4m compared to the original approved targets to reflect the expected contribution to trading profit of the acquisitions made in July 2013. The relative TSR target required a threshold 
performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile (with straight line vesting in between these points).
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
69
Governance 201 2 Option vesting details (audited)
Number of 
shares at grant
Number of 
shares to vest 
Number of 
shares to lapse T otal
Estimated 
Value*
Louise Makin Options 122,288 122,288 – 122,288 £402,328
Rolf Soderstrom Options 90,673 90,673 – 90,673 £298,314
* Value estimated as not fully vested until 1 June 2015 and is based on the closing share price on 31 March 2015 of 715.0p per share less the exercise price of 386.0p per share.
The 201 2 performance share awards are subject to the optional multiplier mechanism approved by shareholders at the 201 3 
AGM. As a result the number of shares that will actually vest under the 201 2 PSP this year as a Core award are subject to an 
election by either executive director to forego vesting of 50% or 1 00% of that award and roll over the award in return for the 
entitlement to receive a Multiplier award which may increase or decrease the number of shares vesting at year five based on 
relative TSR performance up to the end of that period. The Core awards will not vest until the earlier of the expiry of the period 
within which directors are able to elect to roll over their awards without a valid election having been made. Any Multiplier award 
will not vest until the period of five years from grant of the original Core award. Matching awards in respect of the 201 2 PSP will 
not be granted until a valid election has been made.
L TIP awards made during the year (audited)
On 6 June 2014 and 9 June 2014, the following PSP awards were granted to executive directors.
T ype of award
Basis of  
award  
granted 
Share price  
at date  
of grant
Number of shares 
over which award  
was granted
% of shares  
granted that 
vest at threshold 
performance
Face value  
of award  
(£`000)*
Vesting determined by 
performance over
Louise Makin Core and 
Multiplier 
award
300% of  
salary of 
£569,250**
604.0p 282,740 1 2.5%*** £1,707 ,750 Core award: three 
financial years to 
31 March 2017
Multiplier award: 
 five financial 
years to  
31 March 201 9
Rolf Soderstrom Core and 
Multiplier 
award
300% of  
salary of 
£373, 117**
604.0p 185,322 1 2.5%*** £1, 119,345
Louise Makin 2011  
Multiplier 
award
150% of  
201 1 conditional 
award 
657.5p 224,746 0%**** £1,477,704 Five financial 
years from  
1 April 201 1 to 
31 March 201 6
Rolf Soderstrom 2011  
Multiplier 
award
1 50% of 201 1 
conditional 
award 
657.5p 155,869 0%**** £1,024,838
*  Percentage of Core and Multiplier award.
**  The 300% conditional award assumes performance that would result in full vesting of the Core Award and an election by the executive directors to roll over 100% of the Core award in 
order to receive the Multiplier award and that the full Multiplier award ultimately vests.
*** 25% of Core awards vest at threshold.
****  These awards have been attached to the 201 1 Core Award that would otherwise have vested in July 2014. This gives effect to the Multiplier mechanism approved by shareholders at 
the 2013 AGM, which provides executive directors with an opportunity to place their 201 1 Core Awards at risk in return for a matching Multiplier Award. Depending on performance 
against the Multiplier performance condition the Core Award could be reduced, potentially to zero, as described in the Policy T able.
The number of awards under the 201 4 Core award that will 
vest will be determined according to the satisfaction of the 
following performance conditions (each performance 
condition applies to 50% of a Core award).
Percentage of vesting of 
that portion of an award*
EPS in the financial year 
to 31 March 2017
Relative TSR ranking 
against the FTSE 250 
Index (as at 1 April 2014)
 for the period 
from 1 April 2014 
to 31 March 2017
50% of the 
Core award
50% of the 
Core award
0% < 20.3p (below
threshold)
Below median
25% 20.3p (threshold) Median
100% 28.3p (stretch) Upper quartile
* Vesting on a straight line basis in between threshold and stretch (EPS) or median and 
upper quartile (TSR)
If a participant elects to roll over 50% or 1 00% of their vested 
Core awards, participants will receive matching Multiplier 
awards on a one-for -one basis which, together with the vested 
deferred Core awards, will be subject to a further performance 
condition. Under the Multiplier performance condition, for each 
1 % of TSR underperformance of the median TSR, the shares 
that vest under the deferred Core award will decrease by 1 %, for 
each 1 % of TSR outperformance of the median TSR, the shares 
that vest under the Multiplier award will increase by 1 %.
Underperformance/outperformance 
of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index 
(as at 1 April 2014) for the period from 
1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019
Number of Core and 
Multiplier awards that will vest*
Underperformance  
of 1 00% or more
0%
Equal to the median 50%
Outperformance of 1 00% or more 100%
*  Vesting on a straight line basis from 0% to 100%, as set out below.
70
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Outstanding share awards (audited)
The table below sets out details of executive directors’ outstanding share awards (which will vest in future years subject 
to performance and/or continued service).
Louise Makin
Date of grant/award
Exercise price 
(p)/market 
price on date 
of award (p)
At 1 April 
2014
Granted 
in year Exercised Lapsed
At 31 March 
2015
Exercise period/
vesting date
Share price 
on exercise 
(p)
Share options
31 July 2009 179.25 187 , 179 – – – 187 , 179 31 July 2012 to 
30 July 2019
13 July 2010 201.30 199,253 – – – 199,253 13 July 2013 to 
12 July 2020
6 July 201 1
1
298.90 163,356 10,036 – 153,320 6 July 2014 to 
 5 July 2021
648.0
1 June 201 2
3
386.00 122,288 – – – 122,288 1 June 2015 to 
31 May 2022
Sharesave
4 July 201 1 219.52 822 – 822 – – 1 September 2014 to 
1 March 2015
659.5
20 July 201 2 320. 16 1, 124 – – – 1, 124 1 October 2015 to 
1 April 2016
19 July 2013 289.49 1,243 – – 1,243 1 September 2016 to
 1 March 2017
22 July 2014 498.67 – 2, 165 – – 2, 165 1 September 2017 to
 1 March 2018
T otal option awards 666,572
Performance share 
awards
6 July 201 1
1
286.60 149,831 – – – 149,831 6 July 2016
6 July 201 1
2
286.60 10,036 – 4,562 5,474 – 6 July 2014
1 June 201 2
3
380.54 124,042 – – – 124,042 1 June 2015
17 July 2013 395. 10 208,807 – – – 208,807 17 July 2016
395. 10 208,807 – – – 208,807 17 July 2018
9 June 2014 604.00 – 141,370 – – 141,370 9 June 2017
604.00 – 141,370 – – 141,370 9 June 2019
6 July 2014
1
657 .50 – 224,746 – – 224,746 6 July 2016
Deferred share 
awards
22 July 201 1 286.60 53,288 – 53,288 – – 22 July 2014 619.9
1 June 201 2 380.54 54, 192 – – – 54, 192 1 June 2015
T otal other awards 1,253, 165
Total awards 1,919,737
1 Share options and performance shares awarded in 201 1 were subject to a cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 (both of equal weighting). 
The cumulative trading profit condition required a three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target; range £61.7m to £101.7m. The relative TSR target 
required a threshold performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile (with a straight line vesting in between these points). 
Following the measurement of the TSR performance condition by NBS (which was measured at 164.2% against the comparators) and the measurement of the performance against 
the profit measure, the Committee approved the vesting of 163,356 shares to Louise Makin under the 201 1 ESOP award and 149,831 shares under the 201 1 PSP award. The 163,356 
shares awarded under the 201 1 ESOP award comprises an HMRC approved option over 10,036 shares and an unapproved option over 153,320 shares. Louise elected to receive a 
Multiplier award as an alternative to the vesting of the 201 1 PSP shares as a Core award and on 6 July 2014 a Multiplier award of 224,746 was granted.
2 On 6 July 201 1 Louise was granted an HMRC tax approved market value option over 10,036 shares at an option price of 289.9 pence per share (the CSOP) and a separate conditional 
free share award under the PSP over shares worth (on vesting) a maximum of approximately £30,000 (the PSP award). The CSOP and PSP award were designed so that when taken 
together they deliver the same aggregate gross gain as a free share award under the PSP over 10,036 shares, but in a more tax efficient manner. In relation to the PSP award, the 
maximum gain that can be realised is approximately £30,000; accordingly, if the market value of a share on the vesting of the PSP award is above 298.9p the number of shares deliverable 
under the PSP award will reduce so that their value remains equal to approximately £30,000. The market value on 4 July 2014 (the dealing day immediately prior to vesting) was 657 .5p 
and Louise received 4,562 shares worth £29,995.15 under the PSP and realised a gross gain (i.e. before tax and after payment of the total option excercise costs of £29,997 .60) of 
approximately £35,036 on the exercise of the CSOP (share price of exercise being 648p), giving rise to an aggregate gain under the PSP award and the CSOP of £64,598 (the gross gain 
on 10,036 free share awards of 648p being £65,033).
3 Share options and performance shares awarded in 2012 were subject to a cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 (both of equal weighting). 
The cumulative trading profit condition required a three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target; range £133.4m to £177 .4m. Both of these figures have 
been increased by £12.4m compared to the original approved targets to reflect the expected contribution to trading profit of the acquisitions made in July 2013. The relative TSR target 
required a threshold performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile (with straight line vesting in between these points).
Unless otherwise stated the Company’s TSR will be compared with that of a peer group comprising FTSE 250 companies. In relation to awards granted before 2013 the relevant index 
comprises FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector (banks, life & non-life insurance, equity & non-equity investment trusts, financial 
services, real estate investment & services and real estate investment trusts etc.) and companies in the consumer discretionary sector (general retailers, media, travel & leisure, and 
leisure goods) with opening and closing TSR values averaged over three months prior to the start and end of the performance period.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
71
Governance Rolf Soderstrom
Date of grant/award
Exercise price 
(p)/market 
price on date 
of award (p)
At 1 April 
2014
Granted 
in year Exercised Lapsed
At 31 March 
2015
Exercise period/
vesting date
Share price 
on exercise
 (p)
Share option awards
31 July 2009 179.25 102,649 – – – 102,649 31 July 2012 to 
30 July 2019
13 July 2010 201.30 129,514 – – – 129,514 13 July 2013 to 
12 July 2020
6 July 201 1 298.90 99,658 – – – 99,658 6 July 2014 to 
5 July 2021
1 June 201 2 386.00 90,673 – – – 90,673 1 June 2015 to 
31 May 2022
Sharesave
19 July 2013 289.49 – 3, 108 – – 3, 108 1 September 2016 to 
1 March 2017
T otal option awards 425,602
Performance share 
awards
6 July 201 1
1
286.60 103,913 – – – 103,913 6 July 2016
1 June 201 2
2
380.54 91,974 – – – 91,974 1 June 2015
17 July 2013 395. 10 136,864 – – – 136,864 17 July 2016
136,864 – – – 136,864 17 July 2018
9 June 2014 604.00 – 92,661 – – 92,661 9 June 2017
604.00 – 92,661 – – 92,661 9 June 2019
6 July 2014
1
657 .50 – 155,869 – – 155,869 6 July 2016
Deferred share 
awards
22 July 201 1 286.60 34,637 – 34,637 – – 22 July 2014 619.9
1 June 201 2 380.54 35,225 – – – 35,225 1 June 2015
T otal other awards 846,031
Total awards 1,271,633
1 Share options and performance shares awarded in 201 1 were subject to a cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 (both of equal weighting). 
The cumulative trading profit condition required a three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target; range £61.7m to £101.7m. The relative TSR target required 
a threshold performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile (with a straight line vesting in between these points). Following the 
measurement of the TSR performance condition by NBS (which was measured at 164.2% against the comparators) and the measurement of the performance against the profit measure, 
the Committee approved the vesting of 99,658 shares to Rolf Soderstrom under the 201 1 ESOP award and 103,913 shares under the 201 1 PSP award. Rolf has elected to receive a 
Multiplier award as an alternative to the vesting of the 201 1 PSP shares as a Core award and on 6 July 2014 a Multiplier award of 155,869 was granted.
2 Share options and performance shares awarded in 2012 were subject to a cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 (both of equal weighting). 
The cumulative trading profit condition required a three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target; range £133.4m to £177 .4m. Both of these figures have 
been increased by £12.4m compared to the original approved targets to reflect the expected contribution to trading profit of the acquisitions made in July 2013. The relative TSR target 
required a threshold performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile (with straight line vesting in between these points).
Unless otherwise stated the Company’s TSR will be compared with that of a peer group comprising FTSE 250 companies. In relation to awards granted before 2013 the relevant index 
comprises FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector (banks, life & non-life insurance, equity & non-equity investment trusts, financial 
services, real estate investment & services and real estate investment trusts etc.) and companies in the consumer discretionary sector (general retailers, media, travel & leisure, and 
leisure goods) with opening and closing TSR values averaged over three months prior to the start and end of the performance period.
Share options and performance shares were granted for nil consideration. The price used for calculating the number of shares 
awarded under the PSP and DSBP was based on the average of the closing share prices over the five days immediately prior to 
the award date. Share options are awarded using the closing mid-market price on the date before grant. Sharesave options 
were granted on the condition that participants agreed to enter into a monthly savings contract.
Awards other than DSBP awards are normally satisfied using new issue shares. The Company’s share plans comply with 
recommended guidelines on dilution limits and the Company has always operated within these limits. Assuming none 
of the extant options lapse and will be exercised and, having included all exercised options, the Company has utilised  
3. 1 % of the 10% in ten years and 2.7% of the 5% in ten years in accordance with the Association of British Insurers (ABI)  
guidance on dilution limits.
72
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Directors’ pensions (audited)
Louise Makin is a member of the BTG Pension Fund. The Fund is a contracted-out defined benefit arrangement which 
provides a pension based on an accrual rate of either one sixtieth or one eightieth of basic salary (up to the HMRC Earnings 
Cap), depending on the level of contributions paid by members of 7% or 5% respectively. Members are able to retire at any 
time from age 60 without any actuarial reduction to the pension payable (for Louise Makin this is 2020). Under current legislation, 
if members continue to work beyond age 60, they may continue to pay contributions and enhance their pension entitlement, 
subject to a maximum of 40 years pensionable service. Pension payments post retirement are increased annually by inflation 
for pensionable service earned up to 5 April 2006 and inflation subject to a ceiling of 2.5% for pensionable service earned 
after that date. Members may take early retirement, once they have reached 55 years of age, although any pension paid will 
be subject to an actuarial reduction. Ill-health retirements may be permitted from an earlier age subject to meeting certain 
medical conditions. In the event of the death of a member , the Fund provides for a spouse’s pension to be payable equal to 
two-thirds of the deceased member’s pension (including any pension exchanged for a retirement lump sum). For current 
active members, a lump sum death benefit equal to four times basic salary (up to the earnings cap) plus refund of the 
member’s contributions is also payable.
During the year Louise Makin contributed £10,206 (2014: £9,870) to the Fund, representing 7% of her salary up to the 
earnings cap and the Company contributed £46,364 (2014: £31,725).
Louise Makin receives a cash payment in lieu of pension to the value of 20% of base salary over the earnings cap. 
Rolf Soderstrom receives a cash payment in lieu of pension contributions to the aggregate value of 20% of base salary. 
These pension allowances are not subject to bonus or other benefits and are paid less such deductions as are required 
by law.
Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
T o align the interests of the executive directors with shareholders, they are required to build and maintain a holding of Company 
shares worth at least 250% of salary in the case of the CEO and 1 50% of salary in the case of the CFO.
Executive directors
Beneficially 
owned at 
31 March 2015 
and at the date 
of this report
Vested unexercised nil cost options
Guideline 
met?
Vested 
unexercised 
market value 
options Subject to performance conditions
PSP DSBP Options PSP Options DSBP
Louise Makin 514,732 – – Yes 539,752 1, 198,973 122,288 54, 192
Rolf Soderstrom 184,252 – – Yes 331,821 810,806 90,673 35,225
Non-executive directors
Garry Watts 10,000 N/A
Giles Kerr – 
Ian Much –
James O’Shea –
Richard Wohanka 26,500
Susan Foden –
Vested unexercised nil cost options count towards the guidelines on the basis of their net of tax value. Market value options 
do not count until such time as they have been exercised.
The directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express 
permission of the Board. None of the directors currently holds or has held their shares in such an arrangement.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer
CEO 
% change from 
2014 to 2015
• Salary
1
3.5%
• Benefits 6%
• Bonus 0.4%
Average per UK employee
2
 
• Salary 3.9%
• Benefits 18.0%
• Bonus 9.9%
1 BTG employs a high proportion of highly-qualified scientists, technicians and professionals whose skills are highly sought after and whose retention is important to BTG’s success. BTG 
keeps salaries under review. General workforce salary increases in 2014 ranged between 2% and 15%.
2 We have an international workforce, however, as Louise Makin is a UK employee, the Committee considers UK employees to be the most relevant comparator group.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
73
Governance T otal shareholder return
The performance of the Company’s ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment T rusts) (the Index) 
for the six-year period ended on 31 March 201 5 is shown in the graph below.
700
400
100
BTG
Mar-09 Mar-15 Mar-14 Mar-13 Mar-12 Mar-11
Source: Thomson Reuters
Mar-10
FTSE 250 Index
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of £100 invested in BTG plc on 31 March 2009 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index on the same date. The other 
points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends
The Company has chosen the Index as a comparator as it believes that it gives shareholders a reasonable comparison with the 
TSR of other equity investments in companies of a broadly similar size across all sectors. The TSR performance has been 
measured by NBS.
The middle market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2015 was 715.0p. During the year the share price ranged from a low 
of 496.5p to a high of 830.0p.
T otal remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer over time
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
T otal Remuneration (£’000) 1,351 1,489 1,944 2,073 1,757 1,613
Bonus outturn (%) 79% 70% 95% 100% 82% 89%
L TIP vesting (%) 100% 89% 80% 92% 100% 100%
The chart above shows the total remuneration for the Chief Executive during each of the financial years. The total remuneration 
figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years. The annual bonus and 
L TIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below illustrates the change in expenditure by the Company on remuneration paid to all the employees of the Group 
and distributions to shareholders from the financial year ending 31 March 2014 to the financial year ending 31 March 2015.
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Percentage 
change
Overall expenditure on pay 100.2 63.7 +57%
Dividend plus share buyback nil nil n/a
These matters were selected to be shown as they represent key distributions by the Group to its stakeholders. The increase in 
expenditure on pay is largely linked to the increase in headcount of the Group in the year through both organic growth and the 
impact of current and prior year acquisitions.
How the 201 4 policy will be applied in 201 5 onwards
201 5 salary review
The executive directors’ salaries were reviewed in March 201 5 and a 3% increase took effect from 1 April 201 5 (this is equal to the 
average salary increase provided to UK employees).
The current salaries as at 1 April 201 5 are as follows:
Salary as at 
1 April 2015
Salary as at 
1 April 2014
Increase 
%
Louise Makin £586,327 £569,250 3%
Rolf Soderstrom £384,310 £373, 117 3%
74
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ remuneration report continued Performance targets for the annual bonus and L TIP awards to be granted
For the year 2015/16, the annual bonus will continue to be based on financial (70% of the total bonus) and individual and 
corporate metrics (30% of the total bonus) as detailed in the policy report on page 59.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include 
items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive. However, the financial metrics will continue to be based on 
three financial metrics, being revenue (1/3 weighting), trading profit (1/3 weighting) and operating cash (1/3 weighting). 
Full retrospective disclosure of the financial targets and performance against them will be seen in next year’s Annual 
Remuneration Report. The individual and corporate metrics will also be disclosed to the extent possible given their 
commercial sensitivity.
The measures for the Core awards made under the PSP will be as disclosed in the policy table on page 60.
T argets for the Core awards made during 2015/16 will be measured in the final year of the three year period (the 2017 /18 financial 
year) and are as follows:
EPS in the year ending 
31 March 2018
TSR relative to FTSE 250 
over 3 financial years ending 
31 March 2018
Percentage of each 
element that vests
Below threshold Less than 23.0p Less than median 0%
Threshold 23.0p Median 25%
Between threshold and stretch 23.0p to 30.3p Between median and  
upper quartile 
25% to 1 00% on a straight  
line basis
Stretch 30.3p or higher Upper quartile or higher 100%
Payouts for performance between Threshold and Stretch 
calculated on a straight line basis
T argets for the Multiplier awards are as disclosed in the policy report.
Non-executive director 201 5 remuneration
Set out in the table below are the fees paid for the year ended 31 March 201 5 and proposed fees for the year ended  
31 March 201 6.
Director
As from 
1 April 2015 
£
As from 
1 April 2014 
£
% 
increase
Chairman
1
235,000 175,000 34%
Non-executive director 50,000 45,000 11%
Senior independent director fee 5,000 5,000 0%
Audit Committee chairmanship fee 10,000 10,000 0%
Remuneration Committee chairmanship fee 10,000 10,000 0%
1 The fee is fixed until 31 December 2017 .
Note:
Last year a benchmarking exercise was carried out by NBS in relation to non-executive director fees which found that fees were below median against similar sized companies and also 
the sector comparator taking account of the time commitments of the current non-executive directors. As a result, the fees were adjusted in two phases, the second phase taking place 
this year.
Shareholder voting at the Annual General Meeting
At last year’s Annual General Meeting held on 16 July 2014, the following votes were received from shareholders: 
Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy
Votes cast in favour 281,900,881 99.28% 271,700,032 95.08
Votes cast against 2,030,989 0.72% 14,049,824 4.92
T otal votes cast 283,931,870 100% 285,749,856 100%
Abstentions 2,976, 181 1, 158, 195
Approval
This report was approved by the Board on 1 8 May 201 5 and signed on its behalf by
Ian Much
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
75
Governance The directors present their report together with the financial 
statements and the independent auditor’s report for the year 
ended 31 March 201 5.
Strategic report
The strategic report can be found on pages 2 to 36 and 
incorporates the Group’s business model, growth strategy, 
business objectives, financial review, market overview, a 
description of risk management and principal risks facing the 
business and corporate responsibility. The principal activity 
of the Group is the business of an international specialist 
healthcare company, developing innovative products in 
specialist areas where current treatment options are limited. 
The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 83 to 87 
and the accompanying notes.
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set 
out a fair and balanced review of the business, including the 
performance and development of the Company during the year 
and at the year end and a description of the principal risks it 
faces. This information is contained within the strategic report 
on pages 2 to 36 and incorporated into this report by reference:
• The Chairman’s Statement on pages 4 and 5, the 
Chief Executive’s review on pages 6 and 7 and the  
‘ At a glance’ section on page 2 provide details 
of the Group’s principal activities and strategy, its 
performance during the year and its prospects for 
future development opportunities
• Details of the principal risks facing the Group are set 
out on pages 33 to 36
• Information relating to the environment, employees and 
stakeholders, health and safety, ethical considerations, 
charitable donations and policies regarding its employees 
is set out on pages 30 to 32
This information is prepared solely to assist shareholders 
to assess the Company’s strategies, the risks inherent in 
them and the potential for those strategies to succeed. 
The directors’ report should not be relied on by any other 
person or for any other purpose. Forward-looking statements 
contained in this report have been made by the directors in 
good faith based on the information available to them up to 
the time of their approval of this report and such statements 
should be treated with caution due to the uncertainties, 
including economic and business risk factors inherent in them.
Further information on the Group is available on the 
Company’s website: www.btgplc.com. Notwithstanding the 
references made in this Annual Report to the Company’s 
website, none of the information made available on the 
website constitutes part of, or should be deemed to be 
incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report.
Results and dividends
The results for the year and the financial position at 31 March 
201 5 are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on 
page 83 and the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
on  page 85. The directors do not recommend the payment of 
a dividend for the year (201 3/1 4: nil). The results of the Group 
for the year are explained further on pages 20 to 23. 
Directors and their powers and interests
The directors of the Company at the date of this report, 
together with their biographical details and dates of 
appointment, are shown on pages 38 and 39. 
The Board confirms that each of the directors who served 
during the year has been formally appraised during the period. 
All the directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the 
Group, the Board and to their role. In accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the Company  
will stand for election or re-election annually. The Board is 
proposing the election of Susan Foden, who has been appointed 
since the last AGM, and the re-election of all the other directors.
In accordance with the Company’s articles of association, 
throughout the year the Company has maintained insurance 
cover for its directors and officers and those of its subsidiary 
companies under a directors’ and officers’ liability policy as 
permitted by sections 232 to 235 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Company has also, to the extent permitted by law, entered 
into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of each of its 
directors to provide them with appropriate protection with 
respect to potential liabilities arising from the discharge of 
their duties. Neither the insurance policy nor the indemnities 
provide cover where the relevant director or officer is found to 
have acted fraudulently or intentionally breached the law.
Information on directors’ remuneration, contracts, options and 
their beneficial interests, including those of their immediate 
families, in the shares of the Company are shown in the 
directors’ remuneration report on pages 56 to 75. None of 
the directors had an interest in any contract of significance to 
which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was party during 
the year. 
Corporate governance
A report on corporate governance may be found on pages  
40 to 49.
Environmental matters
Our greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated as 
carbon dioxide equivalents, these are disclosed in the 
corporate responsibility section of the strategic report on 
pages 30 to 32.
Share capital and shareholders
As at 31 March 201 5 the issued share capital of the Company 
was £38, 177 ,670.30, divided into 381,776,703 shares of 10p 
each. During the year the share capital increased by 
20, 1 90, 1 69 shares due to the exercise and vesting of share 
awards by employees and former employees under the 
Company’s employee share schemes and a share placing for 
a total of 18,867 ,925 new ordinary shares in December 2014. 
The Company has only one class of shares and there are 
no restrictions on voting rights or on the holding or transfer 
of these securities. 
Details of the movements in the Company’s share capital are 
shown in note 19 to the financial statements on page 108. 
At 31 March 201 5, the Company had 9,361 shareholders 
(2014: 9,766). Further details of shareholdings and Company 
reporting dates may be found on page 1 31 . 
76
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ report The BTG Employee Share T rust holds shares in the Company 
which may be used for the benefit of employees. The shares 
held by the T rust have the same rights as those held by all 
other shareholders. Further details of the T rust are set out 
in note 24 to the financial statements on page 1 14. 
Details of outstanding share options and awards are set 
out in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 1 1 2 to 1 14.
As at 15 May 2015, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests held, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more 
of the Company’s issued share capital. 
Shareholding % holding
Invesco Asset Management 80,901,054 21. 19
M&G Investment Management Ltd 25,843,710 6.76
Woodford Investment 
Management 25, 137 ,550 6.58
AXA Investment Management 22,812,414 5.98
Aviva Investors 19,535,392 5. 12
Old Mutual Plc 18,053,383 4.72
BlackRock Investment 
Management Ltd 15,402,488 4.03
Standard Life Investments Ltd 15,212,886 3.98
Schroders Plc 14,274, 133 3.74
Legal & General Investment 
Management Ltd 11,612,837 3.04
Articles of association
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, 
subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Company’s 
articles of association (the Articles) and any directions given  
by a special resolution of the shareholders. The Articles, for 
instance, contain certain specific provisions and restrictions 
regarding the Company’s power to borrow money. Powers 
relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are included 
in the Articles and are subject to such authorities being 
approved annually by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). There is no current intention of requesting the 
authority to buy back shares of the Company. The rules for the 
election and re-election of directors are set out in the Articles 
however , as reported in the corporate governance report, 
the directors will stand for annual re-election at the AGM, 
in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The articles are available on the Company’s website at  
www.btgplc.com/responsibility/corporate-governance/ .
Change of control
There are a number of agreements with third parties with 
terms that take effect after , or terminate upon, a change of 
control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank 
facility agreements, guarantees, property agreements and 
employee share plans. None of these are considered to be 
significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the 
Group as a whole. Furthermore, the directors are not aware of 
any agreements between the Company and its directors or 
employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or 
employment following a takeover of the Company.
Research and development
Research and development (R&D) is an important part of  
the Group’s activities focusing in the areas of Interventional 
Medicine and Specialty Pharmaceuticals. The Group spent 
£68.3m (2013/14: £47 .2m) on R&D during the year. 
T reasury management
The Group’s policy on the use of financial instruments and  
the management of financial risks is set out in note 26 to the 
accounts on pages 1 1 5 to 1 1 9.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities and the factors affecting  
its performance, position and future development are set  
out within the strategic report on pages 2 to 36.
The directors have reviewed the current and projected 
financial position of the Group, making reasonable 
assumptions about future performance and taking into 
account the Group’s cash balances and available financial 
facilities. On the basis of this review, and after making due 
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 
continue to operate for the foreseeable future. For this reason 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
Political donations 
The Company did not make any political donations during  
the financial year (2014: nil).
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.30 am on 15 July 
2015 at the offices of Stephenson Harwood LLP , 1 Finsbury 
Circus, London EC2M 7SH. Matters to be considered at the 
meeting include resolutions to receive the Annual Report and 
Accounts, to reappoint the auditor and re-elect the directors. 
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that they 
ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware  
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting, to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor and 
to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
By order of the Board
Dr Paul Mussenden
Company Secretary
 
1 8 May 201 5
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
77
Governance 78
Governance
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
in respect of the annual report and accounts 2015  
and the  financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual  
Report and Accounts, 201 5 and the Group and parent 
company financial statements in accordance with  
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the 
parent company financial statements on the same basis. 
Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.  
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently; 
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent 
company and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, 
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors in 
respect of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and 
• the strategic report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face. 
We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as 
a whole, is fair , balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Group’s position and performance, business model 
and strategy.
The directors’ report comprising pages 76 to 77 , and including 
the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to 
in these pages, has been approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by:
Dr Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Financial Officer
1 8 May 201 5 Independent auditor’s report 80
Consolidated income statement  83
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  84
Consolidated statement of financial position  85
Consolidated statement of cash flows  86
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  87
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  88
Company statement of financial position  124
Company statement of cash flows  125
Company statement of changes in equity  125
Notes to the Company financial statements  126
Five year financial record  129
Shareholder information 131
Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements 132
Financials
Financial statements, 
notes and other key data.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
79
Financials Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of BTG plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out on pages 83 to 1 28. In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 March 
2015 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union (IFRSs as adopted by the EU); 
• the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest 
effect on our Group audit were as follows:
Recoverability of goodwill (£183.8m) and other intangible assets (£597 .9m)
Refer to page 52 (Audit Committee statement), page 90 (accounting policy) and page 104 (financial disclosures).
The risk: Our response:
The assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and 
other intangible assets requires significant judgment in 
determining the forecast future performance of the cash 
generating units to which goodwill is allocated. 
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting 
and discounting future cash flows, which are the basis 
of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key 
judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
In this area our audit procedures included the following:
• We considered the Group’s impairment analysis, understood 
and challenged the key judgments and sensitivities and 
assessed the impact that each of these have in determining 
whether an impairment exists.
• In particular, we challenged management’s assessment of 
the revenue projections; by reference to those achieved 
historically and external market data where available in terms 
of market size and expectations of market share; and 
assessed the discount rate.
• We compared the sum of the discounted future cash flows 
to the Group’s market capitalisation to assess the 
reasonableness of those cash flows. 
• We also assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about the 
sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to 
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions reflected 
the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill. 
Recognition of deferred tax assets
Refer to page 52 (Audit Committee statement), page 96 (accounting policy) and page 100 (financial disclosures).
The risk: Our response:
The Group has significant tax losses which have been 
acquired as part of the business combinations or from past 
business performance. There is inherent uncertainty involved 
assessing both the availability of losses and in forecasting 
future taxable profits, which determines the extent to which 
deferred tax assets are or are not recognised. This is one of 
the key judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
Our audit procedures included using our own tax specialists to 
assist us in the following:
• We considered the appropriateness of management’s 
assumptions and estimates in determining the level of losses 
to recognise. We have assessed management’s view of the 
likelihood of generating sufficient future taxable profits to 
support the recognition of deferred tax assets, in particular 
with regard to recent product launches, performance trends 
and acquisitions.
• We assessed management’s analysis of the historic losses 
acquired on the EKOS acquisition and which of those were 
impacted by a change of control clause.
• We assessed whether the Group’s disclosures about the 
sensitivity of the recognition of deferred tax assets to 
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions reflected 
the associated inherent risks.
• We also considered any offset of liabilities and assets to 
assess if this is appropriate. 
80
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of BTG plc only 3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £6.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark 
of Group revenue of which it represents 1.6%. We consider Group revenue to be the most appropriate benchmark as revenue 
remains a key performance indicator of the Group monitored by stakeholders. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit 
with a value in excess of £0.3m, in addition to other identified misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Group’s 25 reporting components, we subjected 14 to audits for group reporting purposes and 2 to specified risk-focused 
audit procedures . The latter 2 were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting 
purposes, but did present specific individual audit risks that needed to be addressed. In aggregate our audit procedures covered 
99% of total Group revenue; 96% of Group profit before taxation; and 99% of total Group assets.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks 
detailed above and the information to be reported back. Component materialities were all set, or approved, by the Group audit 
team, and ranged from £0. 1m to £5.9m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components. The 
work on three of the 16 components, in the USA and Australia, was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group 
audit team.
The Group audit team visited 13 component locations in the USA and UK. Telephone conference meetings were also held with all 
component auditors including the three that were not physically visited by the Group audit team. At these visits and meetings, 
the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit 
team was then performed by the component auditor.
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the Annual Report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the 
financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement 
that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 77 , in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 40 to 49 relating to the Company’s compliance with the ten 
provisions of the 201 2 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
81
Financials Scope and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 78, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. A description of the scope of 
an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers 
regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated 
into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have 
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Richard Broadbelt (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5GL
18 May 2015
82
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of BTG plc only (continued) Y ear ended 31 March 2015 Year ended 31 March 2014
Note
Results before 
acquisition
adjustments and
reorganisation
costs
£m
Acquisition
adjustments and
reorganisation
costs
£m
T otal
£m
Results before
acquisition
adjustments and
reorganisation
costs
£m
Acquisition
adjustments and 
reorganisation
costs 
£m
T otal
£m
Revenue 4 367 .8 – 367 .8 290.5 – 290.5
Cost of sales (113.8) (0.9) (114.7) (93. 1) (1.9) (95.0)
Gross profit 4 254.0 (0.9) 253. 1 197 .4 (1.9) 195.5
Operating expenses:
Amortisation of acquired  
intangible assets 13 – (28.4) (28.4) – (23.3) (23.3)
Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 6.7 – 6.7 (5.0) – (5.0)
Selling, general and  
administrative expenses (124.8) – (124.8) (84.0) – (84.0)
Operating expenses: total (118. 1) (28.4) (146.5) (89.0) (23.3) (112.3)
Research and development (68.3) – (68.3) (47 .2) – (47 .2)
Profit on disposal of property, plant 
and equipment and intangible assets 0.3 – 0.3 1.1 – 1.1
Acquisition and reorganisation costs 5 – (3.7) (3.7) – (9.8) (9.8)
Operating profit 6 67 .9 (33.0) 34.9 62.3 (35.0) 27 .3
Financial income 8 0.1 – 0.1 8.2 – 8.2
Financial expense 9 (7 .3) (1.0) (8.3) (0.8) (1.4) (2.2)
Profit before tax 60.7 (34.0) 26.7 69.7 (36.4) 33.3
T ax credit/(charge) 10 6.9 (9.0)
Profit for the year 33.6 24.3
Basic earnings per share 11 9. 1p 6.8p
Diluted earnings per share 11 9.0p 6.7p
All activity arose from continuing operations.
The notes on pages 88 to 1 23 form part of these financial statements.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
83
Financials
Consolidated income statement Note
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Profit for the year 33.6 24.3
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign exchange translation differences 19 41.6 (32.4)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pensions scheme 22 2.2 (6.0)
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension scheme asset (1.8) 0.8
Other comprehensive income for the year 42.0 (37 .6)
T otal comprehensive income for the year 75.6 (13.3)
The notes on pages 88 to 1 23 form part of these financial statements.
84
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Note
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 183.8 123.6
Intangible assets 13 597 .9 397 .9
Property, plant and equipment 14 35.5 31.3
Other investments 15 3.0 3.0
Deferred tax asset 10 4.9 0.8
Employee benefits 22 13.2 8.0
Derivative financial instruments 21 – 0.9
838.3 565.5
Current assets
Inventories 16 40.5 27.0
T rade and other receivables 17 91.9 75. 1
Corporation tax receivable 10 1.4 1.5
Derivative financial instruments 21 – 4.4
Cash and cash equivalents 18 73.8 38.2
207 .6 146.2
Total assets 1,045.9 711.7
Equity
Share capital 19 38.2 36. 1
Share premium account 19 433.8 288.7
Merger reserve 317 .8 317 .8
Other reserves 19 9.4 (32.2)
Retained earnings (40.6) (80.0)
T otal equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 758.6 530.4
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
T rade and other payables 20 17 .9 2.6
Deferred tax liabilities 10 152.4 90.4
Provisions 25 1.4 0.5
171.7 93.5
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 20 111.0 79.9
Derivative instruments 21 0.9 –
Corporation tax payable 10 3.2 7.4
Provisions 25 0.5 0.5
115.6 87 .8
T otal liabilities 287 .3 181.3
T otal equity and liabilities 1,045.9 711.7
The notes on pages 88 to 1 23 form part of these financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 18 May 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dame Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Registered No: 2670500
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
85
Financials
Consolidated statement of financial position Note
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Profit after tax for the year 33.6 24.3
Tax 10 (6.9) 9.0
Financial income 8 (0. 1) (8.2)
Financial expense 9 8.3 2.2
Operating profit 34.9 27 .3
Adjustments for:
 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (0.3) (1. 1)
 Amortisation of intangible assets 13 29.5 24.3
 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 14 5.5 3.4
 Share-based payments 5.6 5.3
 Pension scheme funding 22 (2.9) (3.3)
 Fair value adjustments 0.9 1.9
Cash from operations before movements in working capital 73.2 57 .8
Increase in inventories (11.4) (0.5)
Increase in trade and other receivables (14.9) (12.6)
Increase in trade and other payables 14.8 10.9
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 1.0 (0. 1)
Cash from operations 62.7 55.5
Corporation tax paid 10 (15.2) (7 .0)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 47 .5 48.5
Investing activities
Interest (paid)/received 9 (0. 1) 0.2
Purchases of intangible assets 13 (1.4) (0.9)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 14 (9.8) (11.6)
Acquisition of businesses net of cash acquired 32 (147 .7) (260.3)
Net proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment  
and intangible assets 0.1 3.2
Net cash outflow from investing activities (158.9) (269.4)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds of share issues 19 147 .2 103.4
Other financing activities (1.0) (0.7)
Net cash inflow from financing activities 146.2 102.7
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 34.8 (118.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 38.2 158.7
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 0.8 (2.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 73.8 38.2
The notes on pages 88 to 1 23 form part of these financial statements. 
86
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Consolidated statement of cash flows  Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
1
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
T otal 
equity
£m
At 1 April 2013 32.8 188.6 317 .8 0.2 (104.8) 434.6
Profit for the year – – – – 24.3 24.3
Foreign exchange translation differences – – – (32.4) – (32.4)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension 
scheme – – – – (6.0) (6.0)
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension 
scheme asset – – – – 0.8 0.8
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (32.4) 19. 1 (13.3)
T ransactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares 3.3 100. 1 – – – 103.4
Movement in shares held by the T rust – – – – 0.4 0.4
Share-based payments – – – – 5.3 5.3
At 31 March 2014 36. 1 288.7 317 .8 (32.2) (80.0) 530.4
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
1
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
T otal 
equity
£m
At 1 April 2014 36. 1 288.7 317 .8 (32.2) (80.0) 530.4
Profit for the year – – – – 33.6 33.6
Foreign exchange translation differences – – – 41.6 – 41.6
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension 
scheme – – – – 2.2 2.2
Deferred tax on defined benefit pension 
scheme asset – – – – (1.8) (1.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 41.6 34.0 75.6
T ransactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares 2.1 145. 1 – – – 147 .2
Movement in shares held by the T rust – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Share-based payments – – – – 5.6 5.6
At 31 March 2015 38.2 433.8 317 .8 9.4 (40.6) 758.6
1  For further details on the merger reserve see note 19.
The notes on pages 88 to 1 23 form part of these financial statements. 
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
87
Financials
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 1 . General information
BTG plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2015 comprise the results of the 
Company and its subsidiary undertakings (together referred to as the ‘Group’) and the Group’s interest in associates.
The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board on 18 May 2015.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies as approved by the Board and 
described below.
Accounting standards adopted in the year
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’, IFRS 1 2 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ and other standards adopted by 
the EU do not have a significant impact on the Group.
Accounting standards issued but not yet effective
No standards and interpretations issued by the EU but not yet effective are expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ was issued by the IASB in May 2014, effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2017 . It has not yet been endorsed by the EU. The Group is currently assessing the impact, if any, 
of IFRS 15 on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
Going concern basis 
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This conclusion has been reached having considered the effect of liquidity risk on the Group’s ability to operate effectively. 
Currently, liquidity risk is not considered a significant business risk to the Group given its level of net cash and cash flow 
projections. The Group does not currently require significant levels of debt financing to operate its business. Further details  
of the Group’s policies and objectives around liquidity risk are given in note 26 to the Accounts and are discussed in the Strategic 
report on pages 2 to 36. The key liquidity risks faced by the Group are considered to be the failure of banks where funds are 
deposited and the failure of key licensees, distribution partners, wholesalers or insurers.
In addition to the liquidity risks considered above, the directors have also considered the following factors when reaching the 
conclusion to continue to adopt the going concern basis:
• The Group’s principal licensees are global industry leaders in their respective fields and the Group’s royalty-generating 
intellectual property consists of a broad portfolio of licensees;
• Many of the Group’s sales are life-saving in nature, providing some protection against an uncertain economic outlook; and
• In April 2013, the Group signed a £60m multi-currency revolving credit facility providing access to funds for a period of three 
years to April 2016. This facility remains undrawn.
Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs
The consolidated income statement includes a separate column to disclose acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs 
arising on corporate acquisitions. Significant adjustments relate to the acquisitions of:
• PneumRx Inc. in January 2015;
• EKOS Corporation in July 2013;
• T argeted Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. in July 2013;
• Biocompatibles International Plc in January 201 1 ; and
• Protherics PLC in December 2008.
The costs relate to the following:
• Amortisation and impairment arising on intangible assets acquired;
• T ransaction costs incurred with professional advisers in relation to the completion of the corporate acquisitions;
• The release of the fair value uplift of inventory acquired;
• Reorganisation costs predominantly comprising acquisition related redundancy programmes, property costs, and asset 
impairments; and
• Fair value adjustments to contingent consideration on corporate acquisitions.
88
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2. Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
(a) Basis of accounting and preparation of financial statements
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (‘Adopted IFRSs’). 
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest £0. 1m except where 
otherwise indicated and have been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain 
financial instruments and business combination assets as set out below.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management 
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from 
those estimates. Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect 
on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 3.
(b) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiary undertakings
Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, 
variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. 
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that 
control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating 
policies. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s proportionate share of the total recognised gains and 
losses of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that 
significant influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds the carrying value of its interest in an associate, the 
Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and no further losses are recognised except to the extent that the Group has incurred 
legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Acquisition accounting
The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values on the 
date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value 
of the Group’s share of identifiable net assets, including intangible assets acquired, is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of 
acquisition is less than the fair value of the Group’s share of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised 
directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line 
with those used by the Group.
Merger reserve
A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes 
the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s61 2 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
T ranslation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of foreign operations.
Fair value reserve
The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for -sale investments. If an investment 
suffers impairment due to a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value below acquisition cost, its share of the reserve is 
recycled to the income statement and any further declines in fair value of that investment are no longer charged to the reserve 
but immediately taken to the income statement.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
89
Financials 2. Significant accounting policies continued
T ransactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are 
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised 
gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
(c) Operating segments
An operating segment is defined as a component of the Group (i) that engages in business activities from which it may earn 
revenues and incur expenses; (ii) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Group’s chief operating decision maker 
(the Leadership Team) to make resource allocation decisions and monitor its performance; and (iii) for which discrete financial 
information is available.
(d) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
T ransactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate 
at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair 
value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined. Exchange gains/losses on 
retranslation of foreign currency transactions and balances within trading intercompany balances are recognised in the 
income statement within ‘Operating expenses’.
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are 
translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are 
translated into sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
(iii) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation 
reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the investment.
(e) Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and are designated as being measured at fair value through 
the income statement on inception. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income 
statement through ‘Financial income’ or ‘Financial expense’ as appropriate. 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value 
of the quoted forward price.
(f) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on 
the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and associates. In respect of business combinations that have occurred since 
1 April 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable 
assets, including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested 
annually for impairment (see 2(m)). In respect of associates, the carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the 
investment in the associate.
90
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued (g) Intangible assets 
(i) Initial recognition
Intangible assets acquired as a result of a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value in accordance with 
IFRS 3 – ‘Business Combinations’.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost. Cost includes the cost of obtaining patent protection for intellectual 
property rights, the cost of acquisition of patents and the costs of the internal patent attorney specific to obtaining the initial 
grant of a patent. Income from patents is derived through licensing and other agreements.
(ii) Amortisation
Intangible assets are amortised in a manner calculated to write off the cost, on a straight-line basis, over the effective life of the 
asset. In determining the appropriate life of the asset, consideration is given to the expected cash generating life of the asset or 
remaining patent life if different.
The effective life of each class of asset is determined as follows:
• Developed technology: expected cash generating life, taking into account specific product and market characteristics for 
each developed technology;
• Contractual relationships: period to expiry of the contract;
• In-process research and development: amortisation is not charged until the asset is generating an economic return, at which 
point the effective life is assessed by reference to the remaining patent life;
• Computer software: the shorter of the licence period and three years;
• Patents: period to patent expiry; and
• Purchase of contractual rights: period to expiry of the contract.
In the event that an intangible asset is no longer used or a patent is abandoned, the balance of unamortised expenditure is 
written off immediately. 
The following useful economic lives are applied:
Developed technology 2 to 25 years
Contractual relationships 2 to 15 years
In-process research and development 1 2 to 25 years
Computer software 3 years
Patents 20 years
Purchase of contractual rights 2 to 10 years
(iii) Income statement disclosure
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
(iv) Subsequent expenditure
Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic 
benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
(v) Impairment
If an intangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in 
accordance with the Group’s policy on impairment (see note 2(m)). 
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
91
Financials 2. Significant accounting policies continued
(h) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (see note 2(m)). 
(ii) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write assets down to their residual value using the 
following useful economics lives:
Buildings and improvements 10 to 20 years
Leasehold improvements  2 to 10 years
Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years 
Furniture and equipment  2 to 15 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
Computer hardware  3 to 5 years 
Depreciation is not charged until the asset is brought into use. The residual value is reassessed annually. 
(iii) Income statement disclosure
Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
Profits and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount. These are included in profit/
loss on sale of tangible assets in the income statement. 
(iv) Subsequent expenditure
Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of a tangible fixed asset is capitalised only when it is probable that the Group 
will realise future economic benefits from the asset.
(v) Impairment
If a tangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount 
in accordance with the Group’s policy on impairment (see note 2(m)).
(i) Investments
Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group, classified as being available-for -sale, are stated at fair value, with 
any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items 
such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses which are taken to the income statement. When these investments 
are no longer recognised as assets, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the 
income statement. Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is 
recognised in the income statement.
(j) Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The first in, first out method of valuation is used. Cost 
comprises materials, direct labour and a share of production overheads appropriate to the relevant stage of production. 
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate. Net realisable value is determined at the 
balance sheet date on commercially saleable products based on estimated selling price less all further costs to completion 
and all relevant marketing, selling and distribution costs. 
Inventories relating to research and development projects are fully written down in the income statement unless the Group 
considers it probable to realise economic value from their sale or use. If the circumstances that previously caused these 
inventories to be written down below cost subsequently change and there is clear evidence of an increase in realisable value, 
the write down is reversed.
(k) T rade and other receivables
T rade and other receivables do not carry interest and are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses (see 2(m)).
(l) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and 
form an integral part of the Group’s cash management and for which the Group has a legal right of set-off are included as a 
component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
92
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued (m) Impairment
Impairment testing is performed for all assets when there is an indicator of impairment.
In addition, for goodwill and unamortised intangible assets, impairment testing is performed both in the year of acquisition 
and annually at each balance sheet date. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its 
cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Other specific categories of asset are treated as follows:
(i) Equity investments
Impairment is deemed to arise when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity instrument. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
(ii) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date and whenever there are events 
that indicate that an impairment may have occurred. An impairment loss is recognised if an asset’s carrying amount exceeds 
the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses are recognised within Operating expenses 
in the income statement.
(iii) Amortised intangible assets
Amortised intangible assets are also tested for impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying value may 
not be recoverable. Intangible assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. 
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement. When assessing the recoverable amount 
of an intangible asset the Group uses a risk adjusted discounted cash flow model.
(iv) Available-for -sale assets
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for -sale asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective 
evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income 
statement. The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in the income statement is the difference between the 
acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income 
statement.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for -sale is not reversed through 
the income statement. If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for -sale increases and the increase can be 
objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment 
loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
(n) Government grants
Government grants towards staff retraining costs are recognised as income over the periods in which the related costs are 
incurred and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income 
statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
(o) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement 
as incurred. Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with in the same manner as payments 
to defined contribution plans where the Group’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution retirement 
benefit plan. The funds of the schemes are independent of the Group’s finances.
(ii) Defined benefit plan
For the Group’s defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, 
with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. The assumptions used to determine the valuation are 
shown in note 22. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Administrative costs of running the scheme are expensed directly in the Income Statement.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
93
Financials 2. Significant accounting policies continued
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise is amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Assets of the pension scheme are held separately from the Group’s assets. 
(iii) Share-based payments
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1 (First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards), IFRS 2 
(Share-based Payment) has been applied to all share-based grants made to employees after 7 November 2002 that had not 
vested as of 1 January 2005.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company, subject to certain criteria. The fair value 
of options granted is recognised as an expense of employment in the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally 
entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense in any year is adjusted to 
reflect the actual number of share options that vest. However, if share options fail to vest due to share prices not achieving the 
designated performance threshold for vesting, no such adjustment takes place.
(p) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are 
lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A charge for reorganisation costs is taken to the income statement when the Group has approved a detailed and formal 
reorganisation plan, and the reorganisation has either commenced or the Group has a constructive obligation, for example 
having made an announcement publicly to the employee or the Group as a whole. 
(q) T rade and other payables
T rade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost except for the contingent considerations 
which are recognised at fair value. Fair value adjustments to contingent considerations are reassessed at subsequent reporting 
periods and adjustments are taken when changes to the assumptions are required.
(r) Revenue recognition
Revenue represents amounts received or receivable in respect of the sale of marketed products to customers during the year, 
net of trade discounts given and value added tax, and in respect of royalty arrangements.
A description of the various elements of revenue and the associated accounting policies is given below:
(i) Marketed products 
The Group recognises revenue for marketed product sales when each condition of IAS 18, paragraph 14 is wholly-satisfied. 
Where sales arrangements specify a second element of revenue contingent upon a specified event, this revenue is not 
recognised until this event has occurred and it is certain that the economic benefit triggered by this event will flow to the Group. 
In cases where product is sold to a customer with a right of replacement, the Group views the transaction as a multi-element 
arrangement and a portion of the value from the sale is deferred and allocated to the replacement right based on the fair value 
of the replacement right. Revenue is recognised net of any trade discounts that may be given from time-to-time.
(ii) Royalties
Revenues from the Group’s licensed programmes are generated following the grant of a licence to a third party to undertake 
additional development and commercialisation of a research and development programme or other intellectual property rights. 
In addition to an upfront payment, BTG may be entitled to additional revenues such as milestone payments or royalties on 
revenues generated by the licensee. Revenues associated with royalty arrangements may in turn be linked to additional 
obligations on BTG. These revenues are accounted for in line with IAS 18 as follows:
Upfront and milestone payments
Non-refundable upfront and milestone payments are recognised as the earnings process is completed. This may result in full 
recognition in the year in which the income is received. However, where the Group has ongoing performance obligations such 
as the delivery of products or services, upfront payments are deferred over the period in which these obligations are satisfied. 
Associated costs of performance obligations are expensed in the period to which they relate. In determining the performance 
obligations under the contract, consideration is given as to whether elements of the obligations meet the criteria for separate 
accounting. The Group applies the substantive milestone method in accounting for subsequent milestone payments. Milestone 
payments that are considered substantive are recognised into income in the year in which they are received. Milestones that do 
not satisfy the criteria to be considered as substantive are amortised over the remaining period in which the Group expects to 
fulfil its performance obligations under the agreement. The Group considers the following when assessing whether a milestone 
is considered substantive:
94
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1. Are the milestone payments non-refundable?
2. Does the achievement of the milestone involve a degree of risk that was not reasonably assured at the inception 
of the arrangement?
3. Is substantive effort involved in achieving the milestone?
4. Is the amount of the milestone payment reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with 
the achievement of the milestone? 
5. How does the time that passes between the payments compare to the effort required to reach the milestone?
Outlicensed product royalties 
Royalty income is generated by sales of products incorporating the Group’s proprietary technology. Royalty revenues are 
recognised once the amounts due can be reliably estimated based on the sale of underlying products and recoverability is 
assured. Where there is insufficient historical data on sales and returns to fulfil these requirements, for example in the case 
of a new product, the royalty revenue will not be recognised until the Group can reliably estimate the underlying sales. 
(iii) Sales/assignments of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)
Outright sales or assignments of IPR are treated as disposals of non-current assets.
(iv) Revenues received in relation to development programmes
Revenue received in relation to development programmes is recognised based on the percentage of completion of the 
programme. Where payments may be earned in such programmes based on the achievement of uncertain milestones, revenue 
is restricted to the cumulative cash receivable for the programme.
(s) Research and development
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred. Expenditure 
incurred on development projects (relating to the design and testing of new or improved products) is recognised as intangible 
assets when it is probable that the project will generate future economic benefit, considering factors including its commercial 
and technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval, and the ability to measure costs reliably. Other development 
expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred. Development expenditure previously recognised as an expense is 
not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period. Development expenditure that has a finite useful life and which has been 
capitalised is amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over 
the period of its expected benefit. 
No development expenditure has been capitalised in either the current or prior year.
Property, plant and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy and 
the cost is included within ‘Research and development’ in the income statement.
(t) Cost of sales
Cost of sales includes the direct costs incurred in manufacturing and bringing products to sale in the market and revenue 
sharing costs.
Revenue sharing costs represent amounts due under royalty arrangements to licensors or assignees of technology and similar 
directly attributable items. Amounts are recognised upon recognition by the Group of amounts due from a licensee. They are 
recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the individual agreements relating to the relevant technology, in line with 
revenue recognition.
(u) Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present 
value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor 
is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and 
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance 
charges are charged directly against income. Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the 
length of the lease. Assets purchased under hire purchase agreements are accounted for similarly, except that these assets are 
depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease 
within the appropriate functional expenditure heading.
(v) Financial income
Financial income comprises interest income receivable during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate method,  
and fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts, contingent considerations payable upon corporate 
and non-corporate acquisitions.
(w) Financial expense
Financial expense comprises interest payable during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate method, and  
fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts, contingent considerations payable upon corporate  
and non-corporate acquisitions, other financing costs and borrowings.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
95
Financials 2. Significant accounting policies continued
(x) Tax
T ax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. T ax is recognised in the income statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
value of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following 
temporary differences are not provided for: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of 
an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries and associates, where it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying value of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised.
(y) BTG Employee Share T rust
Included within the Group’s financial results are those of the BTG Employee Share T rust, the costs of which are expensed within 
the financial statements of the T rust as incurred.
In the Company accounts the cost of BTG shares held by the T rust is deducted from shareholders’ funds.
(z) Financial guarantees
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within 
its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the 
Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company 
will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
(aa) Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
3. Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty
Critical accounting judgements
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, described in note 2, management and the Audit Committee discussed 
and agreed the selection, application and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and the estimates used in the 
preparation of the accounts.
Acquisitions
Judgments have been made in respect of the identification of intangible assets made on acquisitions based on pre-acquisition 
forecasts, analysis and negotiations. In addition to the judgments and estimates made in establishing the intangible assets 
acquired and their value, in certain instances these assets are in development and are only amortised once the development 
phase has been completed, although these assets are subjected to impairment review in accordance with the accounting policy 
described in note 2(m).
In addition to significant fair value adjustments in relation to intangible assets, the Group has recognised other fair value 
adjustments on assets and liabilities acquired. Each adjustment has been calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS 3 
(revised). The most significant of these relate to:
• Deferred tax; where estimates of deferred tax liabilities arising on acquired intangible assets have been recognised. Where 
appropriate an associated deferred tax asset, representing management’s estimation of the value of tax losses that would  
be available to the Group to offset the deferred tax liability (see below), has also been recognised;
• Contingent consideration; where the present value of future performance and other milestones are estimated using 
acquisition date trading assumptions and forecasts to assess the likelihood of payments to be made; and 
• Inventory; where inventory acquired has been uplifted in value to be held at estimated selling price less costs to complete, 
costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that 
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year, are discussed below.
96
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles
Determining whether goodwill and other intangibles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-
generating units to which goodwill or other intangible assets have been allocated. The value in use calculation requires 
estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate 
present value. There is a risk of a material adverse impact on the income statement should an impairment adjustment be 
required to be reflected in the financial statements. See note 2(m) for further details.
Deferred tax
The Group has significant deferred tax assets principally in relation to tax losses. The assets have been recognised on the basis 
that management estimates demonstrate that it is more likely than not that future taxable profit will arise in the jurisdictions in 
which the losses are available. If actual events differ from management’s estimates or the estimates are changed in the future 
this could have a significant effect on the balance sheet net asset position of the Group. In recognising deferred tax assets and 
liabilities, management has taken into account expected changes in tax rates in each relevant jurisdiction.
Pension assumptions
Note 22 details the key actuarial assumptions used to establish the pension funding position. These represent management’s 
best estimates and are chosen based on historic experience and future expectations. Should the discount rate used to establish 
scheme liabilities or the long-term expected rate of return on investment vary significantly then the pension fund valuation 
would be impacted.
4. Operating segments
The Group is aligned behind three reportable segments, being Interventional Medicine, Specialty Pharmaceuticals 
and Licensing.
The acquisition of PneumRx Inc. on 7 January 2015 is included within the Interventional Medicine operating segment. 
The acquisitions of EKOS Corporation on 5 July 2013 and the T argeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. on 13 July 2013 
are included within the Interventional Medicine operating segment.
In assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions, the Leadership Team (which is BTG’s chief operating 
decision-making body) reviews contribution by segment. Contribution is defined as being gross profit less directly attributable 
selling, general and administrative costs (SG&A). The Licensing operating segment includes SG&A relating to the Group’s 
centrally managed support functions and corporate overheads. This reflects the management structure and stewardship of the 
business. No allocation of central overheads is made across the Specialty Pharmaceuticals or Interventional Medicine operating 
segments. Research and development continues to be managed on a global basis, with investment decisions being made by the 
Leadership Team as a whole. It is not managed by reference to the Group’s operating segments, though each programme within 
the pipeline would ultimately provide revenues for one of the operating segments if successful.
There are no inter -segment transactions that are required to be eliminated on consolidation.
Y ear ended 31 March 2015
Interventional
 Medicine
1
£m
Specialty
 Pharmaceuticals
£m
Licensing
£m
T otal
£m
Revenue 112.7 121. 1 134.0 367 .8
Cost of sales (33.5) (17 . 1) (64. 1) (114.7)
Gross profit 79.2 104.0 69.9 253. 1
Selling, general and administrative expenses (70. 1) (24.9) (29.8) (124.8)
Contribution 9.1 79. 1 40.1 128.3
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles assets (28.4)
Foreign exchange gains 6.7
Research and development (68.3)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.3
Acquisition and reorganisation costs (3.7)
Operating profit 34.9
Financial income 0.1
Financial expense (8.3)
Profit before tax 26.7
T ax credit 6.9
Profit for the year 33.6
Unallocated assets 1,045.9
1 2015 Cost of Sales includes a £0.9m release of a fair value adjustment to inventory purchased on the acquisition of PneumRx Inc. on 7 January 2015 within the Interventional Medicine 
segment. This represents the release of a fair value uplift applied to inventory purchased on acquisition recognised through the income statement as the product is sold.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
97
Financials 4. Operating segments continued
Y ear ended 31 March 2014
Interventional
 Medicine
2
£m
Specialty
 Pharmaceuticals
£m
Licensing
£m
T otal
£m
Revenue 79. 1 102.3 109. 1 290.5
Cost of sales (22.5) (20.9) (51.6) (95.0)
Gross profit 56.6 81.4 57 .5 195.5
Selling, general and administrative expenses (42.8) (22.7) (18.5) (84.0)
Contribution 13.8 58.7 39.0 111.5
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles assets (23.3)
Foreign exchange losses (5.0)
Research and development (47 .2)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1.1
Acquisition and reorganisation costs (9.8)
Operating profit 27 .3
Financial income 8.2
Financial expense (2.2)
Profit before tax 33.6
T ax charge (9.0)
Profit for the year 24.3
Unallocated assets 711.7
2  2014 Cost of Sales includes a £1.9m release of a fair value adjustment to inventory purchased on the acquisition of EKOS on 5 July 2013 within the Interventional Medicine segment. This 
release represents the release of a fair value uplift applied to inventory purchased on acquisition recognised through the income statement as the product is sold.
Revenue analysis
Analysis of revenue, based on the geographical location of customers and the source of revenue is provided below:
Geographical analysis
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
USA 327 . 1 256. 1
Europe 31.1 26.5
Other regions 9.6 7.9
367 .8 290.5
Revenue from major products and services 
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Product sales 233.8 180. 1
Royalties 134.0 110.4
367 .8 290.5
98
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Major customers
Products that utilise the Group’s intellectual property rights are sold by licensees. Royalty income is derived from over 60 
licences. One licence individually generated royalty income in excess of 10% of Group revenue of £105.2m (2014: One licence 
generated £83.8m).
The Group’s marketed products are sold both directly and through distribution agreements in the USA, Europe and Asia Pacific 
region. No individual customer generated income in excess of 10% of the Group revenue during the year ended 31 March 2015  
or 31 March 2014.
5. Acquisition and reorganisation costs
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
PneumRx Inc. acquisition costs (2.8) –
EKOS Corporation acquisition costs – (4. 1)
T argeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. acquisition costs – (5.7)
Other (0.9) –
Total charge for the year (3.7) (9.8)
The Group considers ‘acquisition and reorganisation costs’ to include transaction costs of completing the acquisition and 
those costs resulting directly from decisions to rationalise both operating sites and business operations (see accounting 
policies in note 1).
6. Operating profit
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Note
Y ear ended 
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31March
2014
£m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 5.5 3.4
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 13 29.5 24.3
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (6.7) 5.0
Research and development expenses 68.3 47 .2
Staff costs 7 100.2 63.7
Operating lease rentals payable on property 2.5 2.3
Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs 5 3.7 9.8
The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
Y ear ended 
31 March
2015
£’000
Year ended 
31 March
2014
£’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts: 170 165
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 300 295
Audit of Pension scheme trust 11 11
Other audit-related assurance services 54 54
T axation compliance services 256 48
All taxation advisory services not covered above – 53
All assurance services not covered above – 5
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on pages 50 to 53 and 
includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided 
by the auditor.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
99
Financials 7 . Staff costs 
Staff costs (including directors’ emoluments and reorganisation costs) are as follows:
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Salaries 81.3 48.0
Social security costs 8.8 6.9
Defined contribution pension costs 4.1 2.9
Defined benefit pension costs 0.4 0.6
Equity-settled transactions 5.6 5.3
100.2 63.7
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration 
report on pages 56 to 75. In addition to the disclosures in the Remuneration report, the charge to income in respect of  
equity-settled transactions of key management personnel, in accordance with IFRS 2, was £1.9m (2014: £1.2m).
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year (including executive directors), analysed by category, 
was as follows:
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
Year ended
31 March
2014
Management 102 68
Research and production 518 396
Sales, administration and business support 366 312
986 776
8. Financial income
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Interest receivable on money-market and bank deposits 0.1 0.2
Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts – 7.5
Other – 0.5
Financial income 0.1 8.2
9. Financial expense
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts 6.2 –
Fair value changes on contingent consideration 1.0 1.4
Others 1.1 0.8
Financial expense 8.3 2.2
10. Tax
An analysis of the tax (credit)/charge in the income statement for the year, all relating to current operations, is as follows:
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Current tax
UK corporation tax charge – –
Overseas corporate tax charge 12.2 14.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.2) (0.8)
Total current taxation 11.0 13.7
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax credit (17 .9) (5.0)
Adjustment to tax rates – 0.3
Total tax (credit)/charge for the year (6.9) 9.0
100
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued In addition to the tax (credit)/charge in the income statement, a deferred tax credit of £1.8m (2014: £0.8m credit) has been 
recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income. 
UK corporation tax is calculated at 21 % (2014: 23%) of the estimated taxable profit for the year. T axation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate:
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Profit before tax 26.7 33.3
T ax using UK corporation tax rate of 21 % (2014: 23%) 5.6 7.6
Effect of overseas tax rates 2.2 4.3
Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets (11.6) (3. 1)
Non-deductible expenses 1.4 4.9
Effect of UK patent box deduction (3.7) (2.8)
Adjustment to tax rates – 0.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.8) (2.2)
(6.9) 9.0
An analysis of amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of income taxes is shown below:
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Current assets
UK corporation tax receivable 1.4 0.9
Overseas corporate tax receivable – 0.6
1.4 1.5
Current liabilities
Overseas corporate tax payable 3.2 7.4
3.2 7.4
Deferred taxation
The movements in the deferred tax asset and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as 
permitted by IAS 1 2, Income T axes) during the year are as shown below. The deferred tax asset and liabilities are only offset 
where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax asset
2015
£m
2014
£m
Deferred tax asset recognised at 1 April 0.8 0.9
Income statement credit 4.2 –
Currency movements (0. 1) (0. 1)
Deferred tax asset recognised at 31 March 4.9 0.8
The deferred tax asset relates to tax losses in the UK and short term timing differences in Australia. The UK losses have been 
recognised using a tax rate of 20% (2014: no UK losses recognised) and the short-term timing differences in Australia have been 
recognised using a tax rate of 30% (2014: 30%). The directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the 
level of profits in the UK and Australia in the forthcoming years will lead to the realisation of the respective assets.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
101
Financials 10. T ax continued
Deferred tax liability
The deferred tax liability of £152.4m (2014: £90.4m) represents the net position after taking into account the offset of deferred 
tax assets against deferred tax liabilities in each jurisdiction. Deferred tax liabilities predominantly arise on intangible assets 
recognised on acquisitions (£186.2m) and pension surplus (£4.6m). Deferred tax assets relate to brought forward trading losses 
and short-term timing differences. The table below summarises the gross and net position at each balance sheet date:
Deferred tax 
assets
£m
Deferred tax
liabilities
£m
Net deferred tax
liability
£m
At 1 April 2013 22.3 (66. 1) (43.8)
Adjustments re prior years 1.5 – 1.5
Acquisitions 7.0 (66.2) (59.2)
Income statement (debit)/credit (6.2) 9.4 3.2
Other comprehensive income (credit) – 0.8 0.8
Offset against current tax payable (1. 1) – (1. 1)
Currency movements (1.0) 9.2 8.2
At 1 April 2014 22.5 (112.9) (90.4)
Adjustments re prior years (0.5) 0.1 (0.4)
Acquisitions 11.0 (74.0) (63.0)
Income statement (debit)/credit 3.6 10.4 14.0
Other comprehensive income (credit) – (1.8) (1.8)
R&D tax credits 0.3 – 0.3
Reclassification 0.5 (0.5) –
Currency movements 1.5 (12.6) (11. 1)
At 31 March 2015 38.9 (191.3) (152.4)
A reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax to 20% from 1 April 2015 was substantively enacted on 17 July 2013. The rate of 20% 
from 1 April 2016 was substantively enacted on 25 March 2015. The UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 March 2015 have 
been calculated based on the rate of 20%. 
Unrecognised tax losses
In addition to the losses on which a deferred tax asset has been recognised, the Group has additional tax losses and other timing 
differences which have arisen principally as a result of the research and development incurred during the start up of the Group’s 
activities. These losses and timing differences are shown below. UK tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
The US tax losses can be carried forward for 20 years and the first year in which they expire is 2018.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of the losses and timing differences shown below as there is uncertainty 
as to whether such losses and timing differences can be used.
The total amount of tax losses and timing differences not recognised is shown below:
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
T ax losses 121.4 142.4
Deductible temporary differences 21.6 14.8
143.0 157 .2
102
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 1 . Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
Year ended
31 March
2014
Profit for the financial year (£m) 33.6 24.3
Profit per share (p)
 Basic 9.1 6.8
 Diluted 9.0 6.7
Number of shares (m)
Weighted average number of shares – basic 367 .9 355.2
Effect of share options on issue 5.4 4.6
Weighted average number of shares – diluted 373.3 359.8
The basic and diluted earnings per share from underlying earnings are based on the following data:
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
Year ended
31 March
2014
Profit for the financial year (£m) 33.6 24.3
Add back:
 Fair value adjustment on acquired inventory
(a)
 0.6 1.2
 Amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets
(b)
 19.5 15.3
 Acquisition and reorganisation costs
(c)
3.1 9.3
 Fair values changes on contingent consideration
(d)
1.0 1.4
Underlying earnings 57 .8 51.5
Underlying profit per share (p)
 Basic 15.7 14.5
 Diluted 15.4 14.3
Adjustments to profit are shown after taking into account the tax effect of such adjustments on the results as shown in the 
consolidated income statement as follows:
a. In the year ended 31 March 2015 there was £0.3m tax impact (2014: £0.7m) on fair value adjustment of inventory acquired  
of £0.9m (2014: £1.9m).
b. The release of deferred tax liability of £8.9m (2014: £8.0m) has been deducted from the amortisation and impairment  
of acquired intangible assets of £28.4m (2014: £23.3m) as shown in the consolidated income statement.
c. In the year ended 31 March 2015 there was a £0.6m tax impact on reorganisation costs of £3.7m. In the year ended  
31 March 2014 there was £0.5m tax impact on reorganisation costs of £9.8m.
d. No tax adjustments (2014: nil) were required on the fair value changes on the contingent consideration of £1.0m (2014: £1.4m). 
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
103
Financials 1 2. Goodwill
Note £m
At 1 April 2013 59.2
Acquisitions 32 71.1
Exchange differences (6.7)
At 1 April 2014 123.6
Acquisitions 32 51.6
Exchange differences 8.6
At 31 March 2015 183.8
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 April 2013, 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015 –
Net book value at 31 March 2015 183.8 
Net book value at 1 April 2014 123.6
Net book value at 1 April 2013 59.2
During the year ended 31 March 2015 additions to Interventional Medicine goodwill of £51.6m related to the acquisition 
of PneumRx Inc. (see note 32).
During the year ended 31 March 2014 additions to Interventional Medicine goodwill of £71. 1m related to the acquisitions of EKOS 
Corporation and the T argeted Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. (see note 32).
Impairment review – goodwill and intangible assets
An impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and unamortised intangible assets was conducted as at 31 March 2015. 
Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc, EKOS Corporation, the T argeted 
Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. and PneumRx Inc. This has been allocated across the Group’s cash generating units, being 
its operating segments (see note 4). Goodwill recognised on acquisitions has been allocated across operating segments in 
proportion to the anticipated benefits of that goodwill on the operating segment, having regard for the assets and liabilities 
acquired. The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated as relating to Interventional Medicine £147 .3m (2014: £87 . 1m) 
as relating to Specialty Pharmaceuticals £16.4m (2014: £16.4m), and in relation to Licensing, £20. 1m (2014: £20. 1m).
The impairment review required the estimation of the recoverable amount based on the value in use of the underlying cash 
generating unit. Near -term projections are based on the Group’s approved three-year plan. Longer -term projections through  
to the end of an asset’s estimated useful economic life are included due to the long-term nature of pharmaceutical product 
development and product life cycles. 
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include market share and gross margin for the marketed 
products, individual probability-adjusted cash flow models for all in-process research and development and an assessment  
of the net present value of future net royalty income for licensed patents. 
Cash flow projections for all assets were included for a period equal to the estimated useful economic life of the assets.  
No terminal values were applied. All cash flows were discounted back to present value using a pre-tax discount rate of between 
7% (2014: 7%) to 26% (2014: 23%) representing the range of asset classes being tested including established royalty streams, 
launched marketed products and in-process research and development projects and which takes into account the individual 
risk characteristics of each particular asset and related income stream.
For developed technology, the Group uses its approved three-year budget for near term sales projections, adjusting for expected 
changes in future conditions, including those anticipated as a result of our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment 
of future changes in the pharmaceutical industry for long-term projections. 
For contractual relationships, the Group uses the same basic methodology as for developed technology but limits the projection 
period to the appropriate useful economic life of the contractual relationship.
For in-process research and development the key assumptions are the chance of product launch, market share and overall 
market size. Industry average statistics are used to assess the chance of product launch, taking into account the stage of 
development of the asset, the therapeutic area targeted and any known specific characteristics of the asset. Market share 
and overall market size are assessed by reference to independent industry market reports.
In assessing whether there has been an impairment the net present value of future cash flows is compared to the carrying 
value in the accounts.
The Group do not consider that there are any reasonable possible sensitivities that could result in an impairment charge. 
The Group have considered the following specific individual sensitivities:
• a 1 % increase in the discount rates used would not trigger an impairment;
• a 5% reduction in operating cashflows would not trigger an impairment.
104
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 3. Intangible assets
Group Note
Developed
 technology
£m
Contractual 
relationships
£m
In-process 
research and
development
£m
Computer 
software
£m
Patents
£m
Purchase of
contractual 
rights
£m
T otal
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2013 235. 1 41.5 5.8 0.8 14.5 18.4 316. 1
Acquisitions 32 227 .8 – 17 .6 0.1 – – 245.5
Additions – – 0.5 0.2 0.2 – 0.9
Disposals (2.0) – – – – – (2.0)
Currency movements (32.4) (2.9) (1.6) – (1.6) (1.4) (39.9)
At 1 April 2014 428.5 38.6 22.3 1.1 13. 1 17.0 520.6
Acquisitions 32 109.2 – 80.4 – 0.3 – 189.9
Additions – – – 0.2 1.2 – 1.4
Disposals – – – – – (9.5) (9.5)
Currency movements 40.1 3.5 3.1 0.1 2.0 1.0 49.8
At 31 March 2015 577 .8 42. 1 105.8 1.4 16.6 8.5 752.2
Amortisation
At 1 April 2013 37 .6 40.6 5.8 0.2 12. 1 10.6 106.9
Provided during the year 22.8 0.5 – 0.2 0.4 0.4 24.3
Write back on disposals (0.5) – – – – – (0.5)
Currency movements (2.5) (2.8) – – (1.7) (1.0) (8.0)
At 1 April 2014 57 .4 38.3 5.8 0.4 10.8 10.0 122.7
Provided during the year 28.4 – – 0.3 0.6 0.2 29.5
Write back on disposals – – – – – (9.5) (9.5)
Currency movements 5.8 3.5 – – 2.0 0.3 11.6
At 31 March 2015 91.6 41.8 5.8 0.7 13.4 1.0 154.3
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 486.2 0.3 100.0 0.7 3.2 7.5 597 .9
At 1 April 2014 371. 1 0.3 16.5 0.7 2.3 7.0 397 .9
At 1 April 2013 197 .5 0.9 – 0.6 2.4 7.8 209.2
Amortisation relating to acquired intangibles is shown on the face of the income statement within ‘Amortisation of 
acquired intangibles’. All other amortisation and impairment is shown within ‘Selling, general and administrative expenses’ 
in ‘Operating expenses’.
Developed technology
Developed technology includes the RePneu
®
 Coil System (Europe) acquired in PneumRx Inc., EkoSonic
®
 acquired in EKOS 
Corporation (see note 32), TheraSphere
®
 acquired in the T argeted Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. (see note 32), the antidote 
assets acquired in Protherics PLC comprising principally of the rights to CroFab
®
 and DigiFab
®
 and the bead assets acquired in 
Biocompatibles International plc comprising principally of the rights to the DC Bead
®
 and LC Bead
®
. The carrying value of 
individually significant assets within developed technology is:
31 March 
2015
£m
31 March 
2014
£m
Remaining
amortisation 
period at 
31 March 
2015
RePneu
®
 (Europe) 108.9 – 14.8 years
EkoSonic
®
110.5 105.8 13.3 years
TheraSphere
®
94.4 90.3 13.3 years
CroFab
®
67 .5 63.3 18.7 years
DigiFab
®
21.8 20.5 18.7 years
DC Bead
®
 and LC Bead
®
77.0 84. 1 10.8 years
In-process research and development
Additions to in-process research and development includes the RePneu® Coil System (US) acquired in PneumRx Inc. in the year 
ended 31 March 2015 and the T argeted Therapies assets acquired in the T argeted Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. in the year 
ended 31 March 2014 (see note 32). 
31 March 
2015
£m
31 March 
2014
£m
Remaining
amortisation 
period at 
31 March 
2015
RePneu
®
 (US) 81.5 – –
T argeted Therapies assets 17 .8 15.9 –
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
105
Financials 1 4. Property, plant and equipment
Group Note
Leasehold
improvements
£m
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m
Plant and 
machinery , 
furniture and 
equipment
£m
Assets in 
the course of
construction
£m
T otal
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2013 1.7 17 .4 17.7 5.6 42.4
Acquisitions 32 0.4 – 1.0 – 1.4
Additions 3.0 0.3 4.9 3.5 11.7
Disposals – – (5.3) (0.4) (5.7)
Currency movements (0. 1) (2.8) (1.3) (0.2) (4.4)
At 1 April 2014 5.0 14.9 17.0 8.5 45.4
Acquisitions 32 – – 0.3 – 0.3
Additions 0.9 0.2 3.3 5.9 10.3
Disposals – – (2.4) (0. 1) (2.5)
T ransfers 3.9 – 3.0 (6.9) –
Currency movements 0.1 (0.9) – (0.4) (1.2)
At 31 March 2015 9.9 14.2 21.2 7.0 52.3
Depreciation
At 1 April 2013 0.5 2.9 13.5 0.1 17.0
Provided during the year 0.5 0.4 2.5 – 3.4
Disposals – – (4.9) – (4.9)
Currency movements – (0.6) (0.8) – (1.4)
At 1 April 2014 1.0 2.7 10.3 0.1 14. 1
Provided during the year 1.1 0.3 4.1 – 5.5
Disposals – – (2.5) – (2.5)
Currency movements – (0.2) (0. 1) – (0.3)
At 31 March 2015 2.1 2.8 11.8 0.1 16.8
Net book value at 31 March 2015 7.8 11.4 9.4 6.9 35.5
Net book value at 1 April 2014 4.0 12.2 6.7 8.4 31.3
Net book value at 1 April 2013 1.2 14.5 4.2 5.5 25.4
1 5. Other investments
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 April 3.0 3.0
Additions – –
Impairment charge – –
At 31 March 3.0 3.0
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for -sale that are recorded at fair value 
at each balance sheet date. The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated to be the valuation following the latest round 
of equity funding. In the absence of specific market data the Group determines that cost is equal to fair value.
Where the fair value of an available-for -sale asset is impaired, the impairment charge is recognised in the income statement, 
together with any amounts recycled from the fair value reserve (see note 19). These impairments initially arise from the 
prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which 
any further decline in fair value is immediately taken to the income statement.
106
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 6. Inventories
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Raw materials and consumables 14.9 12.0
Work in progress 10.2 11.5
Finished goods 15.4 3.5
40.5 27.0
In the year ended 31 March 2015 a fair value adjustment of £0.9m was recognised through cost of sales (see note 4) leaving 
£1.5m fair value uplift recognised on the acquisition of PneumRx Inc. remaining (see note 32).
In the year ended 31 March 2014 a fair value adjustment of £1.9m was recognised through cost of sales (see note 4) leaving  
nil fair value uplift recognised on the acquisition of EKOS Corporation remaining (see note 32).
Inventory to the value of £3.4m (2014: £1.8m) was written off through cost of sales.
1 7 . T rade and other receivables
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Due within one year
Revenues receivable, net of provisions 38.7 28.8
Other debtors 10.6 9.0
Prepayments and accrued income 42.6 37 .3
91.9 75. 1
Managing credit risk:
‘Revenues receivable, net of provisions’ represents marketed product sales sold both directly and through distribution 
agreements for the year to 31 March 2015 and certain other amounts receivable under licence agreements.
The ageing of these amounts was as follows:
2015
Gross
£m
2015
Provision 
£m
2014
Gross 
£m
2014
Provision
£m
Not past due 31.0 – 24.8 –
0-30 days 4.7 – 2.7 –
31 -90 days 1.3 (0.2) 0.9 –
> 90 days 2.6 (0.7) 0.9 (0.5)
Total 39.6 (0.9) 29.3 (0.5)
Provisions for bad debts of £0.9m (2014: £0.5m) have been made to write down the value of doubtful receivables to 
estimated recoverable amounts. The charge for the year to 31 March 2015 in respect of provisions for bad debts was 
£0.4m (2014: £0.2m credit).
1 8. Cash and cash equivalents
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Bank balances 73.8 38.2
Cash and cash equivalents in statement of cash flows 73.8 38.2
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
107
Financials 1 9. Equity
Other reserves are analysed as follows:
T ranslation 
reserve
£m
Fair value 
reserve
£m
 T otal other
 reserves
£m
At 1 April 2013 0.1 0.1 0.2
Total recognised income and expense (32.4) – (32.4)
At 1 April 2014 (32.3) 0.1 (32.2)
Total recognised income and expense 41.6 – 41.6
At 31 March 2015 9.3 0.1 9.4
The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes 
the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s61 2 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through the acquisitions of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 201 1 
and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing shares of £1. 1m relating to the 
acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc.
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company is shown below:
Ordinary shares of 1 0p each
Number
2015
£m Number
2014
£m
At 1 April 361,586,534 36. 1 328,276,871 32.8
Issued for cash 20, 190, 169 2.1 33,309,663 3.3
At 31 March 381,776,703 38.2 361,586,534 36. 1
In December 2014, BTG completed a share placing for a total of 18,867 ,925 new ordinary shares at a price of 795p per placing 
share, raising proceeds of £150.0m being £145.7m net of expenses.
In May 2013, BTG completed a share placing for a total of 32,208,030 new ordinary shares at a price of 330p per placing share, 
raising proceeds of £106.3m being £103. 1m net of expenses.
The remainder of shares issued in the current and prior year were as a result of the exercise of share options.
Share options
Details of outstanding share options are set out in note 23. 
20. T rade and other payables
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
T rade payables 10.8 14.0
Accruals and deferred income 81.6 59.3
Contingent consideration 15. 1 3.4
Other creditors 3.5 3.2
111.0 79.9
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Accruals and deferred income 0.3 0.3
Contingent consideration 17 .6 2.1
Other creditors – 0.2
17 .9 2.6
108
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21. Derivative financial instruments
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Contracts with positive fair values:
Forward foreign exchange contracts due within one year – 4.4
Forward foreign exchange contracts due after more than one year – 0.9 
Derivative instrument assets – 5.3
Contracts with negative fair values:
Forward foreign exchange contracts due within one year 0.9 –
Derivative instrument liabilities 0.9 –
The Group utilises foreign currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows. 
At 31 March 2015 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$237m in the period to March 2016 at rates in the range  
£1 :US$1.49 - £1 :US$1.51. The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2015  
as a liability at £0.9m.
At 31 March 2014 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$144m in the period to June 2015 at rates in the range  
£1 :US$1.51 - £1 :US$1.65. The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2014  
as an asset at £5.3m.
The fair value gain/loss for the year associated with these forward contracts was included within ‘Financial income/expense’.
A 5% strengthening of the US$ as at 31 March 2015, all other variables being unchanged, would result in an increase of £8.3m 
within ‘Financial expense’ in the income statement and a fair value liability of £9.2m within ‘Derivative instruments’ within assets. 
A 5% weakening of the US$ would result in a £7 .7m decrease in ‘Financial expense’ and a fair value asset of £6.8m within 
‘Derivative instruments’ within assets.
22. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined benefit scheme
For eligible UK employees the Group operates a funded pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments. 
The plan was closed to new entrants as of 1 June 2004. The plan is a registered scheme under the provisions of Schedule 36 of 
the Finance Act 2004 and assets are held in a legally separate, trustee-administered fund. The trustees are required by law to 
act in the best interest of the plan participants and are responsible for setting the plan’s investment and governance policies. 
The results of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2013 were updated to the accounting date by an independent 
qualified actuary in accordance with IAS 19. 
The plan exposes the Group to inflation risk, interest rate risk, market investment and longevity risk. The Group is not exposed 
to any unusual, entity specific or plan specific risks. The plan has a history of granting increases to pensions in line with price 
inflation, and these increases are reflected in the measurement of the obligation. 
In July 2010, the government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured by 
the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’). The Group continues to value its pension fund liability on 
the basis of RPI. 
The estimated amount of total employer contributions expected to be paid to the plan during 2015/16 is £2.9m (2014/15 
actual: £2.9m).
The IAS 19 position of the plan is generally expected to be different to the triennial funding valuation assessment. The two 
main drivers of this difference are the requirements for prudence in the funding basis (compared to the IAS 19 best-estimate 
principle), and the IAS 19 requirements to use a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds (compared to a prudent 
expectation of actual asset returns for funding). This can sometimes lead to a situation where the IAS 19 measure shows a 
surplus while the funding measure shows a deficit, with associated deficit recovery contributions payable by the Group.
The Group has taken professional advice and concluded that it has no requirement to adjust the balance sheet in respect of 
either a current surplus or a minimum funding requirement under IFRIC14. This is on the basis that the Group has an 
unconditional right to a refund of a current or projected future surplus at some point in the future.
The following table sets out the key IAS 19 assumptions used for the plan:
31 March 
2015
31 March 
2014
31 March 
2013
Retail price inflation 3. 1% p.a. 3.6% p.a. 3.6% p.a.
Discount rate 3.2% p.a. 4.4% p.a. 4.4% p.a.
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 60 at the accounting date 88.5 88.4 87 .5
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 40 at the accounting date 91.0 90.8 89. 1
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
109
Financials 22. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice and in accordance with published 
statistics. The mortality tables used at both year -ends 2015 and 2014 are S1NA tables based on year of birth, with a 
multiplicative adjustment factor to reflect the Group’s assessment of the average current mortality rates of the plan members 
relative to the tables. Amongst the UK population, there is a continuing trend for a generation to live longer than the preceding 
generation, and this has been reflected in the longevity assumption by adopting CMI core projections and also incorporating  
a minimum long-term rate of improvement in longevity of 1.5%/1.25% p.a. for males and females respectively in 2015  
(2014: 1.5%/1.25% p.a. for males and females respectively).
The following table sets out related IAS 19 assumptions used: 
31 March 
2015
31 March 
2014
31 March 
2013
Pension increases in deferment – RPI inflation 3. 1% p.a. 3.6% p.a. 3.6% p.a.
Pension increases in payment – RPI inflation 3. 1% p.a. 3.6% p.a. 3.6% p.a.
Pension increases in payment – inflation capped at 2.5% 2. 1% p.a. 2.3% p.a. 2.3% p.a.
General salary increases 3. 1% p.a. 3.6% p.a. 3.6% p.a.
The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of the plan  
is as follows:
31 March 
2015
£m
31 March 
2014
£m
31 March 
2013
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (124.9) (110.9) (110.7)
Fair value of scheme assets 138. 1 118.9 121.0
Net asset recognised in the statement of financial position 13.2 8.0 10.3
A net asset is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current assets. 
The IAS 19 expense is made up of the current service cost, plan administrative expenses, interest cost on the defined benefit 
obligation and interest income on plans assets, all of which are shown in the change in defined benefit obligation and assets 
tables below. The expense has been included in ‘Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses’.
The allocation of the plan’s assets is as follows:
31 March 
2015
31 March 
2014
31 March 
2013
Equity instruments 10% 16% 15%
Diversified growth funds 11% 14% 14%
Liability driven investment 29% 0% 0%
Absolute return bonds 20% 0% 0%
Illiquid inflation assets 15% 0% 0%
Inflation linked bonds 0% 55% 56%
Corporate bonds 0% 14% 14%
Cash/net current assets 15% 1% 1%
There are no direct investments in the Group’s own shares or property occupied by any member of the Group.
At 31 March 2015, all asset classes have quoted prices in active markets, with the exception of the illiquid inflation assets which 
are priced and traded on a monthly basis.
At 31 March 2014, all asset classes had quoted prices in active markets, with the exception of one of the two diversified 
growth funds (around 7% of the overall portfolio). Diversified growth funds invest in a range of underlying asset classes and 
derivatives: typically equities, bonds (including high yield and emerging market debt), hedge funds, commodities, infrastructure 
and property, and vary their allocations to these markets tactically. They aim to achieve long term returns that are broadly in 
line with the long-term equity returns, but with lower volatility and an element of capital preservation. 
In setting the investment strategy, the trustees considered the views of the Group, their assessment of the Group’s covenant 
supporting the actuarial risks faced by the plan, the risk and rewards of a number of possible asset allocation options, the 
suitability of a wide range of asset classes within each strategy across and within asset classes, and the need for appropriate 
diversification amongst different asset classes. 
110
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation, the fair value of the plan assets and the net asset/(liability) over 
the year ended 31 March 2015 are as follows: 
Y ear ended 31 March 2015
Obligation
£m
Plan Assets
£m
Net asset/
(liability)
£m
Beginning of the year (110.9) 118.9 8.0
Employer’s part of the current service cost (0.3) – (0.3)
Interest (cost)/income (4.8) 5.2 0.4
Contributions by the employer – 2.9 2.9
Contributions from plan members (0. 1) 0.1 –
Actuarial gain – experience 0.7 15.5 16.2
Actuarial loss – financial assumptions (14.0) – (14.0)
Benefits paid 4.5 (4.5) –
End of the year (124.9) 138. 1 13.2
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation, the fair value of the plan assets and the net asset/(liability) over 
the year ended 31 March 2014 are as follows: 
Year ended 31 March 2014
Obligation
£m
Plan Assets
£m
Net asset/
(liability)
£m
Beginning of the year (110.7) 121.0 10.3
Employer’s part of the current service cost (0.4) – (0.4)
Interest (cost)/income (4.8) 5.3 0.5
Contributions by the employer – 3.6 3.6
Contributions from plan members (0. 1) 0.1 –
Actuarial gain/(loss) – experience 2.1 (6.3) (4.2)
Actuarial loss – demographic assumptions (1.8) – (1.8)
Benefits paid 4.8 (4.8) –
End of the year (110.9) 118.9 8.0
The actual return on the plan assets over 2015 was a gain of £20.7m (2014: loss of £1.0m).
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 15 years (2014: 16 years).
The administrative costs shown above are nil as they paid directly by the Group and are expensed separately outside IAS 19. 
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the plan obligations are:
Increase in Obligation Increase in Plan Assets Increase in Net Liability
Change in assumption
31 March 
2015
£m
31 March 
2014
£m
31 March 
2015
£m
31 March 
2014
£m
31 March 
2015
£m
31 March 
2014
£m
Discount Rate Decrease 0. 1% 1.9 1.7 2.2 1.5 (0.3) 0.2
RPI inflation Increase 0. 1% 1.7 1.4 1.8 1.4 (0. 1) –
Life expectancy Increase 1 year 4.1 3.7 – – 4.1 3.7
The sensitivity information has been derived using projected cash flows valued using the relevant assumptions and membership 
profile as at 31 March 2015. The sensitivity methodology has not changed from prior years. Extrapolation of these results beyond 
the sensitivity figures shown may not be appropriate. 
Defined contribution schemes
The Group offers defined contribution pension schemes for its employees. The total income statement charge in relation 
to these schemes was £4. 1m (2014: £2.9m).
The Group’s defined contribution schemes are operated by external providers. The only obligation of the Group with respect 
to these schemes is to make the specified contributions.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
111
Financials 23. Share based payments
Share options
The Group makes awards under an equity-settled share option plan that entitles employees to purchase shares in the 
Company. In accordance with the rules of the plan, options are granted at the market price of the shares on the date of grant 
with a vesting period of generally three years. They may only be exercised upon the attainment of certain performance criteria. 
If the performance criteria are not met by the date specified at the time of grant, the options do not vest and will lapse. If the 
options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Furthermore, options are 
forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest unless the conditions under which they leave are such that 
they are considered to be a ‘good leaver’. In this case their options remain exercisable for a limited period of time. For further 
details of current awards, see the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 75.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based compensation charge, a binomial lattice option pricing model 
has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
31 March
2015
31 March
2014
Risk-free interest rate 0.5% – 1.3% 0.4% – 1.0%
Dividend yield Nil Nil
Volatility 25% – 30% 29% – 31%
Expected lives of options and awards granted under:
• Share option plan 3 years 3 years
• Sharesave plan 3.37 years 3.37 years
• Stock purchase plan 2. 13 years 2. 13 years
• Performance share plan 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years
• Deferred share bonus plan 3 years 3 years
Weighted average fair value for share option plan grants in the year 389.7p 161.7p
Weighted average fair value for sharesave grants in the year 202.3p 136.3p
Weighted average fair value for stock purchase plan grants in the year 153.5p 96.0p
Weighted average fair value for performance share awards in the year 504.2p 323.4p
Weighted average fair value for deferred share bonus awards in the year 599.0p 368.0p
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the 
share options, restricted or performance shares), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly- 
available information.
Share options are granted under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition. Service and non-market 
conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received. 
Performance shares are awarded under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition. Service and 
non-market conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received.
Awards of share options and performance share awards made in 2009 and later years have a market condition based on a 
TSR measure using the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector (banks, 
life & non-life insurance, equity & non-equity investment trusts, financial services, real estate investment & services and real 
estate investment trusts etc.) and companies in the consumer discretionary sector (general retailers, media, travel & leisure, 
and leisure goods). Earlier share options and performance shares used the FTSE SmallCap (excluding Investment T rusts) index.  
If the Company’s share price at least matches the performance of the relevant index over the vesting period, the market-based 
performance condition will be considered to have been achieved. The fair value of an award of shares under the share option 
and performance share plans have been adjusted to take into account this market-based performance condition using a 
pricing model based on expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the relevant index and which 
incorporates into the valuation the interdependency between share price and index performance. This adjustment increases the 
fair value relative to the share price at the date of grant. See the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 75 for further information.
112
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Details of options and awards under the Group’s share plans are shown in the tables below.
2015
Number 
of share
options
(000)
2015
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
2014
Number 
of share
options
(000)
2014
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Share options
Outstanding at 1 April 1,565 269.6 1,682 262.3
Granted during year 66 631.6 26 395. 1
Lapsed during year – – (54) 273.2
Exercised during year (341) 271.9 (89) 117 .2
Outstanding at 31 March 1,290 287 .7 1,565 269.6
Exercisable at 31 March 872 222.3 676 186.8
Sharesave plan
Outstanding at 1 April 510 274.0 459 245.2
Granted during year 268 498.7 208 289.5
Lapsed during year (33) 310.2 (62) 272.7
Exercised during year (170) 220.4 (95) 161.2
Outstanding at 31 March 575 392.5 510 274.0
Exercisable at 31 March – – – –
Stock purchase plan
Outstanding at 1 April 93 339.9 95 305.3
Granted during year 181 530.0 62 332.0
Lapsed during year (18) 402.7 (24) 340.0
Exercised during year (35) 349.5 (40) 248.8
Outstanding at 31 March 221 489.0 93 339.9
Exercisable at 31 March – – – –
Options outstanding at 31 March 2015
Number 
(000)
Weighted 
exercise 
price (p)
Latest exercise
 date year ended 
31 March
Share options granted in year ended 31 March
2010 290 179.3 2020
2011 329 201.3 2021
2012 253 298.9 2022
2013 333 384. 1 2023
2014 19 395. 1 2017
2015 66 631.6 2018
1,290
Sharesave plan options granted in year ended 31 March
2013 126 320.2 2016
2014 184 289.5 2017
2015 265 498.7 2018
575
Stock purchase plan options granted in year ended 31 March
2014 46 332.0 2016
2015 175 530.0 2017
221
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
113
Financials 23. Share based payments continued
Performance share awards
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Company has made awards to the 
executive directors and other employees with a vesting period of three years. In 2013, amendments to the rules of the Plan  
and the terms of new performance conditions were approved at the AGM. These included the opportunity for executive directors 
only to voluntarily elect to carry-forward and put at risk for a further two years shares that would have vested under the core 
award after three years into a multiplier award. 
A Senior Management Performance Share Plan was approved by the Board in 201 2 in order to award shares to certain senior 
employees below Board level. The shares will vest on the second anniversary of the grant date.
Movement in the number of performance share awards is as follows:
2015
Number of 
share 
awards
(000)
2014
Number of
share
awards
(000)
Performance share awards
Outstanding at 1 April 4, 142 3,361
Granted during year 1,891 2,000
Lapsed during year (112) (350)
Exercised during year (775) (869)
Outstanding at 31 March 5, 146 4, 142
Exercisable at 31 March – –
Senior Management Performance Share Plan
Outstanding at 1 April 123 142
Granted during year – –
Lapsed during year (25) (19)
Exercised during year (98) –
Outstanding at 31 March – 123
Exercisable at 31 March – –
Deferred share bonus plan
The Company established a deferred share bonus plan. The executive directors, members of the leadership team and certain 
other senior staff have part of their bonus awarded in shares. The shares will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.
Movement in the number of deferred bonus shares awarded is as follows:
2015
Number of 
share 
awards
(000)
2014
Number of
share
awards
(000)
Outstanding at 1 April 570 757
Granted during year 41 192
Lapsed during year (3) (37)
Exercised during year (172) (342)
Outstanding at 31 March 436 570
Exercisable at 31 March – –
For the performance share awards and the deferred share bonus plan awards are forfeited if the director or other employee 
leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to  
be a ‘good leaver’; in which case their award is released following their departure. If the Remuneration Committee decide that  
a departing beneficiary of an award is a ‘good leaver’, so their award may be released early, the award will only be released 
subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out at the time of the granting of the award and may be subject  
to proration for time, at the discretion of the Committee. For further details see the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 75.
24. BTG Employee Share T rust
The Group includes an employee share trust, the BTG Employee Share T rust (the ‘T rust’), which was established in Guernsey  
in 1992. It holds shares for the general benefit of all employees who may eventually become legally entitled to them. At 31 March 
2015 the T rust held 321,34 1 (31 March 2014: 720,699) shares in BTG plc and a further 1 2,596 (31 March 2014: 1 2,596) shares in 
Torotrak plc. The T rust may distribute these shares to employees of the Group on the recommendation of the Company.  
These distributions may be as a result of awards under the Performance Share Plan, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan or the 
Senior Management Performance Share Plan.
114
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25. Provisions 
2015 2014
Leases
£m
Other
£m
T otal
£m
Leases
£m
Other
£m
T otal
£m
At 1 April 0.9 0.1 1.0 0.8 0.2 1.0
Provisions utilised during year – – – – – –
Provisions made during year 0.9 – 0.9 0.2 – 0.2
Provisions released during the period – – – (0. 1) (0. 1) (0.2)
Difference on exchange – – – – – –
At 31 March 1.8 0.1 1.9 0.9 0.1 1.0
Balance due within one year 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.5
Balance due after more than one year 1.4 – 1.4 0.5 – 0.5
1.8 0.1 1.9 0.9 0.1 1.0
Lease provisions relate to dilapidation provisions and represent the estimated cost of restoring sites to their original state.
26. Financial risk management objectives and policies
Overview
The Group has exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks from its use of financial instruments. This note sets out the Group’s 
key policies and processes for managing these risks.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a licensee fails to meet its contractual obligations or a customer fails 
to pay for goods received. The Group’s primary objective with respect to credit risk is to minimise the risk of default by licensees 
or customers.
A substantial element of the Group’s revenue is derived from royalties which are only payable if a licensee is generating income 
from sales of licensed products. In such instances the Group’s exposure to credit risk is considered to be inherently relatively low, 
although is influenced by the unique characteristics of individual licensees. The Group’s policy is to provide against bad debts on 
a specific licence by licence basis.
Following transitions from distribution agreements to direct sales during prior years, the majority of the marketed product 
revenues are currently generated from sales to several key wholesalers in the U.S. Management maintains regular 
communication with the customers and monitors both sales to and payments from customers to minimise the credit 
risk exposure.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
The Group has limited debt facilities in the form of assets held under finance leases. The Group has substantial cash balances to 
fund its operations. In April 2013, the Group signed a £60m multi-currency revolving credit facility providing access to funds for a 
period of three years to April 2016. This has not been utilised in the period.
The Group’s policy is to place surplus cash resources on short and medium term fixed interest deposits, to the extent that cash 
flow can be reasonably predicted. Term deposits are denominated in UK sterling with institutions rated as A or higher by both 
Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect 
the Group’s income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments. The Group has little exposure to interest rate risk other 
than that returns on short-term fixed interest deposits will vary with movements in underlying bank interest rates. The Group’s 
principal market risk exposure is to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has several overseas subsidiary undertakings, the majority of revenues and the expenses of which are denominated 
in local currencies being US dollars, Canadian dollars, euros and Australian dollars. As a result the Group’s sterling income 
statement, balance sheet and cash flows may be affected by movements in sterling exchange rates with these currencies.  
The Group’s primary objective with respect to managing foreign exchange risk is to provide certainty over the value of future  
cash flows.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
115
Financials 26. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
A significant element of the Group’s revenue is denominated in US dollars with the remainder split between sterling, euros and 
other currencies. The majority of the Group’s operating expenses are in sterling and US dollars with smaller elements in euros, 
Canadian dollars and Australian dollars. Where possible, anticipated foreign currency operating expenses are matched to 
foreign currency revenues. The excess exposure over and above this natural hedge, to the extent that cash flows are predictable, 
is managed using forward contracts (see note 21).
Sensitivity analysis
A 5% weakening of the US$ at 31 March 2015 would have resulted in the following decrease in profit: 
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Decrease in Profit 3.6 2.0
Interest rate risk
The Group seeks to mitigate partially against increased interest rates whilst maintaining a degree of flexibility to benefit  
from decreasing rates of interest by holding a mix of fixed and floating rate financial liabilities. The Group seeks to maximise 
the amount of interest income from its cash balances by using a variety of short-term, fixed high-interest deposit and money-
market accounts. The Group does not consider the impact of interest rate risk to be material to its results or operations and 
accordingly no sensitivity analysis is shown.
Market price risk
It is, on occasion, deemed appropriate to take equity stakes in early-stage companies utilising the Group’s technology as part  
of the overall licensing arrangement and small loans may be granted to these companies to further technology development. 
These investments will be realised at an appropriate time in the development cycle. Regular reports are made to the Board  
on the status of investments. These investments form part of the Group’s overall technology portfolio and do not materially 
affect liquidity.
Capital management
The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Group’s total equity. The Group’s objectives when managing capital are: 
• To safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern;
• To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken;
• To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits 
for inventive sources and returns to investors; and
• To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group believes it has sufficient ongoing cash and cash equivalents to meet its stated capital management objectives.  
The Group’s capital and equity ratio are shown in the table below.
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Total equity – capital and reserves attributable to BTG shareholders 758.6 530.4
Total assets 1,045.9 711.7
Equity ratio 72.5% 74.5%
The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services industry.
116
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash, short- and medium-term deposits, foreign currency forward contracts, 
contingent considerations and various items such as trade debtors and creditors which arise directly from operations.  
In addition, a number of debt and equity investments, both quoted and unquoted, are held in technology-based companies 
along with borrowings including obligations under finance leases.
Fair values
The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying values shown in the statement  
of financial position, are as follows:
Designated
at fair value
£m
Forward
contracts
at fair value
£m
Available
for sale
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
T otal
carrying
value
£m
Fair 
value
1
£m
31 March 2014
Cash and cash equivalents – – – 38.2 38.2 –
Forward contracts – 5.3 – – 5.3 5.3
Other investments 3.0 – – – 3.0 3.0
T rade and other receivables – – – 75. 1 75. 1 –
T rade and other payables  
(excluding contingent consideration) – – – (77 .0) (77 .0) –
Contingent consideration (5.5) – – – (5.5) (5.5)
31 March 2015
Cash and cash equivalents – – – 73.8 73.8 –
Forward contracts – (0.9) – – (0.9) –
Other investments 3.0 – – – 3.0 3.0
T rade and other receivables – – – 91.1 91.1 91.1
T rade and other payables  
(excluding contingent consideration) – – – (96.2) (96.2) –
Contingent consideration (32.7) – – – (32.7) (32.7)
1  The Group has not disclosed the fair values for financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables because their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of 
their fair value.
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair 
value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities
Level 2 – observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities
Level 3 – unobservable inputs
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
117
Financials 26. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities
At 31 March 2014
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
T otal
£m
Financial assets recognised at fair value
Forward contracts – 5.3 – 5.3
Investments – 3.0 – 3.0
Financial liabilities recognised at fair value
Fair value of other contingent consideration – – (5.5) (5.5)
At 31 March 2015
Financial assets recognised at fair value
Investments – 3.0 – 3.0
Financial liabilities recognised at fair value
Forward contracts – (0.9) – (0.9)
Fair value of other contingent consideration – – (32.7) (32.7)
Level 2 financial assets and liabilities represent forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US$ which are marked-to-market  
at each balance sheet date and other investments held at fair value as disclosed in note 15.
Level 3 financial liabilities predominantly represent:
• contingent consideration payable on achievement of revenue targets and product approval by PneumRx following the 
acquisition of PneumRx Inc. in January 2014 (see note 32(a) for valuation methodology);
• contingent consideration payable on achievement of revenue targets by EKOS following the acquisition of EKOS Corporation in 
July 2013 (see note 32(c) for valuation methodology);
• contingent consideration payable upon the purchase of the US commercial rights of product candidate uridine triacetate 
representing contingent milestone payments upon NDA acceptance and approval of the product candidate. 
The movement in these Level 3 financial liabilities is shown below.
2015
£m
2014
£m
At 1 April (5.5) (0.8)
Acquisitions (28.7) (17 .5)
Movements in Fair Value (1.0) (0.9)
Paid during the year 3.5 11.9
Currency movements (1.0) 1.8
At 31 March (32.7) (5.5)
Contractual maturity analysis of financial assets/(liabilities)
Forward foreign exchange contracts that mature within:
31 March
 2015
£m
31 March
 2014
£m
0 – 3 months (0.3) 1.3
3 – 6 months (0.2) 1.1
6 – 1 2 months (0.4) 2.0
> 1 2 months – 0.9
Total (0.9) 5.3
Net gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities
Foreign exchange gains of £6.7m (2014: losses of £5.0m) were recognised within Operating profit in relation to settlement  
of trade receivables and payables.
The Group recognised a fair value loss of £6.2m (2014: gain of £7 .5m) relating to forward foreign exchange contracts within 
‘Financial expense’ (2014: ‘Financial income’).
Estimation of fair values
The following summarises the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected  
in the table.
Other investments
These comprise both listed and unlisted investments, available-for -sale. The figure recorded in the statement of financial 
position (note 15) is the best estimate of fair value.
118
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Finance leases
The fair values of such balances are estimated by discounting the future cash flows at the market rate.
T rade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents
T rade payables and receivables have a remaining life of less than one year so their value recorded in the statement of financial 
position is considered to be a fair approximation of fair value. Other contingent considerations are fair valued at each reporting 
period recognising any changes between fair value at initial recognition and fair value at year -end to reflect a change in factors, 
including time. 
27 . Operating leases
Total non-cancellable operating lease rentals are due in the following periods:
31 March
2015
Property
£m
31 March
2014
Property
£m
Within one year 2.8 2.5
Between two and five years 7.3 6.5
10.1 9.0
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable for certain of its office properties under non-cancellable operating 
lease agreements. 
The Group leases a number of offices and facilities primarily in the UK, the US, Canada, Germany, Asia-Pacific and Australia. 
These leases have terms of up to five years.
The leases contain options to extend for further periods. In the event of renewal, the lease contracts contain market 
review clauses. None of the property leases provide the Group with an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry 
of the lease period.
28. Other financial commitments
The Group has entered into agreements with a number of early-stage companies and venture capital funds. At 31 March 2015 
the Group is committed to invest nil under these agreements (2014: nil). 
As with any business whose core assets are intellectual property, the Group will from time to time resort to litigation or threats 
of litigation, or other legal processes, to defend its rights. Litigation costs are regarded as a cost of doing business and will vary 
from year to year. In the current year the Group incurred £7 .5m in litigation costs (2014: £1.5m) predominantly relating to the 
settlement of a patent dispute with Instituto Bioclon.
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of a US subsidiary undertaking.
The Company has provided a Guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Scheme up to  
a maximum amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Scheme, would  
result in the scheme being at least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out  
in section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004, were a valuation to be conducted as at that date. 
29. Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings (see note 2(b)), its associates (see note 2(b))  
and its directors.
In relation to the related party relationship identified on page 48 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford 
University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were £5,000 for the year ended 31 March 2015  
(nil during the year ended 31 March 2014). There are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these  
agreements as at 31 March 2015 (2014: nil).
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration 
report on pages 56 to 75.
30. Disposal of Brachytherapy business
In September 2013, BTG announced the sale of its Brachytherapy business to Eckert & Ziegler Group, based in Berlin, Germany 
for a payment of $5.0m on closing plus a 30% share of revenues from the transferring products for a period of 1 2 months 
commencing either with the start of production by Eckert & Ziegler or on January 2014, whichever is first. The deal completed  
on 1 November 2013. The profit on disposal of the Brachytherapy business of £0.4m was included within the profit on disposal  
of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of £1. 1m in the Income Statement. The net proceeds of the disposal  
were included within Net proceeds from disposal of property and equipment and intangible assets in the cash flow statement.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
119
Financials 3 1 . Group entities
The subsidiary undertakings of BTG plc at 31 March 2015 are all wholly owned, incorporated in the United Kingdom and 
registered in England and Wales, unless shown otherwise. All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation 
and are consolidated in the Group’s financial statements.
Class of capital Principal activity
BTG International (Holdings) Ltd
*
Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies
Provensis Ltd
*
Ordinary Development and commercialisation of IPR
BTG International Ltd Ordinary Development, management and 
commercialisation of IPR
BTG Employee Share Schemes Ltd
Guernsey
Ordinary T rustee company
BTG Management Services Ltd Ordinary Investment and management  
of Group companies
Protherics Medicines Development Ltd Ordinary Development, management and 
commercialisation of IPR
BTG International Inc.
Delaware, USA
Common stock Research, development, and sale  
of pharmaceutical products
Protherics UK Ltd Ordinary Research, development, manufacture  
and sale of pharmaceutical products
BTG Australasia Pty Ltd
Australia
Ordinary Manufacture and sale of  
pharmaceutical products
Protherics Utah Inc.
Tennessee, USA
Common stock Research, development, manufacture  
and sale of pharmaceutical products
Biocompatibles International Ltd
*
Ordinary Investment and management  
of group companies
Biocompatibles UK Ltd Ordinary Development, management and 
commercialisation of IPR
Biopolymerix Inc.
Delaware, USA
Common stock Dormant company
Biocompatibles Inc.
Delaware, USA
Common stock Distribution of Bead products,  
TheraSphere
®
 and Varithena
®
BTG International Germany GmbH
Germany
No par value shares Research and development
Provensis Inc.
Delaware, USA
Common stock Dormant company
BTG International Canada Inc.
Canada
Common shares Support of Interventional Medicine business
BTG International Asia Ltd
Hong Kong, China
Ordinary Sales support for the interventional  
medicine business
EKOS Corporation
Delaware, USA
Common stock Manufacture and commercialisation of 
therapeutic ultrasound devices
PneumRx, Inc.
Delaware, USA
Common stock Development, manufacture and 
commercialisation of the RePneu
®
 Coil System
PneumRx GmbH
Germany
No par value shares Commercialisation and sale of the RePneu
®
  
Coil System
BTG International Healthcare Ltd Ordinary Group financing
BTG International Healthcare Inc.
Delaware, USA
Common stock Group financing
BTG International Healthcare LLC
Delaware, USA
Ordinary Group financing
* Indicates direct subsidiary of BTG plc.
120
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32. Business combinations
Acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2015
a) PneumRx acquisition
BTG completed the acquisition of 100% of PneumRx on 7 January 2015 for an initial cash consideration of £153.4m ($231.0m) 
and up to $245m in contingent consideration based upon performance related future milestones. The contingent consideration 
had a carrying value equal to its fair value of £28.8m using acquisition date trading assumptions and probability adjusted 
forecasts to assess the likelihood of revenue and FDA approval milestone payments to be made. The final determination of these 
fair values will be completed as soon as possible but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
PneumRx owns, manufactures and distributes RePneu
®
 Coil System (RePneu
®
), a minimally invasive treatment for advanced 
emphysema, which seeks to enhance patients’ quality of life by improving lung function and exercise capacity. At the date of 
acquisition, RePneu
®
 was in 1 1 European countries and had a fully recruited US pivotal clinical trial under way. A decision on US 
approval is anticipated during 2016. The acquisition complements BTG’s Interventional Medicine platform, expanding it into the 
emerging area of Interventional Pulmonology.
At acquisition, intangible assets principally comprised £109.2m relating to RePneu
®
 (Europe) developed technology and £80.4m 
relating to RePneu
®
 (US) in-process research and development assets. The estimated useful life of the developed technology is 
15 years, and amortisation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis. Goodwill arising of £51.6m, which is not deductible for 
tax purposes, was assigned to the Interventional Medicine operating segment. Goodwill includes the values of tax impacts, 
assembled workforce and future potential indications for RePneu
®
 which at the time of acquisition did not meet the criteria for 
recognition as separate intangible assets.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, BTG may be due to make further contingent consideration payments dependent 
upon PneumRx achieving certain revenue targets and US FDA approval.
The contingent consideration payments include up to $20m payable if PneumRx meets a global revenue target in calendar year 
2015 of US$35m and US$60m payable if US FDA approval is received before 31 December 2017 . During the year, no contingent 
consideration payments were made and £0.9m of discount unwind was recognised in the income statement. The remaining 
contingent consideration payments on the Statement of Financial Position are considered by management to be a Level 3 
financial instrument (note 26).
Book Value
£m
Fair Value
Adjustment
£m
Fair Value
£m
Assets
Non-current assets:
Intangible assets 0.3 189.6 189.9
Property, plant & equipment 0.3 – 0.3
Current assets:
Inventories 0.9 2.4 3.3
T rade and other receivables 2.6 – 2.6
Cash and cash equivalent 6.2 – 6.2
Liabilities
Current liabilities: 
T rade and other payables (8.8) – (8.8)
Non-current liabilities:
Net deferred tax liabilities – (62.9) (62.9)
Assets acquired 1.5 129. 1 130.6
Goodwill 51.6
T otal assets acquired 182.2
Cash consideration paid 153.4
Contingent consideration 28.8
T otal Consideration 182.2
Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired 6.2
Cash consideration paid (153.4)
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition and in cash flow statement (147 .2)
b) Other acquisitions
On 6 August 2014, the Group acquired the site and certain assets and processes associated with PEM manufacture from its 
existing contract manufacturing organisation, SCM Pharma Limited, for a consideration of approximately £0.5m plus transaction 
fees. The Company expects to increase throughput through these assets to support the growth of the recently approved and 
launched Varithena
®
.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
121
Financials 32. Business Combinations continued
Acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2014
In July 2013, BTG completed the acquisitions of EKOS Corporation (EKOS) and the T argeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc.
c) EKOS Corporation (EKOS)
BTG completed the acquisition of 100% of EKOS on 5 July 2013 for an initial cash consideration of £1 18.7m ($178.8m) and up  
to $40m in contingent consideration based upon future performance milestones. The contingent consideration had a carrying 
value equal to its fair value of £17 .5m using acquisition date trading assumptions and forecasts to assess the likelihood of 
payments to be made. The purchase price allocation is deemed final and there have been no adjustments to the preliminary 
assessment of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
EKOS owns, manufactures and distributes the EkoSonic
®
 Endovascular System (EkoSonic
®
), a differentiated interventional 
medicine product using a locoregional approach in the treatment of severe blood clots. EkoSonic
®
 is cleared for use in the  
US and the EU. The acquisition is a complementary transaction in line with BTG’s existing strategy of growing its Interventional 
Medicine business, following its acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc in 201 1.
At acquisition, intangible assets principally comprised £1 23.2m relating to EkoSonic
®
 developed technology. The fair value  
of this asset was estimated using an income approach, using the excess earnings method. The estimated useful life of the 
technology was 15 years, and amortisation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis. Goodwill arising of £47 .8m, which  
is not deductible for tax purposes, was assigned to the Interventional Medicine operating segment. Goodwill includes the  
values of tax impacts, assembled workforce and future potential indications for EkoSonic
®
 which at the time of acquisition  
did not meet the criteria for recognition as separate intangible assets.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, BTG may be due to make further contingent payments dependent upon EKOS 
achieving certain revenue targets. These comprise up to $20m payable in respect of 2013 and up to $20m payable in respect  
of 2014 and 2015 in aggregate. Total contingent payments will not exceed $40m. During the year BTG paid the contingent 
payment in respect of 2014 of $5.4m (£3.5m) (2014: in respect of 2013 $20.0m, £1 1.9m). The remaining contingent payment  
on the Statement of Financial Position is considered by management to be a Level 3 financial instrument (note 26).
Book Value
£m
Fair Value
Adjustment
£m
Fair Value
£m
Assets
Non-current assets:
Intangible assets 0.1 123.2 123.3
Property, plant & equipment 1.4 – 1.4
Current assets:
Inventories 2.7 1.9 4.6
T rade and other receivables 3.0 – 3.0
Cash and cash equivalents 3.1 – 3.1
Liabilities
Current liabilities: 
T rade and other payables (4.8) – (4.8)
Non-current liabilities:
T rade and other payables (0.4) – (0.4)
Deferred tax liabilities – (41.8) (41.8)
Assets acquired 5.1 83.3 88.4
Goodwill 47 .8
T otal assets acquired 136.2
Cash consideration paid 118.7
Contingent consideration 17 .5
T otal Consideration 136.2
Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired 3.1
Cash consideration paid (118.7)
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition and in cash flow statement (115.6)
d) T argeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc.
On the 13 July 2013, BTG completed the acquisition of the T argeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. for a total cash 
consideration of £132.8m ($200.8m). The purchase price allocation is deemed final and there have been no adjustments  
to the preliminary assessment of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
T argeted Therapies is a high growth business that is focused in utilising TheraSphere
®
 for targeted interventional treatment  
of liver cancer. TheraSphere
®
 is a product comprising radioactive glass beads which target the tumour from within the body 
with a high concentration of radiation, thereby limiting both damage to surrounding healthy tissue and side effects for the 
patient in comparison to externally delivered radiation. The acquisition is a complementary transaction in line with BTG’s  
existing strategy of growing its Interventional Medicine business, following its acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc  
in 201 1.
122
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued At acquisition, intangible assets comprised £104.6m relating to T argeted Therapies developed technology and £17 .6m relating  
to in-process research and development assets. The fair value of these assets was estimated using an income approach, using 
the excess earnings method. The estimated useful life of the technology was 15 years, and amortisation expense is recorded on 
a straight-line basis. Goodwill arising of £23.3m, which is not deductible for tax purposes, was assigned to the Interventional 
Medicine operating segment. Goodwill includes the values of tax impacts and assembled workforce. 
Book Value
£m
Fair Value
Adjustment
£m
Fair Value
£m
Assets
Non-current assets:
Intangible assets – 122.2 122.2
Current assets:
Inventories 0.6 – 0.6
T rade and other receivables 5.8 – 5.8
Liabilities
Current liabilities: 
T rade and other payables (1.7) – (1.7)
Non-current liabilities:
Deferred tax liabilities – (17 .4) (17 .4)
Assets acquired 4.7 104.8 109.5
Goodwill 23.3
T otal consideration 132.8
Cash paid (132.8)
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition and in cash flow statement (132.8)
Revenue and Profit Impact of acquisitions
During the year ended 31 March 2015, PneumRx Inc. contributed revenues of £2.3m and an operating loss before acquisition 
adjustments and reorganisation costs of £2.7m in the period since acquisition. If the acquisition had taken place on 1 April 2014, 
the first day of the reporting period under review, revenue and profit before tax and before acquisition adjustments and 
reorganisation costs of the combined group would have been £379. 1m and £64.2m respectively.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, EKOS contributed revenues of £20.3m and operating profit before acquisition 
adjustments and reorganisation costs of £2.3m in the period since acquisition. The T argeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. 
contributed revenues of £24.7m and operating profit before acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs of £7 .3m in the 
period since acquisition. If both acquisitions had taken place on 1 April 2013, the first day of the reporting period under review, 
revenue and profit before tax and before acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs of the combined group would have 
been £306.7m and £73.3m respectively.
33. Post balance sheets events
In May 2015, BTG purchased the residual financial interest of the originator of the Varithena
®
 foam sclerotherapy technology for 
a one-off cash payment of £23m, ensuring that the business retains 100% of the future value of Varithena
®
.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
123
Financials Note
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 4 764.6 617 .5
764.6 617 .5
Current assets
T rade and other receivables 5 70.6 72.0
Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 –
71.1 72.0
Total assets 835.7 689.5
Equity
Share capital 6 38.2 36. 1
Share premium account 6 433.8 288.7
Merger reserve 6 317 .8 317 .8
Retained earnings 6 43.5 44.2
T otal equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 6 833.3 686.8
Liabilities
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 7 2.4 2.7
T otal liabilities 2.4 2.7
T otal equity and liabilities 835.7 689.5
The notes on pages 1 26 to 1 28 form part of these financial statements.
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 18 May 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dame Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Registered No: 2670500
124
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Company statement of financial position Note
Y ear ended 
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2014
£m
Loss after tax for the year 2 (6. 1) (4.6)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 5 1.4 (99.8)
Decrease in trade and other payables 7 (0.3) –
Other 1.7 1.0
Net cash outflow from operating activities 3.3 (103.4)
Investing activities
Increase of investment in subsidiary companies (143.4) –
Net cash outflow from investing activities (143.4) –
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds of share issue 6 147 .2 103.4
Net cash inflow from financing activities 147 .2 103.4
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.5 –
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 0.5 –
Company statement of changes in equity
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
T otal
equity
£m
At 1 April 2013 32.8 188.6 317 .8 43. 1 582.3
Loss for the year – – – (4.6) (4.6)
Other comprehensive income – – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (4.6) (4.6)
T ransactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares 3.3 100. 1 – – 103.4
Movement in shares held by the T rust – – – 0.4 0.4
Share-based payments – – – 5.3 5.3
At 31 March 2014 36. 1 288.7 317 .8 44.2 686.8
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
T otal
equity
£m
At 1 April 2014 36. 1 288.7 317 .8 44.2 686.8
Loss for the year – – – (6. 1) (6. 1)
Other comprehensive income – – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (6. 1) (6. 1)
T ransactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares 2.1 145. 1 – – 147 .2
Movement in shares held by the T rust – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Share-based payments – – – 5.6 5.6
At 31 March 2015 38.2 433.8 317 .8 43.5 833.3
The notes on pages 1 26 to 1 28 form part of these financial statements. 
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
125
Financials
Company statement of cash flows 1 . Accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Company financial statements are the same as those set out  
in note 2 to the Group financial statements with the addition of the following:
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
Accounting for transactions under common control
Where the Company acquires or disposes of shares in another Group company either in a share for share exchange or 
as an acquisition or disposal of part of the business, the cost or proceeds are determined by reference to the fair value 
of the consideration received (i.e. the fair value of the company in which shares have been received) at the date of transfer. 
If the Company receives shares following the sale of its subsidiary or part of its business, any gain or loss is credited  
or charged to the income statement. Where the Company issues shares following the acquisition of a subsidiary or part  
of another business, any gain or loss is credited or charged to reserves.
Share-based payments
The Company has elected to apply IFRS 2 to all share-based awards and options granted post 7 November 2002 that had not 
vested by 1 January 2005. The carrying amount of an investment in a subsidiary is increased to the extent that share-based 
payments relate to employees of that subsidiary. Share-based payment expenses relating to employees of the Company 
are expensed within the income statement.
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented.
The functional currency of the Company is sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest £0. 1m except where 
otherwise indicated.
2. Loss for the year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own income statement  
for the year. The loss after tax of the Company amounted to £6. 1m (2014: £4.6m).
The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
Y ear ended
31 March
2015
£’000
Year ended 
31 March
2014
£’000
The auditing of accounts of the Company 96 94
Audit related assurance services 56 54
3. Staff costs
The employees are based in the United Kingdom.
Disclosures of individual director’s remuneration and associated costs required by the Companies Act 2006 and specified by  
the Financial Services Authority are on pages 56 to 75 within the Remuneration report and form part of these audited accounts.
The employees of the Company are members of the Group pension schemes as detailed in note 22 of the Group financial 
statements. The Company receives a charge based upon the employer contribution to the Group’s defined benefit pension 
scheme. No additional contributions are paid by the Company.
4. Investment in subsidiary undertakings
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2013 369.3
T ransfers of investments to subsidiary companies 244. 1
Share based payments 4.1
At 1 April 2014 617 .5
Increase of investment in subsidiary companies 143.4
Share based payments 3.7
At 31 March 2015 764.6
During the year ended 31 March 2015, BTG plc increased its investment in BTG International (Holdings) Ltd by £143.4m.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, BTG plc, in conjunction with the broader Group, undertook the transfer of several 
investments within the Group structure. There was no share-for -share consideration offered as part of these non-cash  
settled transactions. 
A list of the Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 31 to the Group financial statements.
126
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the company financial statements 5. T rade and other receivables
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Due within one year
Prepayments 0.7 0.8
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 69.9 71.2
70.6 72.0
6. Capital and reserves
Share 
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
T otal
£m
Company
At 1 April 2013 32.8 188.6 317 .8 43. 1 582.3
Loss for financial year – – – (4.6) (4.6)
Total recognised loss for the year – – – (4.6) (4.6)
Movement in shares held by T rust – – – 0.4 0.4
Other share capital issued 3.3 100. 1 – – 103.4
Share-based payments – – – 5.3 5.3
At 1 April 2014 36. 1 288.7 317 .8 44.2 686.8
Loss for financial year – – – (6. 1) (6. 1)
Total recognised loss for the year – – – (6. 1) (6. 1)
Movement in shares held by T rust – – – 0.2 0.2
Other share capital issued 2.1 145. 1 – – 147 .2
Share-based payments – – – 5.6 5.6
At 31 March 2015 38.2 433.8 317 .8 43.5 833.3
The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes  
the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s61 2 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.  
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through:
1. The acquisition of Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing the shares of £0.4m.
2. The acquisition of Biocompatibles plc on 27 January 201 1 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing of shares of £1. 1m.
Details of Company share capital are disclosed in note 19 to the Group financial statements. Details of share options granted  
by the Company are set out in note 23 to the Group financial statements. Details of shares in the Company held by subsidiaries 
are shown in note 24 to the Group financial statements.
In December 2014, BTG completed a share placing for a total of 18,867 ,925 new ordinary shares at a price of 795p per placing 
share, raising proceeds of £150.0m being £145.7m net of expenses.
In May 2013, BTG completed a share placing for a total of 32,208,030 new ordinary shares at a price of 330p per placing share, 
raising proceeds of £106.3m being £103. 1m net of expenses.
7 . T rade and other payables
31 March
2015
£m
31 March
2014
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Accruals and deferred income 2.4 2.7
The directors consider the fair value to be equal to the book value.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
127
Financials 8. Financial assets and liabilities 
Designated
at fair value
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
T otal
carrying
value
£m
31 March 2014
Cash and cash equivalents – – –
T rade and other receivables – 72.0 72.0
T rade and other payables – (2.7) (2.7)
31 March 2015
Cash and cash equivalents – 0.5 0.5
T rade and other receivables – 70.6 70.6
T rade and other payables – (2.4) (2.4)
The Company has not disclosed the fair values for financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables because 
their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair value
Credit risk
The Company’s credit risk is the risk that one of its subsidiaries is unable to repay intercompany amounts owing. The recoverability 
of the Company’s intercompany receivable is considered at each balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Company  
does not hold significant cash balances as Group cash is managed centrally within its subsidiaries. Accordingly the  
Company is funded by its subsidiaries as its liabilities fall due. In April 2013, the Group signed a £60m multi-currency revolving 
credit facility providing access to funds for a period of three years to April 2016. This has not been utilised in the period.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will  
affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments. As the holding company of the BTG Group,  
the Company does not have significant exposure to movements in market prices and accordingly no additional disclosure  
is provided. There are no foreign currency balances within the Company’s statement of financial position.
Capital Management
Details of the Company’s objectives with respect to managing capital are disclosed in note 26 to the Group financial statements.
9. Guarantees and contingent liabilities
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of its US subsidiary undertaking. 
The Company has provided a Guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Fund up to a maximum 
amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Fund, would result in the Fund being  
at least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 
2004, were a valuation to be conducted as at that date. 
10.  Related party transactions
The Company has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings and its directors.
In relation to the related party relationship identified on page 48 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford 
University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were £5,000 for the year ended 31 March 2015  
(nil during the year ended 31 March 2014). There are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements 
as at 31 March 2015 (2014: nil).
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration 
report on pages 56 to 75.
128
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Notes to the company financial statements continued Consolidated Income statement
2015
1, 4
£m
2014
2, 4
£m
2013
4
£m
2012
£m
2011
3
£m
Revenue 367 .8 290.5 233.7 197 .0 111.4
Cost of sales (114.7) (95.0) (67 .2) (56.3) (34. 1)
Gross profit 253. 1 195.5 166.5 140.7 77 .3
Selling, general and administrative expenses (124.8) (84.0) (58.0) (48.9) (33.7)
Contribution 128.3 111.5 108.5 91.8 43.6
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets (28.4) (23.3) (43.4) (30.7) (10.0)
Amortisation of repurchase of contractual rights – – – – (9.6)
Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 6.7 (5.0) 3.1 2.6 (2.0)
Research and development (68.3) (47 .2) (41.2) (39.7) (32. 1)
Profit on disposal of assets and investments 0.3 1.1 0.4 0.2 1.5
Amounts written off property, plant and equipment – – (1.8) (3.0) –
Amounts written off associates and investments – – – (0.2) (1.4)
Acquisition and reorganisation costs (3.7) (9.8) 0.1 (1. 1) (3.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 34.9 27 .3 25.7 19.9 (13.8)
Net financial (expense)/income (8.2) 6.0 (1.6) 3.1 3.0
Profit/(loss) before tax 26.7 33.3 24. 1 23.0 (10.8)
T ax credit/(charge) 6.9 (9.0) (7 .7) (8.4) 20.0
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year 33.6 24.3 16.4 14.6 9.2
Earnings per share
Basic 9. 1p 6.8p 5.0p 4.5p 3.4p
Diluted 9.0p 6.7p 5.0p 4.4p 3.4p
1 The results for the year ended 31 March 2015 include the results of PneumRx Inc. from the date of acquisition, being 7 January 2015.
2 The results for the year ended 31 March 2014 include the results of EKOS Corporation and the Targeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. from the date of acquisition,  
being 5 July 2013 and 13 July 2013 respectively.
3 The results for the year ended 31 March 201 1 include the results of Biocompatibles International plc from the date of acquisition, being 27 January 201 1.
4 Only financial years 2015, 2014 and 2013 reflect IAS 19 revised.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
129
Financials
Five year financial record
For the years ended 31 March Consolidated statement of financial position
 
2015
1, 4
£m
2014
2, 4
£m
2013
4
£m
2012
£m
2011
3
£m
Goodwill 183.8 123.6 59.2 59.2 59.2
Intangible assets 597 .9 397 .9 209.2 246.0 271.0
Property, plant and equipment 35.5 31.3 25.4 22.0 24.8
Other investments 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.7
Deferred tax asset 4.9 0.8 0.9 1.0 0.9
Employee benefits 13.2 8.0 10.3 – –
Biological assets – – – 0.3 0.3
Derivative financial instruments – 0.9 – – –
T otal non-current assets 838.3 565.5 308.0 331.5 358.9
Current assets 207 .6 146.2 236.9 174.3 129.6
Total assets 1,045.9 711.7 544.9 505.8 488.5
Equity
Share capital 38.2 36. 1 32.8 32.7 32.7
Share premium account 433.8 288.7 188.6 188.3 188.2
Merger reserve 317 .8 317 .8 317 .8 317 .8 317 .8
Reserves 9.4 (32.2) 0.2 (4.0) (3.7)
Retained earnings (40.6) (80.0) (104.8) (128.6) (142.7)
T otal equity 758.6 530.4 434.6 406.2 392.3
Total non-current liabilities 171.7 93.5 44.7 41.3 43.9
Total current liabilities 115.6 87 .8 65.6 58.3 52.3
T otal liabilities 287 .3 181.3 110.3 99.6 96.2
T otal equity and liabilities 1,045.9 711.7 544.9 505.8 488.5
1 The statement of financial position for 31 March 2015 includes the assets and liabilities acquired from PneumRx Inc. during the year.
2 The statement of financial position for 31 March 2014 includes the assets and liabilities acquired from EKOS Corporation and the Targeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc.  
during the year.
3 The statement of financial position for 31 March 201 1 includes the assets and liabilities acquired from Biocompatibles International plc during the year.
4 Only financial years 2015, 2014 and 2013 reflect IAS 19 revised. 
Consolidated cash flow statement
2015
(1)(4)
£m
2014
(2)(4)
£m
2013
(4)
£m
2012
£m
2011
(3)
£m
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 47 .5 48.5 55.5 47 .2 (12.0)
Net cash used in investing activities (158.9) (269.4) (4.5) (3.9) (5.5)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 146.2 102.7 0.2 (0.2) (0.6)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 34.8 (118.2) 51.2 43. 1 (18. 1)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 0.8 (2.3) 0.6 0.1 (0.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 38.2 158.7 106.9 63.7 82.6
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 73.8 38.2 158.7 106.9 63.7
1 The results for the year ended 31 March 2015 include the results of PneumRx Inc. from the date of acquisition, being 7 January 2015.
2 The results for the year ended 31 March 2014 include the results of EKOS Corporation and the Targeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. from the date of acquisition, being 5 July 2013 
and 13 July 2013 respectively.
3 The results for the year ended 31 March 201 1 include the results of Biocompatibles International plc from the date of acquisition, being 27 January 201 1.
4 Only financial years 2015, 2014 and 2013 reflect IAS 19 revised.
130
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Five year financial record continued
For the years ended 31 March Financial calendar
Circulation of Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 1 2 June 2015
Annual General Meeting 15 July 2015
Announcement of interim results for the six months ended 30 September 2015 November 2015
Preliminary announcement of annual results for the year ended 31 March 2016 May 2016
Shareholders
At 31 March 2015 there were 9,361 holders of ordinary shares in the Company. Their shareholdings are analysed as follows:
Size of shareholding
Number of
 shareholders
Percentage of
 total number of
 shareholders
Number of 
ordinary shares
Percentage of
 ordinary shares
1 – 5,000 8,581 91.7 5,751,097 1.5
5,001 – 50,000 510 5.4 7 ,845,609 2.0
50,001 – 100,000 70 0.7 4,919,503 1.3
100,001 – 500,000 111 1.2 25,467 ,777 6.7
Over 500,000 89 1.0 337 ,792,717 88.5
Total 9,361 100.0 381,776,703 100.0
Shareholders are further analysed as follows:
T ype of owner
Number of
 shareholders
Percentage of
 total number of
 shareholders
Number of 
ordinary shares
Percentage of
 ordinary shares
Bank and nominee companies 1,059 11.3 370,316,414 97.0
Private shareholders 8, 126 86.8 10, 148,882 2.7
Limited companies 58 0.6 410,271 0.1
BTG Employee Share T rust 1 – 321,341 0.1
Insurance companies and pension funds 117 1.3 579,795 0.1
9,361 100.0 381,776,703 100.0
Mutual funds and other institutions, and private shareholders holding their shares within PEPs and ISAs, are included within 
‘Bank and nominee companies’.
Capita share dealing services
A quick and easy share dealing service is available from Capita Asset Services, to either buy or sell more shares. An online 
and telephone dealing facility is available providing shareholders with an easy-to-access and simple-to-use service. For further 
information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, please contact: www.capitadeal.com (online dealing) or +44 (0) 871 664 
0446 (telephone dealing – calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open from 8 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday) 
If calling from outside the UK: +44 (0) 20 3367 2686. Full terms, conditions and risks apply and are available on request or by 
visiting www.capitadeal.com. 
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares. The price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed 
to get back the amount that you originally invested.
Shareholder change of address
The Company offers the facility, in conjunction with Capita Asset Services, our Registrars, to conduct a number of routine 
matters via the web including the ability to notify any change of address. If you are a shareholder and are either unable or would 
prefer not to use this facility, please do not send the notification to the Company’s registered office. Please write direct to Capita, 
at their address shown below, where the register is held. 
Registered office and head office
BTG plc 
5 Fleet Place 
London 
EC4M 7RD 
T elephone: +44 (0)20 7575 0000 
Facsimile: +44 (0)20 7575 001 0 
Email: info@btgplc.com 
Website: www.btgplc.com 
Registered number 2670500
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
131
Financials
Shareholder information  Advisers
Stockbrokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
25 Bank Street 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 5JP 
T el +44 (0)20 77 42 4000 
Fax +44 (0)20 3493 0684
Deutsche Bank AG London
Winchester House 
1 Great Winchester Street 
London EC2N 2DB 
T el +44 (0)20 31 42 8700 
Fax +44 (0)20 31 42 8735
Auditors
KPMG LLP
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL 
T el +44 (0)20 731 1 1 000 
Fax +44 (0)20 731 1 331 1
Registrars
Capita Asset Services
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
Callers from the UK:  
T el +44 (0)871 664 0300 
(please note that calls cost 10p per minute, plus network 
extras. Lines are open from 9 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to 
Friday.)
Callers from outside the UK:  
T el +44 (0)20 8639 3399
Cautionary note regarding  
forward looking statements 
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain  
forward-looking statements with respect to BTG’s business, 
performance and prospects. Statements and other 
information included in this report that are not historical facts 
are forward-looking statements. Words such as ‘expects’, 
‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’ 
and ‘potential’, variations of these words and similar 
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking 
statements. These statements are based on current 
expectations and involve risk and uncertainty because 
they relate to events and depend upon circumstances which 
may or may not occur in the future. There are a number of 
factors which could cause actual results or developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these 
forward-looking statements. Current principal risks and 
uncertainties are described on pages 33 to 36 of this report. 
Any of the assumptions underlying these forward-looking 
statements could prove inaccurate or incorrect and therefore 
any results contemplated in the forward-looking statements 
may not actually be achieved. BTG undertakes no obligation 
to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether 
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Trademarks
BTG and the BTG roundel logo are registered trademarks of  
BTG  International Ltd.
The following is a non-exhaustive list of trademarks of the  
BTG  International group of companies mentioned in this Report:
Bead Block
®
CroFab
®
DC Bead
®
DC BeadM1
®
DigiFab
®
EkoSonic
®
LC Bead
®
LC BeadM1
®
RePneu
®
 Coil
TheraSphere
®
Varithena
®
Voraxaze
®
Zytiga
®
CroFab and DigiFab are registered trademarks of BTG International Inc.  
Voraxaze is a registered trademark of Protherics Medicines Development Ltd. 
LC Bead, LC BeadM1, DC Bead, DC BeadM1, and Bead Block are registered 
trademarks of Biocompatibles UK Ltd. TheraSphere is a registered trademark 
of Theragenics Corporation used under licence by Biocompatibles UK Ltd. 
EKOS and EkoSonic are registered trademarks of EKOS Corporation.  
Varithena is a registered trademark of Provensis Ltd. RePneu is a registered 
trademark of PneumRx, Inc. Protherics Medicines Development Ltd,  
Biocompatibles UK Ltd, EKOS Corporation, Provensis Ltd, and PneumRx, Inc. 
are all BTG International group companies. Zytiga is a trademark of Johnson & 
Johnson; Lemtrada is a trademark of Genzyme Corporation.
132
Financials
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Shareholder information  Printed on Amadeus 50 Silk which is produced using 50% recycled post-consumer waste and 50% wood fibre from fully sustainable 
forests with FSC
® 
certification. All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF). Printed in the UK by Pureprint using their alcofree 
and pureprint environmental printing technology and vegetable inks were used throughout. Pureprint is a Carbon Neutral company. 
Both the manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO1 4001 and are Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
Designed and produced by MerchantCantos 
www.merchantcantos.com 
Printed by Pureprint Group UK BTG International Ltd 
5 Fleet Place 
London EC4M 7RD 
UK 
T el: +44 (0)20 7575 0000 
Fax: +44 (0)20 7575 0010
btgplc.com
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
