 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
BUILDING  
ON SUCCESS
CAIRN ENERGY PLC 
CAIRN ENERGY PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 About Cairn Energy PLC
Cairn Energy PLC is an independent oil and gas exploration  
and development company listed on the London Stock  
Exchange. Cairn has its headquarters in Edinburgh, Scotland,  
with additional offices in London, Norway and Senegal. 
Cairn has discovered oil and gas in a variety of locations  
throughout the world. Today the business holds a balanced  
portfolio of exploration, appraisal and development assets  
and is organised in three core groups: Senegal, UK and Norway  
and International.
STRATEGIC REPORT 01
Overview of 2015 02
Chairman’s statement 04
Highlights 05
Industry overview 06
CEO’s review 08
Strategy and business model 10
Senegal – Building on success 12
Focus on North Sea 18
2015 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 20
2016 Key Performance Indicators 24
Operational review 26
Financial review 32
How we manage risk 36
Viability statement 43
Working responsibly 44
– CEO’s introduction 44
– Creating value 46
– People 48
– Mapping CR priorities 50
LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE 62
Board of Directors 62
Directors’ report 64
Corporate Governance statement 67
Audit Committee report 76
Directors’ Remuneration report 81
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105
Independent Auditors’ Report 105
Group Income Statement 112
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 112
Group Balance Sheet 113
Group Statement of Cash Flows 114
Group Statement of Changes in Equity 115
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation 116
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets, Decommissioning  
Provisions and Related Goodwill 118
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital 125
Section 4 – Results for the Year 131
Section 5 – Taxation 139
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures 144
 
Company Balance Sheet 147
Company Statement of Cash Flows 148
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 149
Section 7 – Notes to the Company Financial Statements 150
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 155
Group booked reserves and resources 155
Licence list 156
Glossary 158
Company information Inside back cover
Corporate offices Back cover
DELIVERING 
VALUE  
FROM 
DISCOVERY  
AND 
DEVELOPMENT 01 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Strategic report
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2015
SENEGAL
BUILDING  
ON SUCCESS
In 2015, Cairn built on the basin 
opening exploration success  
of 2014, with the positive start  
to its appraisal programme.
NORTH SEA
A SUSTAINABLE 
BUSINESS 
Kraken and Catcher , two of the 
largest developments ongoing in  
the UK North Sea, are the Group’s 
core development projects and will 
provide free cash flow from 2017 . 
STRATEGY 
PROGRESS
Cairn’s exploration and appraisal 
assets in Senegal, UK and Norway 
and internationally are underpinned 
by its core development assets in the 
North Sea.
Read more: Focus on North Sea  
on P18-19
18
Read more: Strategy and  
business model on P10-11
10
Read more: Operational review  
on P26-31
26 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 02
Strategic report
Working  
responsibly
Corporate  
Governance
 “We are delighted with the results to date of our multi- 
well evaluation programme offshore Senegal, which has 
confirmed the scale and extent of the significant resource 
base in this world class asset.
 
Cairn’s 2C current resource estimate for the SNE field has 
gone up by 20 percent and the positive results of the latest 
appraisal well provide the potential to further increase the 
size of the SNE field.
A combination of financial strength and continued exposure 
to material growth opportunities leaves Cairn well-placed  
to deliver additional value for shareholders from its  
balanced portfolio.”
SIMON THOMSON
Chief Executive
POSITIONED  
TO DELIVER 
VALUE
OVERVIEW OF 2015
To deliver value for shareholders 
from the discovery and 
development of hydrocarbons 
within a sustainable, self-funding 
business model. 
To create, add and realise  
value from a balanced portfolio, 
offering material upside potential 
from exploration and appraisal 
activity, supported by established 
development and production 
assets with a strong balance sheet 
behind them. 
Our strategy
Our business 
model
Read more: Strategy and  
business model on P10-11
10
Read more: Strategy and  
business model on P10-11
10
Read more: Working responsibly  
on P44-61
44
Read more: Leadership and 
governance on P62-104
62 03 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Key Performance Indicators
 – Exploration and appraisal success: 
Senegal; West of Kraken
 – Mature exploration prospects: 
prospects identified in Senegal 
and licence awards received  
in Norway
 – Portfolio optimisation and acreage 
protection: three year extension 
to Senegal PSC; relinquishment of 
non-material assets in portfolio
 – Complete 2015 work 
programme: 3D seismic acquired 
in Senegal, exploration and 
appraisal drilling programme 
commenced in Q4
 – Focus on safety of people and 
environment: no lost time injuries 
and no reportable injuries
 – Continue to enhance HSE 
culture: revised Corporate 
Responsibility Management 
System rolled out to organisation
 – Retain balance sheet strength: 
Group net funds at year end of 
US$603 million; debt facilities 
undrawn
Key Performance Indicators
 – Maximise value of Senegal 
discovery through work 
programme
 – Achieve exploration success 
through discovery or addition  
of commercial hydrocarbons
 – Further enhance HSE culture, 
behaviours and approach
 – Focus on safety of people  
and the environment
 – Portfolio optimisation and 
replenishment for longer-term 
exploration opportunities
 – Manage balance sheet strength
 – Successfully complete operated 
and non-operated 2016 work 
programme
The principal risks  
we are managing:
 – Sustained low oil price
 – Restriction on ability to sell  
Cairn India Limited shareholding
 – Kraken and Catcher 
development activities and 
production start-up not 
executed on schedule  
and budget
 – Lack of exploration or  
appraisal success
How we did 
in 2015
Our objectives 
for 2016
Our risks
Read more: 2015 Key Performance  
Indicators (KPIs) on P20-23
20
Read more: 2016 Key Performance  
Indicators on P24-25
24
Read more: How we manage risk 
on P36-42
36
Working  
responsibly
Core Values
Building Respect
Nurturing Relationships
Acting Responsibly
Corporate Responsibility priorities
Supply chain and contractors 
Preventing major accidents
Preventing major spills
Operational environmental footprint
Non-operated joint ventures  
and international investments
Sustainable project funding 
Transparency
Corporate  
Governance
Board of Directors
Audit committee
Remuneration committee
Nomination committee
Governance committee
Risk management committee 04 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
STRONGL Y 
POSITIONED  
FOR GROWTH
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Ian Tyler
Cairn’s strategy is to deliver value  
for shareholders from the discovery 
and development of hydrocarbons 
within a sustainable, self-funding 
business model. 
 “We are well positioned to deliver on our exploration 
success and we continue to pursue appraisal 
offshore Senegal. With a strong balance sheet and 
funding in place through to free cash flow from our 
North Sea development assets, our sustainable 
model is in a robust position.” 
We are well positioned to deliver on our exploration 
success and we continue to pursue appraisal offshore 
Senegal. With a strong balance sheet and funding in 
place through to free cash flow from our North Sea 
development assets, our sustainable model is in a 
robust position. Our level of resource is appropriate 
to our existing scale of operations; the Company is 
operating effectively and is well positioned to endure 
the impact of the current oil price environment. 
The prevailing environment presents challenges  
to the industry, but it also presents opportunities. 
From a position of relative financial strength, Cairn 
can allocate capital to value enhancing projects  
while benefitting from reduced operational costs.  
By assessing the appropriate balance of political, 
technical and commercial risks across our asset 
portfolio, we target assets that remain robust  
at low oil prices. 
Senegal provides a material opportunity for Cairn  
to create substantial shareholder value from a world 
class asset. Our significant acreage position offers  
an exciting opportunity which has the potential to  
be transformational to the business, our partners and 
our shareholders. Senegal is an important regional 
hub and provides a firm economic base for a large 
West African population. 
IAN TYLER
Chairman
14 March 2016 05 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
With a vision for sustainable and steady economic 
growth, the government has maintained stable legal 
and fiscal frameworks which encourage investment in 
the region and which support the future development 
of the Cairn project. 
The Board of Directors met in Dakar in 2015 and 
visited the rig, port and local office; meeting the 
in-country Cairn team along with the shore base 
operation. Dakar is an attractive and exciting place  
to operate as we focus on achieving commerciality 
from our two back-to-back discoveries.
Our approach in Senegal is consistent with Cairn’s 
strategic delivery in recent years; we are a highly 
experienced operator with a focus on health and 
safety and providing benefit to the communities  
in which we operate. Central to this are the strong 
partnerships we form with industry and government 
alike. The Board saw first hand not only the size and 
scale of opportunity in Senegal, but also the strength 
and depth of the team managing the project. The 
Joint Venture (JV) in Senegal brings many capabilities 
that are being applied to the existing exploration and 
appraisal programme and will also benefit future 
development. Importantly, the JV shares a common 
and universal commitment to health, safety, security, 
environment and sustainable development. Cairn  
is very familiar with operating at this stage of an 
emerging hydrocarbon province where there  
is a national desire to move steadily forward to 
hydrocarbon production whilst safeguarding the 
interests of local communities and the environment. 
We welcomed two new independent non-executive 
Directors to the Board in 2015 – Keith Lough and 
Peter Kallos – who both have a wealth of experience 
in the oil and gas industry and in the wider energy 
and resources sector . During the year , we undertook 
an external evaluation of board performance and 
effectiveness with a number of improvements 
identified. I would like to recognise and thank all  
our employees and contractors for their effort, 
commitment and hard work in 2015 in what has 
been a very busy year , as we look forward to an 
exciting year ahead.
HIGHLIGHTS
Financial
 – US$603 million (m) Group net cash at 31 December 2015.
 – Reserve Based Lending bank facility remains undrawn; debt availability  
to fund UK development assets increasing with project progress, with 
availability expected to reach US$335m at peak and US$260m by 2017; 
additional US$175m available in the form of Letters of Credit.
 – A total of 49.5 mmboe booked as 2P reserves and 196.5 mmboe  
booked as 2C Contingent Resources on a net working interest basis  
at 31 December 2015. 
Exploration – Senegal
 – Cairn resource estimates of the SNE- 1 discovery in the Sangomar Deep 
Offshore block upgraded following the incorporation of SNE-2 well results to:
 – P90 (1C) increased by 30% to 200 mmbbls;
 – P50 (2C) increased by 20% to 385 mmbbls; 
 – P10 (3C) increased to 690 mmbbls.
 – Successful testing of SNE-2, the first appraisal well with positive results, 
announced in January 2016.
 – Successful testing of SNE-3, the second appraisal well, announced in 
March 2016. 
 – BEL -1 exploration well commenced operations in March 2016. 
 – Resource upgrade does not include results of the SNE-3 appraisal well where 
data analysis is ongoing. Any further resource revisions following full analysis 
of the results of SNE-3 and BEL - 1 will be announced in due course. 
North Sea
 – Catcher and Kraken developments in the UK North Sea on track for  
first oil from 2017 .
 – Additional 4.5% interest in Kraken acquired, after the year end,  
from First Oil bringing Cairn’s total working interest to 29.5%.
 – Peak net targeted production to Cairn for North Sea interests  
of ~ 25,000 boepd. 
 – Five new licences awarded in Norway in Q1 2016, including one  
as Operator. 
 – Kraken West, UK North Sea (EnQuest Operator, Cairn 29.5% WI) 
appraisal well confirmed the presence of oil with potential for upside. 
Further evaluation is ongoing.
 – Crossbill, Norwegian North Sea (Wintershall Operator, Cairn 20% WI) 
was a dry well. Operations were completed in Q2 and the well was 
permanently plugged and abandoned. 
India Tax Dispute
 – International arbitration proceedings have commenced to settle  
the Indian tax dispute, with Cairn claiming full compensation for  
the ~US$ 1 billion value of which its shareholders have been deprived.
 – The total assets of the Cairn subsidiary against which the Indian Tax 
Authorities are seeking to pursue a tax claim are US$477m (including 
principally the group’s ~ 10% shareholding in Cairn India Limited) and  
any recovery by the Indian authorities would be limited to such assets. 06 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Dr Julian Fennema & Erkal Ersoy
Heriot-Watt University
Elsewhere in the big emerging markets, the 
slowdowns can be partially explained by the 
combination of energy prices and political issues.  
For energy exporters such as the Russian Federation, 
Brazil, Nigeria and many Middle Eastern countries, 
tumbling crude prices put pressure on government 
and private budgets. Coupled with the sanctions 
imposed on Russia pushing it into a deep economic 
contraction, political uncertainty and possible 
impeachment of the president in Brazil, and elections 
in Nigeria, 2015 was a complex year for emerging 
markets generally. Growth overall slowed to 4.0%  
in these countries from the previous year rate of 
4.6%, with Latin America and the Commonwealth  
of Independent States (CIS) both entering recession.
The effect on the demand for oil and gas was  
mixed, where on the one side consumers were  
taking advantage of relatively cheap energy, but  
on the other weak macroeconomic fundamentals 
restrained demand growth. The first effect 
dominated through the first three quarters of  
the year , but the second effect caught up by  
the end, reducing, but not eliminating, the  
growth to 1.7 mmbopd (1.8%) over the year
2
.
BUOY ANT SUPPL Y
On the other side of the market, the supply 
continued to grow apace, rising by 2.6 mmbopd 
above the 2014 level to 96.3 mmbopd. In contrast  
to 2014, where growth was driven principally by 
non-OPEC sources, OPEC contributed equally  
to the 2015 expansion. Following the decision  
in November 2014 not to cut production levels in 
order to maintain market share, OPEC has increased 
supply by 1.2 mmbopd with almost all of this increase 
provided by the largest producers, Saudi Arabia  
and Iraq
2
. The addition of Iranian oil production  
to the OPEC fold after the suspension of sanctions  
is expected to provide the main source of OPEC 
growth in 2016, particularly if Iran seeks to regain  
its spot as the second largest producer within  
the organisation.
PRICE ROUT CONTINUES
With supply outstripping demand to the order of  
2 million barrels per day, the downwards tumble of 
prices continued in 2015 and crude oil, which began 
the year at US$55 per barrel (Brent), declined to 
US$37 per barrel by December , the lowest level 
since May 2004, with natural gas prices experiencing 
a similar dynamic. 
The absence of an unambiguous sign when the 
market will rebalance is fuelling the consensus that 
there will be no rapid recovery in prices and that,  
for company decision making, a transition to relative 
resource abundance has occurred. The expectation 
remains that the market will return to covering full 
cycle marginal cost, albeit not in the most complex 
areas, but that this will take longer than envisaged  
12 months ago.
FAL TERING DEMAND GROWTH
The pace of world economic growth eased off into 
2015, falling from 3.4% in 2014 to 3.1% in 2015
1
. 
Under the headline, there were highly divergent 
performances, with the advanced economies of the 
OECD continuing their slow but steady recovery 
from the financial crisis, but the key driver of the  
fall in global performance being the slowdown in 
emerging markets.
The largest of these, China, continued the structural 
transformation commenced in 2014, dampening 
overall growth to 6.9% in 2015 (7 .3% in 2014).  
This can be attributed to a long-term adjustment 
away from energy-intensive sectors, such as steel 
and cement, but also to short-term uncertainties 
about the economic environment as illustrated  
by the turmoil on Chinese stock markets and the 
frequent use of trading halts. 
Non-OPEC production remained resilient in the face 
of declining oil prices, with the largest contributor to 
the overall gain of 1.3 mmbopd being the US, which 
added 0.92 mmbopd to 2014 production levels. The 
steep drop in rig utilisation rates over 2015 suggests 
that this will go into reverse in 2016 as fewer wells 
are drilled and completed in response to the price 
signals. Elsewhere outside of OPEC, production 
remained broadly stable, with gains booked in the 
North Sea environment by both Norway and the  
UK and production growth in the Russian Federation 
reaching record levels. 
CAUTIOUS EXPLORATION  
AND APPRAISAL ACTIVITY
The squeezing of margins and pressure on cash flows 
that started in 2014 worsened in 2015. As a result, 
only the most robust and strategic investments  
were given the green light. This meant aggressive 
reductions in capital expenditure across the board 
leading to a US$147 billion fall in upstream capex
3
. 
2015 displayed a complex economic environment 
with considerable uncertainty and volatility. There 
was a consensus on lowering price expectations, 
which led to further portfolio management and 
capital discipline by all participants, especially the 
majors. The one clear exception to this was the 
continued interest by Chinese NOCs in high-cost 
domestic shale plays.
Despite a greater than 30% decline in exploration 
expenditure in 2015, discovered volumes declined 
by an estimated 25% and still saw a number of 
significant discoveries. Gas plays continued to 
dominate and represented approximately 75%  
of discovered volume, the largest of these being  
in Egypt’s Nile Delta basin and in deepwater off 
Mauritania (in the same basin as Cairn Energy’s  
2014 Senegalese oil discovery). 
The shift from high to low-risk areas for exploration 
activity that started in 2014 picked up pace in 2015. 
Activity in more speculative frontiers, such as the 
Arctic, was deferred despite extensive acreage held 
by majors in the region. This led to a move towards 
more mature basins, but this posed challenges for 
some there too. Decommissioning liabilities became 
a priority for North Sea operators given the current 
and short-term economic climate. Further afield 
from the Canadian and UK markets, late 2015 saw 
RD Shell walk away from an Abu Dhabi sour gas 
project, and Chevron suspend two development 
plans in the Gulf of Mexico.
LITTLE AND LARGE
Mergers and acquisitions activity in 2015 was 
marked by two extremes. Despite ample M&A 
opportunities, 2015 saw the lowest upstream  
M&A transaction value in the past five years as 
players chose to preserve precious cash and  
approve key strategic investments. 
THE INDUSTRY 
CONTEXT  
IN WHICH CAIRN 
OPERATES 07 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Operating cost
100
Capital costs
2000 2005 2010 2015
250
200
150
7.34
5.04
FTSE UK Oil and Gas Producer Index
FTSE World Oil and Gas Producer Index
FTSE 100
1/1/2013
1/2/2013
4/2/2013
7/2/2013
10/2/2013
1/2/2014
4/2/2014
7/2/2014
10/2/2014
4/2/2015
7/2/2015
10/2/2015
1/2/2015
1/2/2016
1.3
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
0.7
0.6
IHS CERA Cost Indices Relative Price Performance
Source: IHS CERA.
The downturn of the crude price at the end of  
2014 had already manifested itself in flattening off  
of capital and operating costs for service sector 
clients with little or no crude production, as the 
upward pressure from high crude prices receded. 
This downturn was reinforced into 2015 as the 
upstream capital cost index dropped by 17% in 
2015. Due to cost frictions, the operating cost  
index followed suit, but to a lesser extent, with  
a decline of 7%. 
Whilst the degree to which costs have fallen is less 
than the fall in prices, it remains a welcome relief for 
operators active in exploration and appraisal. Due to 
supply and demand interactions, service and drilling 
rig rates have fallen in 2015 and indications are that 
these rates will remain low through 2016 as low 
crude prices are likely to persist. 
WHAT TO EXPECT IN 2016
Oil price volatility has long been a key part of the  
oil and gas industry, but the uncertainty about low 
prices at the end of 2014 has dissipated. Excess 
supply, and therefore a low price, is now more widely 
expected over the medium term and companies are 
updating their portfolios for the new environment. 
Most players are making strategic decisions and 
keeping exploration active under strict capital 
discipline as they reap the benefits of depressed costs 
for projects in the appraisal and development stages. 
(1)  IMF World Economic Outlook (Update), January 2016.
(2)  IEA Oil Market Report, January 2016.
(3)  EY Global Oil and Gas Transactions Review 2015.
However , the year also saw the largest upstream 
acquisition in over five years: Royal Dutch Shell’s 
acquisition of BG Group accounted for 54% of  
the 2015 total of $153 billion
3
. This total implies  
a 17 .3% fall in announced deal value from last year ,  
but excluding RD Shell’s acquisition reveals the real 
extent of the year-on-year fall in transaction activity 
at over 60%. 
Global deal volume fell by 38% from 1,467 in 2014  
to 910 in 2015 and this slowdown was observed  
in all regions and in upstream, midstream and 
downstream sectors as well as oilfield services. 
Operators in the North American market, particularly 
the US, focused spending on unconventionals and,  
in 2015, approximately 55% of US upstream deals 
were accounted for by this type of transaction, having 
exceeded the 50% mark in 2014 following a five-year 
upward trend. Despite this continuing trend, however , 
reported deal value in the US shrunk considerably 
through 2015 while keeping its share of the global 
total stable near 37-38%. 
E & P vs OTHER SECTORS ON FTSE
Throughout 2015, the oil and gas sector continued 
to underperform against the stock market, as shown 
below. Many of the other sectors in a composite 
index reap windfalls due to falling energy prices and, 
in the short to medium-term, this trend will persist  
as the current price and medium term expectations 
favour consumers of oil relative to producers. 
Heriot-Watt University is one of the  
UK’s leading universities for business  
and industry and has a reputation for 
innovative education, enterprise, and 
leading-edge research. Energy research  
is a core activity within Heriot-Watt 
University, and the Centre for Energy 
Economics Research and Policy (CEERP)  
is the latest evidence of the University’s 
commitment to research in energy, 
economics and policy. CEERP is based 
within the Institute of Petroleum 
Engineering at Heriot-Watt University,  
but forms a key point of support and 
collaboration among the University’s 
Schools with affiliates from the School  
of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure,  
and Society; School of Management and 
Languages; School of Life Sciences; and 
the Energy Academy as well as honorary 
academics out with the University.
This industry overview provides  
an independent view of the industry  
context in which Cairn operates.
ABOUT  
THE AUTHORS
Dr Julian Fennema, Honorary Associate 
Professor at Heriot-Watt University.  
Erkal Ersoy, Associate Professor at 
Heriot-Watt University Centre for  
Energy Economics Research and Policy. 08 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
A STRONG 
POSITION  
TO DELIVER 
CEO’S REVIEW
Simon Thomson
Our business model is to create,  
add and realise shareholder value 
from a balanced portfolio – we aim  
to offer material growth potential 
from exploration and appraisal 
activity, supported by established 
development and production  
assets with a strong balance  
sheet behind them.
Cairn is in a strong position: we have a robust financial 
base, our North Sea development projects are on 
track, but perhaps most importantly, we are in the 
midst of an extremely promising appraisal and further 
exploration programme in Senegal, which we believe 
can create significant value for all our stakeholders  
by proving additional resource on the acreage.
Following the two world class discoveries in  
Senegal in 2014, our focus in 2015 was on evaluating 
the discoveries and drawing up work plans to take 
advantage of this exceptionally attractive opportunity. 
We are proud to have opened up a new oil province 
in Senegal and to have done so with two consecutive 
exploration well successes within such a large 
acreage position.
SIMON THOMSON
Chief Executive
14 March 2016 09 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
The ongoing drilling programme in Senegal aims  
to optimise our understanding of the resource base 
by gathering further data; and to do so as safely, 
more efficiently and at a lower cost than the initial 
exploration phase. We are building on the knowledge 
we have gained since 2014 which has enabled us to 
improve our logistics, approvals and clearances and 
overall drilling performance. We have also built on 
our excellent onshore HSE record and extended  
that into the offshore environment, working closely 
with the drilling contractor and service companies. 
Drilling time on the campaign to date is ahead  
of expectations.
Whilst the low oil price environment clearly presents 
challenges to our industry, it also creates a time of 
opportunity for Cairn with the oil field services 
market having been reshaped following the dramatic 
fall in the oil price. This has allowed us not only to 
secure markedly better pricing but also improved 
and more dependable levels of service as the supply 
constraints on oilfield service firms’ human resources 
and equipment have been sharply reduced.
Cairn is a focused operator; we move quickly and  
will continue to bring pace to the Senegal investment 
where we have been operational for three years.  
In 2014, we drilled two successful exploration wells 
and farmed down to improve our risk and equity 
profile. In 2015, we submitted an ambitious plan to the 
government, secured a Presidential Decree extending 
the Petroleum Sharing Contract by the requested 
three years from Q1 2016, completed a 3D seismic 
programme and commenced a firm three-well 
appraisal programme. In Q1 2016, we announced 
results from two of those follow up appraisal wells 
which completed operations in January and March.
Following the first appraisal well (SNE-2), Cairn’s  
2C resource estimate for the SNE field has now 
increased by 20 percent to 385 million barrels. The 
positive results of the recent SNE-3 appraisal well 
are being evaluated and, in combination with ongoing 
activity, provide the potential for further revisions to 
resource estimates for the SNE field. The third well 
(BEL -1) commenced operations in March. 
The current programme will increase our 
understanding of existing discoveries, as well as 
evaluate prospects and help to plan the longer-term 
development of the field. 
Alongside our activities in Senegal, Cairn has built  
an attractive mature basin position in the North Sea 
where our two key UK development projects are 
supported by a strong balance sheet to take them 
through to first oil and deliver the cashflows that will 
sustain our balanced portfolio over the longer term. 
Catcher remains on schedule and under budget  
to date and Kraken is also on schedule and under 
budget with forward capex costs reduced by more 
than ten percent. We continue to build our North 
Sea portfolio and we were pleased to be awarded 
five new Norwegian licences in Q1 2016, including 
our first as Operator . 
We are taking full advantage of the lower industry 
cost environment as we shape the business for the 
future. We continue to actively assess new ventures 
within the context of our balanced offering whether 
they be potential additions to our portfolio of future 
exploration opportunities or cash flow generating 
assets where we believe the current oil price 
environment gives us the potential to add  
material value. 
In reviewing new investment opportunities  
we maintain strict economic assessment parameters 
to ensure that we continue to optimise our capital 
allocation in a lower oil price environment.
Finally, international arbitration proceedings have 
commenced with the Government of India to seek 
resolution of the ongoing retrospective tax dispute. 
Our claim also seeks to recoup in full the value of 
which we have been deprived, approximately US$1 
billion. The total assets of the Cairn subsidiary against 
which the Indian T ax Authorities are seeking to pursue 
a tax claim are US$477m, including primarily the 
group’s ~ 10% shareholding in CIL and any recovery 
by the authorities would be limited to these assets.
“ Following the two world class discoveries  
in Senegal in 2014, our focus in 2015 was on  
evaluating the discoveries and drawing up work 
plans to take advantage of this exceptionally 
attractive opportunity.”  CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 10
Strategic report
OUR STRA TEGY
deliver value from discovery and development
 
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS
 
BALANCED PORTFOLIO
 
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 
Business 
model
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL
DELIVERING  
VALUE
OUR STRATEGY
Cairn’s strategy is to deliver 
value for shareholders from  
the discovery and development 
of hydrocarbons within a 
sustainable, self-funding 
business model. 
Deliver operational excellence in all activities  
and maintain licence to operate. 
HOW WE DELIVERED IN 2015
 – No lost time injuries and no reportable 
injuries 
 – Operated drilling programme commenced in 
Senegal with successful drilling and testing  
of the SNE-2 appraisal well
 – Completed one operated 3D seismic 
campaign offshore Senegal 
 – Two minor spills to the environment, each of 
less than one litre in volume, occurred during 
the Senegal campaign
SEEKING  
OPERA TIONAL  
EXCELLENCE
Maintaining a self-funding business plan. 
 
HOW WE DELIVERED IN 2015
 – Seven year Reserve Based Lending bank 
facility remains undrawn
 – Cash balance of US$603m at year end
 – Forecast capex for two development 
projects is under budget. Free cash flow 
from 2017
 – Continued to protect our position in India 
through international arbitration
DELIVERING A  
SUST AINABLE BUSINESS
 
Grow the reserves and resources base to 
provide a basis for future growth.
 
HOW WE DELIVERED IN 2015
 – Commenced appraisal programme offshore 
Senegal with successful testing of SNE-2
 – Participated in non-operated exploration 
drilling offshore Western Sahara and in the 
UK and Norwegian North Sea
 – Progressed the Kraken and Catcher 
developments in the UK to provide  
cash flow from 2017 
 – Matured prospects in Senegal for potential 
future drilling
 – Relinquished non-core assets in Morocco, 
Greenland and the UK
 – Applied for licences in the Norwegian 2015 
APA and 23rd Licensing Rounds
MAINT AINING A  
BALANCED 
PORTFOLIO
Read more: 2015 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)  
on P20-23
20 11 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Return and 
reinvest
Produce
Develop
Appraise
Explore
Identify
1
2
3
2. ADD VALUE
3. REALISE VALUE
1. CREATE VALUE
1.  
CREA TE V ALUE
Cairn looks to add value through optimising 
existing assets, seeing hidden value in assets  
that others may have overlooked and through 
asset swaps and exchanges. 
Cairn has a proven track record of realising 
value for shareholders, reinvesting in the 
business and returning cash to shareholders. 
Cairn is careful to maintain a strong balance 
sheet which can fund the Group’s exploration 
and appraisal programmes, offering  
growth opportunities. 
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Cairn’s business model is to 
create, add and realise value from 
a balanced portfolio, offering 
material upside potential from 
exploration and appraisal activity, 
supported by established 
development and production 
assets with a strong balance sheet 
behind them. Throughout this 
process, the portfolio is actively 
managed to ensure assets are 
delivering optimum value.
Cairn seeks to create value from discovery  
and development of hydrocarbon resources. 
Opportunities are advanced from the existing 
portfolio, from government licensing rounds  
and through acquisition.
2.  
ADD V ALUE
3.  
REALISE V ALUE
Read more: Operational review 
on P26-31
26
In 2015, following the success in Senegal and focus of the business on ensuring an appropriately balanced portfolio,  
Cairn moved towards an organisational structure based around the three groups of: Senegal; UK and Norway;  
and International. This structure formally came into effect on 1 January 2016 and our operational review is based  
on these groupings. For accounting purposes, the segmental reporting groupings noted in the 2015 accounts on  
pages 105 to 154 remain in the previous regional groups of: North-West Europe; Atlantic Margin; and Mediterranean. 12 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
SENEGAL
BUILDING ON SUCCESS
BUILDING ON SUCCESS  13 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
In less than three years, Cairn has taken over the 
operatorship; drilled two exploration wells, both 
resulting in oil discoveries; submitted an ambitious 
and robust block-wide evaluation work programme; 
acquired further seismic; commenced operations  
on a further drilling programme; and been awarded  
a three year extension of the Production Sharing 
Contract (PSC) up to February 2019. 
In March 2013, Cairn farmed-in to three blocks  
held by joint venture (JV) partners, FAR Limited  
and PETROSEN, the Senegal national oil company. 
ConocoPhillips subsequently farmed-in to the blocks 
three months later , broadening the JV’s technical 
capability, as an international major . 
In 2014, Cairn and its JV partners drilled two  
wells offshore Senegal, discovering oil in both and 
opening a new basin on the Atlantic Margin. Cairn’s 
operated exploration drilling programme targeted 
various Mesozoic age passive margin play types at  
a number of locations. These were the first wells 
drilled offshore Senegal in 20 years and the first ever 
deep water wells. The two consecutive discoveries 
demonstrated an active petroleum system and  
world class source rocks in FAN-1, early on in  
the evaluation.
In November 2014, Cairn issued Notices of 
Discovery for FAN-1 and SNE-1 to the Government 
of Senegal on behalf of the JV. Cairn estimated  
that the two discoveries and the identified prospects 
and leads within the licence area had gross mean 
risked resource base of more than a billion barrels.
Seeing significant further potential in the acreage,  
in May 2015, Cairn and its JV partners submitted  
a three year evaluation work plan to the Government 
of Senegal. This was the first offshore evaluation 
programme of its nature in the country. The plan 
included an initial programme of three firm and three 
optional exploration and appraisal wells, together 
with the acquisition of a further 3D seismic and a 
number of geo-scientific and engineering studies. 
With the foundations laid for a multi-phase 
evaluation plan and focus on maximising value in 
Senegal and achieving commerciality, Cairn moved 
into a phase of extensive activity and investment.
OPENING A NEW ATLANTIC MARGIN BASIN 
Cairn’s exploration strategy is focused along the 
multiple play types formed from the break-up of  
the supercontinent Pangaea. Our exploration 
approach is to take large acreage positions with 
follow-on potential in the event of success. Sensing 
the size and scale of the opportunity and the value 
proposition, Cairn’s acreage position was created 
along the underexplored coast of North West Africa, 
in the deeper water areas adjacent to the shelf edge,  
where a number of wells were drilled during the 
1960s and 1970s. 
Cairn has been in Senegal since 2013, and along  
with its joint venture partners and a supportive 
government, continues to bring momentum and  
pace to this investment and operation. Senegal is an 
exciting place to be, being relatively underexplored 
territory in which we saw hydrocarbon potential.  
Oil and gas exploration in Senegal started in the 
1950s and only 35 offshore wells have been drilled 
to date. This compares to 128 wells drilled offshore 
Ghana since the 1920s and 140 offshore Ivory 
Coast. Cairn was the first to drill in the deepwater  
offshore Senegal. 
Senegal is a great example of Cairn’s 
business model delivering. We had  
a strong technical belief in the potential 
of this acreage, which was realised 
through the two basin opening 
discoveries made in 2014.  MESOZOIC SHELF BREAK
RUFISQUE 
OFFSHORE
SANGOMAR
OFFSHORE
SANGOMAR
DEEP OFFSHORE
FAN-1 
SNE-2
RUFISQUE-2
RUFISQUE-3
DAKAR-MARINE-2
SNE-1
BEL-1
CVM-1
SNE-3
FAN-1 FIELD
BETELGEUSE
& ACHEMAR
CANOPUS
DENEB
SIRIUS
ELECTRA
FOMALHAUT
CDE
GEMMA
IZAR
SOLEIL
BELLATRIX
SNE-1
FIELD
NORTH FAN
CENTRAL FAN
SOUTH FAN
SENEGAL
Dakar
Mbour
Thiès
Kaolack
Diourbel
Toubakouta
Sokone
Passi
Foundiougne
BETELGEUSE
& ACHEMAR
20 km 10 km 5 km 0 km
14 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
BUILDING ON SUCCESS  
CONTINUED
Legend
 
Contract area
 
■ 3D Seismic Cairn Acquired 2015
 
■ 3D Seismic Cairn Owned
 
■ Discoveries
 
■ Prospects and leads
 • Cairn exploration wells
 • Cairn appraisal wells
 • Other wells
 
Gross mean risked resource base  
of > 1 billion barrels 15 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
SUPPORTING THE GOVERNMENT’S 
OBJECTIVE OF DEVELOPING  
ENERGY RESOURCES
Cairn’s objective is to build a resource base that can 
be developed to maximise the value which could be 
created for Senegal and improve energy security  
for the country. This supports the Government of 
Senegal’s objective of developing energy resources 
to address the imbalance between energy supply 
and demand.
Senegal has a long history of stable democracy.  
Since gaining independence from France in 1960, 
Senegal has been successful in exercising political 
participation and peaceful leadership, providing  
an ideal base for diversified economic growth.  
Its US$15bn economy is one of the larger economies 
in West Africa. The country’s social and economic 
development however , has been constrained by 
limited access to energy. Its economy presently relies 
on oil imports. Finding a sustainable source of oil  
and gas offshore Senegal would benefit the national 
economy, local communities, businesses and the 
Government of Senegal, providing valuable taxation 
revenues whilst also creating longer term national 
energy security and potential export revenues.
Politics in Senegal takes place within the framework 
of a democratic republic, being part of one of the 
most successful democratic transitions in Africa.  
The President of Senegal is the head of state and the 
Prime Minister of Senegal, the head of government. 
Elected in 2012, President Macky Sall’s vision is  
to accelerate economic growth through attracting 
foreign investment, thereby reducing the country’s 
dependence on fishing, agriculture and tourism. 
President Macky Sall is a geoscientist and former 
Director General of national oil company , PETROSEN. 
The Government of Senegal established a petroleum 
code in 1998, which fixes the terms for exploration 
and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Senegal. This 
code provides the framework for the PSC which 
Cairn, as Operator , is party to with the Government  
of Senegal. 
EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL PHASE
Cairn commenced operations in September 2015 
offshore Senegal with the start of an extensive  
3D seismic survey using the Polarcus Adira vessel. 
The seismic activity, intended to help further define 
the full potential of the significant acreage position  
in the eastern point of the licence, covered an area  
of approximately 2,400km² and lasted three months. 
In October 2015, drilling restarted using the Ocean 
Rig Athena, a 7th generation dual activity drillship 
under contract from ConocoPhillips, to evaluate  
the SNE-1 discovery. Cairn’s objectives of the 
programme were to optimise our understanding  
of the resource base by gathering further data;  
and to do so as safely, more efficiently and at  
a lower cost than the initial exploration phase. 
In November 2015, Cairn received a three-year 
extension to the PSC. The extension, until 
6 February 2019, will give the joint venture 
appropriate time to appraise the two discoveries  
and evaluate the further exploration potential  
of the remaining area within the PSC.
At the beginning of 2016, the positive results of  
the first appraisal well offshore Senegal, SNE-2,  
were announced. Successful flow testing from two 
different reservoir sections, one at a constrained 
rate of ~8,000 bopd from high quality lower 
reservoir and the other at ~ 1,000 bopd from a 
relatively low quality upper reservoir unit, confirmed 
that both are able to produce at viable rates and thus 
make a material contribution to resource volumes. 
Cairn plans to have completed a minimum of three 
wells by the second half of 2016. 
PETROSEN is a vital partner to Cairn, both through 
the JV, and as regulator and advocate to the Ministry 
of Energy. PETROSEN has an option to increase  
its equity position up to 18% on commencement  
of development of the SNE field. 
The Government of Senegal announced its decision 
to join the Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative (EITI), of which Cairn is a member , in 2012. 
This voluntary initiative is a global standard to  
ensure transparency of payments from natural 
resources. Countries implementing the EITI must 
disclose information on tax payments, licences, 
contracts, production and other key elements 
around resource extraction.
DAKAR AS A PLACE TO DO BUSINESS
Senegal’s capital, Dakar , is compact with an 
estimated population of more than one million 
people and is the hub for French-speaking West 
Africa. Located on the Cap-Vert Peninsula on the 
Atlantic coast, Dakar’s position, on the western edge 
of Africa, is an advantageous departure point for 
trans-Atlantic and European trade; a fact that has 
aided its growth into a major regional port. 
Dakar is an excellent transport hub: as well as being 
one of the biggest ports in West Africa, with all  
the assets necessary to accommodate the newest 
generation of ships, it has a well-positioned airport. 
Dakar port, at the northern tip of our acreage,  
is being used by Cairn as the primary supply base  
for offshore support, vessel crew change and waste 
handling for the evaluation campaign. Dakar airport 
is used for crew changes for helicopters serving the 
operations offshore.
Dakar has excellent diplomatic and consular 
representation. The US’s largest embassy in  
West Africa is based there, as is a regional British 
embassy and embassies of most European countries. 
The International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the 
World Bank are well represented in Senegal too.   16 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
BUILDING ON SUCCESS  
CONTINUED
Cairn and the JV are committed to ensuring 
that its activities deliver positive, lasting social  
and economic benefits in Senegal.
Picture:  
‘The Hunger Project’  
by Johannes Odé.
Picture: The Great Entrepreneur 
British Council competition. 17 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
LANGUAGE TRAINING FOR KEY 
ST AKEHOLDERS AND STUDENTS
Cairn approved a rolling programme of English 
language training for officers of the ministries  
and departments involved in the energy sector . 
Candidate selection was done by the ministry 
departments and courses facilitated by the  
British Council.
With the aim to provide future geology and 
engineering students with English language skills 
and other relevant business skills, English language 
training and basic presentation skills classes were 
given to 29 students of the Institute of Earth 
Sciences (IST). These were, again, facilitated by  
the British Council.
MICROFINANCE PROJECT  
(THE HUNGER PROJECT)
We provided finance to The Hunger Project to 
support a women-led microfinance programme  
in Senegal. 
Senegal was the first country of intervention for  
The Hunger Project in Africa, where it has been 
working since 1991. The Hunger Project now has  
10 ‘epicentres’ in Senegal that cumulatively serve  
a population of over 178,000 across 211 villages. 
Through the epicentre strategy, approximately 
15,000-25,000 people are brought together in  
a cluster of rural villages and giving these villages 
more influence with local government and  
better access to basic services, and increasing a 
community’s ability to collectively utilise resources. 
The microfinance project encompasses financial 
management training and seed funds for a micro 
loans and savings facility for rural communities 
within the epicentres. It supports women in building 
their leadership capacities and income-generating 
and business skills, and empowers them to play  
a stronger role in their community.
LONG-TERM LEGACY
Cairn and the JV are committed to business activities 
that deliver positive, lasting social and economic 
benefits in Senegal. 
Through targeted social investment, we work to help 
develop community assets and support educational 
and enterprise opportunities. We seek to work with 
credible and effective local partners in programmes 
to maximise the value of our activities in the areas 
where we operate.
Throughout 2015, we carried out a range of 
investments focused on developing the capacity  
of institutions and businesses in Senegal, some of 
which support both our current and potential future 
operations and some the wider community. Our 
stakeholder engagement programme featured 
opportunities to encourage entrepreneurial spirit 
and assist local businesses to expand, highlights of 
which were:
GREAT ENTREPRENEUR AND ECOBAG
In our second year of operations in Senegal, we 
supported the British Council’s ‘Great Entrepreneur’ 
competition: an initiative of the British Council aimed 
at encouraging young local entrepreneurship. 
We also provided investment in ECOBAG, last year’s 
winner of the inaugural event. 
ECOBAG collects plastic waste from neighbourhoods 
for conversion to recycled plastic pellets for sale  
on to producers of plastic products. The project 
promotes waste recycling and a community rubbish 
collection system. Our support enabled the purchase 
of improved equipment to grow the business and 
promote HSE standards on site. 
Picture: Cairn funds English 
language training, facilitated 
by the British Council. 18 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
FOCUS ON NORTH SEA
Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway by 
acquiring exploration, appraisal and development assets  
and participating in licence rounds. 
Cairn has an experienced team dedicated  
to the UK and Norway with offices in London  
and Stavanger. In 2015, the Kraken and 
Catcher developments were progressed,  
and are on-track for first oil from 2017. 
Here Brita Holstad, Regional 
Director – UK and Norway,  
answers some key questions.
Tell us about your experience in the oil and gas 
industry. I have worked over 25 years in the sector , 
primarily on the Norwegian Continental Shelf, but  
I also spent three years early in my career in France 
where I worked on fields offshore Congo. I hold an 
MSc in Petroleum Geology from the Norwegian 
Institute of Technology and through most of my 
career I have worked technically. Prior to joining 
Cairn in 2013, I worked for Elf, Aker Kvaerner ,  
Revus Energy ASA, Wintershall Norge AS and Hess. 
I joined Cairn from Hess Norge AS where I served  
as Managing Director .
What is your role as UK/Norway Regional 
Director? I lead the UK and Norway team to 
maintain and grow a strong prospect inventory 
capable of increasing our resources and reserves, 
participating in material exploration and bringing 
discoveries into production. We also look to identify 
new venture opportunities, actively manage the 
portfolio in the region and ensure we deliver safe and 
cost-effective work programmes. As is the case across 
the Cairn Group, HSE and corporate responsibility 
are obviously at the forefront of our business.
Picture: Loadout of a  
drilling template for the 
Catcher development.
DEVELOPING  
ASSETS
NORTH SEA  19 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
How many years’ experience in UK /Norway  
does the Cairn team have and over what  
variety of geologies? I am pleased to have a very 
experienced team working the UK/Norway region 
with worldwide experience from all relevant 
depositional systems within our region. With  
an average of 22 years in the industry between  
them and specialities within exploration, appraisal, 
development and production, we are in charge  
of Cairn’s exploration and development activity  
in the region. This includes the Kraken and Catcher 
development projects in the UK and the Skarfjell 
discovery in Norway, as well as our exploration 
activity both in the UK and on the Norwegian 
Continental Shelf including the Barents Sea. The UK 
and Norway region is a key focus of the Group and 
during 2015 we have grown the Norwegian team and 
moved into larger offices at Hinna Park in Stavanger .
What is Cairn’s role as non-operator on the 
Kraken and Catcher projects? Our role as 
non-operator involves oversight, challenge  
and assurance within the joint venture. The  
Cairn Operating Standards are reflected in our 
Management System that describes how we assure 
our non-operated interests, considering matters 
such as work programme, legal and regulatory 
matters, HSE and corporate responsibility. We  
work closely with the operators of the projects to 
maximise potential of the fields, ensure efficiency of 
the developments and progress towards the projects 
becoming producing assets in our portfolios.
What is the attraction to Cairn of Catcher and 
Kraken? Cairn entered these assets through 
corporate acquisitions undertaken to expand 
and rebalance the Group’s portfolio. At that time, 
they were both pre-sanction fields, so we have  
been involved throughout the development  
is focused on drill centres one and two and is 
currently ahead of schedule. 
How are the developments impacted by the 
current low oil price? The developments are both 
taking advantage of the lower cost environment  
to reduce costs. Kraken, for example, is currently 
expected to reach first oil at a cost of 10% less than 
the project sanction estimate. With production from 
these assets anticipated from 2017 , current low oil 
prices are not impacting cash flows, and each project 
is robust in a lower price environment. 
In addition to the developments and current 
exploration prospects in the region, what new 
venture activity took place in 2015 and what is  
in store for 2016? We were delighted to pre-qualify 
as operator in Norway in 2015. In January 2016,  
we were awarded our first operated licence in 
Norway in addition to non-operated interests in  
four exploration licences through the APA (Awards  
in Pre-defined Areas) 2015 Licensing Round. 
In December 2015, we filed applications in the  
23rd Licensing Round in Norway where awards  
are expected in Q2 2016. We have through the  
year continued to review a large number of farm-in 
opportunities that arose throughout the year .
With new seismic being acquired both in the UK  
and in Norway, we will continue to mature our 
exploration acreage towards drillable prospects  
in 2016, in addition to evaluating opportunities in  
the APA 2016 Licensing Round in Norway and 
reviewing farm-in opportunities.
In the current low oil price environment there are 
investment opportunities; but we are rigorous and 
disciplined in looking for the right ones.
process and today they represent a core part  
of the Group’s strategy to build steady future  
cash flows to sustain the business model and  
fund future global exploration.
How important are these developments to the 
UKCS? Kraken and Catcher are two of the largest 
ongoing development projects in the UK North Sea. 
The assets will provide peak net production to Cairn 
of 25,000 boepd. At this peak of production in 
2017-2018, it is anticipated that Kraken and Catcher 
combined could account for around 7% of UK total 
daily boe production (Oil and Gas UK Activity  
Survey 2014).
How are the developments progressing?
Catcher is progressing on schedule and under 
budget to date to deliver first oil in the second half  
of 2017 . Key milestones achieved during the year 
include the planned subsea installation work and  
the 60km gas export pipeline being successfully laid 
and tied in. Fabrication of the subsea equipment is  
on schedule and drilling activities which started in 
July using the Ensco 100 rig progressed well, with 
excellent operational performance. Fabrication of 
the FPSO hull and topsides is ongoing in Asia, 
following mitigating actions put in place by the FPSO 
provider BW Offshore to address initial scheduling 
issues. The first major FPSO hull section was 
successfully delivered in December to the yard  
in Japan from South Korea. The Kraken project 
continued on schedule and overall forward capex 
reductions of US$300m were implemented 
compared to the capital expenditure at the sanction 
of the project. In 2016, the development continues 
to make strong progress, in particular the critical 
path conversion programme for the Kraken FPSO 
vessel is on schedule for commissioning and hook up, 
with production in H1 2017 . The drilling programme  20 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
DELIVER EXPLORA TION AND APPRAISAL SUCCESS 
PURPOSE GROW THE RESERVES AND RESOURCES BASE TO PROVIDE A BASIS FOR FUTURE GROWTH 
2015 KPI MEASUREMENT 2015 PERFORMANCE
KPI 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
DECISION 
Invest in exploration and appraisal 
activities which add net 2C resources 
in excess of 20 mmboe
 – Evidence of commercial discoveries 
based on 2C resources. 
 – Net volumes discovered or added 
versus the 20 mmboe target.
 – The finding efficiency expressed  
in US$/boe.
 – Five exploration and appraisal wells were drilled in 2015.
 – 35.9 mmboe net 2C were added to the resource base 
from the SNE-2 Senegal appraisal well (which was 
appraising the P50 330 mmbbls gross discovery) and 
the West of Kraken well, enabling the Company to 
achieve a reserves/resources replacement ratio in 
excess of 100%. 
 – The Atlas and Crossbill wells in the Norwegian North 
Sea and Al Khayr well in Western Sahara were 
unsuccessful at the primary exploration target.
 – Overall finding efficiency was ranked in the  
second quartile. 
Read more: Operational review
P26-31
26
Substantially 
achieved
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
PURPOSE ACTIVE PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT AND ACREAGE PROTECTION 
2015 KPI MEASUREMENT 2015 PERFORMANCE
KPI 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
DECISION 
Mature high impact exploration 
prospects ready for drilling in  
2016 or 2017
 – Mature a minimum of four new 
independent ‘drill-ready’ prospects 
which meet investment criteria and 
which could be considered for 
drilling in 2016 or 2017 .
 – A Group prospects review was held in Q4 2015  
and one independent and two partially dependent 
prospects were identified in Senegal.
 – In Norway, the Group participated in the 2015  
APA Licensing Round and was successful in all five 
applications. The Group also participated in the 23rd 
Barents Sea Licensing Round where licence awards  
are expected in Q2 2016.
 – Prospectivity in Mauritania and the Republic of Ireland 
continues to be assessed.
Read more: Operational review
P26-31
26
Partially achieved
Cairn has in place both financial and non-financial KPIs which are used to monitor progress in delivering 
the Group’s strategy. The 2015 KPIs, which were set out on page 20 of the Annual Report and Accounts 
2014, related to delivering exploration and appraisal success, portfolio management, seeking operational 
excellence, maintaining licence to operate and delivering a sustainable business. 
The final decision on the overall achievement of the 2015 KPIs was made at the Remuneration 
Committee meeting in February 2016.
MEASURING PROGRESS  
IN 2015
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs)
2015 21 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
DELIVER OPERA TIONAL EXCELLENCE
PURPOSE DELIVER OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE IN ALL 2015 ACTIVITIES AND MAINTAIN LICENCE TO OPERATE
2015 KPI MEASUREMENT 2015 PERFORMANCE
KPI 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
DECISION 
Deliver all operated and non-
operated asset projects (technical 
studies, surveys, seismic and drilling 
programmes) on schedule and budget 
(including manpower costs), with full 
data recovery
Projects delivered within expected 
timeframe and within budget.
 – Senegal Rufisque-Sangomar 3D seismic acquisition, 
which was the Group’s primary operated seismic project 
in 2015, was successfully completed in Q4 2015. The 
data was acquired safely and without major incident on 
schedule and under budget.
 – Seismic delivery for non-operated projects, principally  
in Norway and Morocco, was behind schedule.
Read more: Operational review
P26-31 and Financial review P32-35
26
Partially achieved
Progress North Sea development 
projects, remaining within 10% of 
capital guidance and first oil dates 
scheduled within six months of  
Final Investment Decision (FID)  
base case estimates
Reference should be made to the 
original FID cases reflected in the 
Investment Proposals for Kraken  
and Catcher versus the YE 2015  
status of the projects.
 – The Catcher and Kraken projects are progressing well. 
The Catcher project remains within 10% of capital 
guidance whilst capex on the Kraken project has been 
reduced by more than 10%.
 – Catcher and Kraken remain on schedule to deliver first 
oil in 2017 .
Read more: Operational review
P26-31 and Financial review P32-35
26
Fully achieved
Secure a suitable rig for further 
exploration and appraisal in Senegal
Contract terms acceptable to the 
Board, with firm slots allocated to 
mature opportunities.
 – Following a rig selection process in Q1 2015, the JV 
secured the Ocean Rig Athena for drilling in Q4 2015.
 – The costs for both the rig and associated support services 
were significantly lower than the previous drilling 
campaign in 2013/14. 
Read more: Operational review
P26-31 and Financial review P32-35
26
Fully achieved
2015 KPI MEASUREMENT 2015 PERFORMANCE
KPI 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
DECISION 
Maximise acreage retention for  
the Sangomar, Sangomar Deep  
and Rufisque blocks in Senegal
 – Submission of evaluation plan.
 – Extension of PSC.
 – Following the SNE-1 well discovery in 2014, a full field 
long-term evaluation programme was submitted to  
and approved by the Senegalese authorities in 2015. 
Subsequently, the authorities granted a three year 
extension to the PSC for the Sangomar , Sangomar  
Deep and Rufisque blocks.
Read more: Operational review
P26-31
26
Fully achieved 22 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
PURPOSE DELIVER ACTIVITIES WITH A FOCUS ON THE SAFETY OF PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT
2015 KPI MEASUREMENT 2015 PERFORMANCE
KPI 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
DECISION 
Minimise injuries and environmental 
incidents in 2015 operated activities: 
 – Total Recordable Injury Rate 
(TRIR) target of less than  
2.0 TRI/million hours
 – No oil spills to the environment
 – TRIR.
 – Number of oil spills to  
the environment.
 – The TRIR for 2015 was zero per million hours.
 – T wo minor spills to the environment, each of less  
than one litre in volume, occurred during the  
Senegal campaign.
Read more: Working responsibly
P44-61
44
Substantially 
achieved
Achieve targets for HSE leading 
performance indicators (LPIs)  
linked to elements of the HSE  
culture framework
 – Progress against HSE LPIs. – CRMS was substantially revised in line with latest  
IOGP guidance.
 – Extensive contractor management programme 
completed including acceptance and readiness  
audits for Senegal project.
 – Worked closely with JV partners in Western Sahara  
to monitor and track human rights issues through  
to completion of the drilling programme. Ongoing 
engagement post completion of drilling programme.
 – Stakeholder engagement strategy and investment 
programme developed and is being implemented  
in Senegal.
 – Enhanced the risk assessment process for travellers  
to ‘high risk’ countries.
Read more: Working responsibly
P44-61
44
Substantially 
achieved
MAINT AIN LICENCE TO OPERA TE
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED
2015 23 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
DELIVER A SUST AINABLE BUSINESS
PURPOSE MAINTAIN A SELF-FUNDING BUSINESS PLAN
2015 KPI MEASUREMENT 2015 PERFORMANCE
KPI 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
DECISION 
Maintain liquid reserves including 
undrawn committed banking  
facilities to meet planned funding 
commitments plus a cushion  
at all times
Development of a funding strategy to 
optimise deployment of risked capital 
whilst maintaining adequate financial 
downside protection.
 – The Group remains funded to deliver its firm 
exploration, appraisal and development programme 
through to free cash flow from 2017 .
Read more: Financial review
P32-35
32
Substantially 
achieved
2015 KPI MEASUREMENT 2015 PERFORMANCE
KPI 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE 
DECISION 
Make tangible progress on Cairn  
India Limited (CIL) shares freeze
Release of CIL shares or significant 
advancement on process to release  
CIL shares. 
 – Proceedings against the Government of India under the 
UK-India Investment Treaty seeking resolution of the 
retroactive tax dispute have now formally commenced 
following agreement with the Government of India on 
the appointment of the arbitration panel.
 – Cairn has a high level of confidence in its case under the 
UK-India Investment Treaty and, in addition to 
resolution of the retroactive tax dispute, its statement 
of claim to the arbitration panel will seek damages equal 
to the value of Cairn’s residual shareholding in CIL at 
the time it was attached (approximately US$1 billion). 
Read more: Financial review
P32-35
32
Partially achieved 24 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED
2016
The 2016 Group KPIs in the table below were set by the Board in 
December 2015 and are based on the Group’s current portfolio,  
prospects and objectives set out in the 2016 Business Plan.
DELIVERING EXPLORA TION AND APPRAISAL SUCCESS
PURPOSE GROW THE RESERVES AND RESOURCES BASE TO PROVIDE A BASIS FOR FUTURE GROWTH
OBJECTIVE 2016 KPI RISKS TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF KPI
Maximise value in Senegal Progress the SNE discovery through the prudent investment of 
capital funds, de-risking the path to commerciality in a cost-effective 
and timely manner . This will be assessed on the 2C valuation, the 
3C/1C ratio and the total cumulative E&A investment divided by 
the 2C resources. 
 – Lack of exploration or appraisal success.
Read more: How we manage risk
P36-42
36
Achieve exploration success through 
discovery or addition of commercial 
hydrocarbons in 2016 
Invest in exploration opportunities with due consideration to  
finding efficiency, calculated at the estimated cost to take a  
project to FID divided by the discovered 2C resource. 
 – Lack of exploration or appraisal success.
 – Reliance on JV operators for asset performance.
Read more: How we manage risk
P36-42
36
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
PURPOSE ACTIVE PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT AND ACREAGE PROTECTION
OBJECTIVE 2016 KPI RISKS TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF KPI
Portfolio optimisation  
and replenishment 
Develop an inventory of exploration and appraisal opportunities, 
including prospects and leads which meet Cairn’s technical and 
commercial criteria and can provide drilling opportunities for the 
period 2017 onwards.
 – Inability to identify or secure prospective 
acreage at prices which can generate  
reasonable returns.
Read more: How we manage risk
P36-42
36
DELIVER OPERA TIONAL EXCELLENCE
PURPOSE DELIVER OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE IN ALL 2016 ACTIVITIES 
OBJECTIVE 2016 KPI RISKS TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF KPI
Successfully complete operated and 
non-operated 2016 work programme
Deliver all operated and non-operated E&A projects (technical 
studies, surveys and seismic) on schedule and budget, with full  
data recovery.
 – Operational and project performance.
 – Reliance on JV operators for asset performance.
 – Staff recruitment and retention.
Read more: How we manage risk
P36-42
36
Progress North Sea development projects, on time and budget. – Kraken and Catcher development activities and 
production start-up not executed on schedule 
and budget.
 – Reliance on JV operators for asset performance.
Read more: How we manage risk
P36-42
36
SETTING GOALS  
FOR 2016 AND BEYOND 25 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
MAINT AIN LICENCE TO OPERA TE
PURPOSE DELIVER VALUE IN A SAFE, SECURE AND ENVIRONMENTALLY AND SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE MANNER
OBJECTIVE 2016 KPI RISKS TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF KPI
Deliver activities with a focus on the 
safety of people and the environment
Minimise injuries and environmental incidents in 2016  
operated activities: 
 – TRIR target of less than 2.0 TRIR/million hours.
 – No oil spills to the environment.
 – Health, safety, environmental and  
security incidents.
Read more: How we manage risk
P36-42
36
Continue to enhance the Group’s HSE 
culture, behaviours and approach
Achieve targets for HSE LPIs linked to elements of the  
HSE Culture Framework. 
 – Health, safety, environmental and  
security incidents.
Read more: How we manage risk
P36-42
36
DELIVER A SUST AINABLE BUSINESS
PURPOSE MAINTAIN A SELF-FUNDING BUSINESS PLAN
OBJECTIVE 2016 KPI RISKS TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF KPI
Manage balance sheet strength Maintain liquid reserves including undrawn committed banking 
facilities to meet planned funding commitments plus a cushion  
at all times.
 – Operational and project performance.
 – Kraken and Catcher development activities  
and production start-up not executed on 
schedule and budget.
 – Inability to access internal or external funding.
 – Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding.
 – Uncertainty in fiscal regimes.
Read more: How we manage risk
P36-42
36
Make tangible progress on Cairn India Limited (CIL) shares freeze 
by progress of action under the UK-India Investment Treaty. 26 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
Across the portfolio Cairn seeks to acquire significant 
acreage positions, at appropriate equity levels, in areas 
we believe have high technical and commercial potential 
and where, in the case of initial success, we have the 
financial capability to leverage our knowledge and 
create value. 
RICHARD HEATON
Director of Exploration
14 March 2016
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Richard Heaton, Director of Exploration
A BALANCED 
PORTFOLIO
We continually evaluate the entire 
portfolio to ensure that our equity  
is at appropriate levels to offer 
potential growth opportunities.
SENEGAL PROGRAMME CONTINUES
SNE-3 APPRAISAL WELL
The SNE-3 appraisal well offshore Senegal was 
successfully tested in Q1 2016. The flow rates 
validated the scale and growth potential of the  
SNE field and demonstrated the ability of the upper 
reservoirs to flow at commercially viable rates. 
Two drill stem tests were conducted within the 
Upper Reservoirs, confirming the deliverability of 
these units: multiple samples of oil and gas were 
recovered to surface from wireline logs and drill  
stem tests, giving confirmation of similar reservoir 
quality and correlation of the principal reservoir  
units between SNE-1, SNE-2 and SNE-3.
Initial indications confirm the same 32 degree API  
oil quality as seen in SNE-1 and SNE-2.
The SNE-3 well was the second in a multi-well 
evaluation programme that included comprehensive 
coring (360m of core has now been collected across 
SNE-2 and SNE-3) and testing to help delineate the 
shape of the structure and define the aerial extension 
to the south, establishing deliverability and the full 
potential of the field. 
The well, located in 1,186m water depth and 
approximately 95 kilometres offshore in the 
Sangomar Offshore block, reached the planned  
total depth of 2,782m below sea level and appraised 
the southern extent of the field containing the 2014 
discovery of high quality oil in the SNE-1 well, some  
3km to the north-east.
Cairn’s analysis of the extensive dataset collected  
is continuing. This comprehensive information will 
allow the JV to determine the further oil potential  
of the SNE-1 discovery and underpin the longer  
term field development plan. Africa
S. America
N. America
Eurasia
27 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
WHERE WE ARE FOCUSED
SENEGAL
Along the underexplored coast of Senegal, North 
West Africa, Cairn’s acreage position is in the deep 
water areas adjacent to the shelf edge where a 
number of early wells were drilled during the  
1960s and 1970s. In 2014, Cairn drilled two wells 
discovering oil in both and opening up a new basin  
on the Atlantic Margin. Cairn’s operated exploration 
drilling programme is targeting various Mesozoic age 
passive margin play types at a number of locations. 
These were the first wells drilled offshore Senegal  
in 20 years and the first ever deep water wells. 
In November 2015, Cairn received a three year 
extension to the Production Sharing Contract,  
up to February 2019. This will allow Cairn time  
to appraise the two discoveries and evaluate  
the further exploration potential of the area. 
UK AND NORWA Y
Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and 
Norway with interests in two major UK North Sea 
developments, Catcher and Kraken, and in the 
discovery, Skarfjell, in the earlier stage of planning in 
Norway. Cairn has continued to build an exploration 
portfolio to leverage its subsurface knowledge and 
operational synergies to access the maximum 
commercial value of each area. 
The UK and Norwegian continental shelves offer the 
potential for a balanced portfolio of opportunities 
involving a mixture of mature and emerging basins 
which themselves offer the potential for growth. 
INTERNATIONAL
As part of our longer term frontier exploration 
programme, Cairn has a number of additional 
opportunities including offshore Morocco’s Atlantic 
coast; offshore Republic of Ireland’s west coast;  
and a non-operated interest offshore Mauritania  
in West Africa. 
OUTLOOK
As a result of its significant value potential, Senegal 
will be the key focus for Cairn in 2016. Our attention 
is on confirming the scale of our Senegal discovery, 
expanding the resource base and moving it towards 
commercialisation. Our two developments in the  
UK North Sea remain on schedule and on budget 
with first oil from 2017 . This activity is set against  
a backdrop of a balanced, well-funded company  
with a continued focus on allocation of capital and 
resources. We are well placed to take advantage of 
this exciting opportunity. 
The Atlantic Margin
Illustrative geological reconstruction  
of the world ~ 175 million years ago
REPUBLIC  
OF IRELAND
NORWAY
UK
SENEGAL
MOROCCO
MALTA
GREENLAND
Cairn assets
Atlantic Margin
MAURITANIA 28 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
OPERATIONAL REVIEW  
CONTINUED
SENEGAL 
Cairn has been active in Senegal since 2013 and 
drilled two wells in 2014, discovering oil in both and 
opening a new hydrocarbon basin on the Atlantic 
Margin, with the SNE-1 discovery recognised as  
the largest global oil discovery in 2014. 
These were the first wells to be drilled offshore 
Senegal in more than 20 years and the first deep-
water wells. The success of the programme and the 
discoveries have attracted the attention of the global 
oil industry.
Cairn and its JV partners submitted a three year 
evaluation work plan to the Government of Senegal  
in Q2 2015. The programme was designed to lay the 
foundation for a long term, multi-field, multi-phase 
exploitation plan. The approved current programme 
has three firm and three optional exploration and 
appraisal wells and drilling started in Q4 2015 
focused on the acreage around the SNE-1 discovery 
well. Cairn estimates that the existing two discoveries 
and the currently identified prospects and leads have 
an estimated mean risked resource base of more than 
one billion barrels. 
The key objectives of this second phase of drilling  
are to derisk the resource base to demonstrate the 
commerciality of the SNE field, to optimise our 
understanding of the reservoir characteristics and 
begin development planning, and to test further 
prospectivity around the existing discoveries.
The first appraisal well, SNE-2, completed testing in 
January 2016 with positive results. Operations were 
safely and successfully completed following drilling, 
coring, logging and drill stem testing (DST). The well 
tests were significant in demonstrating the ability of 
the reservoirs to flow at commercially viable rates. 
SNE-2 was a crestal well in a central location on  
the field, located in 1,200 metres (m) water depth, 
approximately 100 kilometres (km) offshore in the 
Sangomar Offshore block. The well reached planned 
total depth (TD) of 2,800m below sea level (TVDSS) 
and appraised the 2014 discovery of high quality  
oil in the SNE-1 well, 3km to the south. Drill stem 
testing over a 12m interval of high quality pay flowed 
at a maximum stabilised, but constrained rate of 
~8,000bopd on a 48/64'' choke, confirming the  
high deliverability of the principal reservoir unit  
in the SNE-2 well.
The second appraisal well, SNE-3, commenced 
operations in January 2016 on the Southern Flank  
to test the southern extent of the field and to help 
delineate the shape of the structure and define the 
aerial extension to the south. The SNE-3 well was 
located in 1,186m water depth, approximately  
95km offshore in the Sangomar Offshore block, and 
reached the planned TD of 2,782m below sea level 
TVDSS. In early March 2016, it was announced that 
operations were safely and successfully completed 
following drilling, coring, logging and DST. Two drill 
stem tests were conducted within the Upper 
Reservoirs, confirming the deliverability of these 
units and multiple samples of oil and gas were 
recovered to the surface from wireline logs and drill 
stem tests. The results demonstrated the ability of 
the upper reservoir to flow at commercially viable 
rates and confirmed similar reservoir quality and 
correlation of the principal reservoir units between 
SNE-1, SNE-2 and SNE-3 and initial indications 
confirm the same 32 degree API oil quality as  
seen in SNE-1 and SNE-2.
Cairn has been active in Senegal since 2013 and  
drilled two successful exploration wells in 2014.
2015 activity
 – 1 operated appraisal well (further wells in 2016)
 – 1 operated 3D seismic acquisition
 – 3 year extension to PSC
Discover more: Our assets
www.cairnenergy.com/operations
SENEGAL 29 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Cairn has a 40% WI as 
Operator in three blocks 
offshore Senegal.
The rig has moved to drill the third committed well, 
exploration well BEL -1, which will test the Bellatrix 
prospect and then be deepened as an appraisal well 
to evaluate the northern extent of the SNE field. 
A 3D seismic acquisition programme of ~2,400km
2
 
over the Sangomar Offshore block and south west 
part of the Rufisque block was completed in 
December 2015 with the objective of developing 
additional prospectivity to a drill ready status in 2016.
Cairn has a 40% WI as Operator in three blocks 
offshore Senegal (Sangomar Deep, Sangomar 
Offshore and Rufisque); ConocoPhillips has 35%  
WI, FAR Limited 15% WI and Petrosen, the national 
oil company of Senegal, 10% WI. The three blocks 
cover 7 ,490km
2
. 30 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
OPERATIONAL REVIEW  
CONTINUED
Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway  
by acquiring exploration, appraisal and development 
assets and participating in licence rounds.
UK AND NORWA Y DEVELOPMENTS
Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and 
Norway by acquiring exploration, appraisal and 
development assets and participating in licence 
rounds. The mature basins of the North Sea provide 
balance to the broader exploration portfolio and will 
deliver free cash flow to sustain future exploration. 
The North Sea is an active market for asset 
transactions enabling Cairn to continually optimise 
its position within the region as well as its wider 
capital allocation.
Kraken and Catcher , two of the largest ongoing 
development projects in the UK North Sea are the 
Group’s core development projects and a third, the 
Skarfjell discovery in Norway, is in the early stages  
of development planning. Kraken and Catcher will 
provide free cash flow from 2017 with peak net 
production to Cairn of ~25,000 boepd.
CATCHER
Catcher is progressing on schedule and under 
budget to date to deliver first oil in the second half of 
2017 . Key milestones have been achieved during the 
year including the subsea installation work planned 
for 2015, which was completed with the successful 
installation of the pipeline end manifold and tow 
templates at Catcher and Burgman. In addition, the 
60km gas export pipeline was successfully laid and 
tied in during July with minimal weather downtime. 
Fabrication of the subsea equipment including 
flowline bundles and associate towheads, the buoy 
and the mid water arches, which are all due to be 
installed in the summer of 2016, is on schedule. 
Drilling activities which started in July using the 
Ensco 100 rig progressed well, with excellent 
operational performance. The three Catcher wells, 
two injectors (CTI1 and CCI2) and one producer 
(CCP3), all met or exceeded pre-drill expectations in 
terms of reservoir quality and flow rates. In addition, 
the injection well tests successfully demonstrated 
that water can be injected into the field.
Fabrication of the FPSO hull and topsides is ongoing 
in Asia, following mitigating actions put in place by 
the FPSO provider BW Offshore to address initial 
scheduling issues. The first major FPSO hull section 
was successfully delivered in December to the yard 
in Japan from South Korea. Topsides module and 
turret construction continues to progress well  
in Batam and Singapore. The FPSO contractor 
currently plans the commencement of hull and 
integration work in Singapore from summer 2016.
KRAKEN 
In 2015, the Kraken project continued on schedule 
and overall forward capex reductions of US$300m 
were implemented compared to the capital 
expenditure at the sanction of the project. In 2016, 
the development continues to make strong progress, 
in particular the critical path conversion programme 
for the Kraken FPSO vessel is on schedule for 
departure from Singapore for commissioning and 
hook up, with production in H1 2017 . The drilling 
programme is focused on drill centres one and  
two and is currently ahead of schedule, despite a 
particularly harsh North Sea winter . This should 
ensure that the planned four production and  
four injection wells will be available for first oil. In 
February 2016, Cairn announced the acquisition  
of an additional 4.5% interest in the Kraken 
development in the UK North Sea from First Oil plc 
bringing Cairn’s total working interest to 29.5%. 
There was a nominal cash consideration payable in 
respect of the transaction however Cairn will waive 
its right to reclaim approximately US$3m of cash 
calls paid on behalf of First Oil in January and 
February 2016.
SKARFJELL
The partners are now investigating the best option 
for the development of the field and the decision  
on concept selection is expected to be made in Q4 
2016. This reflects the JV’s need for more detailed 
technical studies concerning the concept selection 
(Cairn 20% WI). 
KEDDINGTON
The K-5 onshore well completed drilling in Q1 2016 
with elevated gas readings, indicative of the presence 
of hydrocarbons recorded from a gross interval of 
141m, containing 62m of net sand. The borehole was 
completed for future production (Cairn 10% WI). 
UK & NORWA Y EXPLORATION
In Q4 2015, Cairn submitted applications for acreage 
in the 23rd Licensing Round in Norway and in Q1 
2016 the company was awarded five new licences  
in Norway including one as Operator as part of APA 
2015. Cairn’s first operatorship in the region is on 
production licence 842 with the Storhaug prospect  
in the Norwegian North Sea (Cairn 40% WI). The 
Kraken West appraisal well in the UK North Sea 
confirmed the presence of oil, with potential for upside 
and further evaluation is ongoing. The Crossbill well  
in the Norwegian North Sea (Wintershall Operator , 
Cairn 20% WI) was dry and operations were 
completed in Q2 and the well permanently plugged 
and abandoned. In the Greater Catcher area, the 
Bonneville satellite oil discovery was relinquished 
during the year as changes in UK tax allowances  
no longer meant the field was commercially viable.  
The Laverda exploration well in the UK North Sea  
is planned for Q2 2016 (Cairn 36% WI).
2015 activity
 – Kraken and Catcher developments progressed
 – 1 non-operated well, UK
 – 1 non-operated well, Norway 
Discover more: Our assets
www.cairnenergy.com/operations
UK AND  
NORWAY  31 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
MOROCCO
The Foum Draa and Juby Maritime Permits offshore 
Morocco were relinquished in Q3 and Q4 2015.  
The CB-1 well drilled in Cap Boujdour , encountered 
hydrocarbons but the discovery was non-commercial 
and the well was plugged and abandoned in Q1 2015. 
Discussions are ongoing with Office National des 
Hydrocarbures et des Mines (ONHYM) for a new 
Boujdour Maritime contract area offshore Western 
Sahara (Kosmos Operator 55% WI, ONHYM 25% 
WI, Cairn 20% WI).
MAURITANIA
In block C-19 offshore Mauritania, additional 
technical studies are being conducted during an 
extension period to the first exploration phase,  
in order to further de-risk the prospects prior to  
a decision on entering the next phase, which has 
drilling commitments (Cairn 35% WI, Chariot Oil & 
Gas Operator 55% WI, Société Mauritanienne des 
Hydrocarbures et de Patrimoine Minier (SMHPM) 
10% WI).
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
The appraisal/exploration well on FEL 2/04  
offshore West of Ireland is now planned for 
2017/18, subject to Government of Ireland approval. 
Further interpretation and mapping will be carried 
out to finalise the additional prospective resource 
potential (Cairn Operator 38% WI, Providence 58% 
WI and Sosina 4%).
Countries
 – Greenland: 1 licence
 – Ireland: 3 licences
 – Malta: 1 Exploration 
Study Agreement
 – Mauritania: 1 licence
 – Morocco: 1 licence
2015 Activity
 – 1 non-operated  
well drilled offshore 
Western Sahara
Discover more: Our assets
www.cairnenergy.com/operations
INTERNATIONAL  32 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
Opening 
net funds
Pre-award
 costs
Exploration
 and development
 additions
Proceeds 
on farm-down
Norway tax
refund
Admin and
other income
and costs
borrowings 
and facility fees
Foreign exchange 
movements
Closing 
net funds
900
US$m
600
700
800
500
400
300
Increase in assets Decrease in assets
869
(35)
(323)
55
52
(8)
(7)
603
FINANCIAL REVIEW
James Smith, Chief Financial Officer
NET FUNDS AND CAPIT AL EXPENDITURE
At 31 December 2015, the Group held cash balances 
of US$603m (2014: US$869m). The Group’s 
Reserve-Based Lending facility remains undrawn 
with debt availability to fund UK development assets 
increasing with project progress and with availability 
expected to reach US$335m at peak and US$260m 
by 2017 . An additional sum of US$175m is available 
in the form of Letters of Credit.
The Group is currently operating a three well 
exploration and appraisal campaign offshore Senegal 
with remaining costs forecast of US$100m. Cash 
expenditure on the Group’s development projects in 
the year was US$114m with forecast costs through 
to end 2017 of US$465m. 
Cairn’s cash resources reduced from US$869m at 
31 December 2014 to US$603m at the year end. 
Cairn’s net cash outflow is analysed as follows:
Cairn enters 2016 fully funded to complete an active 
exploration and appraisal drilling campaign focusing on 
Senegal, as well as to deliver first oil from the Kraken 
and Catcher development projects in the UK North Sea, 
which will generate cashflow for the Group from 2017. 
JAMES SMITH
Chief Financial Officer
14 March 2016
FULL Y FUNDED 
TO DELIVER
As a result of actively managing  
its capital programme, reducing 
administrative expenditure and 
maintaining strong cash balances and 
undrawn debt facilities, the Group is 
in a strong financial position, able to 
withstand and deliver returns from  
a lower oil price environment. 
2015 Net Funds Movements 33 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Opening 
oil and gas 
assets
Exploration
additions
Development
additions –
North West
Europe
Unsuccessful
exploration
costs – Other
International
Unsuccessful 
exploration
costs – North
West Europe
Disposals –
North West
Europe
Impairment Foreign
exchange
Closing 
oil and gas 
assets
1,300
US$m
1,000
1,100
1,200
900
800
700
Increase in assets Decrease in assets
885
152
231 (53)
(44)
(73)
(43)
(52)
1,003
EXPLORATION ASSETS
SENEGAL 
Cairn commenced its current exploration and 
appraisal programme offshore Senegal in September 
2015 with the seismic programme across the 
Sangomar Offshore block and part of the Rufisque 
block. The first of the current three well exploration 
and appraisal wells planned, the SNE-2 appraisal  
well spudded in October 2015 and completed in 
January 2016. 
Following completion of the well, the Ocean Rig 
Athena moved to the SNE-3 well location which 
commenced drilling operations in January 2016  
and completed in March 2016. 
For the year to 31 December 2015, exploration and 
appraisal additions in Senegal of US$61m include 
costs of the seismic campaign of US$5m and drilling 
costs associated with the two wells spudded in 2015 
of US$40m. At 31 December 2015, total exploration 
costs capitalised in Senegal were US$228m. 
OTHER AFRICA
The Group completed one further well in the African 
region during 2015; the Cap Boujdour well, offshore 
Morocco. The well, which completed in March  
2015 was unsuccessful with total costs relating  
to the licence of US$82m charged to the Income 
Statement, US$35m in 2015 and US$47m in 2014. 
The Cap Boujdour licence is now in the process of 
relinquishment, though the JV is looking to enter  
into a new exploration licence on the acreage. Cairn 
relinquished the Foum Draa and Juby Maritime 
licences offshore Morocco in the current year .
The Group have agreed a 12 month extension to  
its offshore exploration licence C-19 in Mauritania. 
There are no significant commitments under  
this licence. 
Analysis of the cash flow movements on assets to expenditure in the financial statements is as follows:
Exploration and pre-award costs Development
Senegal  
US$m
North West 
Europe  
US$m
Other  
US$m
Total  
US$m
North Sea 
US$m
Expenditure 61 66 61 188 231
Working capital movements  
(excluding carry) 53 40 (37) 56 (47)
Dyas Carry (non-cash) – – – – (70)
Cash outflow 114 106 24 244 114
2015 Movements in Oil and Gas assets
OIL AND GAS ASSETS 34 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
FINANCIAL REVIEW  
CONTINUED
NORTH WEST EUROPE
Exploration
In the North Sea, Cairn completed one exploration 
well and one appraisal well in 2015, one in Norway 
and one in the UK. 
The Crossbill exploration well in Norway was dry and 
costs of US$13m were expensed. The West Kraken 
appraisal well in the UK completed during the year 
successfully encountering oil. Work continues to 
evaluate this discovery.
In the Greater Catcher area, the Bonneville oil 
discovery was relinquished during the year . Changes 
in UK tax allowances together with reduced oil price 
meant the discovery was no longer commercially 
viable. Related costs of US$24m were charged to  
the Income Statement as unsuccessful exploration. 
The Carnaby satellite field, within the Catcher 
development area, is sub-commercial under revised 
economics and related costs of US$17m have been 
fully impaired in the year .
The carrying value of exploration assets in North 
West Europe at 31 December of US$134m includes 
US$64m of costs related to the Skarfjell discovery  
in Norway where progress continues towards 
development sanction. Remaining costs of US$70m 
are spread across the Group’s portfolio of North Sea 
exploration licences, including US$35m relating to 
the Laverda and Sunbeam prospects in the Greater 
Catcher area where firm exploration wells are 
planned in 2016 and 2018 respectively.
Cairn continues to pursue new opportunities in  
the UK-Norway region including the Barents Sea. 
Seismic acquisition costs in the year in this area  
were US$7m and are included in pre-award costs 
expensed through the Income Statement. 
DEVELOPMENT ASSETS
CATCHER FARM-DOWN
Cairn completed the farm-down of a 10% working 
interest in the Catcher Development asset and 
associated exploration licences to Dyas in January 
2015. Proceeds were in the form of a carry of 
US$182m back dated to the economic effective date 
of 1 January 2014. On completion of the deal, Cairn 
received a refund of costs of US$55m (US$36m 
under the carry) and the remaining carry was 
recognised as a current asset at its discounted, 
post-tax fair value.
The transaction resulted in an accounting gain  
of US$27m, with a related deferred tax credit of 
US$5m. US$12m of proceeds have been allocated  
to exploration assets.
ADDITIONS IN THE YEAR
2015 was a year of significant progress on the 
Group’s two UK development projects.
Development drilling in the Kraken project 
commenced in May 2015 and, by the year end, 13 
wells (including top-holes) had spudded. Sub-surface 
activity has continued as planned and on budget. 
Total capital expenditure in the year was US$152m.
Following the Catcher farm-down to Dyas, the costs 
of Cairn’s working interest share in the Catcher 
development were carried through the period. 
Additions in the year of US$80m primarily reflect 
the carry that has been utilised post completion of 
the farm-down. It is currently forecast that Cairn will 
continue to be carried to mid 2016. During the year , 
development drilling also commenced in Catcher  
and two wells were drilled by the end of 2015.
As the developments progress, Cairn has provided 
US$31m for the costs of decommissioning based  
on the number of wells spudded and the subsurface 
work undertaken to the year end.
IMPAIRMENTS TESTING ON EXPLORATION/
APPRAISAL AND DEVELOPMENT ASSETS  
AND RELATED GOODWILL
At the year end, Cairn’s exploration, appraisal and 
development assets were tested for impairment.  
The fair value of the Group’s key exploration and 
development assets used in the impairment test are 
calculated using discounted cash-flow models. Key 
inputs into the models include the forecast date of 
first-oil from the development assets, reserve 
estimates and production profiles and the  
directors’ long-term oil price assumption.
At the December Board meeting, the directors 
agreed to reduce the Group’s long-term oil price 
assumption effective for the period commencing 
1 January 2019, from US$90 per barrel to US$80, 
per barrel. The Group’s short-term assumption, 
based on the forward curve for the initial three  
year period, remains unchanged.
As a consequence of the revised oil price assumption, 
an impairment has arisen on the Group’s exploration 
assets in the Greater Catcher area, with a charge of 
US$17m and a further charge of US$25m on the 
Catcher development asset. No impairment arose  
on Kraken. Sensitivity analysis is included in the 
financial statements, but a reduction in the long-term 
assumption to US$70 per barrel would increase the 
impairment charge on development assets to 
US$176m.
The impact of delays to either or both development 
projects has also been considered in the sensitivity 
analysis with no material impact at oil price 
assumptions greater than US$65. Delays to first oil 
production will have greater impact on the Group’s 
liquidity position and this has been tested through 
various scenarios run to allow directors to conclude 
on both the going concern assumption used to 
prepare the Group financial statements and in  
the longer-term viability statement included  
in the Strategic Report.
The Group’s goodwill allocated to the North Sea 
operating segment was also tested for impairment 
using the same oil price assumptions; no impairment 
was identified. 35 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Financial Asset – Investment in Cairn India
Cairn’s residual ~ 10% interest in CIL remains 
classified as a non-current available for sale financial 
asset, with a carrying value of US$384m at the 
balance sheet date. 
The fall in value of the Group’s investment over the 
year of US$319m, is recorded as an impairment  
in the Group Income Statement (US$177m was 
recorded as an impairment in the Group’s 2015 
half-year financial statements).
RESUL TS FOR THE YEAR
Pre-award costs
Seismic acquisition costs in the Barents Sea and 
North Sea new ventures activities account for 
US$25m of the Group’s total pre-award costs  
of US$35m. 
Unsuccessful exploration costs
Moroccan exploration write offs reflect the Cap 
Boujdour well, drilled over Q4 2014 and Q1 2015 
and final costs from the 2013/14 drilling campaign. 
The North West Europe charges occur following  
the unsuccessful Crossbill exploration well and the 
relinquishment of the Bonneville satellite field in the 
Catcher area. Other unsuccessful costs are offset  
by the release of provisions on exit from Nepal.
Administration expenses
Following the Group re-organisation implemented in 
2014, Cairn’s year-on-year , recurring administration 
costs have reduced from US$59m to US$30m. 
Non-recurring administration costs include the cost 
of defending the Group’s position in India which were 
US$4m (2014: US$8m). Costs of the re-organisation 
itself of US$8m, including accelerated share-based 
payment charges, were incurred in 2014; no charges 
arose in the current year .
Tax credit on operational  
and administrative expenses
The tax credit in the year primarily relates to refunds 
receivable in Norway on qualifying pre-award and 
administrative costs and on the costs of the 
unsuccessful Crossbill well.
Impairment of financial asset
The decline in the market value of Cairn India  
Limited results in an impairment charge for the  
year of US$319m (2014: US$194m). There were  
no disposals of shares in Cairn India Limited in the 
current period as the restriction on sale imposed on 
Cairn was in place throughout the year . Sales in 2014 
prior to the imposition of the restriction generated 
gains of US$4m.
Gain on sale of oil and gas assets
The Catcher farm-down, completed in January 2015, 
generated a gain on sale of US$27m. Associated tax 
credits of US$5m arose on the transaction.
Impairment of oil and gas assets
The reduction in the Group’s long term oil price 
assumption drove a US$43m impairment of oil and 
gas assets. In addition, the Group reversed deferred 
tax assets previously recognised in respect of UK tax 
losses available for offset against future production 
from its UK assets. 
Finance Income and Costs
Finance income includes dividends receivable from 
Cairn India of US$12m (2014: US$35m). Cairn India 
is currently prohibited from remitting the proceeds 
of the dividends to Cairn. Finance income also 
includes US$4m of unwinding of discount on the 
Catcher carry.
Finance costs include exchange losses of US$14m 
and charges on the Group’s undrawn facility of 
US$6m.
RESUL TS FOR THE YEAR
Year ended 
31 December 
2015  
US$m
Year ended 
31 December  
2014  
US$m
Pre-award costs (35) (55)
Unsuccessful well costs (97) (208)
Administrative expenses and other income/costs (31) (65)
Related tax credit 37 122
Operational and administrative expenses (126) (206)
Net finance (costs)/income (1) 4
Impairment of financial asset (319) (194)
Gain on sale of financial asset – 4
Related tax credit 10 41
CIL investment impairment and disposal (309) (149)
Gain on disposal of oil and gas assets 27 2
Impairment of oil and gas assets (43) (47)
Related tax (charge)/credit (64) 15
Oil and gas asset sales and impairment (80) (30)
Total loss after tax (516) (381)
TAXATION
INDIAN TAX ARBITRATION
International arbitration proceedings have 
commenced to settle the Indian tax dispute with 
Cairn claiming full compensation for the value of 
which its shareholders have been deprived. Based on 
detailed legal advice, no provision is recorded in the 
financial statements. Details of the assessment order 
received from the Indian Income T ax Department 
and the Group’s maximum exposure are included 
within the contingent liability disclosures in Note 5.5 
to the financial results on page 143. 
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERT AINTIES
As the Group continue to focus on delivering value for 
shareholders from the discovery and development 
of hydrocarbons within a sustainable, self-funding 
business model, the principal risks and uncertainties
facing the Group at the end of 2015 were as follows:
 – Sustained low oil price;
 – Restriction on ability to sell Cairn India Limited 
shareholding;
 – Kraken and Catcher development activities and 
production start up not executed on schedule 
and budget; and
 – Lack of exploration or appraisal success.  RISK IDENTIFICA TION  
AND MANAGEMENT
36 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
MANAGING BUSINESS RISKS
Managing risks and opportunities is essential to 
Cairn’s long-term success and sustainability. Good 
risk management does not imply avoiding all risks at 
all costs. It means making informed choices regarding 
the risks that the Group wishes to take in the pursuit 
of objectives. The Group endeavours to pursue 
HOW WE MANAGE RISK
The Group annually sets a number of KPI objectives 
which are designed to measure delivery of the 
Group’s strategy. Each KPI will have a number  
of associated risks and opportunities which may 
positively or negatively impact on the achievement  
of that objective. Fully understanding these risks  
and opportunities is, therefore, important to ensure 
they can be properly managed or exploited. This 
management of risk and opportunity plays a key role 
in the successful delivery of the Group’s strategy.
RISK IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT
Cairn’s system for identifying and managing risks is 
embedded from the top down in its organisational 
structure, operations and management systems and 
accords with the risk management guidelines and 
principles set out in ISO 31000, the International 
Standard for Risk Management. The Group’s risk 
management structure is set out in the diagram  
to the left.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring  
the Group’s risk management and internal control 
frameworks are appropriate and embedded across 
the business. Principal risks are reviewed at each 
Board meeting and, at least once a year , the Board 
undertakes a risk workshop. The Board is also 
responsible for setting the tone and influencing  
the culture of risk management for the Group. 
The audit committee, chaired by Iain McLaren, 
Senior Independent Director , monitors and reviews 
the scope and effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal control policies and procedures for the 
identification, assessment and reporting of risks to 
the Board. This includes monitoring the output from 
each Risk Management Committee (RMC) meeting 
and assessing the status of key risk management and 
internal control projects. 
In 2015, the RMC was chaired by the Chief Financial 
Officer , James Smith, and also included the Chief 
Executive, Chief Operating Officer , Director of 
Exploration, Regional Directors and other senior 
managers. In 2016, the RMC is chaired by the Chief 
Executive, Simon Thomson. The RMC is responsible 
for setting the strategic direction for risk management 
in the Group and aims to facilitate continual 
improvement of the risk management system. It does 
this by ensuring the Group’s risk framework for the 
identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting  
on all areas of risk is fit for purpose. The RMC also 
considers the principal risks to the business.
Cairn Energy PLC Board
Overall responsibility for  
setting risk appetite and  
maintaining sound risk  
management and internal  
control systems
Board oversight of framework  
of internal controls and  
risk management
Monitoring risk management 
issues throughout the business
Embedding risk management 
throughout the organisation
Assurance to management  
and the Board
Audit Committee
Risk Management Committee
Integrated business risk management 
system, including review by the 
Management T eam
Regional  
asset risks
Senegal, UK and 
Norway and 
International
Corporate 
functional 
department 
and project 
risks
New venture 
risks
Cairn’s KPI objectives, designed to deliver upon Cairn’s strategy, have a 
number of associated risks and opportunities which may impact on their 
achievement. Understanding these is critical to ensure they can be 
appropriately managed or exploited.
ROBUST RISK 
MANAGEMENT 
investment opportunities which offer an appropriate 
level of return whilst ensuring the level of associated 
political, commercial and technical risk remain within 
the risk appetite of the Group.  PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERT AINTIES 
37 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
The risks associated with the delivery of the strategy 
and work programmes and the associated mitigation 
measures and action plans are maintained in a series 
of risk registers at Group, regional, asset, function  
and project level. Assessment of the potential risks 
plays a fundamental role in the evaluation of each  
new investment opportunity and the ongoing 
management of all projects. The risks and mitigating 
actions from all of these sources are consolidated into 
the Group risk matrix and presented at the different 
meetings and committees outlined in the structure  
to the left. 
RISK APPETITE
Cairn operates across the whole value chain of the 
upstream exploration and production business, 
allocating capital and resources proportionally to 
opportunities which are assessed for the likelihood 
and impact of their risk and reward. As part of an 
annual process, alongside the setting of strategic 
objectives, the Board determines the level of risk the 
Group is willing to accept in pursuit of objectives and 
these are documented in the Group Risk Appetite 
Statement. The purpose of the Group Risk Appetite 
Statement is to establish a common understanding 
between the Board and senior management as to  
the amount, level and type of risk the organisation  
is willing to seek, accept and tolerate in the pursuit  
of strategy and value creation. 
In the latter half of the year , the Board reviewed  
the Group’s risk appetite and supplementary risk 
tolerance levels to determine if any changes in the 
internal or external business environment had 
impacted on the Group’s appetite for risk. The Board 
assessed the tolerance levels across a number of 
areas including capital invested, economic thresholds, 
solvency, health and safety, environmental, political, 
reputational and technical and concluded the risk 
appetite statement remained appropriate for the 
Group. The Board will continue to review key risks  
to ensure they remain within the boundaries defined 
by the Group Risk Appetite Statement. 
RESPONDING TO THE CHANGING RISK 
ENVIRONMENT IN 2015
As part of steps taken to seek continual improvement 
of the risk management process, the following 
enhancements were made in 2015:
 – the Board completed a risk workshop to 
undertake a robust assessment of the principal 
risks to and opportunities for achieving the 
Group’s strategic objectives. As part of the 
workshop, the Board confirmed the risk  
appetite and supplementary risk tolerance  
levels remained appropriate; 
 – the Group’s risk management procedures were 
revised and updated to embed a more consistent 
approach to managing risk across the Group, 
regardless of geography. Training is scheduled for 
H1 2016 for key stakeholders across the Group;
SUST AINED LOW OIL PRICE
The continuing low oil price is both a risk and 
opportunity for the Group. The low oil price  
is driving down industry costs introducing the 
potential for cost efficiencies in the Group’s 
exploration, appraisal and development 
projects. The lower oil price environment, 
however , has reduced the amount of debt 
available under the Group’s Reserve Based 
Lending (RBL) facility and may impact on the 
availability of other sources of funding for  
the Group. Declining oil prices may also impact 
the ability of our JV partners to fund work 
programme expenditures. 
Read more: Financial review
P32-35
32
RESTRICTION ON ABILITY TO SELL CAIRN 
INDIA LIMITED SHAREHOLDING
The Indian Income T ax Department is  
seeking to apply tax to a 2006 internal group 
reorganisation prior to the IPO of the Group’s 
Indian business at that time. Cairn strongly 
contests their tax claim and is challenging it 
under domestic Indian and international law. 
However , in the meantime, Cairn is restricted 
from monetising its remaining assets in India 
which are material to the Group. If that 
restriction continues or if the tax claim  
is enforced against those Indian assets,  
that value may be further impaired.
Read more: Financial review
P32-35
32
KRAKEN AND CATCHER DEVELOPMENT 
ACTIVITIES AND PRODUCTION ST ART-
UP NOT EXECUTED ON SCHEDULE  
AND BUDGET
The Kraken and Catcher development projects 
remain on track to deliver free cash flow from 
2017 . Development projects of this nature, 
however , can be susceptible to delays and 
budget increases for a variety of reasons and 
this may lead to increased costs and delays in 
future cash flow. T o mitigate these risks, the 
Group works closely with its JV partners to 
support and/or influence key decisions. 
Read more: Operational review
P26-31
26
LACK OF EXPLORATION  
OR APPRAISAL SUCCESS
Exploration and appraisal success is 
fundamental to the strategy of creating  
value through discovery and development  
of hydrocarbon resources. In 2015, the  
Group commenced its appraisal programme 
offshore Senegal with successful testing  
of SNE-2, building on the success of the  
2014 discoveries. A lack of exploration and  
appraisal success, specifically in Senegal,  
may lead to limited or no value creation  
and a loss of investor confidence in the  
Group’s business model. 
Read more: Operational review
P26-31
26
AS THE GROUP CONTINUES TO FOCUS ON DELIVERING 
VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS FROM THE DISCOVERY  
AND DEVELOPMENT OF HYDROCARBONS WITHIN  
A SUST AINABLE, SELF-FUNDING BUSINESS MODEL,  
THE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERT AINTIES FACING  
THE GROUP A T THE END OF 2015 WERE AS FOLLOWS:
 – assurance maps were prepared for the key risks 
within the Group. The assurance maps helped 
identify potential areas of control weakness and/
or the ineffective use of assurance resources 
across the Group; and the Management Team 
(MT) formally conducted a review of the risks, 
mitigations and actions identified on the Group 
Risk Register each quarter to ensure ownership 
of the risks, mitigations and actions are clearly 
assigned and implementation dates for actions 
are tracked through to completion; and
 – Ernst and Young (EY), the Group’s internal auditor , 
completed an assessment of the Group’s level of 
compliance with the revised FRC requirements 
and an action plan was developed to address any 
gaps. All key actions were implemented.  38 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
During 2015, through a number of internal forums, the Group regularly reviewed the risks 
which could adversely impact on the achievement of strategic objectives. This included a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the Company at the Board meeting in December 2015. 
The following provides an overview of the principal risks to the Group at the end of 2015,  
the potential impacts, the mitigation measures and the KPIs the risks may impact. The list  
is not exhaustive nor set out in any order of priority and is continually subject to change. 
The Board confirm that a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company was 
completed during 2015 as follows:
STRA TEGIC RISKS
RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 MOVEMENT 2016 KPI OBJECTIVE
Lack of exploration or 
appraisal success 
 – Loss of investor 
confidence
 – Limited or no  
value creation
 – Failure of the  
balanced portfolio 
business model 
 – Active programme for high-grading 
new areas through licence rounds, 
farm-ins and other transactions
 – Inventory of prospects and leads 
that offer opportunities with 
a balance of geological and  
technical risks
 – Highly competent team applying  
a thorough review process of 
prospects and development 
opportunities and a team of 
geoscientists with a track record  
of delivering exploration success
 – Continue to seek out the right 
personnel who can add value, 
knowledge and experience to  
the Group 
This risk remained at the same level in 
2015. Key developments included:
 – Agreement with the Government of 
Senegal of an extensive evaluation 
plan. 3D seismic acquisition 
programme commenced in Q3 
2015 and a multi-well exploration 
and appraisal programme 
commenced in Q4 2015
 – The West of Kraken appraisal  
well confirmed the presence of oil, 
with potential for upside 
 – At year-end 2015, the Group’s 
exploration inventory comprised 
of 54 prospects and 146 leads 
across all of the Group’s acreage
 – The CB-1 non-operated well in 
Morocco and the non-operated 
Crossbill well in the Norwegian 
Continental Shelf were drilled, 
neither of which discovered oil
 – Maximise value  
in Senegal
 – Achieve 
exploration 
success through 
discovery or 
addition of 
commercial 
hydrocarbons  
in 2016
Kraken and Catcher 
development activities 
and production 
start-up not executed 
on schedule and 
budget
 – Increased costs
 – Delay or reduction  
in future cash flow
 – Reduction in  
debt capacity 
 – Actively engage with all our JV 
partners early to ensure highly 
effective working relationships
 – Independent verification of 
reserves and production profiles
 – Actively participate in technical 
meetings to challenge, apply 
influence and/or support our 
partners to establish a cohesive  
JV view and ensure operational 
activity is executed in a safe and 
secure manner 
 – Frequent site visits to key 
contractor sites to increase focus 
on quality assurance performance
 – Work closely with the Kraken and 
Catcher operators to monitor and 
review progress with key contracts 
This risk remained at the same level in 
2015. Key developments included:
 – Catcher is progressing under 
budget and is scheduled to deliver 
first oil in the second half of 2017 . 
Key milestones have been achieved 
during the year including the 
subsea installation work and  
as well as the 60 kilometre  
gas export pipeline being laid  
and tied-in during July 2015. 
Fabrication of the FPSO hull  
and topsides is ongoing in Asia
 – The Kraken FPSO vessel is at  
the shipyard in Singapore and the 
conversion plan is continuing on 
schedule. The fixed pipelines for 
the first two drill centres have  
been installed on the seabed.  
The project remains on course  
to deliver first oil in 2017
 – Successfully 
complete 
operated and 
non-operated 
2016 work 
programme
HOW WE MANAGE RISK
PRINCIPAL RISKS TO THE GROUP IN 2015/2016  
CONTINUED 39 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
STRA TEGIC RISKS CONTINUED
RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 MOVEMENT 2016 KPI OBJECTIVE
Inability to identify  
or secure prospective 
acreage at a cost  
which can generate 
reasonable returns
 – Loss of investor 
confidence
 – Loss of competitive 
edge
 – The Director of Exploration, with 
the support of the technical and 
commercial teams, continues  
to identify and review a  
number of prospects
 – Experience and knowledge 
throughout the organisation  
in recognising prospective 
opportunities 
This risk remained at the same level in 
2015. Key developments included: 
 – Cairn participated in the Norwegian 
2014 APA Licensing Round and was 
awarded five licences in Q1 2015
 – The Group submitted applications 
for the 2015 APA Norwegian 
Licensing Round and were awarded 
five licences in Q1 2016 including 
one as operator . The Group also 
participated in the Barents Sea 
23rd Licensing Round
 – A one year extension has been 
granted to block C-19 in Mauritania. 
This will provide sufficient time to 
carry out additional studies to 
further de-risk the prospects
 – In Malta, an exploration study in 
Area 3 is in progress 
 – Portfolio 
optimisation and 
replenishment
Sustained low oil price  – Reduction in future 
cash flow
 – Value impairment  
of development 
projects
 – JV partner capital 
constraints
 – Sensitivity reports completed  
to assess robustness of projects 
and development decisions
 – Operators cost initiatives 
delivering material cost reductions 
on development projects
 – Lower cost environment for  
E&A activities
This risk increased in 2015.  
Key developments included:
 – Using forward curve oil pricing  
has reduced the Group’s forecast 
operating cash flows over the  
next three years
 – A reduction in forecast oil prices 
has reduced debt availability under 
the Group’s RBL facility and may 
continue to do so 
 – In addition, the Group’s JV 
partners may experience capital 
constraints leading to a reallocation 
of capital and a reprioritisation of 
projects in which the Group has an 
equity interest
 – Manage balance 
sheet strength 40 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
HOW WE MANAGE RISK
PRINCIPAL RISKS TO THE GROUP IN 2015/2016  
CONTINUED
OPERA TIONAL RISKS
RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 MOVEMENT 2016 KPI OBJECTIVE
Operational and  
project performance
 – Increased well costs
 – Incomplete well 
programme
 – HSE incident
 – Reputational 
damage
 – Comprehensive set of criteria that 
must be met before contracting 
and accepting any rig
 – Work closely with the rig 
contractors to exert influence  
and impose our performance 
expectations
 – Management and influence of 
drilling contractors to ensure Cairn 
management systems are fully 
embedded in operations
 – Positive and regular engagement 
with JV operators and partners to 
share knowledge and offer support
This risk has remained at the same 
level in 2015. Key developments 
include:
 – The Group has commenced 
operations in Senegal (Ocean  
Rig Athena), Kraken (Transocean 
Leader) and Catcher (Ensco-100) 
and there is a continued exposure 
to potential operational 
performance issues
 – The seismic acquisition in Senegal 
was successfully completed on 
schedule and budget. Seismic 
delivery for non-operated projects, 
principally in Norway and Morocco, 
was behind schedule
 – The Group continues to work 
closely with the operators and 
drilling contractor to establish  
and implement mitigation plans, 
with safety being at the forefront 
of all considerations, before and 
during operations 
 – Successfully 
complete 
operated and 
non-operated 
2016 work 
programme
HEAL TH, SAFETY , ENVIRONMENT AND SECURITY RISKS
RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 MOVEMENT 2016 KPI OBJECTIVE
Health, safety, 
environmental and 
security incidents 
 – Serious injury  
or death
 – Environmental 
impacts 
 – Reputational 
damage
 – Regulatory penalties 
and clean-up costs
 – Effectively managing health, 
safety, security and environmental 
risk exposure is the first priority  
for the Board, SLT and MT
 – The Group’s Corporate 
Responsibility Management 
System (CRMS) was streamlined  
in 2015. Training on the updated 
CRMS has been provided to key 
stakeholders to ensure processes 
and procedures are embedded 
throughout the organisation  
and all operations, ensuring all 
potential health, safety, security, 
environmental and societal 
impacts are proactively identified, 
evaluated and treated 
 – Process in place for assessing  
an operator’s overall operating  
and HSE capabilities, including 
undertaking JV audits to determine 
the level of oversight required
 – Emergency response procedures  
and equipment are maintained  
and regularly tested to ensure  
the Group is able to respond to  
an emergency quickly, safely and 
effectively. This is being done in 
conjunction with the JV partners  
in Senegal 
This risk remained at the same level in 
2015. Key developments include: 
 – The Group’s safety performance 
improved overall in 2015 and 
achieved Total Recordable Injury 
Rate (TRIR) of zero per million 
hours. The Group’s target was less 
than 2.0 per million hours. The rate 
in 2014 was 3.88 per million hours
 – Deliver activities 
with a focus on 
the safety of 
people and the 
environment
 – Continue to 
enhance the 
Group’s HSE 
culture, 
behaviours  
and approach 41 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
OPERA TIONAL RISKS CONTINUED
RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 MOVEMENT 2016 KPI OBJECTIVE
Reliance on JV 
operators for asset 
performance
 – Cost/schedule 
overruns
 – Poor performance  
of assets
 – HSE performance
 – Delay in first oil  
from development 
projects
 – Impact on asset 
value
 – Actively engage with all JV 
partners early to establish good, 
trusting, working relationships
 – Actively participate in technical 
meetings to challenge, apply 
influence and/or support partners 
to establish a cohesive JV view
 – Application of the Group risk 
management processes
 – Monitor the financial standing  
of JV partners
This risk has increased in 2015.  
Key developments include:
 – Due to the continued low oil price, 
there is an increased risk that the 
Group’s JV partners may not be 
able to fund work programme 
expenditures and may reprioritise 
projects
 – The Group continues to work 
closely with a number of partners 
in Senegal, the North Sea, the 
Norwegian Continental Shelf  
and Morocco
 – Successfully 
complete 
operated and 
non-operated 
2016 work 
programme
FINANCIAL RISKS
RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 MOVEMENT 2016 KPI OBJECTIVE
Restriction on ability 
to sell CIL shareholding 
 – Restriction in the 
funding capacity  
of the Group
 – Committed work programme is 
fully funded from existing sources 
of funding, principally Group cash
 – Continued engagement with the 
Indian Government
 – Robust legal protections 
This risk remained at the same level in 
2015. Key developments include:
 – Restriction on monetising assets in 
India remains in place
 – International arbitration 
proceedings have commenced  
to settle the Indian tax dispute.  
An arbitration panel has now  
been appointed
 – Cairn has continued to engage 
with the Indian Government and 
the UK Government throughout 
2015
 – Manage balance 
sheet strength
Uncertainty in  
fiscal regimes
 – Loss of value
 – Uncertain financial 
outcomes
 – Engage closely with regulators  
in all jurisdictions where the  
Group has activities
 – Legal agreements in place  
to protect interests 
 – Seek appropriate legal and  
tax advice
This risk remained at the same level  
in 2015. Key developments include:
 – The Group has assets in a number  
of different geographies and is 
potentially exposed to sudden  
or unplanned changes in tariffs  
or taxes
 – Manage balance 
sheet strength
Inability to access 
internal or external 
funding
 – Work programme 
restricted by 
reduced capital 
availability
 – Committed work programme is 
fully funded from existing sources 
of funding, principally Group cash
 – Continue to actively manage the 
portfolio and capital programme
 – Continue to assess other forms  
of financing and seek release  
of Indian assets
This risk has increased in 2015.  
Key developments include:
 – A reduction in forecast oil prices 
has reduced debt availability under 
the Group’s RBL facility and may 
impact on the availability of other 
sources of external funding
 – Manage balance 
sheet strength 42 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
HOW WE MANAGE RISK
PRINCIPAL RISKS TO THE GROUP IN 2015/2016  
CONTINUED
REPUT A TIONAL RISKS
ORGANISA TIONAL RISKS
RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 MOVEMENT 2016 KPI OBJECTIVE
Negative stakeholder 
reaction to our 
operations
 – Reputational 
damage
 – Loss of investor 
confidence
 – Loss of licence  
to operate
 – Comprehensive stakeholder 
management and communication 
plans have been developed and 
executed for all operations
 – Actively monitor steps being  
taken by regulators and industry 
through participation in industry 
bodies such as the International 
Association of Oil & Gas Producers 
and Oil & Gas UK
This risk remained at the same level in 
2015. Key developments include:
 – The Group has assets in a number 
of different geographies and 
therefore there is potential for 
stakeholder opposition to the 
Group’s activities. In 2015, the 
Group has continued to engage 
with local stakeholders and 
developed an engagement 
strategy and investment 
programme in Senegal
 – Deliver activities 
with a focus on 
the safety of 
people and the 
environment
RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION 2015 MOVEMENT 2016 KPI OBJECTIVE
Staff recruitment  
and retention
 – Inadequate resource 
to deliver work 
programme 
 – Loss of key 
knowledge and 
experience
 – The organisational restructure 
consultation process in 2014 
identified the skills required to 
deliver the work programme  
and the Group worked to ensure 
key people were retained
 – Regional Directors and 
Departmental Heads agree 
resource requirements as part  
of the annual work programme  
and budget processes
 – As an accredited Investor in People, 
we support continuous professional 
development through technical, 
professional, management and 
behavioural skills courses as well  
as mentoring and educational 
assistance schemes
 – Succession planning is in place for 
all areas of the business
This risk has decreased in 2015.  
Key developments include:
 – The Group underwent a 
reorganisation in 2014 with  
the objective of ensuring the 
organisation remained appropriate 
to the future activity levels and 
work programme. The Group has 
since added a number of positions 
in Senegal and the UK and Norway
 – Prevailing market conditions have 
allowed the Group to attract a 
number of highly experienced 
personnel
 – No specific KPI 
objective 43 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
VIABILITY STATEMENT
 – lack of exploration or appraisal success would 
impact on the delivery of Cairn’s strategy but 
would not be expected to impact on the Group’s 
ability to fund its committed work programme.
The Board also considers further scenarios  
around the base plan. These primarily reflect  
a more severe impact of the principal risks, both 
individually and in aggregate, as well as the additional 
capital requirements that would result from future 
exploration or appraisal success or the acquisition  
of new assets. 
The directors consider the impact that these 
Principal risks could, in certain circumstances, have 
on the Group’s prospects within the assessment 
period, and accordingly assess the opportunities  
to actively manage its licence portfolio and  
planned capital allocation as well as to bring in 
additional sources of funding at key milestones  
in asset development.
Based on the actions available to them, the  
directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group will be able to continue in operation and  
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three  
year period of their assessment.
At each Board meeting, the directors consider the 
sources of funding available to the Group against the 
capital requirements of the anticipated future work 
programme (the base plan) in the context of the 
performance and prospects of the business. The 
Board recognises that a significant part of this work 
programme is dependent on the results of future 
exploration or appraisal activity and also that it is  
the Group’s strategy to actively manage its licence 
portfolio to optimise its planned capital allocation. 
Consequently, reflecting this inherent variability  
in the longer term work programme, the Board  
has determined that three years is the appropriate 
period over which to assess the Group’s prospects.
The Principal risks and uncertainties that affect the 
Board’s assessment of the Group’s viability are:
 – development project schedule and budget risk; 
 – the effect of sustained lower oil prices on the 
business and our partners’ financial positions;
 – restriction on ability to sell Cairn India 
shareholding; and
 – lack of exploration or appraisal success.
The base plan incorporates assumptions that reflect 
the impact of these Principal risks as follows:
 – material budget contingencies and allowances 
are included for development projects as well  
as appropriate delay assumptions;
 – projected operating cash flows assume oil and 
gas prices in line with the current forward curve;
 – whilst the resolution of the Cairn India dispute 
remains a strategic priority, the funding plan does 
not include monetisation of the Group’s shares in 
Cairn India Limited; and
The directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over  
a three year period to March 2019, taking account of the Group’s 
current position and the potential impact of the principal risks 
documented on pages 38 to 42. THE 3Rs  
OUR BUSINESS 
PRINCIPLES ARE  
BASED ON THESE  
CORE V ALUES
RESPECT
We act with respect for 
people, their communities,  
the environment, human rights 
and the law.  
RESPONSIBILITY
We behave fairly and ethically  
and are accountable for our 
actions. We believe in, and  
act on, our responsibility to 
care for people, society and 
the environment. 
RELATIONSHIPS
We act honestly, transparently 
and with integrity to develop 
strong, lasting relationships 
with all our stakeholders. 
44 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
DELIVERING 
VALUE FOR 
ST AKEHOLDERS
WORKING RESPONSIBL Y
CEO’S INTRODUCTION
At all times, we are aware of the potential impacts 
our work can have on the local communities where 
we operate. A key activity in Senegal this year , 
therefore, has been to build relationships and foster 
communications with key stakeholders such as the 
fishing communities who may have been affected 
during our seismic activities. We successfully 
commenced our planned 3D seismic campaign in 
September following completion of a voluntary 
baseline environmental assessment review  
and regulatory approval. We maintained close 
communications with fishing representatives  
and government and maritime agencies prior  
to and during the campaign. The seismic work  
was successfully completed in November despite 
high fishing activity. We received a single claim for 
fishing net damage, which was managed through  
our established claim procedure.
We continued to work closely with the Senegal 
authorities both centrally and regionally to maintain 
our approvals for drilling, reviewing and refreshing 
our impact and safety risk work, which we shared 
proactively with national and local government  
and community representatives. The three-well 
exploration and appraisal drilling programme began 
in October following multiple stakeholder meetings 
and presentation of a formal communication and 
reporting plan. This plan promotes understanding  
of our industry through regular performance and 
activity updates to the national regulator . 
For the 2015/16 drilling programme, we engaged 
our joint venture partner , ConocoPhillips, as well 
activities delegate to undertake certain operations, 
including the contracting of the Ocean Rig Athena 
and certain related services on behalf of the joint 
venture. We have worked throughout with our 
suppliers, contractors and partners including 
ConocoPhillips to carry out our activities safely and 
to reduce our environmental and social footprint. 
As part of developing sustainable local benefits,  
I am very pleased that we are making progress with 
our Social Investment Programme in Senegal. We 
aim to promote the development of local people and 
suppliers toward supporting the oil and gas industry 
Corporate Responsibility is key to our business,  
delivering and protecting value for all our stakeholders.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
HELPS US DELIVER VALUE 
At Cairn, we have a responsibility to deliver  
value to our stakeholders through discovery and 
development of hydrocarbons in a safe, responsible 
and ethical manner . Putting Corporate Responsibility 
(CR) at the forefront of what we do from early phase 
exploration through to development and production 
provides value to our stakeholders throughout the 
oil and gas lifecycle. 
Our CR approach is based on our core values of 
building respect, nurturing relationships and acting 
responsibly, which we call the ‘3Rs’. 
These values underpin our ten Business Principles 
(see opposite) which set out our goals and the 
expected behaviours in the management of our 
business. These principles are embedded in our 
decisions and actions, inform our strategy and we 
hold ourselves accountable to them. Our Business 
Principles and CR Policies are regularly updated, 
most recently in October 2015 to reflect an 
increasing focus on major accident prevention 
embodied in recent developments in Europe, 
including UK offshore safety regulations. Our 
Business Principles and CR policies are available on 
our website at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility.
OUR PROGRESS IN 2015
I am pleased to report that our CR performance has 
improved further in 2015. We have ensured that our 
rigorous approach to CR has not been compromised 
by the tough market conditions faced by our industry 
during the year .
SENEGAL
In 2015, following our success in opening up a new 
Atlantic Margin basin in Senegal the previous year , 
our focus was on preparing for and commencing our 
multi-well appraisal and exploration programme 
along with a further 3D seismic acquisition. 45 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
into the future. We have continued to support 
capacity building initiatives identified in consultation 
with the regulating authorities as well as working 
with suppliers and academic institutions. For more 
details, please see responsibility section at  
www.cairnenergy.com.
NOT ABLE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
I am happy to report that our safety KPIs have 
improved overall in 2015 for our operated assets 
with no lost time injuries and no recordable injuries. In 
mid-January 2016, our Senegal shore base personnel 
and contractors reached 900 days without a lost time 
injury. We had no oil spills to the environment over 
2010-2014; however , we experienced one very 
minor oil spill incident in 2015: oil ‘drop-out’ from the 
flare (of less than one litre) during drill stem testing on 
the SNE-2 appraisal well. In addition, we had one very 
minor chemical spill (of less than one litre) of waste 
hydraulic oil which went to surface drain at the shore 
base during tank cleaning. 
NON-OPERATED ACTIVITIES
We continue to have a significant non-operated 
portfolio and we play a proactive role in engaging 
with our partners on CR requirements. In particular , 
we are working closely with our partners on the 
Catcher and Kraken developments in the UK North 
Sea to support delivery of first oil in 2017 . We also 
continue to participate in non-operated wells in the 
Norwegian and UK sectors. We pre-qualified as  
an operator in the Norwegian sector in 2015 and 
subsequently were awarded an operated licence. 
IMPROVING OUR MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
In 2015, we revised and updated our Corporate 
Responsibility Management System (CRMS) to 
better integrate it within the overall business 
management system. We have aligned our CRMS 
with the Cairn Operating Standards (COS) manual 
which sets out the standards by which our business 
processes must be carried out. Both the revised 
CRMS and COS documentation went live in January 
2016, but have been in operation practically during 
2015. In addition, we also completed a significant 
revision of our crisis and emergency arrangements 
including training and exercises.
Other developments in 2015 included improving  
our external engagement on issues material to  
the business, which has been helpful in confirming 
our understanding of the issues of importance  
to our stakeholders. 
LOOKING FORWARD
During 2016, we will continue to prioritise the health, 
safety and wellbeing of people while promoting safe 
behaviours of our contractors. We remain committed 
to protecting the environment in the areas in which 
we operate. Good governance will also continue with 
our commitment to meeting all of our tax and our 
other obligations in a transparent manner . We will 
monitor the security situation across the business 
and will introduce further improvements and  
training for business travellers.
In 2016, as operator , we will be progressing the 
appraisal and exploration programme offshore 
Senegal that commenced last year . We will continue 
to learn from and apply our experiences towards 
increasing local participation through developing 
skills critical to working in the oil and gas sector .  
This also improves awareness, serving to promote 
effective engagement with key stakeholders.  
We intend to follow-up with stakeholders in  
Senegal to test the quality and effectiveness of  
our CR plans as the project in Senegal develops. 
We will maintain our focus on monitoring the 
geo-political situation of our non-operated assets, 
including offshore Western Sahara, and will work 
closely with the operators to ensure we operate  
in accordance with our Business Principles and  
CR policies.
We will also investigate how we, as a business,  
can more effectively measure and demonstrate  
the value of our activities to stakeholders.  
We will continue to uphold and support the  
ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact  
(https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/
mission/principles) and we will remain a Participating 
Company of the Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative. We believe that these two initiatives 
provide a valuable platform for promoting standards 
for ethical behaviour for our business and for those 
we interact with during the execution of our activities.
CR is and will remain a key focus at Cairn to help us 
deliver value for all of our stakeholders and protect 
our licence to operate.
SIMON THOMSON
Chief Executive
14 March 2016
 
Behaving 
responsibly  
to people
We develop the potential  
of our people
We foster a workplace that 
respects personal dignity 
and rights, is non-
discriminatory and 
provides fair rewards
We provide a healthy,  
safe and secure working 
environment
 
Behaving 
responsibly towards 
the environment
We take a precautionary 
approach and avoid, 
wherever possible, 
negative impacts on  
the environment and 
biodiversity
We seek to minimise our 
use of resources
We will prevent, or where 
that is not practical, 
minimise discharges to air , 
water and land
 
Behaving 
responsibly  
to society
We seek to make a positive 
social impact in every area 
in which we work
We respect the rights  
and acknowledge the 
aspirations and concerns  
of the communities in 
which we work
Overarching principle
We manage risk and seek to continually improve
Cairn’s T en Business Principles
Core principle
We behave honestly , fairly and with integrity 46 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
DELIVERING SOCIAL 
AND ECONOMIC VALUE 
TO STAKEHOLDERS
WORKING RESPONSIBL Y CONTINUED
CREATING VALUE THROUGH THE OIL AND GAS  
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION LIFECYCLE
Cairn looks to create, add and realise social and 
economic value for stakeholders through the oil  
and gas exploration and production life cycle. These 
include a broad group of stakeholders within the 
countries where we operate such as governments, 
communities, employees and local businesses.  
This value can be measured in financial terms, 
1. IDENTIFY 
Cairn uses an extensive screening  
process, including social, safety and 
environmental factors, to identify  
prospective areas for oil and gas.
2. EXPLORE 
We use sophisticated seismic and 
geological survey techniques to 
determine whether viable oil and gas 
reservoirs may exist and identify 
potential well locations for exploration 
drilling conducted using specialist 
installation and supporting contractors.
3. APPRAISE 
If exploration drilling is successful, 
appraisal drilling is then conducted to 
establish the size and characteristics  
of the discovery and provide technical 
information to optimise the method for 
recovery of the oil and gas. 
CREA TING VALUE ADDING VALUE
In 2015, Cairn participated in both the 2015 
APA and 23rd Licensing Rounds in Norway.
During 2015, Cairn successfully completed  
a 3D seismic survey offshore Senegal. 
We were also involved, as non-operator , in 
exploration drilling in the UK and Norwegian  
North Sea. Drilling offshore Western Sahara  
was completed in March 2015, encountering 
non-commercial volumes of hydrocarbons.
We commenced appraisal drilling offshore 
Senegal in 2015 with SNE-2 being completed at 
the turn of the year . The SNE-3 appraisal well has 
since been completed and the BEL -1 exploration 
and appraisal well has commenced. 
Recent examples
 – Licence payment
 – Due diligence expenses
 – Local employment and supplier opportunities
 – Local fees and taxes
 – Generating and sharing of geological and 
environmental data
 – De-risking state oil company and partner 
investment
 – Local employment and supplier opportunities
 – Infrastructure development
 – Social investment
 – Local fees and taxes
 – De-risking state oil company and partner 
investment
How we create value and contribute value
 – Licence fees
 – Detailed marine mammal observations shared 
with local authorities
 – Limited local employment 
 – De-risking state oil company and partner 
investment 
 – Local employment at Dakar office and port
 – Local contractor development
 – Institutional capacity building
 – Social Investment in education, enterprise 
development and micro-finance projects
 – Local fees and taxes
 – De-risking state oil and partner company 
investment
V alue contributed in Senegal in 2015
V alue created 47 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
may sometimes generate adverse impacts such as 
the generation of wastes but we manage the risks 
associated with our business responsibly and 
continually look at ways to minimise and mitigate 
against potential negative impacts and to maximise 
the social and economic benefits to create value 
where we operate.
for example, through payment of taxes, de-risking 
state oil company investment through exploration 
and appraisal and trading with local enterprises; it 
can also be measured in social terms through local 
employment, building skills and knowledge and 
aiding the development of local businesses and 
infrastructure. We recognise that our operations 
The oil and gas business is, by nature, long-term and 
we identify, create and realise value at the different 
stages of the oil and gas life-cycle as outlined below.
4. DEVELOP 
If appraisal wells show technically and 
commercially viable quantities of oil and 
gas, a development plan is prepared and 
submitted to the relevant authorities for 
approval, prior to the development and 
construction of production facilities.  
This includes a rigorous assessment  
of all the potential risks and a long- 
term assessment of environmental  
and social impacts. 
5. PRODUCE 
During this phase, which can last  
many decades, oil and gas is produced. 
Regular reviews are made of social and 
environmental performance.
6. RETURN  
AND RE-INVEST
This phase occurs when an area has not 
shown commercial hydrocarbon reserves 
or when hydrocarbons can no longer  
be extracted safely or economically.  
We will end operations and restore sites 
in a manner that protects people and  
the environment. 
REALISING VALUE
We are participating as non-operator in two 
development projects, the Kraken and Catcher 
fields, in the UK North Sea.
We had no operated production at the end  
of 2015. We anticipate production from our 
non-operated Catcher and Kraken developments 
fields from 2017 .
We have a ~ 10% residual interest in Cairn India 
Limited which is in the production phase.
In 2015, a non-operated well in St Laurent,  
France was decommissioned and the site restored.
ADDING VALUE
 – Local employment and supplier opportunities
 – Infrastructure development
 – Social investment
 – Local fees and taxes 
 – Local employment and supplier opportunities
 – Infrastructure development
 – Social investment
 – Local fees and taxes
 – Production royalties
 – Local employment and supplier opportunities
 – Local fees and taxes
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 48 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
GOOD PEOPLE  
ARE KEY TO HIGH 
PERFORMANCE
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
Cairn recognises that its people provide the foundation 
for its success and we place great emphasis on 
attracting, engaging and retaining the right blend  
of talent across the business. We strive to provide an 
open, stimulating and rewarding work environment 
to encourage high levels of staff engagement and 
drive strong performance at every level across the 
organisation. Our Company values of respect, 
relationships and responsibility are at the very  
heart of this.
In 2014, Cairn undertook a review of the Group’s 
organisation to ensure that it was appropriately 
resourced for the future activity levels and work 
programme. As a result, by the end of 2014, we  
had effected a 40% head count reduction across 
employees and contractors whilst retaining core 
competencies. The industry has been heavily 
impacted in 2015 by the continuing low oil price,  
with consequent reduction in workforces being  
seen across the sector . Following our actions  
in 2014, these market conditions did not impact 
Cairn staff levels in 2015 and we have remained 
properly resourced with the right skills to enable  
us to deliver our planned work programme .
With the new organisational structure from 1 January 
2015, the focus naturally shifted to further engaging 
staff within the organisation and ensuring that we 
remained best placed from a resource and capability 
perspective to deliver our 2015/16 business objectives. 
SUCCESSION PLANNING
Having a structured but flexible approach to 
succession planning is critical for ensuring successful 
continuity of the business in the event of a change – 
either planned or unplanned – in management and 
leadership or other key positions. Owing to the 2014 
reorganisation, it was essential that a revised 
succession plan be developed for the business.
Following a thorough analysis of the organisation’s 
talent pool, the Board was presented with a revised 
succession plan which provided a clear understanding 
of our skills base across the business; identified which 
key roles have potential successors; and similarly 
where there are gaps and risks associated from a 
succession perspective. T argeted plans were then 
prepared to confidently address the key gaps identified 
and recruitment efforts throughout the remainder of 
the year resulted in successfully filling roles which were 
deemed most critical and unable to be filled internally.
ORGANISATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS AUDIT
In order to provide assurances that the new 
organisational structure was operating effectively, the 
business, through its independent internal auditors, 
conducted a review in Q3 2015, which examined key 
governance, oversight and communication processes 
and controls under the new structure. The review 
concluded that the business was effectively structured 
following the 2014 reorganisation, with only a very 
small number of low to medium risk development  
areas identified, which are now being addressed.
ENGAGEMENT
Employee engagement remained a key focus area  
in 2015 and was particularly important given  
the organisational changes from the year before, 
coupled with the uncertainties faced by the industry 
as a result of the oil price. 
We recognise that communication is key to ensuring 
that our people are informed and engaged from both  
a strategic and operational perspective. As such,  
we continued to communicate through regular team 
and staff meetings as well as updates from senior 
management. We also introduced the new step of 
offering staff the opportunity to pose questions 
anonymously in advance of town hall staff meetings  
to ensure that areas of particular interest or concern 
could be addressed by the CEO or CFO, as appropriate.  
In addition, our executive directors host regular ‘coffee 
and chat’ sessions with small groups of staff from across 
the business to facilitate conversations on strategy , 
operations and the working environment.
Cairn has a performance management process 
which is designed to reward, recognise and drive 
positive individual, team and organisational 
performance and behaviour . The process was 
streamlined and implemented in 2014 and continued 
to embed across the business in 2015. The alignment 
of individual objectives to team goals and Company 
KPIs are core to the process, which is further 
supported through monthly 1-1 meetings between 
staff and their line manager . This enables employees 
and managers to be engaged, give and receive 
feedback, regularly discuss progress being made 
against objectives, ensure that efforts are continuing 
to focus in the right areas and provide a means  
by which to discuss in depth each employee’s 
development and future career aspirations in the 
Company. The performance management process  
is also intended to reinforce the importance of  
the Company’s high performing behaviours and 
company values of respect, relationships and 
responsibility, thereby ensuring staff at all levels are 
aligned in their understanding of ‘how’ our business 
undertakings – both internally and externally – 
should be conducted to best deliver objectives.
Recognising staff for their efforts is also an important 
element of employee engagement. Our Cairn Adding 
Value Award scheme (CAVA) flourished in 2015 with 
awards made to a variety of nominees for wide-
ranging reasons over the year . The CAVA scheme, 
which is overseen personally by the CEO, is intended 
to reward outstanding achievements and behaviours, 
recognising those who accomplish an extraordinary 
achievement out with their normal responsibilities.  
In 2015, recipients included staff who developed 
processes, systems or solutions which resulted in 
significant cost savings; those who went out of their 
way to go above and beyond that expected of their 
role; and those who delivered exceptional results in 
challenging circumstances. 
The Company Social Committee remains an active 
part of Cairn and gives staff opportunities to mix  
with their colleagues from across the organisation, 
helping to foster positive working relationships and  
a collaborative work environment. 
EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING
Having undertaken a review of our private health 
insurance scheme for UK-based staff following 
feedback from staff, the Company transferred to  
a new supplier with effect from 1 April, with a view  
to providing an enhanced level of cover . As part of 
this transfer , the Company added two new benefits: 
dental cover and annual health assessments. 
Feedback on the new provider has been excellent 
with 73% of the UK-based staff taking advantage of 
the optional health-assessments by the end of 2015.
WORKING RESPONSIBL Y CONTINUED
PEOPLE 49 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
featured talks from Jim McColl OBE and the Scottish 
academic historian, Sir Tom Devine, both of which 
were particularly well received and attended by staff.
OFFICE ENVIRONMENT AND SECURITY
In 2015, we undertook an office refurbishment in 
Edinburgh. The office space was reconfigured on a 
regionally-focused basis to help support the delivery 
of the Group’s work programmes, with an emphasis 
on creating an open, collaborative environment 
allowing ease of communication across regions and 
functions. T o further enhance our commitment to 
health and safety, new HSE Safety billboards were 
created and placed in focal points across our offices  
as a reminder to all staff that health and safety is at  
the forefront of all that we do.
The Company, in conjunction with Police Scotland, 
delivered a series of security workshops in the 
Edinburgh office. The sessions were aimed at raising 
staff awareness in the current environment and 
included the roll-out of new Cairn-specific office 
security handbooks. The sessions, which were 
offered to all staff and contractors, were well 
received by all those who attended.
DIVERSITY
The Company continues to be committed to equality 
and diversity and recognises that a diverse workforce 
is fundamental to our business and essential for  
the delivery of our objectives. We understand the 
importance of a diverse workforce in broadening our 
skill base, bringing different approaches, perspectives 
and ideas, challenging norms and encouraging 
creativity, all of which support the business in 
successfully achieving its goals. 
Our People Management Policy manual has a 
section dedicated to diversity, which lays out the 
Company’s overall position on equality and diversity 
and how this is implemented with respect to areas 
such as recruitment and selection, training and 
development, and remuneration and benefits.  
The section also includes policies specific to 
disability, religion and belief and the treatment of 
those employed on a part-time basis. We continue  
to capture data on the gender , nationality and 
disability of our appointed staff through our 
voluntary equal opportunities form. While it remains 
an area of continued focus, we are proud that our 
workforce now comprises 16 different nationalities 
and is made up of 48% women. Currently, 25% of 
management roles are held by women and, since  
May 2015, women represent 20% of the Company’s 
appointed Management T eam (increasing from 9%). 
Our practice continues to be to engage with the  
local talent in our international offices and we seek, 
wherever practicable, to fill our local resource needs 
with nationals of the country of operation.
At year end 2015:
 – 48% of Cairn staff were women  
(73 of 15 1 employees);
 – 7 .3% of Cairn staff worked part-time  
(11 employees);
 – 86% of women returned to work following 
maternity/adoption leave (six of seven 
employees) and 100% of men returned  
following adoption/paternity leave; 
 – 16 different nationalities were employed  
at Cairn;
 – 3.3% of the workforce had a disability  
(five employees);
 – average age at Cairn was 43;
 – 25% of management roles were held by women  
( 12 of 48 managers); and
 – one of the nine members of the Board was  
a woman (11%).
 “Following the launch of the Health and Well-Being 
Intranet site and the creation of the summer walking 
group, 13 of us from the Edinburgh office, including the 
executive directors, Simon Thomson and James Smith, 
took part in the 26.2 mile Pentland Push in aid of  
St Columba’s Hospice. This was a fantastic event for a 
wonderful charity, with the added benefits of improving 
the fitness of the team and building relationships with 
people from across a variety of departments in an 
environment that was somewhat different to an office!”
Quote from team member
In addition, Cairn launched a Health and Well-Being 
Intranet site to encourage healthy lifestyles. As well 
as providing information on health and well-being 
themes, various initiatives were rolled out, including 
healthy eating advice, a ‘Mindfulness’ Lunch and 
Learn session and a summer walking group. 
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
In periods of industry downturn and a low oil price 
environment, training and development budgets  
can be impacted. Cairn recognises the value of 
developing our people and our training budget  
was unaffected and staff were encouraged  
to continue to learn and develop.
Our geoscientists continued their professional 
development through various field trips to help 
understanding of different geologies in basins similar 
to those we are working on. With staff from across 
the regions and the function attending, this also 
provided an opportunity for teambuilding.
In November , we launched the first group ‘cohort’  
of our ‘Management Bootcamp’ programme: a 
seven-module tailored management development 
programme for managers across the business.  
This will continue throughout 2016 to enable all  
our managers to attend and aims to support staff in 
further developing and refining their management 
skills to best deliver results through people.
Lunch and Learn seminars continue to be popular 
with staff and we had another varied and 
comprehensive programme during 2015. The 
programme included a mix of internal and external 
speakers, focusing on topics that ranged from the oil 
and gas specific, health and well-being, management, 
and general interest. This year’s programme also 
Staff in Stavanger  50 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
MA TERIALITY ASSESSMENT  
METHODOLOGY
Our resulting materiality matrix is shown on the next page
Cairn Risk Register
Aggregation of Risks 
into CR issues
(reference to GRI G4)
Cairn Assessment of 
Stakeholder Position
Cairn Perception  
of Stakeholder CR  
Issue Ratings
Cairn Rating of  
CR Issues according  
to Probability and 
Impact
Cairn CR  
Issue Ratings
Cairn Stakeholder 
Importance  
Criteria Applied
Cairn Risk  
Criteria  
Applied
Initial Materiality  
Matrix
Low High
Adjusted Final
Materiality Matrix
Low High
Insignificant High Insignificant High
Internal Cairn 
Peer Review
External Stakeholder
Engagement Interviews
WORKING RESPONSIBL Y CONTINUED
MAPPING CR PRIORITIES
HOW WE IDENTIFY OUR KEY CR PRIORITIES
Our CR priorities reflect the topics that matter  
most to our business and our stakeholders. The 
process by which we identify these priorities is 
known as a materiality assessment process in  
which CR issues are plotted in a matrix showing  
their significance in broad classifications of ‘high’, 
‘medium’ or ‘low’ (see diagram on page 5 1). 
We improved our approach at the end of 2015 by 
conducting focused interviews with a cross section 
of stakeholders. This included representatives  
from: investors and finance organisations; business 
partners and peers; contractors and suppliers; 
communities; employees; industry organisations  
and agencies; non-governmental organisations;  
and academia. We invited several regulators and 
government representatives but none felt it was 
appropriate to participate. More detail on the 
comments made by stakeholders and our  
responses to these is available on our website  
at www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility.
Those receiving a ‘high’ rating are regarded as 
material and are discussed in this report and  
focus attention for setting our CR objectives. 
WE CONTINUALL Y IDENTIFY  
CR PRIORITIES TO GUIDE  
OUR CR ACTIVITIES AS  
THE BUSINESS DEVELOPS 
Our ‘CR Materiality Methodology’ is based on the 
AccountAbility APS model (an internationally recognised 
framework developed by AccountAbility) and helps  
us conform to the latest Global Reporting Initiative  
(GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines, known as G4,  
which Cairn adopted successfully in 2014.  51 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
UNDERST ANDING THE MATRIX 
The importance to Cairn is plotted on the vertical 
axis of the materiality matrix. The importance to 
stakeholders is plotted on the horizontal axis.  
The importance to Cairn reflects the probability  
and impact of a topic in line with our risk  
assessment criteria. 
The importance to stakeholders uses a number  
of criteria with increasing impact. In this way 
‘Preventing Major Accidents’ has a low probability 
but high impact when using Cairn’s risk criteria, 
giving a significant rating, however it is classified  
as a high against the stakeholder concern criteria 
therefore when plotted in the matrix it is a  
‘High’ material issue. 
2015 Year end materiality matrix
 l Product stewardship
 l Resource use
 l Complying with Cairn’s 
Business Principles on  
Cap Boujdour
 l Biodiversity
 l N ew t e c h n ol o g i e s 
and approaches
 l Supply chain and contractors
 l Sustainable project funding
Preventing major accidents l
Operational environmental footprint l
Transparency l
Corporate governance l
Climate change l
Preventing major spills l
Operational and project performance l
Operational and process safety l
 l Net social and 
economic benefit
 l Business ethics
 l Human rights
 l Equality and diversity
 l Workforce planning
 l P o l i ti c a l u n c e r t a in t y  
(host governments)
 l Succession planning
Workplace health and safety l Security of people and operations l
 l Non-operated JV and 
international investments
Risk weighted importance to Cairn
Importance to Cairn’s stakeholders
Insignificant Low Medium Significant High
Insignificant Low Medium Significant High 52 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
WORKING RESPONSIBL Y CONTINUED
MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED
A brief description of how things have changed in 2015 is set out in the table of movements below.
MOVEMENTS IN MA TERIALITY ASSESSMENT FROM END 2014 TO END 2015
IMPORTANCE  
TO CAIRN
 
IMPORT ANCE TO 
STAKEHOLDERS
PREVENTING  
MAJOR ACCIDENTS
We have increased the materiality assessment for the  
prevention of major accidents including major spills as we 
increase the level of operations through our exploration  
and appraisal programme offshore Senegal.
PREVENTING  
MAJOR SPILLS
COMPLIANCE WITH  
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES  
ON CAP BOUJDOUR 
Our engagement activity indicated that the management 
of human rights was significant to stakeholders.
Initial drilling operations in Cap Boujdour concluded in  
early 2015, but we will continue to monitor the situation  
in anticipation of potential future activities.
NON-OPERATED  
JOINT VENTURES  
AND INTERNATIONAL  
INVESTMENTS
The importance of these issues to Cairn has increased, 
reflecting the importance of delivery of development projects in 
the North Sea and the continuing financial capability of industry 
companies through a depressed period for the industry.
SUSTAINABLE  
PROJECT FUNDING
CLIMATE CHANGE The importance of climate change has increased in recognition 
of the Paris agreement made at the UN Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Conference of the Parties 
(COP 21) at the end of 2015 and the importance of emissions 
management and controls to any future production.
WORKFORCE The importance of these issues to Cairn has decreased as the 
organisation has adjusted to the rationalisation that occurred  
in 2014. Matters relating to the workforce and succession 
planning do, however , remain in focus in anticipation of the 
potential organisational requirements associated with the 
progress of the Senegal project.
SUCCESSION PLANNING
TRANSPARENCY The issue of tax transparency was regarded generally less 
important to stakeholders as it is being managed. We continue 
to regard the issue to be of high importance to the business.
POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY Political uncertainty affecting our business activities  
was of medium significance to stakeholders.
NET SOCIAL AND  
ECONOMIC BENEFIT 
The net social and economic benefit of our activities was  
significant to stakeholders.
p
p
p
p
p
p
p
p
p 53 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
SEVEN MA TERIAL  
ISSUES
ST AKEHOLDER  
GROUP
Peers
Government  
& Regulator
Contractors  
& Suppliers
Communities
Employees
Industry  
Organisations
NGOs Academia
Seven issues were identified to be of ‘high’ 
importance to both our stakeholders and to 
Cairn and these are described on the following 
pages. Further information on how we identify, 
assess and manage these CR topics as well as 
the majority of those identified as ‘medium’,  
is also available on the Cairn website at  
www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility.
Supply chain  
and contractors
Read more on page 54
Preventing  
major accidents
Read more on page 55
Preventing  
major spills
Read more on page 56
Operational  
environmental footprint
Read more on page 58
Non-operated  
joint ventures and  
international investments
Read more on page 60
Sustainable  
project funding 
Read more on page 60
T ransparency
Read more on page 61 54 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
WORKING RESPONSIBL Y CONTINUED
MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED
Case study
CR priorities
SUPPL Y CHAIN  
AND CONTRACTORS
Over 58% of hours worked on Cairn’s business were 
contracted. As such, in 2015, we placed a particular 
emphasis on selecting the right service providers, 
communicating expectations, ensuring effective 
policies and management processes, monitoring 
performance and sharing lessons learned. 
We have a rigorous selection process to assess the 
suitability of contractors, which includes assessing 
their ability to conduct operations in line with our 
CRMS. Following appointment, contractors’ HSE or 
CR systems are linked to our CRMS using a bridging 
document. This lays out responsibilities and clarifies 
areas of potential uncertainty. It may also identify 
areas of collaboration and/or capacity building that 
could enhance a contractor’s HSE performance, 
ensuring that standards required by Cairn are met. 
PROMOTING LOCAL SUPPL Y CHAIN 
PARTICIPA TION IN OUR ACTIVITIES
We recognise the importance of 
developing local contractors to 
support our activities wherever we 
can. Sourcing skilled, local contractors 
in areas where there is a limited or  
no developed oil and gas industry, 
however , can be challenging. 
In 2015, we continued to contract local supply 
base logistics providers in Senegal. Shore base 
operations involve the lifting of many heavy  
and often unusually shaped loads, therefore 
particular attention was given to the heavy 
lifting capabilities of our contractors. We aim  
to conform to international standards of lifting 
practices wherever we operate. To meet both 
Company objectives of safe operations and 
promoting local participation, Cairn often 
provides contractors with specific training. 
In Senegal, Cairn provided safe lifting training to 
shore base workers in Dakar in 2014 and 2015. 
By the end of 2015, Cairn had provided lifting 
training to 48 Senegalese workers. Training was 
provided through the international training 
organisation, North Sea Lifting.
Potential future operations require human 
resource with the correct skills. English remains a 
universal language within the oil and gas industry, 
therefore a key focus of our Senegalese social 
investment programme in 2015 was developing 
English language skills among young people  
in academic institutions. This programme  
was initiated in October and at present 29 
students from the Earth Sciences Institute  
of the University of Dakar are participating in  
a tailored English language course for the oil  
and gas industry, delivered on Cairn’s behalf  
by the British Council. 
For example, training in heavy lifting was provided  
for shore base workers in Senegal. 
In 2015, we engaged our partner ConocoPhillips  
as well activities delegate in respect of the drilling 
programme offshore Senegal. This arrangement 
delegated offshore drilling management and key 
supporting services to ConocoPhillips whilst Cairn 
retained onshore services and all operator duties. 
The teams across the two businesses have worked 
closely to ensure alignment of contracting standards, 
including anti-bribery and corruption requirements. 
Longer-term contracts, such as with our logistics 
agent, have been set up to promote commitment  
to training, infrastructure development and 
participation of local contractors, thereby  
increasing value creation in Senegal.
ZERO LOST TIME INJURIES
We had no lost time or recordable injuries in Senegal 
and across the Group in 2015. This is due to the hard 
work of each of our contractors, personnel, project 
HSE advisers and line managers associated with the 
project. High vigilance was maintained throughout 
the preparation, drilling and testing of the SNE-2  
well and during the 3D seismic campaign. In 2016, 
the focus on health and safety will continue in 
Senegal and across the Company’s portfolio. 55 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Cairn total for employees and contractors
IOGP benchmark
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.43
0.48 0.45
0.36
0
3.67
0
2.52
0.65
0.00 0.00
0
0
0
Cairn total for employees and contractors
IOGP benchmark
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0
1.76 1.74
1.6 1.54
0
7.34
0
5.04
3.88
0.00
0
0.00
0
0
Lost Time Injury Frequency (L TIF) 
(Lost time injuries per million hours worked) 
T otal Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)   
(T otal recordable injuries per million hours worked)
Notes:
(1) IOGP is the International Association of Oil and Gas 
Producers. We have included overall IOGP benchmark 
figures (average of onshore and offshore for employees and 
contractors). IOGP benchmark figures are not yet available 
for 2015.
(2) Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the IOGP 
benchmark after only one incident, or a small number of 
incidents, because our exploration activities often last for 
only a short time period, so there are relatively few hours 
worked compared with on-going production and other  
long-term operations. 
CR priorities
PREVENTING  
MAJOR ACCIDENTS
KEEPING PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT SAFE
Prevention of any accident remains a key 
priority for Cairn and the wider oil and gas 
industry. It is recognised as a material CR topic 
which requires significant ongoing vigilance 
and attention. We apply rigorous procedures 
to identify, assess and manage potential  
risks and impacts in line with the As Low As 
Reasonably Practicable (ALARP) principle.
On 19 July 2015, the UK Health and  
Safety Executive introduced the Offshore 
Installations (Offshore Safety Directive) 
(Safety Case etc.) Regulations 2015 (UK SCR 
2015) to conform to the EU Offshore Safety 
Directive, aimed at reducing the risks of major 
accident hazards to the health and safety of 
the workforce and increasing the protection  
of the marine environment and coastal 
economies against pollution. These regulations 
look to ensure improved response mechanisms 
in the event of such an incident. We have 
updated our CRMS to include new provisions 
of the regulations within our policies and 
standards. These changes to our CRMS  
will be applied throughout all our activities,  
not just to the UK offshore sector . 
Our drilling operations, both operated and 
non-operated, remain a key focus of our drive 
to prevent major accidents. We implement  
our ‘Project Delivery Process (PDP)’ to assure, 
at regular intervals throughout a project, that 
critical requirements for CR performance  
have been met in a timely manner to prevent  
major accident hazards. 
This year , we worked with our joint venture 
partner ConocoPhillips to design and execute 
the drilling programme offshore Senegal. 
T ogether , we have implemented a process  
of regular project reviews consistent with  
both companies’ requirements.
The wells drilled offshore Senegal were 
designed to include various well engineering 
and control barriers. All well designs have 
been assured by Cairn’s Head of Well 
Engineering and Construction and the 
Principal Drilling Engineer who verify that  
the designs comply with defined standards 
based on industry best practice.
In Senegal, our 2015 drilling programme  
built on the successful programme of 2014, 
incorporating the lessons learned. The well 
risk assessments, major accident safety 
studies and emergency/oil spill response  
plans were all reviewed and updated by  
Cairn and examined again by the Senegalese 
regulators. An operational readiness audit  
of the shorebase was also conducted before 
resumption of drilling operations in 2015. 
An independent expert rig acceptance  
audit was conducted including assessment of 
critical equipment and systems before drilling 
commenced. All contingency plans, equipment 
and trained staff were also in place prior to 
starting the first well in 2015.  56 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
CR priorities
PREVENTING  
MAJOR SPILLS
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT
The prevention of major hydrocarbon spills and 
preparation for response in the unlikely event of  
a major spill event remain of critical importance  
to Cairn and our stakeholders. 
During the year , we continued to prioritise the 
integrity of the wells drilled offshore Senegal and to 
adopt industry good practice in assessing the risk of 
oil spills and in oil spill response planning. Steps taken 
to prevent major spills include:
 – designing wells to a level that exceeds 
requirements for the expected characteristics  
of the geological formations to be encountered; 
 – maintaining the appropriate barriers during 
drilling activities to ensure our well control 
standards and procedures are met; and
 – applying the International Association of Oil & 
Gas Producers (IOGP) Joint Industry Project 
(JIP)’s new and revised guidance on oil spill risk 
assessment and response planning. This includes 
a structured and detailed analysis of oil spill  
risk, development of potential spill scenarios, 
likelihood and consequence analysis, detailed 
modelling and development of a credible 
response capability. 
We have ensured that in the unlikely event of a large 
oil spill, we are able to provide an effective oil spill 
response. We continue to apply good practice for  
all our drilling programmes:
 – Planning – applying the IOGP JIP’s approach to 
oil spill risk assessment and response planning.
 – Surface response capability – maintaining 
tiered oil spill response capability including 
Associate Membership of Oil Spill Response 
Limited (OSRL) for access to established Tier 3 oil 
spill response equipment. We also enhanced our 
Tier 2 capability in Senegal through membership 
of Western and Central Africa Aerial Surveillance 
and Dispersant Spraying Services (WACAF). 
OSRL membership also gave us access to highly 
experienced consultants who assisted in the 
development of the oil spill response plans and 
who could assist in the event of a spill.
 – Subsea cap and secure capability – Cairn 
maintained access to the Subsea Well Incident 
System which includes the Capping Stack System, 
the Subsea Incident Response Toolkit and the 
Global Dispersant Stockpile, all of which are 
managed by OSRL. 
 – Oil Spill Contingency Plan – Our Senegal plan 
was developed using IOGP practices and through 
consultation with a number of stakeholders 
including government departments, local 
response organisations and subject experts.
 – Preparedness – training and emergency 
exercises were held with our partners 
ConocoPhillips and PETROSEN during 2015. 
These helped to embed roles and responsibilities 
and rehearsed application of the oil spill plans and 
emergency response plans in our field locations. 
We continue to track the latest developments  
and improvements in spill prevention and control  
to ensure we implement those which will enhance 
our already high standards.
In 2015, a minor spill of waste hydraulic oil (<1 litre)  
to surface drain occurred, arising from failure to 
follow procedure during tank cleaning at the 
shorebase. A second minor spill of oil drop-out  
(<1 litre) also occurred, from the flare during testing 
of the SNE-2 well. 
Total spills to the environment (number)  
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Oil 0 0 0 0 1
Fuel 1 0 0 0 0
Chemical 0 1 0 0 1
Waste 0 0 0 0 0
Other 2 0 0 0 0
Total spills to the environment (barrels)  
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Oil 0 0 0 0 0.002
Fuel 0.06 0 0 0 0
Chemical 0 2.20 0 0 0.006
Waste 0 0 0 0 0
Other 9.44 0 0 0 0
Oil spill response exercise
WORKING RESPONSIBL Y CONTINUED
MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED 57 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Case study
CONTINUING TO BUILD CAPACITY FOR  
OIL SPILL PLANNING AND RESPONSE
When Cairn started drilling 
operations offshore Senegal in  
2014 there had been relatively  
little previous exploration drilling 
carried out. 
Working with the authorities in Senegal,  
oil spill planning and response capability was 
developed in-country. This year , we have built  
on this programme to further bolster capacity in 
this area, while at the same time strengthening 
our own plans. 
In 2015, we were invited to support a jointly 
sponsored International Maritime Organisation 
(IMO)/Global Initiative West and Central  
Africa (GI-WACAF) National Workshop on the 
development of the national policy for the use  
of dispersants, held in Senegal. GI-WACAF is a 
partnership between IMO and the global oil and 
gas industry association for environmental and 
social issues (IPIECA). Its mission is to strengthen 
national capacity to combat oil pollution in 22 
countries in West and Central Africa with the 
establishment of local partnerships between  
the oil industry and the authorities. The overall 
objective of the three-day workshop was to 
assist in developing a legal framework on the use 
of dispersants. Cairn contributed by running an 
interactive case study session to examine the 
most suitable treatments and implications of 
using dispersants and by participating in a 
desk-based scenario simulation on the third day. 
As part of the new operational arrangements  
in place within Cairn, an extensive review of  
our internal crisis and emergency arrangements 
was conducted in Q3 for all aspects of Group 
activities. A comprehensive new Crisis and 
Emergency Response Team (CERT) manual 
was issued in September and training and 
exercises were rolled out through the remainder 
of 2015 and this will continue in 2016. The CERT 
manual also bridged with the specific Senegal 
Emergency Response Plan developed by 
ConocoPhillips, as well activities delegate, and 
the Oil Spill Contingency Plan, and allowed Cairn 
to draw on the extensive in-house ConocoPhillips 
Crisis Management Support T eam based in 
Houston and their international network of 
emergency experts within the ConocoPhillips 
Global Incident Management Assist T eam.
In 2015, we held a number of exercises including 
in-field deployment of mechanical oil spill boom 
and an oil spill emergency exercise involving both 
ConocoPhillips and Cairn teams and contractors. 58 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
Scope 1 Tonnes CO
2
e per 1,000 hours worked (all scopes GHG) Scope 2
(location 
based)
Scope 3
Tonnes CO
2
e
Tonnes CO
2
e per 1,000 hours worked
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
200,000 100
150,000 75
100,000 50
50,000 25
0 0
166,266
289
746
88
9
41
42
36
1,589
280
1,350
25,030
420
2,793
59,465
402
3,127
24,990
351
2,606
CR priorities
OPERA TIONAL  
ENVIRONMENT AL 
FOOTPRINT
Oil and gas activities can potentially impact the 
environment including impairing air quality, water 
quality, marine resources and the disposal of waste. 
Managing our environmental performance is  
very important. Comprehensive contractual and 
regulatory environmental obligations are placed  
on our operations. 
Prior to exploration and appraisal drilling in Senegal  
in 2015, we reviewed impacts of planned changes  
to the previous programme in rig, vessels, aviation 
and overall approach. This included assessing and 
mitigating risks arising in the following areas:
 – environmental and social impacts of operational 
equipment, locations and increased local 
environmental and social knowledge;
 – emergency and oil spill preparedness, changes  
in terms of operational approach and increased 
knowledge of oil characteristics;
 – changes to critical safety elements associated 
with the rig, vessels and aviation; and
 – a voluntary assessment of environmental impacts 
for the proposed 3D seismic campaign offshore 
Senegal including implications for the fishing 
community and local artisan fishermen.
The impact of changes in the drilling programme  
in 2015 were submitted as an addendum to the 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 
approved and submitted to the regulatory authorities 
in 2014. The development and submittal of the 
addendum was a voluntary initiative by Cairn and 
involved formal discussions with the regulators, 
review by National T echnical Committee members 
and a programme of consultations with regional and 
district authorities in Fatick, Bassoul, Foundiougne, 
T oubacouta, Djirnda and Dionewar . Around 80%  
of the local council representatives attended  
each meeting.
CR plans, which include environmental requirements 
and compliance registers, are put in place for all  
our operational programmes and these have been 
adhered to with no issue of non-conformance or 
non-compliance during 2015. 
Environmental performance metrics are gathered on 
a monthly basis throughout any operational activity. 
These are collated and analysed and reported to the 
Board, SLT and MT (for more details, please see 
www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility).
GREENHOUSE GASES
Greenhouse Gases (GHGs) form a part of our 
operational environmental footprint. We monitor 
and manage the GHGs emitted during our activities 
and disclose them in accordance with industry 
requirements and standards. In 2015, we updated 
our methodology for calculating Scope 2 emissions  
in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 
guidance, issued in January 2015. We disclose on an 
‘operational control’ basis which means we report 
emissions from those assets which are operated by 
us and not those controlled by our partners. With  
no operated production facilities, our direct GHG 
emissions occur primarily from the combustion of 
fuel on rigs and vessels during the drilling of wells  
or acquisition of seismic. 
The graph shown indicates that our GHG emissions 
over the last five years are heavily dependent on the 
level of operational activity in any given year due to 
the absence of any steady production. This makes  
it difficult to identify baseline information and  
set meaningful targets for total GHG reduction  
over time. We have therefore chosen to adopt  
a methodology for calculating GHG emissions 
intensity with reference to the number of hours 
worked, as this provides a direct relationship with  
the levels of activity and provides a mechanism for 
engaging with our contractors on energy efficiency. 
The quantity of GHG emissions from our activities 
has reduced in 2015 from 2014 due to reduced 
levels of operational activity. GHG intensity levels  
in 2015 are similar to those achieved in 2014. 
At the end of 2015, the UN Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (IPCC) Conference of the Parties 
(COP 21) took place in Paris. The resulting agreement 
required countries to work within their action plans to 
limit global greenhouse emissions and review these 
every five years from 2020. While we will assess the 
implications of the agreement to our business more 
fully in 2016, we expect that emissions management 
and controls will become increasingly important to 
any future production.
Total and normalised GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3)
Notes: 
We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
(1) For calculating Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions we use emission factors from the API Compendium 2009.
(2)  In 2015 we updated our methodology for calculating Scope 2 GHG emissions in line with the new Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Scope 2 Guidance that was published in January 2015. As a result we now report Scope 2 emissions in two ways: according to  
a location-based method and a market-based method. For the location-based method we use emission factors from the IEA 
(International Energy Agency) Report ‘CO
2
 emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights’ (2013 Edition). These are grid average 
emission factors for each country. For district heating and cooling we use location-based emission factors from DEFRA 2015. 
For the market-based method we use emission factors, where available, in the following order of preference: 
a. Supplier-specific emission factor – obtained from Cairn offices’ electricity suppliers. 
b.  Residual mix emission factors – obtained from the RE-DISS II document ‘European Residual Mixes 2014’, last updated  
in June 2015.
c.  Location-based emission factors. These are the same IEA and DEFRA emission factors that we use for calculating 
location-based emissions.
 We have provided location-based Scope 2 figures in this report. Our market-based Scope 2 figures, and further details about  
our GHG emissions’ data and calculations, are available on our website. 
(3)  For calculating Scope 3 (business travel) GHG emissions we use the DEFRA methodology, including its recommendation to 
include an uplift for the influence of radiative forcing in air travel emissions. We updated to DEFRA 2015 emission factors  
this year (see http://www.ukconversionfactorscarbonsmart.co.uk/).
WORKING RESPONSIBL Y CONTINUED
MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED 59 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Case study
ADDRESSING CONCERNS 
REGARDING SEISMIC ACTIVITIES 
OFFSHORE SENEGAL
WATER, WASTEWATER AND WASTE
Water use in our 2015 activities was not regarded  
as a significant or material issue due to the nature  
of our offshore activities and abundance of local 
supply. Wastewater discharges and waste disposals 
consisted of typical vessel sanitary discharges and 
discharge and disposal of drilling wastes. Cairn again 
used low impact water based drilling fluids in the 
2015 drilling campaign and these were discharged in 
line with good industry practice. Waste management 
in Senegal received particular attention in order  
to ensure a ‘Duty of Care’ was maintained in line  
with European practice. This includes not only the 
application of a waste management hierarchy (avoid, 
reuse, recycle, recover , dispose) but also requires 
prevention of escape of waste; appropriate handling, 
treatment and disposal; and handling such waste by 
‘fit and proper persons’. 
We completed a 3D seismic campaign 
offshore Senegal within the Rufisque, 
Sangomar and Sangomar Deep blocks, 
where there are significant marine 
resources in the area important to  
local fishing activities. 
T o address stakeholder concerns, a number  
of activities were undertaken to consult with  
local representatives:
Submissions were made to national and regional 
authorities to explain the scope of the operations. 
An Environmental Assessment Report was 
compiled to identify environmental sensitivities  
in the area and formulate management measures  
to ensure our operations had a minimal impact on 
marine life. T o monitor implementation of these 
measures, the seismic vessel included a Marine 
Mammal Observer who, along with advising  
and reporting on compliance to environmental 
management measures, also collected data on 
encountered marine mammals and bird life.  
This environmental data will be shared with the 
Senegalese government authorities to add to  
their national information resource.
Channels of Communication were set up with 
fishing organisations and maritime authorities. 
Ahead of operations, information flyers were 
produced to ensure that the local fishing 
communities understood how seismic projects  
are undertaken. We provided information relating 
to the essential actions to be taken by any fishing 
vessels encountering the seismic operations, 
including a diagram showing the safe working 
distances around the 8km x 1km streamer spread 
layout. Throughout seismic operations, radio 
announcements were made providing information 
on where our operations would be in the coming 
days. We initially deployed two boats and  
a support vessel to warn and guide fishermen  
out of the path of the seismic vessel. As the level  
of fishing activity encountered was higher than 
anticipated, particularly closer to the coast, we 
completed the campaign with four boats and  
a support vessel. Communication was facilitated 
by French and Wolof speaking Fisheries Liaison 
Officers on board the vessels.
A procedure for potential claims was promoted  
to receive and address potential complaints as  
well as provide an ongoing means for asking  
further questions. We received a single claim for  
a damaged fishing net and this was addressed  
using the claim procedure.  60 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic report
WORKING RESPONSIBL Y CONTINUED
MAPPING CR PRIORITIES CONTINUED
CR priorities
NON-OPERA TED  
JOINT VENTURES  
AND INTERNA TIONAL 
INVESTMENTS
CR priorities
SUST AINABLE  
PROJECT  
FUNDING 
HSE PERFORMANCE OF  
OPERATING PARTNERS
For some of our assets, operational activities  
may be carried out by partner organisations.  
HSE performance of these assets will therefore 
be dependent on the quality and competence of 
our partners and so we undertake a rigorous due 
diligence process to ensure confidence in their 
integrity and HSE track record. We also regularly 
assess the HSE performance of our operating 
partners through partner review committees. 
Cairn believes that good HSE management is  
cost-effective and should remain a key focus  
of the industry even when facing difficult  
market conditions.
We have continued to work in collaboration  
with partners EnQuest and Premier Oil on 
development assets, Kraken and Catcher . This 
includes our obligations and duties under the  
new UK SCR 2015. We continue to scrutinise 
non-operated activities including understanding 
the HSE risks associated with the projects to 
ensure robust mitigation plans are implemented 
through the design, construction, commissioning 
and operational phases. These requirements are 
reflected in the new Cairn Operating Standards 
Manual and CRMS. 
We have also continued to ensure our ‘see to’ 
obligations were met for non-operated joint 
venture wells in Norway. There is a requirement 
that non-operating partners must assess HSE 
arrangements of the block operator prior to 
approval of activities by the Norwegian regulator . 
This necessitates all non-operating parties assure 
and are responsible for planned activities. In line 
with our pre-qualification as an operator in 
Norway, procedures have been updated in the  
UK and Norway region and have strengthened 
links with the Cairn Group CRMS. We will look to 
renew our external environmental management 
system audit (under OSPAR (Oslo/Paris) 
Convention for the Protection of the Marine 
Environment of the North East Atlantic) in 2016.
APPL YING OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
Prior to any new venture, whether operated or 
non-operated, we undertake an extensive due 
diligence management process to understand  
any risks associated with the project including any 
challenges to our Business Principles. In our 2014 
Annual Report, we reported extensively on the 
venture operated by Kosmos in Cap Boujdour .  
No operational activity has been carried out  
in Cap Boujdour since conclusion of the CB-1 
exploration well in March 2015, however we 
continued to track developments and work with 
our partner in this area during the course of the 
year . Cairn and the operator , Kosmos, continue  
to believe that responsible resource exploration 
and, if successful, development in Western 
Sahara can occur in parallel with the UN-led 
discussion on the region’s future.
Cairn’s business model is to create, add and 
realise shareholder value from a balanced 
portfolio, with material upside potential from 
exploration and appraisal activity supported by 
established development and production assets 
and a strong balance sheet. We believe that  
CR performance is integral to promoting 
cost-effective operational performance and 
managing societal and reputational risks that  
may impact on our licence to operate and our 
ability to access funding for future projects.
Cairn’s exploration inventory is underpinned  
and balanced by development assets in the  
UK and Norway, the free cash flow from which  
will be used in part to fund future exploration 
programmes. Many of these assets are non-
operated ventures. Our emphasis is on the safe 
delivery of these projects within budget and 
schedule and this is reflected in the standards 
governing our core business processes set out  
in the new Cairn Operating Standards Manual 
and our CRMS.
It is important to Cairn that our operations and 
those of our partners are robust and carried out 
responsibly. We have sought to demonstrate our 
commitment through:
 – upholding and supporting the ten principles  
of the Global Compact;
 – seeking to apply the IFC Environmental  
and Social Performance Standards;
 – participating in the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative; and
 – applying a robust Corporate Responsibility 
Management System. 61 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
CR priorities
TRANSP ARENCY
We operate in areas around the world, which  
often have unique social and political challenges.  
To manage this and protect our reputation, we have 
developed a robust Code of Business Ethics. Cairn’s 
Code of Business Ethics sets out the standards of 
conduct we expect from our employees. Doing 
business in a corrupt or unethical way has serious 
consequences for society and those involved. Our 
Group Code of Business Ethics and Anti-Bribery  
and Corruption (ABC) System not only guide our 
own behaviour but also clarify our expectations  
of partners and suppliers. 
Before entering into a business relationship, we 
undertake a process of information gathering and 
risk identification, with the option to undertake 
further third party checks if any concerns arise.  
To assist with the risk assessment process, we use 
various due diligence tools which enable us to 
identify potential ‘red flags’ and establish whether 
these issues are manageable and if any residual  
risks lie within our risk appetite statement. We 
acknowledge that at times this will mean there may 
be challenges to secure new acreage in line with our 
business plan whilst living up to our standards and 
responsibilities. Third party due diligence checks 
were conducted on a number of suppliers and 
business partners in 2015. 
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION
Cairn has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery  
and corruption.
In 2015, ABC continued to be strengthened 
throughout Cairn. A series of refresher training 
sessions were presented to staff in Edinburgh, 
Stavanger and Senegal. This training will be followed 
up in 2016 with the roll-out to all staff and key 
contractors of an ABC e-learning training module  
to all staff and key contractors. As activities continue 
in Senegal, contractor ABC procedures will continue 
to be implemented.
Notes: 
(1)  We disclose gross payments for assets that we operate and net payments for our non-operated assets. Negative figures reflect 
refunds received. The figures above represent a net of payments and refunds. We are reporting a greater number of payment 
categories this year . Data in this format is only available since 2014.
(2) WHT – Withholding T ax.
PA YMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS
We advocate transparency of tax contributions and 
other payments to government and support two 
transparency initiatives, namely the European  
Union Accounting Directive and the EITI. 
The EU Accounting Directive applies to Cairn as  
a listed extractive company and requires parent 
companies to disclose certain payments to 
governments on a country-by-country basis.  
In 2015, the UK government brought forward 
implementation of these accounting requirements 
and Cairn has worked diligently to conform to these 
regulations. Our submission to Companies House 
will be made in the first half of 2016 and a copy will 
be available from that time on our website.
The EITI is an international initiative that is 
voluntarily entered into by governments in order  
to promote openness in respect of the management 
of revenues from natural resources. We became a 
Participating Company in the EITI in September  
2013, Norway joined EITI in 2009, Senegal in 2013 
and the UK joined the EITI in October 2014. No 
other countries in which Cairn operates have joined.  
We are actively participating in EITI working groups  
in Senegal. As in previous years, we have disclosed 
our payments to governments in the table below.  
These disclosures include both payments to 
governments included in our EITI reporting,  
such as corporate income tax, licence fees and WHT
2
 
suffered, and additional payments made including 
VAT and payroll taxes and social security costs.
As Cairn operates in various territories with diverse 
tax obligations and requirements, we are committed 
to ensuring that in every territory we comply fully 
with local tax rules and regulations. Cairn’s T ax Policy 
does not permit any artificial tax planning and,  
in managing its tax affairs, the Group must align  
any planning with genuine commercial activity. 
As at 31 December 2015, Cairn has a ~ 10%, holding 
in Cairn India Limited. The retroactive tax claim made 
by the Indian T ax Department is addressed in the 
Financial Review on pages 32 to 35.
SUST AINABLE SOCIAL INVESTMENT
We seek to make a positive social impact in every  
area in which we work. First and foremost we 
contribute to community and social development in 
the countries in which we operate through our core 
business activities such as energy and infrastructure, 
as well as through payment of taxes, employment 
opportunities, skills development and trade with local 
enterprises. Cairn also adds to benefits generated  
by our operations through focused and appropriate 
social investment. We have set criteria for social 
investment activities which aim to ensure that 
longer-term projects are sustainable with plans in 
place from the outset to continue without Cairn’s 
contributions, typically beyond an initial three year 
period. Our projects are also developed through a 
process of community engagement, consultation and 
participation, using a transparent decision making 
process to ensure any payments made are aligned 
with our Business Principles and comply with our  
ABC Management System.
This Strategic report has been approved 
by the Board and is signed on their  
behalf by.
 
SIMON THOMSON
Chief Executive
14 March 2016
Total Payments to Governments
1
 
(US$’000)
2014 2015
Licence, rental and  
entry fees 1,475 1,033
Infrastructure 
improvements 1,995 0
Corporate Income T ax (66,000) (51,865)
WHT withheld on 
payments to group 
companies 4,029 333
VAT (9,285) (6,257)
Customs Duty 1,058 309
Training allowances 987 607
PAYE and NI 16,069 18,009
WHT withheld on 
payments to  
third parties 28,051 10,095
Other 5,460 1,388 62 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
SIMON 
THOMSON 
JAMES  
SMITH
IAN  
TYLER
TODD  
HUNT
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director
Biography Simon Thomson was appointed  
Chief Executive in July 2011 having 
been Legal and Commercial Director 
since 2006 and holding various posts 
across the organisation including 
head of assets. Simon originally joined 
Cairn in 1995 and holds an LLB 
(Hons) from Aberdeen University  
and a Diploma in Legal Practice  
from Glasgow University.
James Smith joined Cairn in March 
2014 from Rothschild where he was 
a director of the energy and power 
team with 15 years’ experience 
advising E&P companies, oil majors 
and national oil companies on their 
M&A transactions and equity and 
debt market financing. James holds  
a BA (Hons) from the University  
of Oxford.
Ian Tyler graduated with a first  
class degree in Commerce from 
Birmingham University. He qualified 
as a chartered accountant with 
Arthur Andersen in 1987 , 
subsequently holding a number  
of senior finance and operational 
positions within listed companies 
before being appointed chief 
executive of Balfour Beatty plc from 
2005-2013. During this time, he took 
the company from being primarily a 
UK construction business, to a global 
infrastructure services business. 
Todd Hunt has more than 40 years’ 
experience in the oil and gas 
industry. He is president and joint 
owner of Atropos Exploration 
Company and Atropos Production 
Company based in Dallas, Texas. 
Term of office Simon was appointed to the Board  
in November 2006 as Legal and 
Commercial Director and became 
Chief Executive in July 2011.
James was appointed to the Board in 
May 2014 as Chief Financial Officer .
Ian was appointed as an independent 
non-executive director in June 2013 
and became non-executive Chairman 
in May 2014.
T odd was appointed as an 
independent non-executive director 
in May 2003. Given his length of 
tenure, he is no longer considered to 
be independent in terms of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
Independent Not applicable Not applicable Yes No
External appointments Simon is a non-executive director of 
Graham’s The Family Dairy Limited 
and a member of the advisory Board 
of the Winning Scotland Foundation.
James has no external appointments. Ian is a non-executive director of  
BAE Systems plc and non-executive 
chairman of Bovis Homes Group PLC. 
Ian was non-executive chairman  
of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc 
throughout 2015. In February 2016, 
Al Noor was acquired by Mediclinic 
International plc, at which point  
Ian stepped down as chairman of  
Al Noor and was appointed Senior 
Independent non-executive director 
of the enlarged group. Ian was a 
non-executive director and chairman 
of the audit committee of Cable & 
Wireless Communications plc until  
he retired from the post with effect 
from 30 September 2015. 
T odd is president and joint owner  
of Atropos Exploration Company  
and Atropos Production Company.
Committee membership Simon chairs the Senior Leadership 
T eam. He is a member of the 
nomination committee and attends 
meetings of the remuneration 
committee by invitation and part of 
each audit committee meeting by 
invitation. From 1 January 2016, 
Simon chairs the Group Risk 
Management Committee.
James is a member of the Senior 
Leadership T eam. He is a member  
of the governance committee and 
attends meetings of the audit 
committee by invitation. During 
2015, James chaired the Group Risk 
Management Committee.
Ian chairs the nomination committee 
and is a member of the governance 
committee and the remuneration 
committee. During the year , Ian was  
a member of the audit committee 
until he stepped down as a member 
on 30 June 2015.
T odd was a member of the 
governance committee, the 
nomination committee and the 
remuneration committee until  
30 June 2015. Following this  
date, T odd attends meetings  
of the remuneration committee  
by invitation.
IAIN  
MCLAREN
ALEXANDER  
BERGER
M. JACQUELINE 
SHEPPARD QC 
KEITH  
LOUGH 
PETER  
KALLOS 
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Iain McLaren has significant 
experience in the oil and gas sector . 
He is a chartered accountant and was 
formerly senior partner of KPMG  
in Scotland. 
Alexander holds a Masters degree  
in Petroleum Engineering from  
Delft University and an MBA from 
Rotterdam School of Management. 
He is chief executive officer of 
Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., a private 
Dutch exploration and production 
company based in Amsterdam. 
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC  
(Jackie Sheppard) holds a BA  
from the Memorial University  
of Newfoundland, BA and MA  
in Jurisprudence from Oxford 
University and LLB from McGill 
University. She was executive vice 
president, corporate and legal at 
T alisman Energy Inc from 1993  
to 2008 and appointed Queen’s 
Counsel for the Province of Alberta  
in 2008. 
Keith Lough is a chartered certified 
accountant with an economics degree 
from the University of Edinburgh  
and an MSc in Finance from London 
Business School. He was Finance 
Director of British Energy PLC from 
2001 to 2004 before becoming a 
founder shareholder and Chief 
Executive of Composite Energy Ltd,  
a privately owned coal-bed methane 
focused business. He held this post 
until 2011, when Composite was 
divested to Dart Energy.
Peter Kallos has a degree in Applied 
Physics from Strathclyde University 
and a postgraduate degree in 
Petroleum Engineering from Heriot 
Watt University. He held a number  
of posts at Enterprise Oil including 
Head of Business Development,  
CEO Enterprise Italy and General 
Manager of the UK business before 
his appointment in 2002 as Executive 
Vice President International and 
Offshore at Petro-Canada. In 2010, 
Peter became Chief Executive of 
Buried Hill Energy, a UK based oil and 
gas business with activities in the 
Turkmen sector of the Caspian Sea.
Iain was appointed as an independent 
non-executive director in July 2008.
Alexander was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2010.
Jackie was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2010.
Keith was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2015.
Peter was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in September 2015.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Iain is chairman of Investors Capital 
Trust plc and a non-executive 
director of Baillie Gifford Shin 
Nippon plc, Edinburgh Dragon  
Trust plc and Ecofin Water &  
Power Opportunities plc. He is also  
a past president of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Alexander is chief executive officer  
of Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., and  
a director of Oranje-Nassau Energie 
UK Limited and Oranje-Nassau 
Energy Petroleum Limited.
Jackie is non-executive chairperson  
of Emera Inc., a public Canada-based 
international energy generation, 
transportation and distribution 
company. She is also a director of the 
general partner of Pacific NorthWest 
LNG LP , which was formed for the 
purpose of constructing, owning and 
operating an LNG facility in British 
Colombia. She is the founder , lead 
director and chair of the audit 
committee of Black Swan Energy Inc., 
a private equity financed upstream  
oil and gas company with operations  
in Canada. 
Keith is a non-executive director  
of Rockhopper Exploration PLC,  
a non-executive director of Papau 
Mining PLC and Rock Solid Images 
Inc, and non-executive director  
of the UK Gas and Electricity Markets 
Authority, which has supervisory 
responsibility for Ofgem. In 
December 2015, Keith became  
a non-executive director of Gulf 
Keystone Petroleum Ltd.
Peter is Chief Executive of Buried  
Hill Energy.
Iain chairs the audit committee  
and is a member of the nomination 
committee and the remuneration 
committee.
Alexander is a member of the audit 
committee and the governance 
committee. During the year , 
Alexander was a member of the 
nomination committee until  
30 June 2015.
Jackie chairs both the remuneration 
committee and the governance 
committee. 
Keith is a member of the audit 
committee, the nomination 
committee and the governance 
committee.
Peter is a member of the 
remuneration committee and  
the nomination committee.
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 63 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
IAIN  
MCLAREN
ALEXANDER  
BERGER
M. JACQUELINE 
SHEPPARD QC 
KEITH  
LOUGH 
PETER  
KALLOS 
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
Iain McLaren has significant 
experience in the oil and gas sector . 
He is a chartered accountant and was 
formerly senior partner of KPMG  
in Scotland. 
Alexander holds a Masters degree  
in Petroleum Engineering from  
Delft University and an MBA from 
Rotterdam School of Management. 
He is chief executive officer of 
Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., a private 
Dutch exploration and production 
company based in Amsterdam. 
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC  
(Jackie Sheppard) holds a BA  
from the Memorial University  
of Newfoundland, BA and MA  
in Jurisprudence from Oxford 
University and LLB from McGill 
University. She was executive vice 
president, corporate and legal at 
T alisman Energy Inc from 1993  
to 2008 and appointed Queen’s 
Counsel for the Province of Alberta  
in 2008. 
Keith Lough is a chartered certified 
accountant with an economics degree 
from the University of Edinburgh  
and an MSc in Finance from London 
Business School. He was Finance 
Director of British Energy PLC from 
2001 to 2004 before becoming a 
founder shareholder and Chief 
Executive of Composite Energy Ltd,  
a privately owned coal-bed methane 
focused business. He held this post 
until 2011, when Composite was 
divested to Dart Energy.
Peter Kallos has a degree in Applied 
Physics from Strathclyde University 
and a postgraduate degree in 
Petroleum Engineering from Heriot 
Watt University. He held a number  
of posts at Enterprise Oil including 
Head of Business Development,  
CEO Enterprise Italy and General 
Manager of the UK business before 
his appointment in 2002 as Executive 
Vice President International and 
Offshore at Petro-Canada. In 2010, 
Peter became Chief Executive of 
Buried Hill Energy, a UK based oil and 
gas business with activities in the 
Turkmen sector of the Caspian Sea.
Iain was appointed as an independent 
non-executive director in July 2008.
Alexander was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2010.
Jackie was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2010.
Keith was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2015.
Peter was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in September 2015.
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Iain is chairman of Investors Capital 
Trust plc and a non-executive 
director of Baillie Gifford Shin 
Nippon plc, Edinburgh Dragon  
Trust plc and Ecofin Water &  
Power Opportunities plc. He is also  
a past president of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Alexander is chief executive officer  
of Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., and  
a director of Oranje-Nassau Energie 
UK Limited and Oranje-Nassau 
Energy Petroleum Limited.
Jackie is non-executive chairperson  
of Emera Inc., a public Canada-based 
international energy generation, 
transportation and distribution 
company. She is also a director of the 
general partner of Pacific NorthWest 
LNG LP , which was formed for the 
purpose of constructing, owning and 
operating an LNG facility in British 
Colombia. She is the founder , lead 
director and chair of the audit 
committee of Black Swan Energy Inc., 
a private equity financed upstream  
oil and gas company with operations  
in Canada. 
Keith is a non-executive director  
of Rockhopper Exploration PLC,  
a non-executive director of Papau 
Mining PLC and Rock Solid Images 
Inc, and non-executive director  
of the UK Gas and Electricity Markets 
Authority, which has supervisory 
responsibility for Ofgem. In 
December 2015, Keith became  
a non-executive director of Gulf 
Keystone Petroleum Ltd.
Peter is Chief Executive of Buried  
Hill Energy.
Iain chairs the audit committee  
and is a member of the nomination 
committee and the remuneration 
committee.
Alexander is a member of the audit 
committee and the governance 
committee. During the year , 
Alexander was a member of the 
nomination committee until  
30 June 2015.
Jackie chairs both the remuneration 
committee and the governance 
committee. 
Keith is a member of the audit 
committee, the nomination 
committee and the governance 
committee.
Peter is a member of the 
remuneration committee and  
the nomination committee.
Non-Executive Directors 64 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors of Cairn Energy PLC (registered in Scotland with Company 
Number SC226712) present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 together with the audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Group and Company for the year . These will be laid before  
the shareholders at the AGM to be held on 12 May 2016.
RESUL TS AND DIVIDEND
The Group made a loss after tax of US$5 15.5 million (2014 loss of US$381.1 million).
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year ended 
31 December 2015.
Subsequent events that have occurred after the balance sheet date as  
at 31 December 2015 are included in Section 6.5 of the Notes to the  
Financial Statements. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
Details of the Group’s strategy and business model during the year and the 
information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic report can be found  
in the Strategic report section on pages 10 to 11 of this document, which are 
deemed to form part of this report by reference. 
Details of Cairn’s offices and Cairn’s advisers are given at the end of this report. 
CHANGE OF CONTROL
All of the Company’s share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a  
change of control and further details of these plans are provided in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 81 to 104. Generally, outstanding options and 
awards will vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time. 
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his 
employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation pursuant  
to his service contract. Further details of the relevant provisions are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration report on page 89. There are no agreements providing 
for compensation to the Chief Financial Officer or to employees on a change of 
control and no such provision will be included in the contracts of other future 
appointees to the Board. 
Other than the Senior Secured Borrowing Base Facility Agreement entered into 
by the Company with BNP Paribas and other syndicated banks dated 18 July 
2014 (the ‘Facility Agreement’), there are no significant agreements to which the 
Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of 
control of the Company. In terms of clause 9.2 of the Facility Agreement, if there 
is a change of control of the Company, any lender may cancel its commitment  
and declare its participation in all outstanding utilisations, together with accrued 
interest and all other amounts accrued immediately due and payable. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company’s Corporate Governance statement is set out on pages 67 to 75 
and is deemed to form part of this report by reference.
DIRECTORS
The names and biographical details of the current directors of the Company are 
given in the Board of directors section on pages 62 and 63. The beneficial interests 
of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below:
As at 
31 December 2014
As at 
31 December 2015
As at  
14 March 2016
Simon Thomson 457 ,567 572,783 572,783
James Smith 2,688 62,853 62,853
Ian Tyler 0 0 0
Todd Hunt 72,012 72,012 72,012
Iain McLaren 7,878 7,878 7,878
Jackie Sheppard 7 ,000 7 ,000 7 ,000
Alexander Berger 40,008 40,008 40,008
Keith Lough* – 0 0
Peter Kallos** – 0 0
* Keith Lough was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 14 May 2015.
** Peter Kallos was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 1 September 2015.
Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company held by  
the directors (or any members of their families) are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 81 to 104.
None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service 
contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings. Details of the 
directors’ service contracts are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report  
on pages 81 to 104. 
SHARE CAPIT AL
The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Section 6.1 of the Notes to  
the Financial Statements. As at 14 March 2016, 576,343,55 1 ordinary shares  
of 231/169 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on  
the London Stock Exchange. The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are  
set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. There are no special control 
rights in relation to the Company’s shares and the Company is not aware of any 
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
VOTING RIGHTS
The following paragraph details the position in relation to voting rights set out  
in the Company’s Articles of Association. However , the Company recognises  
that best practice is now to hold a poll on all shareholder resolutions. It is the 
Company’s current practice, therefore, to hold a poll and it is committed to  
doing so going forward.
Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a 
general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member present in 
person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and 
on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote for every share held by him/her . In the case of joint holders of a 
share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or  
by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders 
and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the 
names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding. Under the 
Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be 
a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to 
speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting. A member 
may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class 
meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached  
to a different share or shares held by that member . A corporation which is a  65 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its 
representative or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any 
separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares. A person so authorised 
shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as  
the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING
No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise determine,  
be entitled in respect of any share held by him/her to attend or vote at a general 
meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy if any call or other sum 
presently payable by him/her to the Company in respect of shares in the Company 
remains unpaid. Further , if a member has been served with a notice by the 
Company under the Companies Act 2006 requesting information concerning 
interests in shares and has failed in relation to any shares to provide the Company, 
within 14 days of the notice, with such information, the directors of the Company 
may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such shares  
to attend or vote (either in person or by proxy) at any general meeting or at any 
separate general or class meeting of the holders of that class of shares. Proxy forms 
must be submitted not less than 48 hours (or such shorter time as the Board may 
determine) (excluding, at the Board’s discretion, any part of any day that is not a 
working day) before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned 
meeting or , in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, 
not less than 24 hours (or such shorter time as the Board may determine) before 
the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
VARIATION OF RIGHTS
Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of 
shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute 
and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of 
that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders 
of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or 
with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of 
the holders of the shares of that class. At every such separate general meeting, 
the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least 
one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class. These provisions also 
apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only  
of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares  
of such class formed separate classes. The rights attached to any class of shares 
shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares  
or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed  
not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking 
pari passu with, or subsequent to, the first mentioned shares or by the purchase 
by the Company of its own shares.
TRANSFER OF SHARES
Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with the Articles 
of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by instrument in writing  
in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors of 
the Company. The instrument of transfer shall be executed by, or on behalf of,  
the transferor and (except in the case of fully paid shares) by, or on behalf of,  
the transferee. The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the  
shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register  
of members of the Company. 
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason 
therefor , refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share 
unless such share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and 
traded on the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed securities. The 
directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form 
where the Company is entitled to refuse (or is excepted from the requirement) 
under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer 
and they may refuse any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees. 
The directors may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the 
Company has a lien. 
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason 
therefor , refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated form unless the 
relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, is duly 
stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged  
at the transfer office or at such other place as the directors may determine, is 
accompanied by the relevant share certificate(s) and such other evidence as the 
directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the 
transfer and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly. If the directors 
refuse to register a transfer , they shall, as soon as practicable and in any event 
within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the 
Company (in the case of a share in certificated form) or the date on which the 
operator instruction (as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 
2001) was received by the Company (in the case of a share in uncertificated form) 
(or in either case such longer or shorter period (if any) as the Listing Rules may 
from time to time permit or require), send to the transferee notice of the refusal.
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARE CAPIT AL
As at 31 December 2015 and 10 March 2016 (being the latest practicable date 
prior to the date of this report), the Company had received notification that 
shareholdings of 3% and over were as set out in the table below.
As at  
31 December 
2015
% Share 
Capital
As at 
10 March  
2016
% Share 
Capital
MFS Investment Management 82,780,635 14.36 82,420,410 14.3
BlackRock 68,125,111 11.82 67 ,681,753 11.74
Hotchkis & Wiley 41,425,120 7.19 39,209,325 6.8
Franklin Templeton 27,631,773 4.79 27,235,771 4.73
Majedie Asset Management 23,726,623 4.12 25,031,312 4.34
Aviva Investors 23,303,021 4.04 24,164,413 4.19
Schroder Investment 
Management 20,152,406 3.50 21,055,998 3.65
Standard Life Investments 17,017,440 2.95 27,527,989 4.78
POLITICAL DONATIONS
No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred 
during the year .
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Details of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Strategic 
report section on pages 1 to 61 of this document, which are deemed to form part 
of this report by reference.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are 
detailed in Section 3.6 of the Financial Statements.
ACQUISITION OF OWN SHARES
In 2013, the Company initiated a share buy-back programme with a view to 
maximising shareholder value and optimising capital allocation. The Board 
considered that the share buy-back programme would maximise shareholder 
value by increasing the capital gain per share that would be expected in the event 
of a successful hydrocarbon discovery and that it would be in the best interests  
of shareholders generally. Therefore, the Company entered into an irrevocable 
and non-discretionary agreement with its brokers, Morgan Stanley and Jefferies, 
to repurchase on the Company’s behalf and within certain pre-set parameters up 
to US$300m of ordinary shares in the Company for cancellation.
The Board decided to suspend the share buy-back programme as of 21 March 
2014 and therefore no further shares have been repurchased by the Company 
since that date. 66 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  
CONTINUED
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed 
by the Company by ordinary resolution, or by the Board. The nomination 
committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and 
replacement of directors. Further details of the rules governing the appointment 
and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance statement 
on pages 67 to 75 and in the Company’s Articles of Association.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
As permitted by the Company’s Articles of Association, the directors have the 
benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as 
defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 (a ‘Qualifying Third Party 
Indemnity Provision’). The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial 
year and is currently in force. In May 2014, the Company entered into standalone 
deeds of indemnity with each of the directors, pursuant to which the directors 
have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Qualifying Third Party Indemnity 
Provision. The indemnities came into force upon execution of the deeds of 
indemnity and are currently in force. The Company also purchased and 
maintained throughout the financial year directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions 
given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board. 
The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing and buying 
back of the Company’s shares and are seeking renewal of these powers at the 
forthcoming AGM.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Company’s Articles  
of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Company’s 
shareholders. 
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts,  
the Directors’ Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year . Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and parent 
Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) 
and as adopted by the European Union (EU). Under company law, the directors 
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of  
the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 – make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 – state whether applicable IFRSs issued by the IASB and adopted by the  
EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed  
and explained in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that  
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose  
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and 
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 
Directors’ Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and  
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection  
of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the  
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the  
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from  
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Following careful review and consideration of the Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 
and Accounts 2015 (the ‘Accounts’), the directors consider that the Accounts, 
taken as a whole, are fair , balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of 
directors section on pages 62 and 63, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 – the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and loss of the Group and Company; and
 – the Strategic report section on pages 1 to 6 1 of this document includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and the position  
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2015 confirm 
that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which  
the Company’s auditors are unaware. In making this confirmation, the directors 
have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant  
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware  
of this information.
AGM 2016
The AGM of the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of The Caledonian,  
a Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 12 noon (BST)  
on Thursday 12 May 2016. The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set 
out and fully explained in the Circular containing the Notice of AGM which has 
been posted to shareholders together with this Annual Report and Accounts.
RECOMMENDATION
The Board considers that all of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in 
the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously 
recommends that you vote in favour of all of the proposed resolutions, as they 
intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
By order of the Board
DUNCAN WOOD 
Company Secretary
14 March 2016 At Cairn, we operate with integrity at all 
times, recognising that in doing so the 
Company will maintain the trust of its 
many stakeholders. 
The Cairn Board is committed to promoting high standards  
of corporate governance and understands that an effective, 
challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the 
Company to deliver its strategy and shareholders’ long-term 
interests, whilst also generating investor confidence that the 
business is conducting itself in a responsible manner. Further 
information on our strategy, business model and approach  
to operating responsibly can be found in the Strategic report 
section of this Annual Report and Accounts. 
We have further strengthened the Board through the 
appointment of two new independent non-executive  
directors during 2015. Keith Lough was appointed with effect 
from 15 May 2015 and Peter Kallos joined the Board on 
1 September 2015. The appointment process is summarised 
in the Nomination Committee report on page 72. We had 
previously announced that T odd Hunt would retire as a 
non-executive director at the Company’s AGM on 12 May 
2016. However, following discussions in Q1 2016, the Board 
has now invited Mr Hunt to continue as a non-executive 
director and a resolution for his re-election will, therefore,  
be proposed at the AGM. The decision that Mr Hunt remains 
on the Board has been made to allow for a longer period  
of transition following the appointment of our two new 
non-executive directors. The Board also believes that given 
the current state of the industry, having the experience and 
knowledge of Mr Hunt on the Board will be of significant  
value to the Company. We provide further explanation  
of this on page 68 in relation to the independence of our 
non-executive directors.
67 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
Ian Tyler Chairman
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
As a company incorporated in the UK with a Premium Listing on the London Stock 
Exchange, Cairn is required to report against the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (as published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website 
at www.frc.org.uk). Cairn is fully committed to achieving compliance with the 
principles and provisions set out in the Code.
The Board regularly reviews the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and has amended or enhanced the Company’s governance framework  
to ensure that the Company complies with the Code (other than as detailed on 
page 75). Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles 
in sections A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended 
31 December 2015. This statement reports compliance with the version of  
the Code published in September 2014.
THE BOARD
Cairn’s business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and 
technical risks. Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and 
balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the industry and 
regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial, 
operational and risk management skills. In each Board appointment, whether 
executive or non-executive, objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, 
ability and diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are prerequisites  
for appointment. This also applies to senior management appointments below 
Board level and to our succession planning.
Following the appointment of two new non-executive directors during 2015,  
the Board currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and  
six non-executive directors. The current directors’ biographies are on  
pages 62 and 63. 
The Company considers periodic refreshment of the Board to be positive  
as it brings new thinking to the Company as well as ensuring that the Board’s 
collective experiences equip it to direct the Company’s strategy and meet its 
business needs as they evolve over time. The Board is also mindful that an 
appropriate balance between directors who can bring a new perspective  
and those who provide continuity is essential for a business like Cairn’s. 
Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed not only  
on gender but also on nationality and experience. The Board has one female 
non-executive director and continues to demonstrate diversity in the broader 
sense, with directors from the Netherlands, the USA and Canada, as well as the 
UK, bringing a range of domestic and international experience to the Board. The 
Board’s diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of 
experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, 
operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise. Further 
information on diversity within Cairn is included in the report of the Nomination 
Committee on page 72 and in the Strategic report section of this Annual Report 
and Accounts.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES BETWEEN CHAIRMAN  
AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman  
and the Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
The Chairman’s responsibilities include:
 – the leadership and effective running of the Board;
 – ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the determination 
and development of the Group’s strategy;
 – acting as guardian and facilitator of the Board’s decision-making process;
 – ensuring effective implementation of the Board’s decisions; and
 – ensuring open communications with shareholders and, in particular , 
understanding their issues and concerns with regard to governance. 68 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT  
CONTINUED
The Chairman’s other commitments out with the Company are included in 
his biography on page 62. The Chairman devotes a significant amount of time  
to his role and regularly utilises the Company’s London office to deal with 
Company matters.
The Chief Executive’s responsibilities include:
 – managing the Group’s business and proposing and developing the Company’s 
strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board;
 – leading the Senior Leadership Team in implementing the decisions of the 
Board and its committees; 
 – driving the successful and efficient achievement of the Company’s KPIs and 
objectives; and
 – providing strong and coherent leadership in representing the Company  
to its stakeholders.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR 
Iain McLaren continues to be Cairn’s senior independent non-executive director . 
The main responsibilities of the senior independent non-executive director are  
as follows:
 – to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary 
with other directors when necessary;
 – to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through 
the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer 
has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate; and
 – to meet with the other non-executive directors without the Chairman 
present, at least annually, in order to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Company’s 
directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. As such, each of  
the directors will seek re-election at the AGM to be held on 12 May 2016.  
Full biographical details of the current directors can be found in the Board  
of Directors section on pages 62 and 63. 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises that the 
performance evaluation process represents an annual opportunity to enhance 
overall Board effectiveness. The Company first conducted an externally facilitated 
Board evaluation in 2012 and conducted internal evaluations in 2013 and 2014. 
The 2014 evaluation resulted in some important recommendations for improving 
the Board’s effectiveness, including proposals to undertake in-depth workshops 
on strategy and succession planning and to appoint two new non-executive 
directors, all of which have subsequently been completed.
This year , taking into account the requirement to conduct an externally facilitated 
evaluation at least every three years, the Board approved an external board 
performance evaluation for 2015. The Company subsequently appointed 
Independent Audit to facilitate this process (Independent Audit has no other 
connection with the Company).
Independent Audit reviewed a full annual cycle of the Company’s Board and 
Board committee papers. They then conducted interviews with all Board 
members and the Company Secretary during Q3 2015 and attended the 
October Board and committee meetings as an observer . The results of their 
review were included in a final report published in November 2015 which  
was presented and discussed at the December 2015 Board meeting. 
Following completion of the external evaluation process, the Chairman also  
held a series of one-to-one meetings with each of the directors in December 
2015 in order to discuss the outcomes of the evaluation. In addition, the senior 
independent non-executive director met with each of the non-executive 
directors (excluding Ian Tyler) in order to discuss/appraise the performance  
of the Chairman.
The main action points arising from the 2015 external performance evaluation 
include the following:
Key actions Implementation
Continue to develop the  
Board risk process
The Board conducted a second annual 
Board risk workshop in December 
2015 at which it undertook a detailed 
review of risk appetite and key risks.
Ongoing review of Board  
composition
Board composition will be revisited  
to ensure it remains appropriate.
Further increase explanation  
and simplify technical analysis  
in Board papers
There is increased focus on distilling 
technical data in Board papers in order 
to ensure that there is an appropriate 
balance between clearly explained 
management recommendations and  
any supporting technical information.
As explained above, some improvements have been identified and have already 
been or will be addressed during 2016.
Following the external performance evaluation process conducted in 2015, the 
Board and the Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively 
and that each director has performed well in respect of their roles on the Board and 
its committees. The Board believes that all of the directors’ performance continues 
to be effective and that they each demonstrate commitment to their role. 
The executive directors also have their performance reviewed by the remuneration 
committee against the Group KPIs which are set annually (further details of the 
KPIs can be found in the KPI section on pages 20 to 25. The 2015 bonuses payable 
to the executive directors under the Company’s cash bonus scheme (described 
further in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 104) were linked 
directly to the Group’s performance against these KPIs.
INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Board considers the independence of each of the non-executive directors  
on an ongoing basis, taking into account their integrity, their objectivity and their 
contribution to the Board and its committees. The Board is of the view that the 
following behaviours are essential for a director to be considered independent:
 – provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the assumptions, 
beliefs and views of senior management and the other directors;
 – questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously  
and dispassionately;
 – acts at all times in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders;
 – has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Company’s business and of the 
market as a whole which provides a solid background against which they can 
consider the Company’s strategy objectively and help the executive directors 
develop proposals on strategy; and
 – has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either directly  
or indirectly.
Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors 
against these criteria, the Board concluded that all non-executive directors 
demonstrated each of the required competencies to a high level and are, 
therefore, each considered independent by the Board. The Board does  
however recognise that, in view of the characteristics of independence set  
out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, Todd Hunt cannot technically  
be deemed independent given his length of service. The Board are however 
confident that Mr Hunt’s judgement remains independent and that he  
continues to display all of the behaviours expected of our independent  
non-executive directors. 69 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.  
This involves meetings with other Board members (in particular the Chairman), 
senior management and the Company’s principal advisers. In addition, new 
directors are provided with a comprehensive induction pack which contains  
a wide range of materials including:
Board Board papers and minutes of previous 
meetings; schedule of matters 
reserved to the Board; financial 
delegations of authority; list of Board 
and committee members and dates of 
appointment; and schedule of dates 
for Board and committee meetings.
Committees Terms of reference for all  
Board committees.
Risk Terms of reference for Risk 
Management Committee and minutes 
of last meeting; current Group Risk 
Matrix and Risk Appetite Statement; 
FRC Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial 
and Business Reporting.
Key policies Group Corporate Responsibility 
Business Principles; Group Code of 
Business Ethics; Anti-Bribery-and-
Corruption (ABC) Management 
System; ABC Business Partner Due 
Diligence Procedure; Dealing Rules 
and Model Code; Procedures, Systems 
and Controls for Compliance with the  
Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules.
Organisation Group Structure Chart; latest  
Annual Report and Accounts.
Governance UK Corporate Governance Code; FRC 
Guidance on Board Effectiveness and 
Audit Committees; ICSA Guidance on 
Liability of non-executive directors; 
GC100 Directors’ Remuneration 
Reporting Guidance.
Legal/ regulatory Memorandum for directors on  
their responsibilities and obligations  
as directors.
Insurance Full details of directors’  
and officers’ liability cover .
The Company also provides, on an ongoing basis, the necessary resources for 
developing and updating its directors’ knowledge and capabilities. In particular , the 
Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development 
training for its directors. In 2015, the Company continued with its practice of 
providing a directors’ education programme consisting of a number of seminars 
for Board members, which are presented by the Company’s external advisers/
guest speakers/members of senior management, on subjects appropriate to  
the Company’s business, including changes to legislation, regulation and  
market practice. 
During 2015, the subjects covered by these seminars included:
 – a session on the continuing obligations and responsibilities of directors  
under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules;
 – an anti-bribery compliance update;
 – revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code and in particular the  
new requirement for a viability statement;
 – together with the Company’s legal advisers, a ‘deep dive’ on the Indian  
tax matter and arbitration process;
 – a presentation by the British High Commissioner in Senegal; and
 – asset presentations by senior management at pre-Board meetings  
(further information on pre-Board meetings is included on page 70).
These seminars are held prior to Board meetings and are attended by all directors 
present at such meetings (the Company keeps a record of attendance). Any 
director may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar . In addition, 
all media articles relating to the Company and all analyst reports relating to the 
Company are distributed to all directors. 
INFORMATION AND SUPPORT
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it  
to discharge its duties. Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company 
Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board 
and its committees and between management and non-executive directors,  
as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development  
as required. The Company Secretary ensures the presentation of high quality 
information to the Board and its committees and that all papers and information 
are delivered in a timely fashion. Board and committee papers are delivered 
securely through an electronic platform. 
The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are responsible  
for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance 
matters, and each director has access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary. The governance committee also 
supports the Board in relation to corporate governance matters and further 
information on the role of this committee is provided on page 73. 
There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in furtherance  
of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the 
Company’s expense. 
DIRECTORS’ AND OFFICERS’ LIABILITY INSURANCE
The Company has directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in place. 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation  
of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Company’s interests. All directors are 
aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary or Deputy 
Company Secretary of any current situations (appointments or otherwise) which 
may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest. There are no conflict 
matters which require to be authorised for the current directors. The Board will 
continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD AND DELEGATION  
OF AUTHORITY
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for 
decision. During 2015, the Board conducted an in-depth review of this and 
adopted an updated schedule of matters reserved which is now divided into 
categories covering different types of decisions, including: corporate; Board/
directors; financial/operational; and legal/regulatory.  70 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered and 
approved during 2015 were:
Corporate Board/Directors
The Company’s 2014 Annual  
Report and Accounts and 2015 
interim accounts
The appointment of two new 
non-executive directors
The Company’s 2015 AGM circular Various changes to Board committees
The Company’s Risk  
Appetite Statement
Financial/Operational Legal/Regulatory
The appropriateness of the Group 
going concern sign-off for the  
2014 full year accounts and 2015 
interim accounts
Commencement of arbitration 
process seeking resolution of the  
Indian tax issue
The Company’s first viability 
statement (see page 43)
Selection of a mobile offshore drilling 
unit and well management services  
for the 2015/16 Senegal drilling 
programme
Participation in the Norwegian  
APA 2015 licensing round
The Board also has an approved set of financial delegations of authority to  
ensure clarity throughout the business concerning the distinction between 
financial matters which require Board approval and those that can be delegated 
to senior management. 
The senior executive management structure at Board level and beneath remains 
unchanged from that disclosed in last year’s corporate governance statement, 
with the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) and Management Team (MT) continuing 
to play a key role in supporting the Board. 
The SLT comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer , the Chief 
Operating Officer (COO), the Director of Exploration, the Company’s two 
Regional Directors and the General Manager , Senegal. The SLT is chaired by the 
Chief Executive and meets six times per year with those meetings scheduled  
in advance of Board meetings. 
Key elements of the SLT’s role include the following:
 – devise and generate the Company’s strategy to be proposed to the Board for 
approval and implement and communicate this strategy across the business;
 – implement the business plan, the key performance indicators and annual work 
programme and budget following their approval by the Board;
 – consider business development and new venture projects prior to submitting 
these to the Board; and
 – provide leadership and guidance to the Company on vision, strategy, 
corporate governance, corporate responsibility and HSE matters.
The members of the SLT are also members of the RMC, which identifies and 
reviews key business risks – further information on the role of the RMC is 
contained in the internal control section of this statement on pages 73 and 74.
The MT comprises the COO (chair), the Director of Exploration, the Deputy 
Finance Director , two Regional Directors, the General Manager , Senegal,  
and four functional managers (Human Resources Manager , Legal Manager ,  
HSE Manager and Business Development and New Ventures Manager).
The MT meets formally six to nine times per year with four of those meetings 
focusing on a quarterly performance review of the business. 
The key elements of the MT’s role include the following:
 – develop and implement a Business Plan, which will deliver the Company’s 
strategic objectives (these will be reflected in annual KPIs, including HSE);
 – critically assess and determine the mitigation plans for key business risks and 
ensure that all risks are captured and reviewed regularly in the Company’s  
risk register;
 – co-ordinate operations and licence management along with resource 
allocation and organisational alignment to ensure timely and cost-effective 
delivery against approved budgets; 
 – Health, Safety, Security and Environment matters; and
 – review and approve other day-to-day business requirements. 
The Exploration Leadership Team (ELT), which is chaired by the Director of 
Exploration, comprises the Group Geoscience Manager , the Chief Geologist, the 
Chief Geophysicist, three regional Exploration Managers and a representative 
from new ventures/new business. 
The ELT meets every two weeks to facilitate alignment, consistency, best practice 
and team work in the following areas:
 – ensuring exploration, appraisal and new venture opportunities align with the 
Company’s Business Plan;
 – ensuring consistent screening and ranking of exploration opportunities  
prior to detailed assessment, thereby utilising the significant knowledge  
and experience of the ELT;
 – developing and implementing new geosciences technology and techniques 
where appropriate for application within the Company to reduce subsurface 
uncertainty and/or risks; and
 – ensuring appropriate representation at resource assessment reviews and 
other internal subsurface peer reviews.
BOARD MEETINGS
During 2015, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, with all of these 
meetings taking place over two consecutive days. The first day includes a Chief 
Executive’s lunch with the non-executive directors and a Board education 
session followed by a pre-Board meeting and a Board dinner in the evening. The 
pre-Board meeting includes a detailed presentation from senior management on 
key projects, assets or matters to be considered at the Board meeting and thereby 
provides an excellent opportunity for a technically rigorous discussion. It also 
allows the Board to more fully understand any risks or challenges to the business 
plan and strategy and allows exposure to talent within the Company.
The Company’s Board meetings are then held on the second day and followed by 
a Board lunch. Board committee meetings are held on either the first or second 
day or , depending on the number of committee meetings required, on both days. 
All Board committee meetings take place prior to the main Board meeting so that 
the chair of each committee can provide a report to the Board.
Two of the Board meetings during 2015 were held at the Company’s registered 
office in Edinburgh, three were held at the Company’s office in London and one 
was held in Senegal. Details of attendance at each of those Board meetings, and 
at meetings of each of the Board committees, are set out in the table to the right. 
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings  
is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting 
by telephone or in writing. Video and telephone conferencing facilities are used 
when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT  
CONTINUED 71 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes 
presentations from senior management, is set by the Chairman in consultation 
with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary. Formal minutes of all Board 
and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the next Board 
meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting. In addition, the 
members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the 
Group’s business. There is also a procedure in place to allow Board meetings to be 
convened at short notice where required to deal with specific matters which need 
to be considered between scheduled Board meetings.
The non-executives have a practice of meeting informally before and after  
each Board meeting without executive directors being present. At these 
non-executive forums, the non-executive directors are invited by the Chairman 
to bring forward any matter pertaining to the business of the Board that they 
believe would benefit from discussion in such forum. This practice also applies 
after Board committee meetings (in particular the remuneration and audit 
committees) to ensure that non-executive directors can discuss any relevant 
issues arising from those meetings without executive management being present.
DIRECTORS’ ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS 
The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled 
Board and Board committee meetings during 2015. The Board and committee 
members achieved full attendance at all meetings. 
Board
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Governance 
Committee
Meetings held  
during 2015
1
 6 4 4 3 3
Meetings 
attended
Meetings 
attended
Meetings 
attended
Meetings 
attended
Meetings 
attended
Executive Directors
Simon Thomson 
(Chief Executive) 6 n/a
2
n/a
2
3 n/a
James Smith (CFO) 6 n/a
3
n/a n/a 3
Non-Executive Directors
Ian T yler (Chairman) 6 2
4
4 3 3
Iain McLaren (senior 
independent director) 6 4 4 3 n/a
Todd Hunt 6 n/a 2
5
2
5
2
5
Alexander Berger 6 4 n/a 2
6
3
Jackie Sheppard 6 n/a 4 n/a 3
Keith Lough
7
4 3 n/a 2 1
Peter Kallos
8
2 n/a 2 1 n/a
Notes:
n/a not applicable (where a director is not a member of the committee).
(1) During 2015, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the 
audit committee, remuneration committee, nomination committee and governance committee 
by invitation. These details have not been included in the table.
(2) Simon Thomson is not a member of the remuneration committee but attends its meetings  
by invitation. Mr Thomson also attends part of each audit committee meeting by invitation.
(3) James Smith is not a member of the audit committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
(4) Ian Tyler retired as a member of the audit committee with effect from 30 June 2015.  
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to that date.
(5) Todd Hunt retired as a member of the remuneration, nomination and governance committees 
with effect from 30 June 2015. The number of meetings he attended is stated up to that date.
(6) Alexander Berger retired as a member of the nomination committee with effect from 30 June 
2015. The number of meetings he attended is stated up to that date.
(7) Keith Lough was appointed a member of the Board and of the audit, nomination and governance 
committees with effect from 14 May 2015. The number of meetings he attended is stated from 
that date.
(8) Peter Kallos was appointed a member of the Board and of the remuneration and nomination 
committees with effect from 1 September 2015. The number of meetings he attended is 
stated from that date.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee,  
a nomination committee and a governance committee, each of which has formal 
terms of reference approved by the Board. Copies of the terms of reference, 
which satisfy the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, are 
available on the Company’s website. 
Each of the Board committees is provided with all necessary resources to  
enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner . The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees with the exception of the 
audit committee, where the Deputy Company Secretary undertakes this role.  
The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Set out below are reports from each of the Board committees, with the exception 
of the audit committee report which, in line with best practice, is presented  
as a separate report (on pages 76 to 80) rather than being included in the corporate 
governance statement. The remuneration committee section below covers only 
the composition and role of the committee, with full details of the Company’s 
policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments given  
in the separate Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 104. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
The members of the remuneration committee during the year were as follows:
 – Jackie Sheppard (Chair);
 – Iain McLaren; 
 – Ian Tyler; 
 – Peter Kallos (appointed as a member of the committee on 1 September 
2015); and
 – Todd Hunt (retired as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015).
The remuneration committee met four times during 2015 and currently 
comprises four independent non-executive directors. The Chief Executive is not a 
member of the committee but attends its meetings by invitation. The committee’s 
remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street, also attended some of the committee’s 
meetings. None of the members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor  
the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own 
remuneration. The committee has established a practice of meeting informally 
without any executive directors or advisers present after each committee meeting 
to allow the non-executives to discuss any matter which has arisen in the meeting 
(or relating to the duties of the committee) which they believe would benefit from 
discussion in such forum.
The role of the committee includes:
 – determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for the 
executive directors, the Chairman, and the Company’s Persons Discharging 
Managerial Responsibilities (PDMRs);
 – within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual 
remuneration package for the executive directors;
 – determining the level of awards made under the Company’s long-term 
incentive plans and share option plans and the performance conditions  
which are to apply;
 – determining bonuses payable under the Company’s annual cash bonus scheme;
 – determining the vesting of awards under the Company’s long-term incentive 
plans and exercise of share options; and
 – determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and 
termination payments for executive directors. 72 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT  
CONTINUED
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
The members of the nomination committee during the year were as follows:
 – Ian Tyler (Chair);
 – Iain McLaren;
 – Simon Thomson;
 – Keith Lough (appointed as a member of the committee on 14 May 2015);
 – Peter Kallos (appointed as a member of the committee on 1 September 
2015);
 – Todd Hunt (retired as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015); and
 – Alexander Berger (retired as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015).
The nomination committee met three times in 2015. The Chairman and three  
of the Company’s independent non-executive directors are members of the 
committee. In addition, to ensure continuing executive input on nomination 
matters, the Chief Executive is also a member of the committee.
The role of the nomination committee includes:
 – evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge  
on the Board; and
 – leading the process for Board appointments and making recommendations  
to the Board in respect of new appointments.
The committee considers, on an ongoing basis, the balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its diversity 
(including gender), how the Board works together as a unit, and other factors 
relevant to the Board’s effectiveness. 
One of the main recommendations arising from last year’s performance evaluation 
was to consider the composition of the Board in light of the changes to the Board 
during 2014. The Company publicly stated its aim to do this in last year’s corporate 
governance statement and confirmed that external recruitment consultants 
Ridgeway Partners had been instructed in connection with the proposed 
appointments. Ridgeway Partners has no other connection with the Company.
On 29 April 2015, the Company announced the appointment of Keith Lough  
and Peter Kallos as independent non-executive directors and the process with 
regard to these appointments is described below.
NEW APPOINTMENTS DURING 2015
Ridgeway Partners were briefed regarding the proposed appointments in Q4 
2014 and, following a confidential initial research phase, provided a long-list in 
January 2015. Following screening of the long-list a number of candidates were 
then short-listed for interview by Ridgeway. Following these interviews, Ridgeway 
put forward four candidates for consideration by the Company. All of these 
candidates were then interviewed by the Chairman and Chief Executive pursuant 
to which Keith Lough and Peter Kallos were selected as the preferred candidates.
Following selection and prior to their appointment, Mr Lough and Mr Kallos  
met with the other members of the Board, the Company Secretary, senior 
management and some of the Company’s key external advisers. Both were  
given the opportunity to, and subsequently did, carry out due diligence on  
the Company. The nomination committee then recommended to the Board  
that Mr Lough and Mr Kallos be appointed as non-executive directors of the 
Company and the proposed appointments were unanimously approved  
by the Board. 
Keith Lough was appointed with effect from 14 May 2015 and was also appointed 
as a member of the audit, nomination and governance committees with effect 
from that date. Peter Kallos was appointed with effect from 1 September 2015 
and was also appointed as a member of the remuneration and nomination 
committees with effect from that date.
DIVERSITY
The nomination committee very much takes into account the benefits of diversity 
on the Board, including gender . The Company currently has one female director 
and the Board is very diverse in terms of the range of nationality and international 
experience of its members. The directors’ diverse range of experience and 
expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of operating in the oil and  
gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, financial, governance,  
legal and commercial expertise.
Cairn aspires to diversify its Board further as part of its succession planning policy. 
In seeking to achieve this aspiration, the Company will not appoint an individual to 
the Board unless they are the best candidate for the role, whether male or female. 
Whilst a number of women were considered during the recruitment process to 
appoint the Company’s two new non-executive directors, unfortunately the 
selection process did not identify a woman as the best candidate for either role.
Beneath Board level, the Company has however continued to develop and 
increase the number of women in senior management roles across the Group. 
There is currently one woman on the SLT (representing 14% of total membership) 
and there are two women on the MT (representing 20% of total membership). 
The Company operates a range of measures which support diversity at Cairn, 
including succession planning, training and development and flexible working 
policies. The pipeline of younger talent within the Group is also diverse and  
bodes well for the future.
SUCCESSION PLANNING
The nomination committee regularly evaluates the balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge on the Board and makes recommendations to the 
Board as appropriate. The Board has satisfied itself that plans are in place for 
orderly succession for appointments to the Board and for senior management,  
so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the 
Company and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board. 
The Board and the nomination committee have regularly discussed and reviewed 
Board composition and succession planning throughout 2015 and this will continue 
in 2016 in view of the Board changes which have taken effect during the year . 
However , one of the main recommendations arising from last year’s performance 
evaluation was that the Board required a clearer process for fully understanding 
succession planning beneath Board level. The Company was also mindful that this 
was particularly important given the staff reorganisation process undertaken  
in 2014. 
The Board therefore undertook a detailed review of succession planning at its 
meeting in June 2015, which clearly identified potential successors for key roles 
within the organisation. The Board considered succession planning for each of 
these positions, analysed any succession gaps or risks identified and considered 
how best to develop the succession pipeline. The Board now has a deeper 
understanding of succession planning across the Company and the range of 
measures being used to continue to develop and recruit talented employees.
More information on succession planning can be found on page 48 of this  
annual report. 73 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
The members of the governance committee during the year were as follows:
 – Jackie Sheppard (Chair); 
 – Alexander Berger; 
 – Ian Tyler;
 – James Smith; 
 – Keith Lough (appointed as a member of the committee on 14 May 2015); and
 – Todd Hunt (retired as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015).
The governance committee met three times in 2015 and is comprised of a 
majority of non-executive directors. In addition, to ensure continuing executive 
input on governance matters, the CFO is also a member of the committee. 
The role of the governance committee includes:
 – reviewing and approving changes to the Board’s corporate governance 
practices and policies; 
 – monitoring the Company’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements; and 
 – reviewing developments in corporate governance generally and advising the 
Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the law and 
practice of corporate governance.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board. The 
Company has implemented the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding 
electronic communication with its shareholders, in order to give shareholders 
more choice and flexibility in how they receive information from the Company. 
Cairn responds promptly to correspondence from shareholders and its website 
contains a wide range of information on the Company, including a dedicated 
investor relations section.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding  
of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional 
shareholders, including meetings with executive management after the 
announcement of the year-end and half-yearly results. The Chairman is available 
to attend a number of these meetings. The Board is kept informed of any issues 
raised by shareholders both as a standing agenda item in Board papers and 
through feedback at pre-Board meetings and following results or other 
significant announcements. In addition, the Company maintains an investor 
relations database which details all meetings between the Company and its 
investors or other related stakeholders. All analyst reports relating to the 
Company are also distributed to the Board. 
A list of the Company’s major shareholders can be found in the Directors’ Report 
on page 65. The Company recognises that the success of the comply-or-explain 
approach under the UK Corporate Governance Code depends on an ongoing 
and open dialogue with shareholders, and remains committed to communicating 
with shareholders, as well as proxy voting agencies, on any matter which they 
wish to discuss in relation to the Company’s governance.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors 
and welcomes their participation. It is policy for all of the directors to attend the 
AGM. Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal reasons,  
in normal circumstances the chair of each of the Board committees will be 
available to attend the AGM and be prepared to answer questions.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give 
them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Company’s activities 
and prospects. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 12 May 2016 
can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is contained in the 
shareholder circular posted with this Annual Report and Accounts. Further 
explanation of each of the resolutions can also be found in the circular .
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be 
counted before the AGM and the results will be made available following the 
meeting after the shareholders have voted in a poll on each resolution. Both the 
Form of Proxy and the poll card for the AGM include a ‘vote withheld’ option in 
respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular 
resolution. It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a ‘vote withheld’ is not a vote 
in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes  
‘for’ or ‘against’ a resolution.
INFORMATION PURSUANT TO THE TAKEOVER DIRECTIVE
The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 7 .2.6 
(directors’ interests in shares; appointment and replacement of directors; powers 
of the directors; restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the 
Company) in the Directors’ Report.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the Company’s system of internal control and for 
regularly reviewing its effectiveness. The Company has in place an Integrated 
Internal Control and Assurance Framework (the ‘framework’), which plays a 
critical role in setting out how the Company manages and assures itself that the 
risks relating to the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives are 
effectively controlled. The framework is based on the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organisations (COSO) framework and its five key components, which is a 
commonly used and recognised framework for considering internal control 
systems. The COSO framework, which was first released in 1992 and updated  
in 2013, seeks to help organisations develop systems of internal control which 
help facilitate the achievement of business objectives and improvements in 
Company performance. The framework also supports organisations in adapting 
to increasingly complex business environments and managing risks to acceptable 
levels with the aim of safeguarding shareholders’ interests and Company  
assets. This system of internal control is in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The framework has been in place for the 2015 financial year and up to the date  
of approval of the annual report and accounts. The Board has carried out a review  
of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2015 and will ensure 
that a similar review is performed in 2016. In so doing, the Board took into account 
the assurance provided by the Chief Executive in respect of the effectiveness  
of the system of internal control within the Company. The Board is accordingly 
satisfied that effective controls are in place and that risks have been mitigated  
to a tolerable level across the Group in 2014. 
Cairn seeks to create value through oil and gas exploration and production while 
at the same time safeguarding the environment and respecting and contributing 
to the communities it is a part of. In order to achieve this, Cairn’s core values of 
building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly are at the core of 
the business, informing how the Company operates. These values are promoted 
to Cairn’s employees, partners and contractors. Cairn’s licence to operate 
depends on transparent relationships and active stakeholder engagement 
programmes with our many stakeholders including governments, communities, 
partners, shareholders and suppliers globally. The directors believe that this 
commitment to strong governance generates trust and ensures consistent  
global standards and is critical to the Company’s success. 74 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT  
CONTINUED
Particular attention has been placed by the Company’s management during 2015 
on ensuring that an effective system of internal control has been maintained 
during the year in relation to the key risks in the Company’s business activities. 
Enhancements have been made during 2015 to the following key controls, 
business processes and procedures:
 – the Group developed a Cairn Operating Standards manual of core business 
processes which outlines ‘the Cairn way’ for executing key processes.  
The manual was rolled out across the Group in Q3 2015 and compliance  
with the business standards became mandatory from Q1 2016;
 – the suite of policies and procedures which form the Group’s Corporate 
Responsibility Management System (CRMS) were developed or revised  
to achieve alignment with the Cairn Operating Standards and the latest 
International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) guidance.  
The revised CRMS was rolled out across the Group in Q4 2015;
 – the Group Risk Management Procedure was updated to incorporate a 
number of recommendations from a recent risk management audit and  
to include some emerging practice in risk management. Plans are in place  
to provide training to the Group on the new procedure in Q2 2016;
 – a test of the Business Continuity Plan was completed in Q4 2015 with 
positive results. The Group enhanced its business continuity recovery 
capability with the addition of a further disaster recovery site close to  
the Head Office; and
 – assurance maps were developed for the principal risks to the Group.  
These maps have helped to identify potential areas of control weakness  
and/or ineffective use of assurance resources which may require further 
independent assurance in 2016.
The following describes the key elements of the framework and the processes 
used by the Board during 2015 to review the effectiveness of the system and  
the approach to be taken in 2016.
1. STRATEGIC DIRECTION
The Company’s strategy and business plan are proposed by the SLT and approved 
by the Board. The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the Company’s 
business and implementing the Company’s strategy and overall commercial 
objectives in consultation with the Board and SLT. The Chief Executive is also 
responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees  
and driving performance against the Company’s KPIs.
2. OPERATING MANAGEMENT
The Company operates three regional units covering different countries and  
with various partners on both an operated and non-operated basis. Supporting 
the strategy is a matrix organisation, where the assets are the principal focus, 
tasked with delivering objectives for their particular asset with functional 
departments providing support to the assets in delivering their objectives.
The executive directors continue to be supported by the SLT as well as by the  
MT and ELT. Further information on the composition of these teams and their 
remit can be found earlier in this statement on page 70. There are also a number 
of functional department heads whose roles include providing expert input and 
challenge to the Company’s work programmes, budgets and business plans,  
and supplying the directors with full and accurate information with which to  
make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
The Company refreshes its Business Plan, work programme and budget on an 
annual basis in line with its overall strategy. These documents start at asset level 
before being consolidated at regional and Company levels. The Business Plan  
sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset and supporting functional 
departments, and is consolidated into the Company’s strategic planning. After  
an iterative process, the annual Business Plan, work programme and associated 
budget are presented to the Board for approval.
The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement  
the Business Plan and to deliver the agreed work programmes within the 
approved budget and delegations of authority, and in accordance with the 
internal control framework.
3. RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Board is responsible for maintaining sound risk management and internal 
control systems across the Cairn Group and must satisfy itself that the significant 
risks faced by the Group are being managed appropriately and that the system of 
risk management and internal control is sufficiently robust to respond to internal 
or external changes in the Group’s business environment.
The RMC continues to be responsible for the development of risk management 
strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation 
of the requirements of this strategy. It does this by ensuring that the framework for 
the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for 
purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to 
these risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite Statement agreed by the Board.
T o supplement the role of the RMC, the Group Risk Management Procedure 
defines the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, 
analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group.  
The Group Risk Management Procedure also identifies the risk management 
organisational structure through which business risks are managed and regularly 
reviewed at operating, asset, country and Company levels. Asset, project, country 
and functional level risk registers are used to capture, assess, monitor and review 
risks before the principal risks are consolidated into the Group Risk Register .
In 2015, risk management updates were presented at each Board meeting and as 
part of an annual process, the Board undertook a strategic risk workshop which 
analysed the key threats and opportunities which could impact on achievement 
of the Group’s strategic objectives.
The RMC, which meets on a quarterly basis, was chaired by the CFO in 2015  
and comprises the executive directors and senior functional management. The 
internal auditor also attends RMC meetings, in order to ensure internal audit’s 
integration with the risk management process. In line with the Company’s biannual 
rotation plan, the Chief Executive will chair the RMC during 2016. Regular MT  
risk meetings were also held during 2015 to manage and facilitate the assessment  
and treatment of business risks that may affect the Company’s ability to deliver  
its strategy. 
Enhancements to our approach to risk management during 2015 included  
the following:
 – the Group Risk Appetite statement was reviewed and updated in light of 
internal and external changes to the business environment. A series of risk 
tolerance levels across a number of categories were identified and agreed 
with the Board and senior management; and 
 – the Group Risk Management Procedure was revised and rolled out across  
the Group in Q1 2016 with targeted risk training to key stakeholders. 
The RMC reports on the Company’s risk profile to both the audit committee  
and the Board. Additionally, the audit committee and the Board receive internal 
reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the key risks. The 
conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2015 is that the internal 
controls in respect of key risks are effective. 75 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
4. ASSURANCE 
The ‘three lines of defence’ framework adopted by the Board provides three levels 
of assurance against the risks facing the Company: first of all at the operational 
level; secondly through overview by functional management and the RMC; and 
thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
The integrated internal control and assurance framework document includes  
a description of the Company’s business and assurance models and of its 
organisation and committee structure, and defines the relevant roles and 
responsibilities. The framework defines the key policies and procedures  
which govern the way in which Cairn conducts its business and is therefore  
a core part of its system of internal control. 
During 2015, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Company’s  
system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and 
compliance controls, risk management and high-level internal control 
arrangements through the completion of internal control self-assessment 
questionnaires. The questionnaires, which are tailored to each region or function, 
are designed to provide an internal assessment of the effectiveness  
of key controls for the Group’s principal risks. 
Additionally, assurance maps for the principal risks were also developed, which 
outlined the key sources of assurance across the three lines of defence. The three 
lines of defence model is a method of assessing the different sources of assurance 
the Group can rely on when analysing key risks and controls. Assurance is gained 
through the application of the business management system which directs the 
day to day running of the business (first line), the oversight functions within Cairn 
which provide challenge to the risk and control environment (second line) and any 
third party reviews the Group instructs to assess the status of a risk/control 
(third line). The assurance maps have helped to identify potential areas of control 
weakness and/or the ineffective use of assurance resources across the Group. 
This has helped influence the topics included in the 2016 Internal Audit Plan.
The Directors derived assurance from the following internal and external 
controls during 2015:
 – a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision  
by the Board;
 – implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities;
 – an appropriate organisational structure;
 – control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated 
representatives;
 – specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and other key 
technical and commercial decisions;
 – segregation of duties where appropriate and cost-effective;
 – business and financial reporting, including KPIs;
 – functional management reviews;
 – an annual ‘letters of assurance’ process, through which asset and functional 
managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-
financial controls and their compliance with Company policies, and report any 
control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in respect of 
weaknesses identified in the prior year;
 – a ‘letter of assurance’ from the Chief Executive confirming the adequacy  
of internal controls within the Company in line with its policy, and reporting  
of any control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in 
respect of weaknesses identified in the prior year;
 – an annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the audit committee  
and Board and is driven by risks and key controls;
 – reports from the audit committee and RMC;
 – reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its  
statutory audit;
 – reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers; 
 – independent third party reviews; and
 – the skills and experience of all employees.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE 
Throughout 2015, the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2014, except in the following areas:
Provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code Company position Explanation
C.3.1. – In smaller companies the 
company chairman may be a member  
of, but not chair , the audit committee  
in addition to the independent non-
executive directors, provided he  
or she was considered independent  
on appointment.
Cairn does not meet the Code definition 
of a smaller company and the Company’s 
Chairman was a member of the audit 
committee until 30 June 2015.
The Company recognises the Code recommendation that, except in smaller 
companies, the Chairman should not be a member of the audit committee. 
The Board deemed it appropriate (in view of his financial expertise) that  
Ian Tyler should remain on the committee until such time as another  
suitably qualified non-executive director could be appointed. Following  
the appointment of Keith Lough as a member of the committee, Ian Tyler 
stepped down from the committee on 30 June 2015. The Company  
has therefore complied with this provision with effect from that date.
D.2.1 – The board should establish a 
remuneration committee of at least  
three independent non-executive 
directors. In addition the company 
chairman may also be a member of,  
but not chair , the committee if he or  
she was considered independent  
on appointment as chairman.
Until 30 June 2015, the remuneration 
committee was made up of two 
independent non-executive directors plus 
the chairman and T odd Hunt, who, having 
served on the Board as non-executive 
director for more than nine years cannot 
be deemed independent in terms of  
the UK Corporate Governance Code.  
Mr Hunt retired from the committee  
on 30 June 2015. Peter Kallos, an 
independent non-executive director  
was appointed on 1 September 2015.
The Company accepts that Todd Hunt is not independent in terms of his 
length of service but, as explained on page 68, the Board is of the view  
that he has remained independent in all other respects. However , in order  
to further comply with the Code, Mr Hunt stepped down from all of the 
Board committees of which he was a member , including the remuneration 
committee, on 30 June 2015. Peter Kallos, an independent non-executive 
director was appointed to the remuneration committee on 1 September 
2015, from which point, the Company fully complied with this provision  
of the Code.
IAN TYLER
Chairman
14 March 2016 Throughout 2015, our activities 
continued to focus on the integrity  
of the financial reporting of the Group 
and the appropriateness of internal 
controls and risk management processes. 
In the current industry climate, the 
committee has focused on the economic 
assumptions adopted by the group  
and their impact on both the financial 
statements for the year and on the 
group’s going concern assessment  
and longer term viability.
76 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
INTRODUCTION
Iain McLaren  
Chair of the Audit Committee
During the year under review, I served as Chair of the audit committee alongside 
three of my fellow non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the 
Board to be independent. 
The members of the committee who served with me during the year were:
 – Ian Tyler (member of committee until 30 June 2015); 
 – Alexander Berger; and
 – Keith Lough (appointed as a director and member of the committee on 
14 May 2015).
Ian Tyler continued to attend meetings in his capacity of Chairman of the Cairn 
Energy PLC Board.
The members of the committee have been chosen to provide the wide range of 
financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these duties. The addition  
of Keith Lough to the committee further enhances this skill set. Keith, Ian Tyler , 
and I are Chartered Accountants with recent and relevant financial experience. 
Alexander Berger brings comprehensive industry knowledge to the committee. 77 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR
The Terms of Reference of the committee take into account the requirements of the Code and are available for inspection on the Group’s website. A summary of the 
committee’s principal responsibilities and activities during the year is set out below.
Principal responsibilities of the Committee Key areas formally discussed
Financial statements – Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements 
of the Group and formal announcements relating 
to the Group’s financial performance; 
– reviewing any significant financial reporting 
judgements contained in them; and
– reviewing accounting policies, accounting 
treatments and disclosures in financial reports.
– Going concern conclusions and linkage to the 
viability statement;
– significant accounting issues at the interim and 
year-end (see below); and
– approval of the Group’s Corporate assumptions 
(those impacting impairment testing are 
summarised in Section 2 of the financial 
statements).
External audit – Overseeing the Group’s relationship with the 
external auditors, including: 
– making recommendations to the Board  
as to the appointment or reappointment  
of the external auditors;
– reviewing their terms of engagement and 
engagement for non-audit services; and
– monitoring the external auditors’ 
independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
– Reviewing the external auditors scope and audit 
plan for the 2015 year-end;
– discussing the materiality levels set by the auditors;
– approval of the auditor’s remuneration;
– consideration of the results of the external  
audit with the auditors and management; and
– assessment of the effectiveness of the external 
audit (see below).
Internal risk and assurance – Reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls 
and internal control and risk management 
systems and oversight of the Group’s risk 
management committee; and
– monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness  
of the Group’s internal audit function.
– Review of the Group’s corporate and operational 
risk register;
– review reports on the activities of the Risk 
Management Committee;
– selection of internal audit work planned for 2015 
and consideration for future years; and
– assessment of key findings raised from internal 
audits conducted in the year .
Whistleblowing procedures – Reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing 
procedures and ensuring that arrangements are 
in place for the proportionate and independent 
investigation of possible improprieties in respect 
of financial reporting and other matters and for 
appropriate follow-up action.
– Approval of the Group’s whistleblowing 
procedures.
Other matters – Agree policy for approval of non-audit work to 
the Company’s auditors; and
– review booking of Group reserves and resources.
– Classification of reserves and resources for 
disclosure in the Annual Report.
SUMMARY OF AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR
The audit committee met four times in 2015, with meetings arranged around the key external reporting dates. The meeting in March focused on the 2014 year-end 
external audit process (reported in the 2014 Annual Report), meetings in June and August on half-year reporting; and a December meeting on planning for the 2015 
year-end cycle and external audit process and internal work programme for 2016. 
At each meeting, the committee receives an updated report from the external auditors which either explains their plans and scope for a forthcoming audit or review, 
or contains the conclusions from that audit or review. The audit committee also monitors the Internal Audit process, tracking the progress of internal audits and 
reviewing their output and recommendations. Other business covered by the committee includes the approval of corporate assumptions and re-approval of the 
Group’s policy on non-audit services and the Group’s Whistleblowing Policy. Subsequent to the year-end, a further meeting was held in March 2016 to conclude  
on the 2015 audit and significant issues. 
At our request, the Chief Financial Officer and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these meetings. Other relevant people from the  
business are also invited to attend certain meetings to give us the necessary insight into their own areas of business, for example in relation to the reporting of oil  
and gas reserves. In addition, these meetings were attended by both internal and external auditors.
The external auditors receive copies of all relevant audit committee papers and minutes of all audit committee meetings. In addition, I regularly meet privately with  
the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Group.
EXTERNAL AUDIT 
The current edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every  
ten years. Cairn not only adopted this policy but decided to comply with this provision early and completed an external audit re-tendering process in 2013. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) were subsequently appointed as external auditor of the Group, on our recommendation. The 2015 year-end audit therefore 
represents the third year of PwC’s tenure as Group auditor . 78 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT  
CONTINUED
2015 YEAR-END SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ISSUES
The continued low oil price environment witnessed during 2015 and the Company’s ongoing tax issue in India were the principal external factors which determined 
the significant accounting issues for the year end.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING
The continued fall in the oil price during 2015 is an indicator that the Group’s exploration, appraisal and development assets and related Goodwill may be impaired. 
The recoverable amount of the Group’s assets is determined using financial models to estimate the fair value less costs of disposal of the assets. The key inputs into  
the financial models, including the long-term oil price assumption are reviewed and approved by the audit committee.
Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions
The committee reviewed and discussed the Group’s corporate assumptions at 
each audit committee. Management’s proposed short and particularly long term 
price assumptions were debated at length and reviewed against benchmarking 
information provided by the Group’s auditors and other third parties.
The committee also reviewed other key inputs into the asset models including 
first oil dates, cost estimates and reserve estimates and production profiles 
comparing the movements in the year to the latest information available from 
operators. The audit committee challenged management on the appropriateness 
of these assumptions and the review that had been undertaken where these 
assumptions were provided by the operator .
Sensitivity analysis prepared by management and disclosed in the accounts was 
reviewed and the committee considered if there were any further reasonable 
scenarios which could lead to a material adjustment to the impairment charge  
in the financial statements that should be considered.
The audit committee concluded that the continued use of a short-term  
(three year) oil price assumption based on the forward curve was appropriate. 
The committee approved the Group’s long-term price assumption at the 
December 2015 meeting based on benchmarking available at that time.  
Updates were provided at the March 2016 committee meeting and the 
committee were satisfied that no revision to this assumption was necessary.
The committee were satisfied that the other key assumptions were appropriate. 
Where these are based on those of the operator , the committee were satisfied that 
management had suitably challenged the appropriateness of these assumptions.
The committee considered the sensitivity analysis provided in the financial 
statements appropriate.
Further details on impairment testing and sensitivity analysis can be found in Section 2 to the financial statements.
INDIAN T AX ISSUE
Proceedings against the Government of India under the UK-India Investment Treaty seeking resolution of the retroactive tax dispute have now formally commenced 
following agreement with the Government of India on the appointment of the arbitration panel. Cairn received a draft assessment order from the Indian T axation 
department in March 2015 and the final tax assessment was received in February 2016. Cairn remains restricted from selling its shares in CIL and CIL are restricted 
in remitting dividends to Cairn. The committee considered the accounting implications of changes in the year .
Audit committee action Audit committee conclusions
Following receipt of first the draft assessment order and, subsequent to the  
year end, on receipt of the final assessment order , the audit committee again 
discussed at length whether either event triggered the recognition of a provision. 
For the 2014 year end, the audit committee having taken advice from the 
Company’s tax and legal advisors and the auditors concluded that the Company 
should not make any tax provision in relation to the transactions subject to Indian 
Income T ax Department review. 
The audit committee agreed with the recommendations of management, the 
Group’s advisors and the opinion of the auditors that there was no requirement 
to make a tax provision in respect of the transactions subject to Income T ax 
Department of India enquiries and the restriction on sale does not lead to an 
impairment of the asset or a tax provision.
OTHER ACCOUNTING ISSUES 
There were two further material accounting issues where the audit committee challenged the judgement of management.
Reversal of deferred tax assets
The audit committee examined management conclusion that it was no longer appropriate to recognise deferred tax assets at the balance sheet date. The committee 
were satisfied that the approach management had taken to assess the likelihood of future profit available to offset tax losses was appropriate and that suitable 
sensitivity analysis had been performed to support management’s conclusion.
Recognition of decommissioning provisions on development assets
A decommissioning provision was recorded in the half-year financial statements for the Kraken development well abandonment and site restoration costs and in the 
second half of the year a further provision was recorded on the Catcher development for similar costs. The committee noted that management’s estimate was based 
on information provided by the respective operators of each development, subject to internal Cairn review and adjustment if necessary. The committee challenged 
management both on the review process that had been undertaken, including assessing the consistency of assumptions applied to each decommissioning estimate, 
and the approach to assessing the estimate to be recorded at the reporting date. The committee supported management’s approach.  79 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY
At each reporting date, management consider the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern (see Section 1.2 of the Financial Statements on page 117).  
The audit committee review and challenge management’s conclusions so that we may, in turn, provide comfort to the Board that management’s assessment has  
been considered, challenged and is appropriate. 
Given the low price environment facing the oil and gas industry, the audit committee carefully reviewed management’s going concern conclusion based on the Group’s 
latest net cash position and the forecast exploration and appraisal spend in the period ending 31 March 2017 . This confirmed that the Group is fully funded to meet its 
work programme and firm commitments over this period. The audit committee subsequently recommended to the Board that the Group continues to use the going 
concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
With the introduction of the viability statement, included on page 43, the audit committee took advice on this new reporting requirements from both the Group’s 
internal auditors (as part of a wider review of the Group’s readiness for further Corporate Governance changes) and external auditors before assessing the approach 
to be taken by management in preparing the viability statement. The committee reviewed and provided feedback to management on their initial assessment of the 
viability statement requirements presented at the August 2015 audit committee. Management presented their revised approach to the December meeting with 
which the committee agreed. 
At the March 2016 meeting the committed reviewed and queried management on the sensitivity analysis prepared to support their conclusions reached. Following 
this review, the committee recommended approval of the viability statement to the Board.
ASSESSMENT OF EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS
The committee has an established framework to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process. This comprises of:
A review of the audit plan including the materiality level set by the auditors and 
the process they have adopted to identify financial statement risks and key areas 
of audit focus (summarised in the Independent Auditor’s Report on page 105).
The Committee agreed with the level of materiality set by the auditors. 
A review of the Audit Quality Inspection (AQI) Report on our auditors published 
by the Financial Reporting Council with particular emphasis on those key 
messages applicable to Cairn.
There were no matters raised in the AQI report that caused concern for the  
audit committee.
A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor judgement and  
the reasoning behind the conclusions reached.
The audit committee reviewed findings on the key audit issues identified.  
The committee were satisfied that appropriate challenge had been made  
of management and that the audit process was robust.
Regular communications through formal papers submitted and presentations  
to the committee and meetings between myself as Chair of the audit committee 
and the lead audit engagement partner .
The Audit plan for the year ending 31 December 2015 was presented to  
the audit committee in June 2015 and is summarised in the Independent 
Auditor’s Report on page 105.
A formal questionnaire issued to all audit committee members and senior  
Cairn management who are involved in the audit covering the robustness  
of the audit process, the quality of delivery, the quality of reporting and the 
quality of the auditor’s people and service.
No matters of significance were reported.
Of particular focus for the Committee is the assessment of the judgement applied by PwC during each stage of the audit process including setting audit materiality, 
identifying the risks to the financial statements, evaluating audit findings and communicating those areas of judgement to the committee. 
The audit committee noted the level of planned materiality and agreed on the levels of misstatements to be reported to the committee. The final audit report was 
presented to the audit committee in March 2016. After thorough discussion, the committee agreed with the conclusions that the auditors had reached noting the 
degree of judgement around the areas of significant audit risk. 
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE AND PROVISION OF NON-AUDIT SERVICES 
We have a long established policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors. The Group will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit 
services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third party’s knowledge of the Group and cost. 
These advisers may include the Group’s external auditors, under a restricted set of circumstances, although, before the engagement commences, Cairn must be 
satisfied that the auditor’s objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services. 
The Group’s current policy for approval of non-audit services was reviewed and re-approved by the audit committee in December 2015. Full details of the Group’s 
policy can be found on the Company’s website.
During the year , PwC provided other services including certification of the Group’s EITI submission in Senegal and providing the accountant’s report on the circular 
approving the sell-down of the Group’s holding in Cairn India Limited should the current restriction be lifted.
A full analysis of remuneration paid to the Group’s external auditor in respect of both audit and non-audit work is provided in Note 6.4 to the Financial Statements.  80 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT  
CONTINUED
INTERNAL AUDIT
Following a competitive tender process, Ernst & Young LLP (EY) were appointed as the Group’s internal auditor with effect from July 2013. Prior to the beginning of 
each year , an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor , in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous year’s 
internal audits, the outcome of the annual assessment of effectiveness of internal control (refer to page 73), the results of historical audits of fundamental business 
processes and the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures. The plan is then presented to the audit committee for review and 
approval. The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the group risk management committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and 
associated risks and to update the group risk management committee on the internal audit work plan. The audit committee also receives updates on the internal audit 
work plan on an ongoing basis. The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Group’s internal audit function due to the nature of the 
scope and the timing of their work. The external auditors do, however , attend all committee meetings where internal audit updates are given and meet separately with 
the internal auditors to discuss areas of common focus in developing their audit plan. 
WHISTLEBLOWING AND RELATED POLICIES 
The Group updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2012 and the new policy was reviewed by the audit committee and subsequently rolled out across the 
organisation. The committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect  
of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action. The Whistleblowing Policy was reviewed by the committee in December 2015 and 
re-approved with no changes considered necessary.
The Group has in place a comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Corruption Management System and Code of Business Ethics and related training has been provided  
to all staff during 2015. As Cairn enters new countries, further monitoring is undertaken and training is continued. Further information regarding these policies  
can be found on the Group’s website.
IAIN MCLAREN
Chair of the Audit Committee
14 March 2016 As the Chair of Cairn’s remuneration 
committee, I am pleased to present  
our Directors’ Remuneration Report  
for 2015. During the year we continued 
to apply the executive remuneration 
policy that was strongly supported at  
the 2014 AGM, with over 98% of the 
votes cast at that meeting being in  
favour of its adoption. 
During 2015, the committee reviewed pay arrangements 
throughout the organisation. This exercise took into 
consideration evolving best governance standards and 
remuneration policy perspectives expressed by our investors 
and others. As part of our review, the committee has 
examined all elements of executive compensation taking  
into account the Company’s long-term strategy, its current 
and near term business plans and today’s severe industry 
conditions and uncertainty. We did consider making changes 
to certain aspects of the current structure in 2016. However, 
after considering the above noted factors, and recognising  
the fact that each individual element of our remuneration 
arrangements should represent a component part of an 
overarching and cohesive policy, we have determined that  
the appropriate time to make any material variations would 
be on expiry of the current policy at the AGM in 2017 .
For ease of reference the substantive provisions of the current 
policy that was approved in 2014 are repeated in Part 2  
of this report. Part 3, which contains our Annual Report on 
Remuneration, then goes on to explain how these provisions 
were actually applied in 2015 and how they will be operated 
in 2016. The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject 
to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 
12 May 2016.
81 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
INTRODUCTION
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC  
Chair of the remuneration committee
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
PART 1 – ANNUAL ST A TEMENT  
FROM THE CHAIR OF THE COMMITTEE
SUMMARY OF 2015 BUSINESS CONTEXT  
AND KEY REMUNERATION DECISIONS 
The work of the committee in 2015 was conducted against a backdrop  
of a year in which the Company fulfilled its objective of operating with a 
focus on safety, building a business with appropriate exposure to material 
frontier and mature basin exploration whilst maintaining balance sheet 
strength and financial flexibility. 
Its key decisions relating to remuneration in 2015 are described in more 
detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration contained on pages 90 to 
104 and can be summarised as follows:
 – Base salary increases
 With effect from 1 January 2015, both the Company’s executive 
directors (being Simon Thomson and James Smith) received an increase 
to base salary of 1.5%. This was consistent with the level of standard 
annual salary increase awarded to other employees at that time. 
 – Annual bonus
 Based on an assessment of the extent to which the relevant targets 
were achieved during 2015, payments made under the annual bonus 
scheme to the executive directors during the year (as a percentage  
of annual salary) were 75% for both Simon Thomson and James Smith. 
Further details of the way in which these awards were determined  
are set out on pages 95 to 98 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
 – Long Term Incentive Plan (L TIP)
 The performance period applicable to the LTIP awards granted in  
2012 came to an end during 2015. Over this period, the Company’s 
Total Shareholder Return (or ‘TSR’) was sufficient to place it above the 
median level in the applicable comparator group with the result that 
these awards vested in respect of 23.43% of the shares over which 
they were granted.
 As part of the above vesting process, the LTIP’s rules required  
the committee to review the Company’s overall performance over  
the three years from the grant of the awards. After due and careful 
consideration, the committee concluded that there had been a 
sustained improvement in such overall performance during that time.
APPL YING THE POLICY FOR 2016 
While we have determined that the current remuneration structure  
should remain in place for the time being, the committee did decide (within 
the confines of the existing policy) to make changes to the performance 
condition weightings applicable to the 2016 annual bonus scheme.
An overview of the way in which the current remuneration policy will  
be applied in 2016 (including details of the above noted variations made  
to the bonus scheme) is set out on page 104 in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. In summary:
 – with effect from 1 January 2016, both the Chief Executive and the 
CFO received an increase to base salary of 1.5%;
 – the Group KPI measures used for the annual bonus scheme (and their 
respective weightings) have been reformulated for 2016 in order to 
reflect appropriately the Company’s strategic priorities for the period;
 – it has also been decided that a personal performance element (equal to 
10% of the overall opportunity) should be reintroduced into the annual 
bonus scheme for the Chief Executive and CFO in order to ensure that 
it can be used as a more bespoke incentive that reflects their individual 
roles within the business; and 82 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
 – no material changes have been made to the manner in which the LTIP 
will operate in 2016, although the members of the TSR international  
oil and gas comparator group will be updated to take account of  
recent delistings.
At the same time as undertaking its review of directors’ remuneration,  
the committee also considered the pay structures for other employees. 
The focus of this review was to simplify the current arrangements and  
to more closely align share awards made to other employees to those  
for the executive directors. 
SHAREHOLDER SUPPORT AND FEEDBACK ON DIRECTORS’ 
REMUNERATION REPORT
We welcome questions and feedback from all those interested on both  
the content and style of this report. We hope that our shareholders will 
support the resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration 
that will be proposed at our AGM on 12 May 2016.
M. JACQUELINE SHEPPARD QC
Remuneration Committee Chair
14 March 2016
 
PART 2 – DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION POLICY
INTRODUCTION
At the AGM held on 15 May 2014, shareholders overwhelmingly approved a new Directors’ Remuneration Policy for the Company. This policy, which specifies  
the various pay structures operated by the Company and summarises the approach that the committee will adopt in certain circumstances such as the recruitment  
of new directors and/or the making of any payments for loss of office, became effective immediately on receipt of such approval and was applied by the committee 
during 2014 and 2015. This policy will again be operative throughout 2016.
Although not required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the ‘Regulations’), the substantive terms of 
the above Directors’ Remuneration Policy are repeated in this Part 2 for ease of reference. However , any details that were specific to 2014 or earlier years (including, for 
example, any disclosures relating to named directors and the illustrative remuneration scenarios set out on page 88) have, where applicable, been updated to reflect the 
current position. The policy as originally approved by shareholders can be found on pages 82 to 89 of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, a copy of which is available 
on the Company’s website.
PURPOSE AND ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Group’s PDMRs  
(Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities). Within the terms of this agreed policy, the committee is also responsible for: 
 – determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director and PDMR; 
 – determining the level of awards made under the Company’s LTIPs and share option plans and the performance conditions which are to apply;
 – determining bonuses payable under the Company’s annual cash bonus scheme;
 – determining the vesting levels of awards under the Company’s LTIPs and share option arrangements; and
 – determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors and PDMRs.
The committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration levels of employees below senior management level, but does not set individual remuneration 
amounts for such individuals. This oversight role allows the committee to take into account pay policies and employment conditions within the Group as a whole when 
designing the reward structures of the executive directors and PDMRs. For example, the committee considers the standard increase applied to basic pay across the 
Group when setting executive directors’ base salaries for the same period.
Cairn’s remuneration committee operates within written terms of reference agreed by the Board. These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the committee 
remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its strategy and the business and regulatory environment in which it operates. The terms of reference  
of the remuneration committee are available on the Company’s website. 
CONSUL TATION WITH RELEVANT ST AKEHOLDERS
The committee is always keen to ensure that, in carrying out its functions, it takes into account the views and opinions of all the relevant stakeholders in the business. 
Although the committee does not undertake a formal consultation exercise with employees in relation to the Group’s policy on senior management remuneration, 
members of staff are regularly given the opportunity to raise issues on a variety of matters, including executive pay, via a number of mechanisms including employee 
engagement surveys. 83 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
OVERVIEW OF CURRENT REMUNERATION POLICY
Cairn’s current policy on executive directors’ remuneration, which became effective on 15 May 2014 and which is set out below, is to ensure that it appropriately 
incentivises individuals to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives to create, realise and add value for its shareholders, whilst offering a competitive package against 
the market. 
A description of each of the elements comprised in the pay packages for Cairn’s directors under its remuneration policy is as follows:
POLICY TABLE – ELEMENTS OF DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION PACKAGE 
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance
Base salary Helps recruit and  
retain employees.
Reflects individual  
experience and role.
Normally reviewed annually 
(with changes taking effect  
on 1 January) and/or when  
an individual changes position  
or responsibility.
Aim is to provide a  
competitive base salary 
relative to the market 
(although the committee  
does not place undue emphasis 
on benchmarking data and 
exercises its own judgement  
in determining pay levels).
Decision influenced by:
– role and experience;
– average change in broader 
workforce salaries;
– individual performance; and
– remuneration practices  
in companies of a broadly 
similar size and value  
and relevant oil and  
gas exploration and 
production companies.
Annual increases will not 
exceed the level of standard 
increase awarded to other 
employees except that  
more significant increases  
may be awarded at the 
discretion of the committee  
in connection with:
– an increase in the scope 
and responsibility of the 
individual’s role; or
– the individual’s 
development and 
performance in the role 
following appointment; or
– a re-alignment with  
market rates.
None
Benefits Helps recruit and  
retain employees.
Directors are entitled to  
a competitive package of 
benefits. For UK executives, 
the major elements include  
a company car , permanent 
health insurance, private 
health insurance, death-in-
service benefit and a gym  
and fitness allowance.
Company cars up to a value of 
£70,000 (or , as an alternative, 
an annual car allowance of up 
to £8,771) may be provided. 
Other benefits will be in line 
with the market.
None 84 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance
Annual bonus Rewards the achievement  
of annual KPIs and/or other 
objectives linked to the 
Company’s strategic goals.
Bonuses are awarded by 
reference to performance 
against specific targets 
measured over a single 
financial year . 
Any amounts awarded  
to an individual under this 
arrangement are paid out  
in full shortly after the 
assessment of the performance 
targets has been completed. 
However , annual bonuses may 
be subject to clawback where, 
in the period of three years 
from the end of the relevant 
financial year , the committee 
becomes aware of a material 
misstatement of the Company’s 
financial results or an error in 
the calculation of performance 
targets.
Maximum % of salary: 100% The measures and targets applicable  
to the annual bonus scheme (and the 
different weightings ascribed to each of 
them) are set annually by the committee 
in order to ensure they are relevant to 
participants and take account of the most 
up-to-date business plan and strategy.
All, or a significant majority, of the bonus 
opportunity will normally be determined 
by reference to performance against 
demanding Group KPIs such as:
– exploration and new venture 
objectives;
– development and production  
targets; and
– HSE.
Any remaining part of a director’s bonus 
will normally be based on the achievement 
of personal objectives relevant to that 
individual’s role within the business.
A payment scale for different levels  
of achievement against each KPI and/ 
or other objective is specified by the 
committee at the outset of each year – 
these range from 0% for below-threshold 
performance up to 100% for full 
satisfaction of the relevant condition.
The committee has discretion to vary  
the measures and weightings during the 
year if events arise which mean that it 
would be inappropriate to continue with 
the originally prescribed structure. The 
committee expects that this discretion 
will only be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances and not to make the bonus 
scheme for that year less demanding  
than when it was originally set.
In addition, the committee has discretion 
to ensure that the ultimate bonus payment 
for a financial year is fair and reasonable 
and properly reflects performance over 
that period. 85 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance
Long Term 
Incentive Plan  
(or L TIP)
Incentivises executive directors 
to deliver superior levels of 
long-term performance for  
the benefit of shareholders, 
thereby aligning the interests  
of the directors with those of 
the Company’s investors. 
Cairn currently operates one 
LTIP that was approved by 
shareholders in 2009.
Awards of conditional shares 
and/or nil-cost options are 
made annually with vesting 
dependent on achievement  
of performance conditions 
chosen by the committee. 
Performance is measured  
over a three-year period.
On vesting of an award, only 
50% of the shares to which the 
holder has become entitled are 
released/become exercisable 
immediately, with the remaining 
50% normally being released/
becoming exercisable after  
a further period of one year .
The committee reviews the 
quantum of awards annually, 
taking into account factors 
such as market rates and 
overall remuneration.
Awards may be subject  
to clawback where, in the 
period of three years from  
the end of the relevant 
performance period, the 
committee becomes aware  
of a material misstatement of 
the Company’s financial results 
or an error in the calculation  
of performance conditions.
Normal maximum % of salary: 
300%.
Exceptional circumstances 
maximum % of salary: 400%.
Vesting of all awards granted under the 
LTIP to date is determined by comparing 
the growth in Total Shareholder Return 
(‘TSR’) of Cairn over a performance 
period of three years from grant with  
the TSR of a comparator group of 
international oil and gas companies that  
is selected by the committee prior to  
each grant, with 20% vesting at median, 
100% at upper decile and on a straight 
line sliding scale in between.
In order to encourage exceptional 
performance, the above condition 
provides that, at upper decile levels,  
a ‘multiplier’ of up to 1.33 is applied if 
absolute TSR growth is between 50% 
and 100% (or more). It also states that  
no part of any award will vest unless the 
remuneration committee is satisfied that 
there has been an overall satisfactory  
and sustained improvement in the 
performance of the Company as  
a whole over the performance period.
Although the committee’s intention is 
that the above condition will be applied  
to LTIP awards granted in 2016, it may 
decide to impose different (but equally 
challenging) conditions in future years. 
The committee will consult with major 
shareholders prior to making any such 
decision and will ensure that the vesting 
of at least 50% of all awards granted 
under the LTIP continues to be 
determined by reference to the 
Company’s TSR performance.
Share Incentive 
Plan (or SIP)
Encourages a broad range  
of employees to become 
long-term shareholders.
The Company established an 
HM Revenue and Customs 
approved share incentive plan 
in April 2010. It allows the 
Company to provide eligible 
employees, including the 
executive directors, with some 
or all of the following benefits:
– partnership shares acquired 
using deductions from 
salary;
– matching shares awarded 
to those employees who 
purchase partnership 
shares on the basis of  
a ratio specified by the 
Company; and
– free shares.
Matching and free shares 
awarded under the SIP must 
normally be held in the plan  
for a specified period.
Participation limits are those 
set by the UK tax authorities 
from time to time. These limits 
are currently as follows:
– Partnership shares: up to 
£1,800 per tax year can  
be deducted from salary.
– Matching shares: up to  
two matching shares for 
every one partnership 
share purchased.
– Free shares: up to £3,600 
worth in each tax year .
None 86 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance
Pension Rewards sustained 
contribution.
The Company operates a 
defined contribution group 
personal pension plan in  
the UK. The scheme is 
non-contributory and all  
UK permanent employees, 
including the executive 
directors, are eligible  
to participate. 
The Company contributes  
a specified percentage  
of basic annual salary for  
senior employees, including  
executive directors.
Where an executive director 
has an individual personal 
pension plan (or overseas 
equivalent), the Company  
pays its contribution to that 
arrangement.
If an executive director’s 
pension arrangements are fully 
funded or applicable statutory 
limits are reached, an amount 
equal to the Company’s 
contribution (or the balance 
thereof) is paid in the form  
of additional salary.
Company contributes 15%  
of basic salary on behalf of 
executive directors or pays 
them an equivalent amount  
of additional salary.
None
Non-executive 
directors’ fees
Helps recruit and retain 
high-quality, experienced 
individuals.
Reflects time commitment  
and role.
Non-executive directors’  
fees are considered annually 
and are set by the executive 
members of the Board and the 
Chairman taking into account  
a range of relevant factors 
including:
– market practice;
– time commitment; and
– responsibilities associated 
with the roles.
Additional fees are payable  
to the Chairs of the audit and 
remuneration committees.
Company’s Articles of 
Association place a limit on  
the aggregate annual level  
of non-executive directors’  
and Chairman’s fees  
(currently £900,000).
None
Chairman’s fees Helps recruit and retain the 
relevant individual.
Reflects time commitment.
The Chairman’s fee is 
considered annually and is 
determined in light of market 
practice, the time commitment 
and responsibilities associated 
with the role and other 
relevant factors.
Company’s Articles of 
Association place a limit on  
the aggregate annual level  
of non-executive directors’  
and Chairman’s fees  
(currently £900,000).
None 87 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Notes:
(1) A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table during the financial year to 31 December 2016 is provided on page 104.
(2) The following differences exist between the Company’s above policy for the remuneration of directors and its approach to the payment of employees generally:
 – Participation in the LTIP is limited to the executive directors and certain selected senior managers. Other employees have historically participated in the 
Company’s share option schemes (details of which are provided on pages 135 and 136) and will, from 2016 onwards, be eligible to participate in a new 
conditional share award/nil cost option arrangement.
 – Under the Company’s defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is 10% of basic annual salary.
 – A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the executive directors and certain PDMRs.
 – Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise permanent health insurance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and gym and  
fitness allowance.
 In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.  
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the executive directors and PDMRs, a greater emphasis is placed on variable pay. 
(3) The TSR performance conditions applicable to the LTIP (further details of which are provided on page 98) were selected by the remuneration committee on the 
basis that they improve shareholder alignment and are consistent with the Company’s objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders. 
Under the terms of these performance conditions, the committee can specify the basis on which TSR for any company is calculated and has the discretion to make 
adjustments to this methodology to take account of exceptional circumstances, including share capital variations. Where any company becomes unsuitable as a 
member of the comparator group as a result of, for example, a change of control or delisting, the committee has the discretion to treat that company in such manner 
as it deems appropriate (including replacing it with another organisation).
(4) Where a nil-cost option award under the LTIP becomes exercisable, it will generally remain so until the tenth anniversary of the date on which it was granted. 
(5) The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the committee’s belief that any incentive compensation should be tied to 
appropriately challenging measures of both the overall performance of the Company against its strategic KPIs and (where appropriate) those areas of the business 
that the relevant individual can directly influence. 
(6) The legislation applicable to the SIP does not allow performance conditions to be applied in relation to partnership or matching shares and, given that the SIP  
is an ‘all-employee’ arrangement, the Company has decided that it is not appropriate to apply performance conditions to free shares awarded under it.
(7) As highlighted on page 102, the Company has a share ownership policy which requires the executive directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 
100% of base salary. Until such a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from 
any vesting or exercise under the Company’s share incentive plans. Details of the extent to which the current executive directors had complied with this policy  
as at 31 December 2015 are set out on page 102.
COMMITTEE DISCRETIONS
The committee will operate the annual bonus scheme, L TIP and SIP according to their respective rules and the policy described in this Part 2 of the report. The committee, 
consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these arrangements. These include (but are not 
limited to) the following:
 – who participates in the plans;
 – the timing of grant of award and/or payment;
 – the size of an award and/or a payment;
 – discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction;
 – the weightings, metrics and targets for the annual bonus plan;
 – the determination of the annual bonus payment;
 – determination of a ‘good leaver’ (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate  
treatment chosen;
 – discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control or good leaver circumstances;
 – adjustments or variations required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, change of control, special dividends and other major 
corporate events); and
 – the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events.
LEGACY AWARDS
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested/unexercised as detailed on page 100 of the Annual Report on Remuneration remain eligible to vest/be 
exercised based on their original award terms. 88 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
Fixed Elements Long-term Incentives Annual Variable
Minimum       On-Target       Maximum
Chief Executive 
Minimum       On-Target       Maximum
CFO
£4.0m
£3.0m
£1.0m
£2.0m
£0
100% 33%
21%
46%
19%
16%
65%
100% 34%
21%
45%
20%
16%
65%
£666,766
£1,997,302
£442,506
£1,307,895
£2,241,795
£3,433,172
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS RELATING TO THE ABOVE POLICY
Cairn’s pay policy seeks to ensure that the overall package of the executive directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within such variable pay 
element, that greater emphasis is placed on the delivery of long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives. In the chart below, we show the 
make-up of remuneration of the current executive directors in 2016 under minimum, on-target and maximum scenarios.
In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made:
 – The ‘minimum’ columns are intended to show the fixed level of remuneration to which the executive directors are entitled in 2016 irrespective of performance 
levels, namely base salary (at current rates), benefits (using the details set out in the 2015 single-figure table provided on page 92) and pension (calculated by 
applying the percentage entitlement set out in the policy table against latest confirmed salary).
 – The ‘on-target’ scenario seeks to illustrate the remuneration the executive directors would receive if performance was in line with expectation. In addition to the 
fixed elements summarised above, it assumes a specified level of payout/vesting under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP . Given that neither of these incentive 
arrangements explicitly stipulate an ‘on-target’ amount, the assumed levels for this scenario are:
 – in the case of the LTIP , a 55% vesting of awards originally granted in 2016 over shares worth 300% of salary (such vesting level being broadly equal to  
the percentage applied in determining the grant date ‘fair value’ of an LTIP award for the purposes of the Company’s share-based payment charge); and
 – in the case of the annual bonus, a payout of 75% of salary (being the approximate average of such payouts for all executive directors over the five years  
up to and including 2015).
 – The ‘maximum’ columns demonstrate total remuneration levels in circumstances where the variable elements pay out in full (i.e. annual bonus payment of 100%  
of salary and 133% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted in 2016 over shares worth 300% of salary).
 – For the purposes of valuing the LTIP awards, any post-grant share price movements have been ignored.
 – The executive directors are entitled to participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees. The value that may be received under this arrangement  
is subject to legislative limits and, for simplicity, has been excluded from the above chart. 
RECRUITMENT POLICY 
BASE SALARIES 
Salaries for any new director hires (including internal promotions) will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Company’s intended pay positioning and the 
market rate for the role. Where it is appropriate to offer a below-market salary initially, the committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases over 
time for newly appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
BENEFITS 
Benefits and pensions for new appointees to the Board will normally be provided in line with those offered to other executive directors and employees taking account  
of local market practice, with relocation expenses/arrangements provided for if necessary. T ax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected 
by taxation due to their employment with Cairn. Legal fees and other relevant costs and expenses incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company.
VARIABLE PA Y 
For external appointments, the committee will ensure that their variable remuneration arrangements are framed in accordance with the terms of, and are subject  
to the limits contained in, the Company’s existing policy.
The committee may however , in connection with an external recruitment, offer additional cash and/or share-based elements intended to compensate the individual 
for the forfeiture of any awards under variable remuneration schemes with a former employer . The design of these payments would appropriately reflect the value, 
nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration foregone. Shareholders will be informed of any such arrangements at the time  
of appointment.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account 
the individual’s role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant  
to take into account the appointment.  89 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
On the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director , the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual. Where specific 
cash or share arrangements are delivered to non-executive directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS
The current executive directors’ service contracts contain the key terms shown in the table below:
Provision Detailed terms
Remuneration – Salary, pension and benefits.
– Company car or cash allowance.
– Permanent health insurance.
– Private health insurance for director and dependants.
– Death-in-service benefits.
– 30 days’ paid annual leave.
– Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules.
– Participation in LTIP and SIP , subject to plan rules. 
Notice period
1
– 12 months’ notice by the director or by the Company. 
Termination payment – See separate disclosure below.
Restrictive covenants – During employment and for 12 months after leaving.
Note:
(1) The committee believes that this policy on notice periods provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals who will benefit the business and the need to limit 
the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
The executive directors’ service contracts are available for inspection, on request, at the Company’s registered office.
EXIT PA YMENT POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
Executive directors’ contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Company’s 
discretion. The contracts also allow for phased payments to be made on termination with an obligation on the individual to mitigate loss. Neither notice nor a payment  
in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct. The committee’s approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the 
individual circumstances including the reason for termination and the contractual obligations of both parties as well as the relevant share plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event of termination by the Company, an executive director would be entitled to receive an amount representing base salary and the value of benefits and 
pension contributions due under the individual’s service contract for the notice period. Directors are not entitled to participate in any additional redundancy scheme.
On termination of employment, the committee has discretion as to the amount of bonus payable in respect of the current year . The bonus paid would reflect the 
Company’s and the individual’s performance during that period. However , any bonus payable on termination would not exceed a pro-rated amount to reflect the 
period for which the individual had worked in the relevant year .
As a general rule, if an executive director ceases employment, all unvested awards granted pursuant to the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements will lapse 
immediately. However , if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability or redundancy, or because the individual’s employing company or part 
of the business in which he/she is employed is transferred out of the Group, or in any other exceptional circumstances determined by the committee (in each case,  
a ‘good leaver’), those awards will not lapse and will continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable 
performance conditions are satisfied. It is the remuneration committee’s normal policy to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver , although it retains  
the discretion to refrain from doing so in exceptional circumstances.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his 
annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment. As noted and explained in previous reports, the committee recognises that this provision is no longer 
in accordance with best practice. It was not included in the contract of the CFO that was entered into on his appointment in 2014, and will not be included in the 
contracts of other future appointees to the Board; however , it continues to apply to the current Chief Executive.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR BOARD APPOINTMENTS WITH OTHER COMPANIES
The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills 
and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous. The executive directors are permitted to retain 
any fees paid for such appointments.
The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the nomination committee. In the case of  
a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only normally be given if the two companies do not compete in the same 
geographical area. 90 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT
None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman has a service contract but all have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities, the time 
commitment expected by the Company, and the basis on which their fees will be paid. These letters of appointment can be terminated with immediate effect by either 
the director concerned or the Company and are subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, which provide for the annual election or re-election by shareholders 
of all of the Company’s directors. There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of appointment.
None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman participates in any of the Company’s share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
The non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection, on request, at the Company’s registered office.
PART 3 – ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERA TION 
INTRODUCTION
This Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of the way in which the committee operated during the financial year to 31 December 2015 and explains how 
Cairn’s approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy that is described on pages 82 to 90 was implemented during that period. It also summarises how that policy will be 
applied in 2016.
In accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM on 12 May 2016.
The Company’s auditors are required to report to Cairn’s shareholders on the ‘auditable parts’ of this Annual Report on Remuneration (which have been highlighted  
as such below) and to state whether , in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006.
OPERATION OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DURING 2015
MEMBERS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
The members of the remuneration committee during the year were as follows:
 – M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC (Chair of the committee);
 – Todd Hunt (stepped down as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015 but remained an invitee);
 – Iain McLaren;
 – Ian Tyler; and
 – Peter Kallos (joined the committee on 1 September 2015).
With the exception of Todd Hunt, each of the above individuals is an independent non-executive director of the Company. Mr Hunt was independent on his original 
appointment as a non-executive director in May 2003. However , given his length of tenure, he is no longer considered to be independent. As noted above, Mr Hunt 
stepped down as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015. 
The non-executive directors who served on the committee had no personal financial interest (other than as shareholders) in the matters decided, no potential 
conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business. Biographical information on the committee members is shown 
on pages 62 and 63 and details of attendance at the committee’s meetings during 2015 are shown on page 71.
INTERNAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED TO THE COMMITTEE
The Chief Executive is not a member of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals. 
The Chief Executive is not involved in any discussions in respect of his own remuneration. During the year , the committee also received material assistance and advice 
on remuneration policy from the Company Secretary. 91 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED TO THE COMMITTEE 
As and when the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources. During the year , it received 
the following assistance:
Adviser Assistance provided to the committee during 2015 Fees for committee assistance in 2015
1
Other services provided to the Company during 2015
New Bridge Street
2
 Appointed by the committee to give 
periodic advice on various aspects of 
the directors’ remuneration packages. 
Also assisted with the preparation of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and provided support on a number  
of miscellaneous remuneration  
related projects.
£56,330 None 
Ernst & Young LLP Appointed by the Company to carry 
out an independent verification of  
its achievement against performance 
conditions applicable to the Company’s 
LTIP and share option schemes. 
N/A – no advice provided  
to the committee.
Internal auditors of the Company 
throughout the year . 
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Appointed by the Company to carry 
out regular calculations in relation to 
the LTIP performance conditions. Also 
assisted with the preparation of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
£20,650 General legal services to the Group 
throughout the year .
Notes:
(1) The bases for charging the fees set out in the table were agreed by the committee at or around the time the particular services were provided and, in general, reflected the time spent by the adviser  
in question on the relevant matter.
(2) ‘New Bridge Street’ is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc – they are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and their work is governed by the Code of Conduct  
in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
(3) The committee reviews the performance and independence of all its advisers on an annual basis.  92 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
ST ATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT GENERAL MEETINGS
The table below shows the voting outcome at the last general meeting(s) at which shareholders were asked by the Company to approve a resolution relating to its 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and Directors’ Remuneration Policy:
Description of resolution
Date of  
general  
meeting
Number of  
votes ‘For’ and  
‘Discretionary’ % of votes cast
Number of votes 
‘Against’ % of votes cast
Total number  
of votes cast
Number of votes 
‘Withheld’
1
To approve the 2014 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report 14 May 2015 410,111,848 98.59% 5,858,991 1.41% 415,970,839 1,643,831
To approve Directors’  
Remuneration Policy 15 May 2014 379,512,480 98.06% 7 ,495,533 1.94% 387 ,008,013 1,045,923
Note:
(1) A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
The committee welcomed the endorsement of both the above resolutions that was shown by the vast majority of shareholders and gave due consideration to any 
concerns raised by investors who did not support the resolutions.
PA YMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS DURING 2015 (AUDITED)
Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown stood down as executive directors on 15 May 2014 and subsequently ceased employment with the Group on 17 October 2014.  
As explained in last year’s Annual Report on Remuneration, both of these individuals were treated as ‘good leavers’ for the purposes of the Company’s incentive 
schemes and were, therefore, allowed to retain their outstanding awards under the LTIP (subject to time pro-rating). Details of these entitlements that vested  
and/or were exercised during 2015 have been included in the relevant sections of this part of the report. 
No other payments were made to past directors during the year to 31 December 2015.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE TABLE FOR 2015 (AUDITED)
The tables below set out the remuneration received by executive directors and non-executive directors during the year in the following categories.
Total 
Remuneration
Long-Term 
Incentives
Bonus SIP Pension Benefits Salary
+ + + + + =
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Financial year
Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance
Total 
remuneration
Salary  
and fees Benefits
1
Pension
2
SIP
3
Award on 
recruitment
4
Fixed element 
subtotal Bonus
5
Long-term 
incentives
6
Performance 
element 
subtotal
Directors
Simon Thomson 2015 £546,197 £29,217 £81,930 £7,200 – £664,544 £409,648 £217,975 £627 ,623 £1,292,167
2014 £538,125 £26,126 £80,719 £5,997 – £650,967 £422,458 – £422,458 £1,073,425
James Smith
4
2015 £355,250 £27,840 £53,288 £7,200 – £443,578 £266,438 – £266,438 £710,016
2014 £291,667 £21,000 £43,750 £2,998 £200,000 £559,415 £229,969 – £229,969 £789,384
Notes:
(1) T axable benefits available to the executive directors during 2015 were a company car/car allowance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and a gym and fitness allowance. This package  
of taxable benefits was unchanged from 2014 save that, in the prior year, James Smith received certain relocation expenses. The increase in the amounts for 2015 is largely attributable to a rise in the 
costs of the company car provision for the year.
(2) Additional disclosures relating to the pension provision for the executive directors during 2015 are set out on page 94.
(3) This column shows the face value (at date of award) of matching and free shares provided to the executive directors under the SIP during the relevant period. Further details on the way in which  
the SIP was operated during 2015 are set out on pages 101 and 102.
(4) James Smith became an employee of the Company on 3 March 2014 and was appointed as a director with effect from 15 May 2014. The amount of his 2014 ‘Salary and fees’ shown in the above table 
reflects the period from 3 March 2014 to 31 December 2014. His ‘Award on recruitment’ was made up of: a cash award of £100,000 that was paid on the commencement of his employment with the 
Group; and a conditional award of 55,096 ordinary shares at a price of 181.5 pence per share, both by way of compensation for the loss of bonus from his previous employer. Further information in 
relation to these matters was provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year to 31 December 2014.
(5) This column shows the amount of bonus paid or payable in respect of the year in question after the operation of any applicable time pro-rating reduction. Further information in relation to the  
annual bonus scheme for 2015 is provided on pages 95 to 98.
(6) This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the period in question. Further details of the LTIP’s operation during 
2015 are provided on pages 98 to 101.
(7) Following the end of the year to 31 December 2015, the committee considered whether there were any circumstances that could or should result in the recovery or withholding of any sums 
pursuant to the clawback arrangements contained within the Company’s remuneration policy. The conclusion reached by the committee was that it was not aware of any such circumstances. 93 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
FTSE250 Cairn FTSE350 Oil & Gas
Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 15 Dec 14 Dec 13
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
FTSE 250
FTSE 350 Oil & Gas
Cairn Energy
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Financial year
Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance
Total 
remuneration
Salary  
and fees
1
Benefits Pension
2
Fixed element 
subtotal Bonus
2
Long-term 
incentives
2
Performance 
element 
subtotal
Directors
Ian Tyler 2015 £160,000 – – £160,000 – – – £160,000
2014
3
£127,675 – – £127,675 – – – £127,675
Todd Hunt 2015 £74,900 – – £74,900 – – – £74,900
2014 £73,800 – – £73,800 – – – £73,800
Iain McLaren 2015 £84,900 – – £84,900 – – – £84,900
2014 £83,800 – – £83,800 – – – £83,800
Alexander Berger 2015 £74,900 – – £74,900 – – – £74,900
2014 £73,800 – – £73,800 – – – £73,800
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 2015 £84,900 – – £84,900 – – – £84,900
2014 £83,800 – – £83,800 – – – £83,800
Keith Lough
4
2015 £47,341 – – £47,341 – – – £47,341
2014 – – – – – – – –
Peter Kallos
4
2015 £25,555 – – £25,555 – – – £25,555
2014 – – – – – – – –
Notes:
(1) The annual fee for each of the non-executive directors (other than the Chairman) for 2015 was £74,900. In addition, a further annual fee of £10,000 was payable to both Iain McLaren and  
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC for their roles as Chair of the audit committee and the remuneration committee respectively. 
(2) The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements and are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
(3) Ian Tyler, who had previously served as a non-executive director, was appointed Chairman on 15 May 2014. The annual rate of fees payable to him on appointment to this new role was £160,000. 
(4) Keith Lough and Peter Kallos were appointed as directors on 14 May 2015 and 1 September 2015 respectively. Their fees for 2015 reflect the period from those dates to the year end.
TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND FURTHER INFORMATION ON CHIEF EXECUTIVE PA Y
INTRODUCTION
The following chart demonstrates the growth in value of a £100 investment in the Company and an investment of the same amount in both the FTSE 250 Index  
and the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index over the last seven years. These comparisons have been chosen on the basis that: Cairn was a constituent member  
of the FTSE 250 Index for the whole of 2015; and the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index comprises companies which are exposed to broadly similar risks and 
opportunities as Cairn.
The table beneath the graph illustrates the movements in the total remuneration of the Company’s Chief Executive during the same seven-year period.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH – COMPARISON OF SEVEN-YEAR CUMULATIVE TSR ON AN INVESTMENT OF £100 94 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
TOT AL REMUNERATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE DURING THE SAME SEVEN-YEAR PERIOD
Financial year Chief Executive Total remuneration of Chief Executive
1
Annual variable element award  
rates for Chief Executive  
(as % of max. opportunity)
Long term incentive vesting  
rates for Chief Executive  
(as % of original award level)
2015 Simon Thomson £1,292,167 75% 23.4%
2014 Simon Thomson £1,073,425 78.5% 0%
2013 Simon Thomson £962,765 63% 0%
2012 Simon Thomson £1,018,570 86% 0%
2011
2
Simon Thomson £3,405,719 82% 121%
2011 Sir Bill Gammell £4,053,822 N/A 106%
2010 Sir Bill Gammell £7 ,302,533 58% 113%
2009 Sir Bill Gammell £962,757 54% 0%
Notes:
(1) The amounts disclosed in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single total figure table shown on page 92.
(2) Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was replaced by Simon Thomson (who had previously been Legal and Commercial Director) with effect from that date. Sir Bill 
Gammell’s ‘total remuneration’ for 2011 shown in the above table reflects the amount of salary, benefits and pension paid to him in respect of the period to 30 June 2011. However, during the year to 
31 December 2011, Sir Bill Gammell also received, in connection with the termination of his employment and in settlement of his contractual entitlements, a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of 
his contractual notice period of one year (£770,000) and a cash bonus under the Company’s annual cash bonus scheme (£625,000).
PERCENT AGE ANNUAL CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REMUNERATION ELEMENTS COMPARED TO ALL GROUP EMPLOYEES
The table below illustrates, for various elements of the Chief Executive’s 2015 remuneration package, the percentage change from 2014 and compares it to the 
average percentage change for all the Group’s employees in respect of that same period.
% change in  
base salary
% change in  
taxable benefits
% change in  
annual bonus
Chief Executive 1.5% 11.8%
1
(3.0%)
All Group employees 2.5%
2
1.6% 3.9%
Note: 
(1) As highlighted on page 92, the above increase in the Chief Executive’s taxable benefits is largely attributable to a rise in the costs of his company car provision for 2015. 
(2) The standard level of salary increase across the Group in 2015 was 1.5%. However , a small number of individuals received higher percentage increases which raised the average for all employees to 2.5%.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ BASE SALARIES DURING 2015
Based on a review carried out in December 2014, the following salary increases for executive directors became effective on 1 January 2015:
2015 Annual salary details 
Job title Annual salary as at 31 December 2014 Annual salary as at 1 January 2015
% increase with effect from  
1 January 2015
Directors
Simon Thomson Chief Executive £538,125 £546,197 1.5%
James Smith CFO £350,000 £355,250 1.5%
The increases shown in the above table for both Simon Thomson and James Smith were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other 
employees on 1 January 2015. 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ PENSION PROVISION DURING 2015 (AUDITED)
As highlighted in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy described on pages 82 to 90, the Company operates a defined contribution, non-contributory group personal 
pension plan which is open to all UK permanent employees. The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary (15% in respect of senior executives) on behalf  
of all qualifying employees. The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the Company’s 
pension arrangements. 
James Smith is a member of the Company scheme and, during the year , received a Company contribution of 15% of his basic salary.
During the year , Simon Thomson received an amount equal to 15% of his annual basic salary in the form of additional salary as his pension arrangements have reached 
the applicable statutory limits.
Details of the actual amounts of pension contributions/additional salary that were paid to the executive directors during 2015 are set out in the ‘pension’ column  
of the single total figure table on page 92. 95 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
ANNUAL BONUS – 2015 STRUCTURE AND OUTCOME (AUDITED)
During 2015, Cairn operated annual cash bonus schemes for all employees and executive directors. The maximum level of bonus award for executive directors and 
certain PDMRs for 2015 was 100% of annual salary (as at date of award). 
For all participants, as in prior years, bonus awards were based on individual and/or Company performance measures. Individual performance was measured through 
the Company’s performance management system and Company performance conditions were based on annually defined KPIs. 
As highlighted in last year’s Annual Report on Remuneration, the whole of the executive directors’ bonus opportunity for 2015 was determined by reference to the 
extent to which certain Group KPIs were achieved. T aking into account commercial sensitivities around disclosure, a summary of the relevant targets, ascribed 
weightings and achievement levels is set out below.
2015 ANNUAL CASH BONUS SCHEME – GROUP KPI PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS AND ACHIEVEMENT LEVELS 
KPI measures and performance achieved in 2015 Weighting Bonus awarded
Purpose 2015 KPI Measurement 2015 performance
(as % of allocated proportion  
of maximum opportunity)
Deliver exploration and appraisal success 
Grow the reserves and 
resources base to provide  
a basis for future growth.
Invest in exploration and 
appraisal activities which  
add net 2C resources in  
excess of 20 mmboe.
– Evidence of commercial 
discoveries based on  
2C resources. 
– Net volumes discovered  
or added versus the  
20 mmboe target.
– The finding efficiency 
expressed in US$/boe.
– Five exploration and appraisal wells 
were drilled in 2015.
– 35.9 mmboe net 2C were added to 
the resource base from the SNE-2 
Senegal appraisal well (which was 
appraising the P50 330 mmbbls 
gross discovery) and the West of 
Kraken well, enabling the Company 
to achieve a reserves/resources 
replacement ratio in excess  
of 100%.
– The Atlas and Crossbill wells in  
the Norwegian North Sea and  
Al Khayr well in Western Sahara 
were unsuccessful at the primary 
exploration target.
– Overall finding efficiency was 
ranked in the second quartile. 
25% 19.5%
Portfolio management 
Active portfolio management 
and acreage protection.
Mature high impact 
exploration prospects ready 
for drilling in 2016 or 2017 .
Mature a minimum of four  
new independent ‘drill-ready’ 
prospects which meet 
investment criteria and  
which could be considered  
for drilling in 2016 or 2017 .
– A Group prospects review  
was held in Q4 2015 and one 
independent and two partially 
dependent prospects were 
identified in Senegal.
– In Norway, the Group participated 
in the 2015 APA Licensing Round 
and was successful in all five 
applications. The Group also 
participated in the 23rd Barents  
Sea Licensing Round where licence 
awards are expected in Q2 2016.
– Prospectivity in Mauritania and  
the Republic of Ireland continues  
to be assessed.
25% 17.5%
Maximise acreage retention for 
the Sangomar , Sangomar Deep 
and Rufisque blocks in Senegal.
– Submission of  
evaluation plan.
– Extension of PSC.
– Following the SNE-1 well discovery 
in 2014, a full field long-term 
evaluation programme was 
submitted to and approved by 
the Senegalese authorities in  
2015. Subsequently, the authorities 
granted a three year extension  
to the PSC for the Sangomar , 
Sangomar Deep and  
Rufisque blocks. 96 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
KPI measures and performance achieved in 2015 Weighting Bonus awarded
Purpose 2015 KPI Measurement 2015 performance
(as % of allocated proportion  
of maximum opportunity)
Deliver operational excellence 
Deliver operational  
excellence in all 2015  
activities and maintain  
licence to operate.
Deliver all operated and 
non-operated asset projects 
(technical studies, surveys, 
seismic and drilling 
programmes) on schedule and 
budget (including manpower 
costs), with full data recovery.
Projects delivered within 
expected timeframe and  
within budget.
– Senegal Rufisque-Sangomar 3D 
seismic acquisition, which was the 
Group’s primary operated seismic 
project in 2015, was successfully 
completed in Q4 2015. The data 
was acquired safely and without 
major incident on schedule and 
under budget.
– Seismic delivery for non-operated 
projects, principally in Norway and 
Morocco, was behind schedule.
15% 12.2%
Progress North Sea 
development projects, 
remaining within 10% of capital 
guidance and first oil dates 
scheduled within six months  
of Final Investment Decision 
(FID) base case estimates.
Reference should be made to 
the original FID cases reflected 
in the Investment Proposals 
for Kraken and Catcher  
versus the YE 2015 status  
of the projects.
– Catcher and Kraken projects are 
progressing well. The Catcher 
project remains within 10% of 
capital guidance whilst capex on  
the Kraken project has been 
reduced by more than 10%.
– Catcher and Kraken remain on 
schedule to deliver first oil in 2017 .
Secure a suitable rig for  
further exploration and 
appraisal in Senegal.
Contract terms acceptable  
to the Board, with firm  
slots allocated to mature 
opportunities.
– Following a rig selection process in 
Q1 2015, the JV secured the Ocean 
Rig Athena for drilling in Q4 2015.
– The costs for both the rig and 
associated support services were 
significantly lower than the previous 
drilling campaign in 2013/14. 97 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
KPI measures and performance achieved in 2015 Weighting Bonus awarded
Purpose 2015 KPI Measurement 2015 performance
(as % of allocated proportion  
of maximum opportunity)
Maintain licence to operate (including HSE performance) 
Deliver activities with  
a focus on the safety of  
people and the environment.
Minimise injuries and 
environmental incidents in 
2015 operated activities: 
– Total Recordable Injury 
Rate (TRIR) target of less 
than 2.0 TRI/million hours.
– No oil spills to the 
environment.
– TRIR.
– Number of oil spills  
to the environment.
– The TRIR for 2015 was zero per 
million hours.
– Two minor spills to the environment, 
each of less than one litre in volume, 
occurred during the Senegal 
campaign.
15% 13.3%
Achieve targets for HSE leading 
performance indicators (LPIs) 
linked to elements of the HSE 
culture framework.
Progress against HSE LPIs. – CRMS was substantially revised in 
line with latest IOGP guidance.
– Extensive contractor management 
programme completed including 
acceptance and readiness audits  
for Senegal project.
– Worked closely with JV partners  
in Western Sahara to monitor  
and track human rights issues 
through to completion of  
the drilling programme. Ongoing 
engagement post-completion  
of drilling programme.
– Stakeholder engagement strategy 
and investment programme has 
been developed and is being 
implemented in Senegal.
– Enhanced the risk assessment 
process for travellers to ‘high’  
risk countries.
Deliver a sustainable business (maintain liquid reserves) 
Maintain a self-funding 
business plan.
Maintain liquid reserves 
including undrawn committed 
banking facilities to meet 
planned funding commitments 
plus a cushion at all times.
Development of a funding 
strategy to optimise 
deployment of risked capital 
whilst maintaining adequate 
financial downside protection.
The Group remains funded to deliver  
its firm exploration, appraisal and 
development programme through  
to free cash flow from 2017 .
20% 12.5%
Make tangible progress on 
Cairn India Limited (CIL) 
shares freeze.
Release of CIL shares or 
significant advancement on 
process to release CIL shares.
– Proceedings against the 
Government of India under the 
UK-India Investment T reaty seeking 
resolution of the retroactive  
tax dispute have now formally 
commenced following agreement 
with the Government of India on the 
appointment of the arbitration panel.
– Cairn has a high level of confidence 
in its case under the UK-India 
Investment Treaty and, in addition 
to resolution of the retroactive tax 
dispute, its statement of claim to the 
arbitration panel will seek damages 
equal to the value of Cairn’s residual 
shareholding in CIL at the time it was 
attached (approximately US$ 1 billion).
Totals 100% 75% 98 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
2015 ANNUAL CASH BONUS SCHEME – ACTUAL PA YMENTS AWARDED 
The application of the outturn from the above performance condition assessment resulted in annual bonuses of £409,648 and £266,438 becoming payable to  
Simon Thomson and James Smith respectively. In both cases these amounts were equal to 75% of their basic annual salary. 
The remuneration committee considered that the above award levels were appropriately reflective of overall performance during the year .
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES DURING 2015 
INTRODUCTION
During the year to 31 December 2015, the executive directors participated in the Company’s LTIP , which was originally approved by shareholders at the AGM held  
on 19 May 2009.
The LTIP enables selected senior individuals to be granted conditional awards or nil-cost options over ordinary shares, the vesting of which is normally dependent  
on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period of three years.
In the case of all awards under the LTIP (including those granted during 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015), the performance conditions involve a comparison of the TSR of 
the Company over a three-year performance period (commencing on the date of grant of the relevant award) with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator 
group. At the end of this period, each company in the comparator group is listed in order of TSR performance to produce a ‘ranking table’. The vesting of awards then 
takes place as follows:
Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in award that vest
Below median 0%
Median 20%
Upper decile (i.e. top 10%) 100%
Between median and upper decile 20%–100% on a straight line basis
A list of the companies comprised in the comparator groups applicable to all LTIP awards that were outstanding during 2015 is set out on page 101.
In order to ensure that the LTIP encourages and rewards exceptional performance in terms of delivering increased growth and shareholder value, the performance 
conditions attaching to awards also provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator 
group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his/her award that vests through the application of a ‘multiplier’ that is linked  
to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period. The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: 
Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest TSR of the Company over the performance period
1 50% or less
1.33 100% or more
1–1.33 on a straight line basis Between 50% and 100%
However , notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied 
that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period. In addition, and 
as noted in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, LTIP awards are subject to clawback provisions which may be operated by the committee where, in the period of three 
years from the end of the applicable performance period, it becomes aware of either a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results or an error in the 
calculation of performance metrics.
On any vesting of an award under the LTIP , only 50% of the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled are released/become exercisable immediately, 
with the remaining 50% normally being released/becoming exercisable after a further period of one year . 99 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
L TIP – AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2015 (AUDITED)
On 19 March 2015, the following awards under the LTIP were granted to executive directors:
Face value (£’000) of ….
Type of award
Basis of award 
granted
Share price at  
date of grant
3
No. of shares over 
which award 
originally granted
% of shares over 
which award 
originally granted 
that vest at 
threshold
…shares over which 
award originally 
granted
4
…max. no. of shares 
to vest if all 
performance 
measures met
5
Vesting determined 
by performance 
over
Directors
Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 3 x salary 
of £546,197
£1.868 877,190 20% £1,639 £2,179
3 years until 
18 March 2018
James Smith Nil-cost option 3 x salary 
of £355,250
£1.868 570,529 20% £1,066 £1,417
Notes:
(1) Details of the performance conditions applicable to the awards granted in 2015 are provided on page 98.
(2) No price is payable by participants for their shares on the exercise of a nil-cost option granted under the LTIP.
(3) This figure represents the average of the closing mid-market prices of a share in the Company over the thirty days preceding the date of grant. (The actual closing price on the 19 March 2015 was £1.535.) 
(4) The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the ‘number of shares over which the award was originally granted’ by the ‘share price at date of grant’.
(5) The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the ‘number of shares over which the award was originally granted’ by 133% (being the vesting percentage that would apply  
on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject – see page 98) and multiplying the result by the ‘share price at date of grant’.
L TIP – AWARDS VESTING DURING THE YEAR (AUDITED)
On 13 June 2015, the three-year performance period applicable to the awards granted under the LTIP on 14 June 2012 to various participants (including current and 
former executive directors) came to an end. Thereafter , the remuneration committee assessed the relevant performance conditions. The results of this assessment, 
which was completed on 17 June 2015, can be summarised as follows:
Performance measure % of award subject to measure Performance achieved 2012–2015 % of award vested
Relative TSR performance against a 
comparator group of 18 companies 
with the opportunity for additional 
multiplier of up to 1.33 to be applied  
for upper decile/absolute TSR 
performance.
100% Cairn’s TSR over the period placed  
it between the 8th and 9th (median) 
ranked companies in the comparator 
group. After careful consideration  
of a variety of factors, the committee  
also concluded that there had been a 
sustained improvement in the overall 
performance of the Company over  
the three years in question.
23.43%
Notes:
(1) Further details of the performance conditions that applied to the above awards are set out on page 98.
(2) At various points in the period 14 June 2012 to 13 June 2015, the committee was required to determine the treatment of those comparator group companies that were the subject of takeover 
transactions. No other discretions were exercised by the remuneration committee during or after the relevant performance period.
(3) The TSR calculations used to inform the committee’s determinations in relation to the above awards were independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP. 100 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED
The following table shows, for each current and former director , details of the LTIP awards that vested during the year:
Type of award Date of grant
No. of shares over 
which award 
originally granted Date of vesting
% of award to vest 
as per performance 
condition 
assessment
No. of shares that 
vested (after taking 
account of any time 
pro-rating 
requirements)
1
Value of shares 
vesting
2
Current director
3
Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 14 June 2012 513,335 17 June 2015 23.43% 120,295 £217,975
Former directors
Jann Brown
4
Nil-cost option 14 June 2012 432,282 17 June 2015 23.43% 79,190 £143,492
Dr Mike Watts
4
Nil-cost option 14 June 2012 469,691 17 June 2015 23.43% 86,043 £155,910
Notes:
(1) On the vesting of an LTIP award held by a current employee or executive director of the Group, only 50% of the shares to which the holder has become entitled are available for immediate exercise, 
with the remaining 50% normally becoming exercisable after a further period of one year.
(2) The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares that vested by £1.812, being the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day such 
vesting occurred. In the case of current directors, this value has been included in the single figure total for 2015.
(3) James Smith was not employed by the Group in 2012 and was not, therefore, granted an LTIP award during that period.
(4) As explained on page 92, both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts were categorised as ‘good leavers’ for the purposes of the LTIP rules with the result that their 2012 LTIP awards vested at the same 
time as those held by all other participants. However, a pro-rata reduction was applied to the number of shares that vested in respect of these individuals’ awards to reflect the proportion of the 
performance period that they were employed by the Group.
L TIP – AWARDS EXERCISED DURING 2015 (AUDITED)
Details of vested LTIP awards (which are in the form of nil-cost options) that were exercised by current and former directors during the year to 31 December 2015 are 
as follows:
Date of grant Date of vesting Date of exercise
Number of ordinary 
shares acquired  
on exercise Exercise price
Market value of 
ordinary shares at 
date of exercise Gain on exercise
Current director
Simon Thomson 14 June 2012 17 June 2015 26 June 2015 60,147 Nil £1.724 £103,693
Former director
Dr Mike Watts 14 June 2012 17 June 2015 27 June 2015 86,043 Nil £1.623 £139,648
L TIP – OTHER AWARDS HELD BY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS DURING THE YEAR
For the sake of completeness, and in order to allow comparisons to be made with the awards granted under the LTIP during 2015, set out below are details of the 
other unvested entitlements under the plan that were held by current executive directors during the year:
Face value (£’000) of ….
Date of grant Type of award
Basis of award 
granted
Share price at 
date of grant
No. of shares 
over which 
award 
originally 
granted
% of shares 
over which 
award 
originally 
granted that 
vest at 
threshold
…shares over 
which award 
originally 
granted
2
…max. no.  
of shares to 
vest if all 
performance 
measures 
met
3
Vesting 
determined by 
performance 
over three 
years until…
Directors
Simon Thomson 20 March 
2013
Nil-cost 
option
3 x salary of 
£525,000 £2.784 565,732 20% £1,575 £2,095
19 March 
2016
19 March 
2014
Nil-cost 
option
3 x salary of 
£538,125 £1.682 959,794 20% £1,614 £2,147
18 March 
2017
James Smith 19 March 
2014
Nil-cost 
option
3 x salary of 
£350,000 £1.682 624,256 20% £1,050 £1,396
18 March 
2017
Notes:
(1) Further details of the performance conditions that apply to these awards are set out on page 98.
(2) The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant ‘number of shares over which the award was originally granted’ by the appropriate ‘share price at date of grant’ 
(being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant).
(3) The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant ‘number of shares over which the award was originally granted’ by 1.33% (being the vesting percentage that would 
apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject – see page 98) and multiplying the result by the appropriate ‘share price at date of grant’ (being, for these 
purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant). 101 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
COMPARATOR GROUP COMPANIES APPLICABLE TO L TIP AWARDS
The table below provides details of the comparator groups applicable to each tranche of awards granted under the LTIP to executive directors that were outstanding 
during 2015.
Company 
Comparator group applicable to LTIP awards granted on….
14 June  
2012
20 March 
2013
19 March 
2014
19 March 
2015
Afren PLC* 3 3 3 3
BG Group PLC* 3 3 3 3
Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA 3
DNO ASA 3 3 3 3
Dragon Oil PLC* 3
EnQuest PLC 3 3 3 3
Faroe Petroleum PLC 3 3 3 3
Genel Energy PLC 3 3 3 3
JKX Oil & Gas PLC 3 3 3
Kosmos Energy Limited 3
Lundin Petroleum AB 3 3 3 3
Niko Resources Limited 3 3 3
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 3
Ophir Energy PLC 3 3 3 3
Petroceltic International PLC 3 3 3 3
Premier Oil PLC 3 3 3 3
Rockhopper Exploration PLC 3 3 3 3
Salamander Energy PLC* 3 3 3
Santos Limited 3 3 3 3
SOCO International PLC 3 3 3 3
T alisman Energy, Inc* 3 3 3
Tullow Oil PLC 3 3 3 3
* Denotes companies that have delisted during the applicable performance period. 
PARTICIPATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES DURING 2015 
INTRODUCTION
In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM Revenue and Customs 
approved SIP in April 2010. The SIP provides eligible employees, including the executive directors, with the following benefits: 
 – ‘Partnership shares’ – employees can authorise deductions of up to £1,800 per tax year from pre-tax salary, which are then used to acquire ordinary shares  
on their behalf.
 – ‘Matching shares’ – the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two matching shares for 
every one partnership share purchased. For the tax year 2015/2016, the Company awarded two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased  
and intends to continue using this award ratio for the tax year 2016/2017 .
 – ‘Free shares’ – employees can be given up to £3,600 worth of ordinary shares free in each tax year . On 8 April 2015, an award of free shares was made  
to employees, including to the executive directors. 
As the SIP is an ‘all-employee’ arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to its terms. 102 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
DET AILS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SIP PARTICIPATION IN 2015
Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the executive directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows:
Total SIP  
shares held at  
1 January  
2015
Free shares 
awarded on 8 April 
2015 at a price of 
£1.70 per share
Partnership shares 
awarded on 6 May 
2015 at a price of 
£1.83 per share
Matching shares 
awarded on 6 May 
2015 at a price of 
£1.83 per share
Total SIP  
shares held at  
31 December  
2015
Directors
Simon Thomson 10,980 2,117 984 1,968 16,049
James Smith 2,688 2,117 984 1,968 7,757
The total number of shares held by each of the current executive directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the directors’ report 
on page 64.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES FOR DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
The committee believes that a significant level of shareholding by the executive directors strengthens the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders. 
Accordingly, a formal share ownership policy is in place under which the executive directors are required to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of 
base salary. The policy also provides that, until such a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax 
gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Company’s share incentive plans.
The following table discloses the beneficial interest of each director in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2015. It also highlights the fact that,  
on that date, the above shareholding requirements were satisfied by Simon Thomson, Chief Executive but, in light of his relatively recent appointment as CFO, not by 
James Smith. However , James Smith does intend to build-up his holding over time in accordance with the committee’s policy and it is expected that he will reach the 
necessary levels within a period of three to five years from joining the Group. 
Shares held Awards over shares under the LTIP
Ordinary shares
2
Ordinary shares 
held in the SIP
3
Total holding of 
ordinary shares
Value of holding as a 
% of salary on 
1 January 2016
4
Ordinary shares 
subject to vested 
but unexercised 
awards
5
Ordinary shares 
subject to unvested 
awards
6
Total interest in 
ordinary shares
Executive directors
Simon Thomson 556,734 16,049 572,783 171% 60,148 2,402,716 3,035,647
James Smith 55,096 7,757 62,853 29% – 1,194,785 1,257 ,638
Non-executive directors
Ian Tyler – – – – – – –
Todd Hunt 72,012 – 72,012 – – – 72,012
Iain McLaren 7,878 – 7,878 – – – 7,878
Alexander Berger 40,008 – 40,008 – – – 40,008
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 7 ,000 – 7 ,000 – – – 7 ,000
Keith Lough – – – – – – –
Peter Kallos – – – – – – –
738,728 23,806 762,534 60,148 3,597 ,501 4,420,183
Notes: 
(1) Details of the Company’s share ownership policy for executive directors are set out above.
(2) Includes shares held by connected persons.
(3) Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified ‘holding period’ of up to five years. The receipt of these shares is not subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions.
(4) Share price used is the average share price over the year to 31 December 2015. 
(5) This column shows all vested but unexercised awards under the LTIP that were held by the director concerned as at 31 December 2015.
(6) This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the director concerned as at 31 December 2015 (i.e. including those granted during the year). Details of 
these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, are set out on pages 99 and 100.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED 103 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
DILUTION OF SHARE CAPITAL PURSUANT TO SHARE PLANS DURING 2015
In any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Company’s ‘discretionary share plans’ (which includes both 
the LTIP and the share option schemes used to incentivise less senior employees) cannot exceed 5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. 
In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all of the Company’s employee share schemes 
(whether discretionary or otherwise) cannot exceed 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. 
It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market. As a result, the SIP 
does not involve the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS WITH OTHER COMPANIES DURING 2015
Certain of the Company’s current executive directors serve as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies and are permitted to retain any associated 
fees. Details of the positions held during 2015 and the fees that were payable are as follows:
Position held
Fees received for the year 
to 31 December 2015
Director
Simon Thomson Non-executive director , Graham’s The Family Dairy Limited £35,000
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PA Y
Set out below are details of the amounts of, and percentage change in, remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees and distributions to shareholders  
in the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015.
Financial Year  
2014
Financial Year  
2015 % change
Employee costs (US$m) 51.3 32.6 (36.4%)
1
Distributions (US$m)
2
64.3 0 (100%)
Note: 
(1) This fall in employee costs is largely attributable to the headcount reduction that occurred within the business during 2015.
(2) For the purposes of the above table, ‘Distributions’ include amounts distributed to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.  104 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Leadership and governance
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2016
The following table provides details of how the Company intends to implement the key elements of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy described in pages 82 to 90 
during the year to 31 December 2016.
Remuneration element Implementation during 2016
Base salary Both of the executive directors received a 1.5% increase in base salary on 1 January 2016 – this was in line with 
the standard annual increase awarded to other employees on that date. After applying this increase, details of the 
base salaries payable to both the current executive directors for the year to 31 December 2016 are as follows:
– Simon Thomson, Chief Executive – £554,390; and
– James Smith, CFO – £360,579.
Benefits Executive directors will continue to receive the same benefits as in 2015.
Annual bonus In accordance with the requirements of the policy, executive directors will be eligible to receive a bonus of up  
to 100% of base salary depending on the extent to which specified measures are satisfied over the year .
90% of the Chief Executive’s and CFO’s 2016 bonus opportunity will be based on the demanding Group KPIs 
described below (with details of the weightings specified in brackets):
– exploration and appraisal success (29%);
– active portfolio optimisation (16%);
– manage balance sheet strength (20%);
– maintain licence to operate (15%); and
– operational excellence (20%).
The balance (10%) of the executive directors’ bonuses for 2016 will be determined by reference to the 
achievement of personal objectives that are relevant to each individual’s role within the business.
The specific targets to be used for the purposes of the 2016 bonus scheme are commercially sensitive and have 
not, therefore, been set out in detail above. However , appropriate disclosures in relation to the 2016 bonus 
scheme will be included in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. 
LTIP It is intended that, during 2016, the executive directors will be granted LTIP awards over shares worth 300% of 
salary (being the same level as was awarded in 2015). The performance conditions that will determine the vesting 
of these grants will be unchanged from those that applied to last year’s awards (full details of which are set out on 
page 98 of the Annual Report on Remuneration) except that the T otal Shareholder Return comparator group will 
exclude Afren plc, Dragon Oil plc and BG Group plc and include Maurel & Prom, Africa Oil Corp and Cobalt 
International Energy, Inc.
SIP Executive directors will be given the opportunity to participate in the SIP on the same terms as apply to all other 
eligible employees in the arrangement.
Pension The Company will continue to contribute 15% of basic salary on behalf of executive directors or pay them an 
equivalent amount of additional salary.
Non-executive directors’ fees For 2016, both the annual non-executive director fee and the additional annual fee for chairing the audit and/or 
remuneration committees remain unchanged at £74,900 and £10,000 respectively.
Chairman’s fees The annual Chairman’s fee for 2016 has been retained at £160,000. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 14 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
M. JACQUELINE SHEPPARD QC
Chair of the remuneration committee
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT  
CONTINUED 105 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OUR OPINION
In our opinion:
 – Cairn Energy PLC’s group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the group’s loss and the group’s and the parent company’s cash flows for the year  
then ended;
 – the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the  
European Union;
 – the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the ‘Annual Report’), comprise:
 – the Group Balance Sheet and the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015;
 – the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
 – the Group Statement of Cash Flows and the Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended;
 – the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
 – the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Context
The context for our audit is set by Cairn Energy PLC’s (‘Cairn’) major activities in 2015, together with the sustained low world oil prices throughout the year .  
In the year , Cairn has continued to progress their development assets in the Catcher and Kraken North Sea fields and commenced a three well appraisal programme 
offshore Senegal. They also farmed-down a 10% interest in the Catcher field to Dyas in January 2015. Away from core operations, Cairn’s main focus has been dealing 
with the continuing restriction on the ability to sell the remaining 10% holding in Cairn India, the ongoing discussions with the Indian T ax Authorities in relation to the 
draft assessment order issued in March 2015, and the final assessment order received in February 2016.
Materiality
Areas of
focus
Audit scope
OVERVIEW
 – Overall group materiality: $23.1 million (2014: $30.2 million), which represents 1% of group total assets. 
 – The group is structured into 49 reporting units (or ‘components’). We performed a full scope audit on six components due to the 
contribution they made to group total assets.
 – A further three components were subject to full scope audit on a risk basis due to the carrying value of their exploration and development 
assets.
 – We performed the majority of audit work in the UK, with PwC Norway performing the audit work on the North West Europe component. 
The group audit team visited Norway as part of the audit process.
 – Our audit obtained coverage of over 97% of group total assets.
 – Risk of impairment of exploration & development assets and goodwill.
 – Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited.
 – Going concern.
Other tax judgements, which were an area of focus last year , have been considered to be of lower risk this year due to there being fewer events which triggered 
industry-specific tax considerations, and accordingly are not an area of focus for the current year audit.
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular , we looked at where the 
directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events  
that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was 
evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as ‘areas of focus’  
in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a  
whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.  106 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Risk of impairment of exploration/development assets and goodwill
This risk has increased compared to the prior year due to the current outlook  
for the market prices for oil remaining low, impacting the value associated with 
exploration and development assets.
Exploration assets of $425.0m relate to costs incurred where there is expected 
future activity but no approved development plan. Development assets of 
$579.6m reflect spend to 31 December 2015 on Catcher and Kraken. Both  
of these tangible fixed asset categories require an impairment review only if  
an impairment trigger is identified.
The goodwill balance of $131.9m arose on the acquisitions of Agora and Nautical 
in 2012. As required by IAS 36, an annual impairment review is performed on 
this balance.
Relevant indicators of impairment in the Oil & Gas industry include:
 – unsuccessful exploration such as experienced in Cap Boujdour and Crossbill 
during the year;
 – the sustained environment of low oil price outlook;
 – changes to exploration plans;
 – changes to reserves estimates; and
 – consolidated net assets being more than $0.7bn greater than the market 
capitalisation of the group.
When an impairment review and calculation are performed, there are significant 
judgements in relation to the assumptions made such as:
 – long-term oil price;
 – reserve estimates;
 – production volume profiles;
 – cost profiles and escalation applied; and
 – discount rates.
We focused on this area due to the significant values and the nature of the 
judgements and assumptions management are required to make in determining 
whether there are any impairment triggers or impairments.
Refer to Notes 2.1, 2.2 and 2.6 to the financial statements.
We tested management’s impairment review of goodwill, capitalised exploration 
and capitalised development costs by performing the following work. 
We read management’s assessment of impairment triggers and did not identify 
any further triggers which had not been considered by management.
Specific work we performed over the impairment review included: 
 – comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review model  
to approved budgets and business plans and other evidence of future 
intentions for individual exploration properties, which we found to be 
materially consistent;
 – comparing reserves and production profiles and matching capital and 
operating expenditure forecasts to group approved values or operator 
estimates, which we found to be materially consistent;
 – benchmarking of key assumptions including commodity price and discount rate 
and inflation against our own internal data and recent public announcements 
from other oil companies. We found certain assumptions used by Cairn, 
including the long-term oil price, to be at the upper end of a reasonable range, 
while other assumptions, for example the use of a 3 year forward curve, were 
towards the lower end of a reasonable range; in combination, we consider the 
assumptions used by Cairn to be reasonable and in line with our expectations 
based on information that is publicly available about other market participants;
 – we read management’s sensitivity analysis and performed additional 
sensitivity analysis over key assumptions in the model in order to assess the 
potential impact of a range of possible outcomes. For Catcher and Kraken,  
we determined that the calculation was most sensitive to assumptions 
relating to the oil price; and 
 – assessed the inclusion of all appropriate assets and liabilities in the cash 
generating unit and in particular given that the recoverable amount is 
determined based on a fair value less costs of disposal, the inclusion or 
exclusion of certain tax related balances and agreed that all relevant  
balances had been included.
None of the items described above resulted in a change to the impairment charge 
recorded by management.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC CONTINUED  107 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited
We focused on this area because on 22 January 2014 the Group received a 
request for information from the Indian tax authorities in respect of amendments 
introduced in the 2012 Indian Finance Act which seek to tax prior year transactions 
under legislation applied retrospectively. At the same time the Group received an 
order not to sell the remaining shares in Cairn India.
On 10 March 2015, a draft assessment order was received from the Indian tax 
authorities for an amount of $1.6 billion plus interest and penalties. Cairn are 
continuing to contest this draft assessment order and there is no certainty over 
the outcome.
A final assessment order was received in February 2016, which Cairn are 
contesting, quantifying the interest at $2.8bn, bringing the total potential 
exposure to $4.4bn.
Management have made judgements relating to the likelihood of an obligation 
arising and whether there is a need to recognise a provision or disclose a 
contingent liability.
Although Cairn received a final demand from the Indian T ax Authorities  
in February 2016, we consider the level of risk to be the same as last year  
as the Group is going through due process in relation to this tax issue.
Refer to Note 5.5 to the financial statements.
In assessing the potential impact of the draft assessment order from the Indian 
tax authorities we:
 – read the correspondence received by the Group from the Indian  
tax authorities;
 – understood the group reconstruction under review, and the potential basis 
for any claim, including the relevant legislation and other precedent;
 – discussed with management the advice and action they had taken with 
regards to the enquiry and reviewed any associated documents; and
 – discussed certain aspects of the matter directly with the group’s  
legal advisers.
We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements was 
reasonable based on the work we performed, in particular:
 – management’s view that no provision for tax should be made at this time;
 – the adequacy of the disclosure in the Annual Report; and
 – the impact of the restriction on sale of Cairn India shares on the future 
funding requirements for the Group.
We also considered whether this ongoing enquiry would have any impact on the 
carrying value of the investment in Cairn India Limited of $384.0m. We noted 
that while the group are restricted from selling the investment, this is a restriction 
directly on them and not all market participants, and therefore it does not affect 
the fair value of the underlying investment, which is the basis on which it is 
carried in the consolidated balance sheet.
Going concern
We believe this risk has increased from last year as the Group has continued to incur 
operating and capital expenditure and does not yet have revenue-producing assets. 
In addition, the lower oil price has reduced the level of funding available under the 
RBL facility.
We focused on this area as the Group is in the exploration and development phase 
and is therefore reliant on having sufficient funding to progress their asset portfolio.
As the group currently has no significant cash-generating assets in operation, there 
is a finite cash resource to fund ongoing activities and therefore we have focused on 
whether there are sufficient cash resources in place to allow the group to continue 
as a going concern.
In addition, the restriction on selling the remaining Cairn India shares noted above 
means the Group is currently unable to access the value in this investment to fund 
operations.
During 2014, the group negotiated a debt facility to partially fund the development 
of Catcher and Kraken, and are required to meet a liquidity test to allow them to 
drawdown this facility. Cairn are also planning to drill one exploration well in North 
West Europe and complete the three well appraisal program in Africa over the next 
12- 18 months which will be funded from existing cash resources.
In assessing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption used in 
preparing the financial statements, we:
 – reviewed the cash flow requirements of the Group over the next 18 months 
based on budgets and forecasts;
 – understood what forecast expenditure is committed and what could be 
considered discretionary;
 – considered the liquidity of existing assets on the balance sheet, including the 
Cairn India investment;
 – reviewed the terms associated with the debt agreement and the amount of 
the facility available for drawdown; and
 – considered potential downside/upside scenarios and the resultant impact  
on available funds.
Our conclusion on going concern is below.
HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account 
the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. 
For operating purposes, the group is structured around three key segments: Atlantic Margin, North West Europe and Other . During 2015, North West Europe has 
seen the most significant development activity, with the main exploration activity being undertaken in the Atlantic Margin, consistent with 2014.
For accounting purposes, the group is structured into 49 reporting units (or ‘components’). The majority of the finance function is based in Edinburgh, other than 
North West Europe which is primarily accounted for in Norway. Our PwC Norway audit team performed the audit work on the North West Europe components  
and all other audit work was performed by our UK audit team. 
Our group scoping was based on total assets, consistent with our approach to materiality, and identified six financially significant components, comprising a high 
proportion of total group assets, which required an audit of their complete financial information. A further three components were identified as significant from  
a risk perspective due to the carrying value of their exploration and development assets, which were subject to a full scope audit. 
Two components were subject to specified procedures on certain financial statement line items (FSLI) to obtain sufficient coverage. 108 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
The UK team attended audit planning and closing meetings in Norway, as well as being directly involved in the scoping and review of the work performed  
by PwC Norway.
Our group audit approach resulted in coverage of over 97% of the group total assets, our key benchmark for planning and scoping our audit.
MATERIALITY
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative 
considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items 
and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality $23.1 million (2014: $30.2 million).
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that total assets is an appropriate measure for an exploration and development Oil and Gas group that does not 
currently have producing assets.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.15 million (2014: $1.50 million) as well  
as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 117 , in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement about 
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. The going 
concern basis presumes that the Group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least 
one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However , because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and parent company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion:
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and
 – the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 67 to 75 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about 
share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC CONTINUED  109 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
ISAS (UK & IRELAND) REPORTING
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – Information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course  
of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
 – the statement given by the directors on page 66, in accordance with provision 
C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), that they consider 
the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair , balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the group’s 
and parent company’s position and performance, business model and 
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and 
parent company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
 – the section of the Annual Report on pages 76 to 80, as required by provision  
C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not 
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
THE DIRECTORS’ ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS  
THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOL VENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
 – the directors’ confirmation on page 38 of the Annual Report, in accordance with 
provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its 
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
 – the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain 
how they are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
 – the directors’ explanation on page 43 of the Annual Report, in accordance 
with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects 
of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider  
that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and 
the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making 
inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; 
and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records  
and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 110 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF CAIRN ENERGY PLC CONTINUED 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made.  
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this 
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOL VES
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes an assessment of: 
 – whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and  
adequately disclosed; 
 – the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
 – the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and  
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
MICHAEL TIMAR (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Glasgow
14 March 2016
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Cairn Energy PLC website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b)  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  111 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
CONTENTS
112 Group Income Statement
112 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
113 Group Balance Sheet
114 Group Statement of Cash Flows
115 Group Statement of Changes in Equity
116 Section 1 Basis of Preparation
116 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies
117 1.2 Going Concern
118 Section 2 Oil and Gas Assets, Decommissioning Provisions and Related Goodwill
119 2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets
121 2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets
122 2.3 Gain on Disposal of Oil and Gas Assets
122 2.4 Provisions – Decommissioning
123 2.5 Capital Commitments
123 2.6 Intangible Assets – Goodwill
124 2.7 Impairment Testing Sensitivity Analysis
125 Section 3 Financial Assets and Working Capital 
125 3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets
126 3.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents
127 3.3 Other Receivables
127 3.4 Trade and Other Payables
128 3.5 Financial Instruments 
129 3.6 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies
131 Section 4 Results for the Year
131 4.1 Segmental Analysis
133 4.2 Pre-award Costs
134 4.3 Net Operating Expenses
134 4.4 Employee Benefits: Staff costs, Share-based payments and Directors’ emoluments
137 4.5 Finance Income
138 4.6 Finance Costs
138 4.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share
139 Section 5 Taxation
139 5.1 Tax Strategy and Governance
140 5.2 Tax Charge/(Credit) on Loss for the Year
141 5.3 Income Tax Assets
142 5.4 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
143 5.5 Contingent Liability – Indian Tax Assessment
144 Section 6 Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
144 6.1 Issued Capital and Reserves
145 6.2 Capital Management
145 6.3 Guarantees
146 6.4 Auditors’ Remuneration
146 6.5 Post Balance Sheet Events
147 Company Balance Sheet
148 Company Statement of Cash Flows
149 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
150 Section 7 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
150 7.1 Basis of Preparation
150 7.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents
150 7.3 Other Receivables
150 7.4 Trade and Other Payables
151 7.5 Financial Instruments
151 7.6 Investments in Subsidiaries
153 7.7 Capital Management
154 7.8 Related Party Transactions 112 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Section
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Continuing operations
Pre-award costs 4.2 (35.2) (54.8)
Unsuccessful exploration costs 2.1 (97.4) (208.4)
Net operating expenses 4.3 (29.7) (64.5)
Impairment of intangible exploration/appraisal assets 2.1 (17.9) (46.9)
Impairment of property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets 2.2 (25.1) –
Gain on disposal of oil and gas assets 2.3 26.6 2.3
 
Operating loss (178.7) (372.3)
 
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 – 3.9
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 (318.6) (194.3)
Finance income 4.5 19.8 38.3
Finance costs 4.6 (20.3) (34.7)
Loss before taxation from continuing operations (497.8) (559.1)
Taxation
T ax (charge)/credit 5.2 (17.7) 178.0
Loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (515.5) (381.1)
Loss per ordinary share – basic (cents) 4.7 (90.26) (66.51)
Loss per ordinary share – diluted (cents) 4.7 (90.26) (66.51)
GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Section
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Loss for the year (515.5) (381.1)
Other comprehensive income – items that may be recycled to profit or loss
Deficit on valuation of financial assets 3.1 (318.6) (261.1)
Deferred tax credit on valuation of financial assets 5.2 9.5 56.6
Valuation movement recycled to Income Statement 3.1 318.6 189.2
Deferred tax credit on valuation movement recycled to Income Statement 5.2 (9.5) (40.9)
Currency translation differences (63.5) (58.8)
Other comprehensive income for the year   (63.5) (115.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (579.0) (496.1) 113 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
GROUP BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 December 2015
  Section
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Non-current assets    
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets 2.1 423.4 417.0
Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets 2.2 579.6 467.8
Intangible assets – goodwill 2.6 131.9 145.1
Other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 3.9 5.5
Available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 384.0 702.6
Deferred tax assets 5.4 – 106.2
  1,522.8 1,844.2
Current assets  
Income tax asset 5.3 33.0 60.3
Inventory 0.7 5.0
Other receivables 3.3 148.9 238.6
Cash and cash equivalents 3.2 602.8 869.3
  785.4 1,173.2
Total assets   2,308.2 3,017.4
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 3.4 120.1 278.2
Provisions – other – 11.6
    120.1 289.8
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 5.4 48.8 61.7
Provisions – decommissioning 2.4 37.1 –
Provisions – other 2.8 2.8
88.7 64.5
Total liabilities   208.8 354.3
Net assets   2,099.4 2,663.1
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  
Called-up share capital 6.1 12.4 12.4
Share premium 6.1 487.1 487.0
Shares held by ESOP/SIP Trusts 6.1 (23.0) (26.7)
Foreign currency translation 6.1 (146.2) (82.7)
Capital reserves – non-distributable 6.1 40.8 40.8
Merger reserve 6.1 255.9 255.9
Retained earnings 1,472.4 1,976.4
Total equity   2,099.4 2,663.1
The financial statements on pages 112 to 154 were approved by the Board of Directors on 14 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
   
JAMES SMITH   SIMON THOMSON
Chief Financial Officer  Chief Executive 114 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
GROUP STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Section
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Cash flows from operating activities 
Loss before taxation (497.8) (559.1)
Unsuccessful exploration costs 97.4 208.4
Depreciation and amortisation 3.4 3.3
Share-based payments charge 15.2 21.4
Impairment of intangible exploration/appraisal assets 17.9 46.9
Impairment of property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets 25.1 –
Gain on disposal of oil and gas assets (26.6) (2.3)
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets – (3.9)
Inventory disposal/write down (0.2) 8.4
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 318.6 194.3
Finance income (19.8) (38.3)
Finance costs 20.3 34.7
Interest paid (0.2) (0.5)
Income tax received from operating activities 23.6 30.0
Foreign exchange differences (0.4) 8.8
Other receivables movement 4.3 4.3
Trade and other payables movement 6.1 (4.6)
Provisions movement (2.4) 2.9
Net cash used in operating activities (15.5) (45.3)
Cash flows from investing activities
Expenditure on intangible exploration/appraisal assets (208.4) (336.0)
Expenditure on property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets (114.2) (39.8)
Income tax received from investing activities 28.2 36.0
Proceeds on disposal of oil and gas assets 54.7 31.4
Movement on inventory 0.8 (3.9)
Purchase of other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets (2.1) (3.2)
Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets – 62.6
Movement in funds on bank deposits – 0.2
Interest received 3.6 3.1
Net cash used in investing activities (237 .4) (249.6)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Cost of shares purchased – (64.3)
Facility, arrangement fees and bank charges (6.3) (19.2)
Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.1 0.3
Repayment of borrowings – (53.4)
Net cash flows used in financing activities (6.2) (136.6)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (259.1) (431.5)
Opening cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 869.3 1,308.3
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents (7.4) (7.5)
Closing cash and cash equivalents 3.2 602.8 869.3 115 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Equity  
share capital 
US$m 
Shares held by 
ESOP Trust  
and SIP Trust
US$m 
Foreign currency 
translation 
US$m 
Merger and  
capital reserves 
US$m 
Available- 
for-sale  
reserve
US$m
Retained  
earnings 
US$m 
Total  
equity
US$m 
At 1 January 2014 499.7 (28.0) (23.9) 296.3 56.2 2,387.5 3,187.8
Loss for the year – – – – – (381.1) (381.1)
Deficit on valuation of financial assets – – – – (261.1) – (261.1)
Deferred tax credit on valuation  
of financial assets – – – – 56.6 – 56.6
Valuation movement recycled to  
Income Statement – – – – 189.2 – 189.2
Deferred tax credit on valuation movement 
recycled to Income Statement – – – – (40.9) – (40.9)
Currency translation differences – – (58.8) – – – (58.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (58.8) – (56.2) (381.1) (496.1)
Share buy-back (0.4) – – 0.4 – (50.3) (50.3)
Share-based payments – – – – – 21.4 21.4
Exercise of employee share options 0.1 0.2 – – – – 0.3
Cost of shares vesting – 1.1 – – – (1.1) –
At 31 December 2014 499.4 (26.7) (82.7) 296.7 – 1,976.4 2,663.1
Loss for the year – – – – – (515.5) (515.5)
Deficit on valuation of financial assets – – – – (318.6) – (318.6)
Deferred tax credit on valuation  
of financial assets – – – – 9.5 – 9.5
Valuation movement recycled to  
Income Statement – – – – 318.6 – 318.6
Deferred tax credit on valuation movement 
recycled to Income Statement – – – – (9.5) – (9.5)
Currency translation differences – – (63.5) – – – (63.5)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (63.5) – – (515.5) (579.0)
Share-based payments – – – – – 15.2 15.2
Exercise of employee share options 0.1 – – – – – 0.1
Cost of shares vesting – 3.7 – – – (3.7) –
At 31 December 2015 499.5 (23.0) (146.2) 296.7 – 1,472.4 2,099.4 116 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 1 – BASIS OF PREPARATION
This section contains the Group’s going concern statement and significant accounting policies that 
relate to the financial statements as a whole. Significant accounting policies specific to one note are 
included with that note. Accounting policies relating to non-material items are not included in these 
financial statements. The accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented. 
This section also includes new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations 
and their expected impact, if any, on the performance of the Group.
1.1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
A) BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated financial statements of Cairn Energy PLC (‘Cairn’ or ‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 December 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance 
with a resolution of the directors on 14 March 2016. Cairn is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded. 
The registered office is located at 50 Lothian Road, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9BY.
Cairn prepares its financial statements on a historical cost basis, unless accounting standards require an alternate measurement basis. Where there are assets and 
liabilities calculated on a different basis, this fact is disclosed either in the relevant accounting policy or in the notes to the financial statements. The financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies using IFRS. 
The Group’s financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
B) ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
Cairn prepares its financial statements in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’), issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (‘IASB’) as adopted by the EU, and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRS IC’) and Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. The Group’s financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’)  
as they apply to accounting periods ended 31 December 2015.
Effective 1 January 2015, Cairn has adopted the following standards:
 – Annual improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle
The adoption of these amendments will have no material impact on Cairn’s results or financial statement disclosures. 
The following amendments to standards issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU have yet to be adopted by the Group:
 – Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle (effective 1 February 2015)
 – Amendments to IFRS11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations (effective 1 January 2016)
 – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation (effective 1 January 2016) 
 – Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle (effective 1 January 2016)
 – Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative (effective 1 January 2016) 
 – Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements (effective 1 January 2016) 
 – Amendments to IAS 7: Statement of Cash Flows (effective 1 January 2017)
The adoption of these amendments will have no material impact on Cairn’s results or financial statement disclosures. There are no other standards or amendments 
issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU that will impact the Group.
C) BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Cairn Energy PLC and its subsidiary undertakings to the Balance Sheet date. Where subsidiaries follow 
differing accounting policies from those of the Group, those accounting policies have been adjusted to align with those of the Group. Inter-company balances and 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation, though foreign exchange differences arising on inter-company balances between subsidiaries 
with differing functional currencies are not offset. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired in any year are included in the Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows from the effective date of acquisition while the 
results of subsidiaries disposed of during the year are included in the Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows to the date at which control passes from 
the Group.  117 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
1.1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
D) JOINT ARRANGEMENTS
Cairn is a partner (joint operator) in oil and gas exploration and development licences which are unincorporated joint arrangements. All of the Group’s current 
interests in these arrangements are determined to be joint operations. A full list of oil and gas licence interests can be found on pages 156 and 157 .
Costs incurred relating to an interest in a joint operation are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for oil and gas assets as appropriate 
(Sections 2.1 and 2.2). All of the Group’s Intangible exploration/appraisal assets and Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets are related to 
interests in joint operations.
Cairn’s working capital balances relating to joint operations are included in Other receivables (Section 3.3) and Trade and other payables (Section 3.4). Any share  
of finance income or costs generated or incurred by the joint operation is included within the appropriate Income Statement account. 
E) FOREIGN CURRENCIES 
These financial statements continue to be presented in US dollars (US$), the functional currency of the parent. 
In the financial statements of individual Group companies, Cairn translates foreign currency transactions into the functional currency at the rate of exchange 
prevailing at the transaction date (or an approximation thereof where not materially different). Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are 
translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the Balance Sheet date. Exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement 
except for those incurred on borrowings specifically allocable to development projects, which are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
The Group maintains the financial statements of the parent and subsidiary undertakings in their functional currency. Where applicable, the Group translates subsidiary 
financial statements into the presentation currency, US$, using the closing rate method for assets and liabilities which are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at 
the Balance Sheet date and rates at the date of transactions for Income Statement accounts. Cairn takes exchange differences arising on the translation of net assets of 
Group companies whose functional currency is non-US$ directly to reserves.
Rates of exchange to US$1 were as follows:
Closing 
2015
YTD Average 
2015
Closing 
2014
YTD Average 
2014
Sterling 0.679 0.654 0.642 0.640
Norwegian Kroner 8.842 8.048 7.474 6.282
Euro 0.921 0.901 0.827 0.753
1.2 GOING CONCERN
The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern. 
In assessing whether the going concern assumption is appropriate, the Board and Audit Committee considered the Group cash flow forecasts under various scenarios, 
identifying risks and mitigants and ensuring the Group has sufficient funding to meet its current commitments as and when they fall due. 
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operational existence for a period of 12 months from the date of signing these financial 
statements and have therefore used the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
The Board and Audit Committees assessment of risk and mitigants to the Group’s operational existence beyond this 12 month period is included in the viability 
statement on page 43. 118 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 2 – OIL AND GAS ASSETS, DECOMMISSIONING PROVISIONS AND RELATED GOODWILL
This section focuses on the assets in the Balance Sheet which form the core of Cairn’s business.  
This section quantifies the financial impact of the operations for the year fully described in the 
Operational review on pages 26 to 31.
Included are details of the appraisal and exploration wells in Senegal, the farm-down of Catcher  
and the impairment reviews and tests performed on the Group’s assets.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS IN THIS SECTION:
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF OIL AND GAS ASSETS
With the continued decline in the oil price over the year , Cairn has tested its oil and gas assets for impairment. 
The impairment tests resulted in impairment charges of US$43.0m against UK North Sea exploration and development assets. For details of the indicators and the 
subsequent impairment tests conducted on those assets, see Sections 2.1 and 2.2.
KEY ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS IN THIS SECTION:
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF INTANGIBLE EXPLORATION/APPRAISAL ASSETS AND PROPERTY , PLANT & EQUIPMENT – DEVELOPMENT ASSETS
Where an indicator of impairment is identified on an intangible exploration/appraisal asset or a development asset, an impairment test is conducted in accordance with 
the Group’s accounting policies. The test compares either the carrying value of the asset or the carrying value of the cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) containing the asset, 
to the recoverable amount of that asset or CGU. 
The recoverable amount of an asset represents its fair value less costs of disposal. This is based on either a verifiable third-party arm’s-length transaction from which a 
fair value can be obtained or where there is no such transaction, the fair value less costs of disposal of an asset is calculated using discounted post-tax cash flow models 
over the field life of the asset. 
The key assumptions used in the Group’s discounted cash flow models reflect past experience and take account of external factors. These assumptions include:
 – Short/medium-term oil price based on a three-month average forward curve for three years from the Balance Sheet date;
 – Long-term oil price of US$80 per boe (2014: US$90 per boe) escalated at 2.0% (2014: 2.5%) per annum;
 – Reserve estimates of discovered resource (2P and 2C) based on P50 reserve estimates;
 – Production profiles based on Cairn’s internal estimates which are not materially different from those of the operators;
 – Cost profiles for the development of the field and subsequent operating costs supplied by the operator and escalated at 2.0% (2014: 2.0%) per annum; and
 – Post-tax discount rates of 10% (2014: 10%) for the Group’s UK and Norwegian North Sea assets.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL 
The goodwill arising from past corporate transactions in the UK and Norwegian North Sea is tested for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount against the 
carrying value of the underlying oil and gas assets in the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment. As with the assets above, fair value less costs of disposal are 
based on discounted post-tax cash flow models where no recent third-party transactions exist on which a reliable market-based fair value can be established. The key 
assumptions are therefore consistent with those for testing intangible exploration/appraisal assets.
Where resource is prospective, fair value represents the expected net present value of the prospect, risk-weighted for future exploration success. Given the inherent 
risk associated with exploration activities, valuations of prospective resource are highly subjective.
DECOMMISSIONING ESTIMATES
Provisions for decommissioning are based on the latest estimates provided by operators, subject to review by Cairn and adjustment where deemed necessary.  
Costs provided to date are an estimate of the cost that would be incurred to remove and decommission facilities that existed at the year end and to plug and  
abandon development wells drilled to that date. Costs are escalated at 2.0% per annum and discounted at a risk-free rate of 2.0%. 119 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
2.1 INTANGIBLE EXPLORATION/APPRAISAL ASSETS
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Cairn follows a successful-efforts-based accounting policy for oil and gas assets. 
Costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area, ‘pre-award costs’, are expensed immediately to the Income Statement. 
Expenditure incurred on the acquisition of a licence interest is initially capitalised on a licence-by-licence basis. Costs are held, un-depleted, within intangible exploration/
appraisal assets until such time as the exploration phase on the licence area is complete or commercial reserves have been discovered. Exploration expenditure incurred 
in the process of determining oil and gas exploration targets is capitalised initially within intangible exploration/appraisal assets and subsequently allocated to drilling 
activities. Exploration/appraisal drilling costs are initially capitalised on a well-by-well basis until the success or otherwise of the well has been established. The success  
or failure of each exploration/appraisal effort is judged on a well-by-well basis. Drilling costs are written off on completion of a well unless the results indicate that 
hydrocarbon reserves exist and there is a reasonable prospect that these reserves are commercial. 
Following appraisal of successful exploration wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction demonstrated, then the related 
capitalised intangible exploration/appraisal costs are transferred into a single field cost centre within property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets, 
after testing for impairment (see below). Where results of exploration drilling indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which are ultimately not considered commercially 
viable, all related costs are written off to the Income Statement. 
Proceeds from the disposal of part or all of an exploration asset should be credited initially to that interest with any excess being credited to the Income Statement.
Impairment
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets are reviewed regularly for indicators of impairment and tested for impairment where such indicators exist. An indicator that 
one of the Group’s assets may be impaired is most likely to be one of the following:
 – There are no further plans to conduct exploration activities in the area; 
 – Exploration drilling in the area has failed to discover commercial reserve volumes; 
 – Changes in the oil price or other market conditions indicate that discoveries may no longer be commercial; or
 – Development proposals for appraisal assets in the pre-development stage indicate that it is unlikely that the carrying value of the exploration/appraisal asset will 
be recovered in full.
In such circumstances the intangible exploration/appraisal asset is allocated to any property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets within the same cash 
generating unit and tested for impairment. Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year . Where there are no development/producing 
assets within the cash-generating unit, the excess of the carrying amount of exploration/appraisal asset over its recoverable amount are charged immediately to the 
Income Statement. 
Atlantic Margin 
Senegal
US$m
Other Africa
US$m
Greenland and 
Republic of Ireland
US$m
North West Europe 
– UK and Norway 
US$m
Other
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2014 41.6 31.1 38.2 380.9 6.8 498.6
Foreign exchange – – (0.8) (28.6) (0.8) (30.2)
Additions 145.7 99.8 19.1 108.8 5.5 378.9
Disposals (20.5) (0.3) (5.5) (0.3) – (26.6)
Transfers – – – (148.4) – (148.4)
Impairment – – (22.7) (24.2) – (46.9)
Unsuccessful exploration costs – (100.1) (6.6) (94.8) (6.9) (208.4)
At 1 January 2015 166.8 30.5 21.7 193.4 4.6 417.0
Foreign exchange – – – (19.2) – (19.2)
Additions 61.4 56.8 5.3 32.3 (3.3) 152.5
Disposals – – – (11.6) – (11.6)
Impairment – – (1.2) (16.7) – (17.9)
Unsuccessful exploration costs – (56.2) (0.9) (44.2) 3.9 (97.4)
At 31 December 2015 228.2 31.1 24.9 134.0 5.2 423.4 120 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 2 – OIL AND GAS ASSETS, DECOMMISSIONING PROVISIONS AND RELATED GOODWILL 
CONTINUED
2.1 INT ANGIBLE EXPLORATION/APPRAISAL ASSETS CONTINUED
Atlantic Margin – Senegal
In September 2015, Cairn commenced a three well exploration and appraisal programme offshore Senegal, following the two successful exploration wells completed 
in 2014, the FAN-1 and SNE-1 wells. The SNE-2 and SNE-3 appraisal wells completed in Q1 2016. The third well, the BEL -1 well, with exploration and appraisal 
targets, is ongoing. Subsequent exploration and appraisal wells are subject to joint operator approval.
Further appraisal is required to determine the commerciality of the FAN-1 discovery and costs to date remain capitalised. 
Capitalised costs of US$228.2m at 31 December 2015 include the cost of the 2014 SNE-1 and FAN-1 wells and 2015 year-to-date costs of the current  
drilling programme. 
Disposals of US$20.5m in 2014 represent back costs received following the farm-down to ConocoPhillips, completed in January 2014. 
Atlantic Margin – Other Africa
The Cap Boujdour well, offshore Morocco, completed in March 2015, failing to encounter commercial hydrocarbon volumes. Costs incurred in the current  
year on this well and other close-out costs on the Foum Draa and Juby Maritime relinquished licences of US$56.2m (2014: US$100.1m) were charged to the  
Income Statement. 
Costs of US$31.1m remaining in exploration/appraisal at the year end represent costs to date in Mauritania. 
Atlantic Margin – Greenland and Republic of Ireland
The costs of US$24.9m remaining at the year end primarily relate to the Spanish Point appraisal prospect, offshore Republic of Ireland.
Cairn retains one licence in Greenland, containing the Pitu prospect. Cairn is looking to farm-down its interest before committing to further exploration work and  
at the year end all costs associated with this licence have been impaired. All other licences in Greenland have been or are currently in the process of relinquishment  
and all previously capitalised costs have been written off.
North West Europe – UK and Norway
UK and Norwegian North Sea
Additions in the current year of US$32.3m (2014: US$108.8m) relate to expenditure on exploration and appraisal wells drilled and ongoing licence costs. Two wells 
were drilled during 2015, the successful Kraken West appraisal well in the UK North Sea and the unsuccessful Crossbill exploration well in the Norwegian North Sea. 
Disposal proceeds of US$11.6m relate to the sale of a 10% working interest in the Catcher asset (refer to Section 2.3 for further details).
Unsuccessful exploration costs charged to the Income Statement in the year were US$44.2m. Costs of the Crossbill exploration well were US$12.7m. A further 
US$23.7m related to the Bonneville satellite discovery in the Greater Catcher area, which, due to changes in UK tax legislation specific to oil and gas companies and the 
reduced oil price, is no longer commercial and will be relinquished. Finally, costs of US$7 .8m were expensed on licences where no further exploration activity is planned. 
During 2014, two exploration wells were completed in the North Sea. Neither the UK Aragon well nor the Norwegian Atlas well discovered hydrocarbons. Unsuccessful 
exploration costs of US$50.0m were charged to the Income Statement together with US$2.2m relating to other licences. Costs of US$25.2m were also charged to  
the 2014 Income Statement in respect of Skarfjell appraisal drilling. The appraisal wells confirmed the estimated reserve volumes of the discovery without materially 
increasing the future economic value of the field and it was considered unlikely that the costs relating to the wells would be recovered in full.
DECC approval of the Catcher FDP was received in June 2014. Costs of US$148.4m were transferred from Intangible exploration/appraisal assets to Property,  
plant & equipment – development/producing assets during the prior year . 
At the year end, Cairn reviewed its intangible exploration/appraisal assets for indicators of impairment. Indicators were identified where the fall in the oil price may 
impact the future commerciality of exploration and appraisal assets. Impairment tests identified impairment on the Group’s intangible exploration assets, resulting  
in a charge of US$16.7m to the Income Statement (2014: US$24.2m). The charge relates to the impairment of satellite fields within the Catcher development area.
Exploration costs remaining at the year end include the net book value of the Catcher exploration prospects, Laverda and Sunbeam, the Skarfjell discovery and 
associated satellite prospects and the Kraken West exploration costs.
Norwegian Barents Sea
In 2014, Cairn farmed-in to Block PL393B in the Barents Sea. Farm-in and other costs and the unsuccessful Ensis exploration well costs of US$17 .4m were charged  
to the Income Statement in the prior year . No costs remain capitalised at the year end.  121 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
2.2 PROPERTY , PLANT & EQUIPMENT – DEVELOPMENT /PRODUCING ASSETS 
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Costs
All costs incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of producing hydrocarbons has been demonstrated are capitalised within development/
producing assets on a field-by-field basis. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only where it either enhances the economic benefits of the development/producing 
asset or replaces part of the existing development/producing asset. Any remaining costs associated with the part replaced are expensed. 
Costs of borrowings relating to the ongoing construction of development assets and facilities are capitalised during the development phase of the project. 
Capitalisation ceases once the asset is ready to commence production.
Net proceeds from any disposal or part disposal of development/producing assets are credited against the previously capitalised cost. A gain or loss on disposal of  
a development/producing asset is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that the net proceeds exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the  
net capitalised costs of the asset.
Impairment
Development/producing assets are reviewed for indicators of impairment at the Balance Sheet date. Indicators of impairment for the Group’s development/
producing assets include:
 – Downward revisions of reserve estimates; 
 – Increases in cost estimates for development projects; or
 – A decrease in the oil price or other negative changes in market conditions. 
Impairment tests are carried out on each development/producing asset at the Balance Sheet date where an indicator of impairment is identified. The test compares 
the carrying value of an asset to its recoverable amount based on the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal or value in use. Where the fair value less costs of 
disposal supports the carrying value of the asset, no value-in-use calculation is performed. 
If it is not possible to calculate the fair value less costs of disposal of an individual asset, the fair value less costs of disposal is calculated for the cash-generating unit 
containing the asset and tested against the carrying value of the assets and liabilities in the cash-generating unit for impairment. Where an asset can be tested 
independently for impairment, this test is performed prior to the inclusion of the asset into a cash-generating unit for further impairment tests. 
If the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge is made. 
Where there has been a charge for impairment in an earlier period that charge will be reversed in a later period where there has been a change in circumstances to the 
extent that the recoverable amount is higher than the net book value at the time. In reversing impairment losses, the carrying amount of the asset will be increased to 
the lower of its original carrying value or the carrying value that would have been determined (net of depletion) had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
North West Europe 
– UK and Norway
US$m
Total
US$m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January 2014 299.9 299.9
Foreign exchange (30.5) (30.5)
Additions 50.0 50.0
Transfers from intangible exploration/appraisal assets 148.4 148.4
At 1 January 2015 467.8 467.8
Foreign exchange (32.5) (32.5)
Additions 230.6 230.6
Disposals (61.2) (61.2)
Impairment (25.1) (25.1)
At 31 December 2015 579.6 579.6
Disposals of US$61.2m relate to the farm-down of a 10% working interest in Catcher , see Section 2.3. Subsequent additions during the year include US$70.1m under 
the carry receivable as consideration in that transaction. Further additions include US$32.3m for the decommissioning asset recognised, US$127 .7m of expenditure 
on the Kraken development project and other sole costs incurred.  122 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 2 – OIL AND GAS ASSETS, DECOMMISSIONING PROVISIONS AND RELATED GOODWILL 
CONTINUED
2.2 PROPERTY , PLANT & EQUIPMENT – DEVELOPMENT /PRODUCING ASSETS CONTINUED
In 2014 exploration and appraisal costs of US$148.4m relating to the Catcher fields included in the FDP were transferred to development/producing assets.
Impairment tests were performed on the Group’s development/producing assets at the Balance Sheet date, resulting in an impairment charge of US$25.1m being 
recorded against the Catcher development asset. The impairment results from continuing low oil price environment, leading to a reduction in the Group’s short term 
oil price assumption and a downward revision to the Group’s long term assumption. Sensitivity analysis is provided in Section 2.7 .
2.3 GAIN ON DISPOSAL OF OIL AND GAS ASSETS
In January 2015, Cairn completed the farm-down of 10% of the Group’s working interest in the Catcher development, satellite fields and surrounding exploration 
acreage to Dyas. Under the terms of the deal, Dyas will fund Cairn’s exploration and development costs in respect of the licences up to a cap of US$182.0m, from an 
effective economic date of 1 January 2014. 
On completion of the transaction, Cairn received cash proceeds of US$54.7m (US$36.5m under the carry, US$ 18.2m as a refund of the 10% share of costs from 
1 January 2014) and recognised the remaining carry as a receivable at its discounted, post-tax fair value of US$44.7m. US$ 11.6m of the proceeds received were allocated 
to exploration assets and credited against previously capitalised exploration costs. The remaining proceeds and carry receivable were allocated to development assets.
The disposal of 10% of the Group’s working interest in the development asset (with related working capital adjustments) resulted in a gain on disposal of US$26.6m 
and a tax credit of US$4.6m.
2.4 PROVISIONS – DECOMMISSIONING
ACCOUNTING POLICY
At the end of the producing life of a field, costs are incurred in plugging and abandoning wells, removing sub-sea installations and decommissioning production facilities. 
Cairn recognises the full discounted cost of decommissioning as an asset and liability when the obligation to rectify environmental damage arises. The decommissioning 
asset is included within property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets with the cost of the related installation. The liability is included within provisions. 
Revisions to the estimated costs of decommissioning which alter the level of the provisions required are also reflected in adjustments to the decommissioning asset. 
The amortisation of the asset, calculated on a unit of production basis based on proved and probable reserves, is included in the ‘Depletion and decommissioning 
charge’ in the Income Statement, and the unwinding of discount of the provision is included within ‘Finance costs’.
Exploration well 
abandonment
US$m
Decommissioning of 
development assets
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 January 2015 3.6 – 3.6
Foreign exchange (0.4) (1.4) (1.8)
Provided in year 3.0 32.3 35.3
At 31 December 2015 6.2 30.9 37.1
Following the commencement of drilling and sub-surface activities on both Kraken and Catcher development projects during the year , decommissioning provisions 
have been estimated using existing technology at current prices discounted at 2% per annum. Provisions represent the obligation arising based on work undertaken at 
the balance sheet date. In the prior year exploration well abandonment costs as at 31 December 2014 of US$3.6m were included within provisions included in current 
liabilities. The planned work has since been deferred beyond the end of 2016.
The decommissioning of the Group’s development assets is forecast to occur between 2030 and 2039. 123 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
2.5 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Oil and gas expenditure:
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets 150.3 146.1
Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets 887.9 1,271.4
Contracted for 1,038.2 1,417.5
Capital commitments represent Cairn’s share of obligations in relation to its interests in joint operations. These commitments include Cairn’s share of the capital 
commitments of the joint operations themselves. 
The capital commitments for Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets primarily relate to operations in Senegal and the UK and Norwegian North Sea. 
The Capital commitments for Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets include US$572.7m relating to two lease commitments due within the 
next eight years. The lease terms for these assets have not yet commenced.
The Group has no further material capital expenditure committed at the Balance Sheet date.
2.6 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GOODWILL 
ACCOUNTING POLICY
Goodwill
Cairn allocates the purchase consideration on the acquisition of a subsidiary to the assets and liabilities acquired on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition. Any 
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill. Any goodwill arising is recognised as an asset and is subject to 
annual review for impairment. Goodwill is written off where circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount of the underlying cash-generating unit including the 
asset may no longer support the carrying value of goodwill. Any such impairment loss arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year . Impairment losses 
relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future years. 
In testing for impairment, goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated from the date of acquisition to the group of cash-generating units representing the 
lowest level at which it will be monitored. Cairn’s policy is to monitor goodwill at operating segment level before combining segments for reporting.
The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, within the segment is based on its fair value less costs of disposal, using 
estimated cash flow projections over the licence period of the exploration assets risk-weighted for future exploration success. The key assumptions are sensitive to 
market fluctuations and the success of future exploration drilling programmes. The most likely factor which will result in a material change to the recoverable amount 
of the cash-generating unit is the result of future exploration drilling, which will determine the licence area’s future economic potential. 
North West  
Europe – UK  
and Norwegian 
North Sea 
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2014 163.4 163.4
Foreign exchange (18.3) (18.3)
At 1 January 2015 145.1 145.1
Foreign exchange (13.2) (13.2)
At 31 December 2015 131.9 131.9
Goodwill is fully allocated to the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment. At 31 December 2015, the goodwill impairment test did not identify 
any impairment. 124 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 2 – OIL AND GAS ASSETS, DECOMMISSIONING PROVISIONS AND RELATED GOODWILL 
CONTINUED
2.7 IMPAIRMENT TESTING SENSITIVITY ANAL YSIS 
NORTH WEST EUROPE OIL AND GAS ASSETS
At 31 December 2015, impairment tests were conducted on the Group’s North Sea exploration/appraisal assets and development/producing assets resulting in an 
impairment charge of US$25.1m. An impairment test was also conducted on goodwill allocated to the North Sea operating segment though no further impairment 
was identified. 
The recoverable amount for all assets is based on fair value less costs of disposal estimated using discounted cash flow modelling. The key assumptions used in 
determining the fair value are often subjective, such as the future oil price assumption, or reliant upon the performance of operational partners for delivering 
development projects on time and within approved budgets. 
Cairn has run sensitivities on its long-term oil price assumption of US$80, using alternate prices ranging from US$75 to US$60, and on the impact of a six month delay 
to the Group’s development projects over the current first oil dates included in the impairment test models. A six month delay to either project has no material impact 
on the impairment test at the current long term oil price assumption.
The impact of these changes on the carrying value of the Group’s assets at the Balance Sheet date is summarised below:
Decrease in long term oil price assumption to:
US$75
US$m
US$70
US$m
US$65
US$m
US$60
US$m
Decrease in Property, plant & equipment – development assets
No delay to first oil production from either Catcher or Kraken (62.6) (151.3) (240.8) (307.9)
Delay of six months to Kraken; Catcher on schedule (62.4) (151.2) (246.7) (321.1)
Delay of six months to Catcher; Kraken on schedule (72.9) (167.4) (263.3) (356.3)
Delay of six month delay to both Catcher and Kraken (72.7) (167.3) (269.2) (369.5)
Decrease in Goodwill
No delay to first oil production from either Catcher or Kraken – – – (48.9)
Delay of six months to Kraken; Catcher on schedule – – – (46.4)
Delay of six months to Catcher; Kraken on schedule – – – (24.5)
Delay of six month delay to both Catcher and Kraken – – – (22.1)
The Group’s proved and probable and contingent reserve estimates are based on P50 probabilities. P10 and P90 estimates are also produced but would not provide  
a reasonable estimate to be used in calculating the fair value of the Group’s assets. Cairn’s reserve estimates do not materially differ from those of the operators.
OTHER OIL AND GAS ASSETS
At the year end, an impairment charge was recognised on certain intangible exploration assets in Greenland as noted in Section 2.1. These assets are fully impaired  
in accordance with IFRS and the Group’s accounting policies and therefore there is no meaningful sensitivity analysis to provide. 
There are no reasonable changes in assumptions that would lead to a material impairment of any of the Group’s remaining assets in the Atlantic Margin. 125 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
SECTION 3 – FINANCIAL ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL
Cairn’s liquid cash resources supported by the undrawn secured borrowing facility ensure the  
Group is fully funded to meet its current exploration and development programme despite the  
current restriction on the sale of shares in Cairn India Limited.
This section focuses on those assets, together with the working capital position of the Group  
at the year end.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS IN THIS SECTION:
IMPAIRMENT OF AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSET
The Group’s ~ 10% shareholding in Cairn India Limited, classified as a non-current available-for-sale financial asset, suffered a significant fall in value during 2015.  
The size of the deficit was such that the mark-to-market valuation deficit recognised in ‘Other Comprehensive Income’ and classified as an available-for-sale reserve  
in equity, were recycled to the Income Statement as impairment.
The closing book value of the asset represents the quoted market price of the Group’s residual holding. Although Cairn is currently not able to sell its 9.8% stake,  
there is no restriction in the wider market where Cairn India Limited shares trade freely at this price. 
KEY ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS IN THIS SECTION:
There were no key estimations or assumptions in this section.
3.1 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS
ACCOUNTING POLICY
The Group’s available-for-sale financial assets represent listed equity shares which are held at fair value (the quoted market price). Movements in the fair value during 
the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The cumulative gains or losses that arise on subsequent 
disposal of available-for-sale assets are recycled through the Income Statement.
At each reporting date, the fair value of the financial asset is compared to the value at the date of its initial recognition for signs of a prolonged or significant deficit in 
the valuation, which would indicate impairment. Where impairment is identified, cumulative losses recognised in Other comprehensive income are recycled to the 
Income Statement. In the event of a subsequent recovery in the valuation of the asset, there is no reversal of impairment; any such post-impairment gains are 
recognised as a surplus through Other comprehensive income. Any further impairment losses will be recognised through the Income Statement. 
Listed equity 
shares
US$m
Fair Value
As at 1 January 2014 1,027.6
Deficit on valuation (261.1)
Disposal (63.9)
As at 1 January 2015 702.6
Deficit on valuation (318.6)
As at 31 December 2015 384.0
Available-for-sale financial assets represent the Group’s remaining investment in the fully diluted share capital of Cairn India Limited, listed in India, which by its nature 
has no fixed maturity or coupon rate. These listed equity securities present the Group with an opportunity for return through dividend income or trading gains. 
At 31 December 2015, the value of the investment in Cairn India Limited had fallen to US$384.0m. The significant accumulated deficit during 2015 of US$318.6m 
(2014: US$194.3m – the cumulative deficit from 1 July 2013 to 31 December 2014) was recycled to the Income Statement and recorded as impairment. 
Cairn is currently restricted from selling its shares in Cairn India Limited. See Section 5.5. In January 2014, the Company disposed of 12,048,836 shares in Cairn India 
Limited, a 0.6% interest, prior to the restriction being enforced. 
The Group is exposed to equity price risks arising from the listed equity investments it holds in Cairn India Limited. 
Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The cumulative gain or loss 
that arises on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets is recycled through the Income Statement. 126 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 3 – FINANCIAL ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL CONTINUED
3.1 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED
Sensitivity analysis
At the year end the closing Cairn India Limited share price used to value the available-for-sale financial assets was INR 138.10 US$2.09 (2014: INR 240.55/US$3.82). 
The movement in the Cairn India Limited share price over the current and prior year is as follows:
 
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
5.00
6.00
7.00
1 Jan 2014:
US$5.23 
31 Dec 2014:
US$3.82
30 June  2015:
US$2.85
31 Dec 2015:
US$2.09
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date, assuming all other variables are held constant. 
Sensitivities have been run based on the highest and lowest share prices measured in the preceding 12-month period and on decreases of 10%, 20% and 30% on  
the share price at 31 December 2015. Those prices are determined using the closing INR share price converted to US$ at the daily rate.
As at 31 December 2015
Effect on loss 
for year
US$m
Effect on  
Equity
US$m
Increase to the highest share price in 2015 – INR 259 (US$4.17) – 359.5
Decrease of 10% on closing share price in 2015 – INR 124 (US$1.88) (38.4) (38.4)
Decrease to the lowest share price in 2015 – INR 123 (US$1.84) (45.2) (45.2)
Decrease of 20% on closing share price in 2015 – INR 110 (US$1.67) (76.8) (76.8)
Decrease of 30% on closing share price in 2015 – INR 97 (US$1.46) (115.2) (115.2)
As at 31 December 2014
Effect on loss 
for year
US$m
Effect on  
Equity
US$m
Increase to the highest share price in 2014 – INR 383 (US$6.46) – 382.2
Decrease to the lowest share price in 2014 – INR 229 (US$3.61) (30.0) (30.0)
Decrease of 10% on closing share price in 2014 – INR 216 (US$3.43) (60.8) (60.8)
Decrease of 20% on closing share price in 2014 – INR 192 (US$3.05) (131.1) (131.1)
3.2 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Cash and cash equivalents 602.8 869.3
602.8 869.3
Cash and cash equivalents earn interest at floating rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods from overnight deposits to three months depending on the 
cash requirements of the Group.  127 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
3.2 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CONTINUED
Cairn limits the placing of deposits, certificates of deposit and other investments to banks or financial institutions that have ratings of A- or above from at least two of 
Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s or Fitch, unless a Sovereign Guarantee is available from an AAA rated Government. The counterparty limits vary between US$50.0m 
and US$200.0m depending on the ratings of the counterparty.  No investments are placed with any counterparty with a five-year CDS exceeding 250 bps. 
Investments in money market liquidity funds are only made with AAA rated liquidity funds and the maximum holding in any single fund is 5% of total investments. 
On 18 July 2014, Cairn Energy PLC signed a seven year Reserve Based Lending facility with a syndicate of six international banks (BNP Paribas, Commonwealth Bank 
of Australia, DNB Bank ASA, HSBC Bank PLC, Societe Generale and Standard Chartered Bank) which was effective 1 August 2014. Until completion of the Catcher 
and Kraken developments, the facility can be utilised to fund development costs on those projects and facility finance costs. The facility may also be utilised to issue 
letters of credit and performance guarantees for the Cairn Group of up to US$175.0m. Following completion, the facility can be used for general corporate purposes. 
Interest on outstanding debt will be charged at the appropriate LIBOR for the currency drawn plus an applicable margin. The facility is subject to bi-annual 
redeterminations, has a market standard suite of covenants and is cross-guaranteed by all Group companies’ party to the facility. Debt is repayable in line with the 
amortisation of bank commitments over the period from 1 July 2018 to the final maturity date of 30 June 2021.
Details of guarantees granted under the facility can be found in Note 6.3.
3.3 OTHER RECEIVABLES
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Prepayments 18.4 19.1
Other receivables 81.1 105.8
Joint operation receivables 49.4 113.7
148.9 238.6
Prepayments include US$14.6m (2014: US$14.6m) of facility fee arrangement fees which will be amortised over the expected useful life of the facility.
Other receivables include US$27 .4m for the remaining Dyas carry relating to the 10% Catcher disposal (see Section 2.3). The carry was recorded at its initial fair  
value at the date of the transaction and is released to development assets based on the payments made by Dyas on Cairn’s behalf. 
Also included in other receivables are costs incurred by Cairn on behalf of joint operations of US$6.9m (2014: US$64.6m) for which the Group will be reimbursed. 
The balance includes dividends receivable of US$43.1m (2014: US$35.2m) from Cairn India Limited. While the restriction over Cairn’s investment remains, Cairn 
India Limited is unable to remit these dividends to the Group. See Section 3.1.
Joint operation receivables include Cairn’s working interest share of the receivables relating to joint operations and amounts recoverable from partners in 
joint operations. 
At 31 December 2015 no material amount within the Group’s other receivables or joint operation receivables was past due or impaired (2014: US$nil). In determining 
the recoverability of other receivables the Group carries out a risk analysis based on the type and age of the outstanding receivable. 
3.4 TRADE AND OTHER PA Y ABLES
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Trade payables 2.6 28.5
Other taxation and social security 1.5 6.4
Other payables 1.6 3.0
Joint operation payables 99.5 235.6
Accruals 14.9 4.7
120.1 278.2
Joint operation payables include Cairn’s share of the trade and other payables of operations in which the Group participates. Where Cairn is operator of the joint 
operation, joint operation payables also include amounts that Cairn will settle and recover from partners.  128 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 3 – FINANCIAL ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL CONTINUED
3.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
FINANCIAL ASSETS 
Carrying amount Fair value
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalents 602.8 869.3 602.8 869.3
Joint operation receivables 49.4 113.7 49.4 113.7
Other receivables 81.1 105.8 91.9 105.8
Available-for-sale financial assets
Listed equity shares 384.0 702.6 384.0 702.6
1,117.3 1,791.4 1,128.1 1,791.4
All of the above loans and receivables are current and held at amortised cost. There are no material impairments of loans and receivables. The impairment of the 
available-for-sale financial asset recycled to the Income Statement does not impact the carrying amount in the Balance Sheet.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Carrying amount and fair value
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Amortised cost
Trade payables 2.6 28.5
Joint operation payables 99.5 235.6
Accruals 14.9 4.7
Other payables 1.6 3.0
118.6 271.8
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, other than available-for-sale financial assets, has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at 
prevailing interest rates.
Maturity analysis
All of the Group financial liabilities other than provisions have a maturity of less than one year . 
Fair value 
The Group holds listed equity shares as a non-current available-for-sale financial asset. The Group determines and discloses the fair value of these by reference to the 
quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for those shares at the measurement date.
At 31 December 2015 the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value:
Assets measured at fair value – Level 1
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Equity shares – listed 384.0 702.6
384.0 702.6 129 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
3.6 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT: OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. The Board of Cairn Energy PLC through the 
Treasury Sub-Committee reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these are summarised below. The Group is also exposed to market risk 
arising from equity price fluctuations on available-for-sale financial assets (see Section 3.1 for details). 
The Group’s treasury function and Executive T eam as appropriate are responsible for managing these risks, in accordance with the policies set by the Board. Management 
of these risks is carried out by monitoring of cash flows, investment and funding requirements using a variety of techniques.  These potential exposures are managed whilst 
ensuring that the Company and the Group have adequate liquidity at all times in order to meet their immediate cash requirements.  There are no significant concentrations 
of risks unless otherwise stated. The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivatives, for speculative purposes.
The primary financial assets and liabilities comprise cash, short and medium-term deposits, notice accounts, certificates of deposit, money market liquidity funds, 
listed equity shares (Cairn India Limited only), intra-group loans and other receivables and financial liabilities held at amortised cost. The Group’s strategy has been to 
finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.  Other alternatives such as equity issues and other forms of non-investment-grade 
debt finance are reviewed by the Board, when appropriate.
LIQUIDITY RISK
The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk using both short and long-term cash flow projections, supplemented by debt and equity financing plans and 
active portfolio management. Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in and delays  
of development projects. The Group’s forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within its current debt facilities and have financial headroom for the 
12 months from the date of approval of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts. 
Details of the Group’s debt facilities can be found in Section 3.2. The Group is subject to quarterly forecast liquidity tests as part of the debt facility agreement.  
The group has complied with the capital requirements of this test at all times during the year . The Group runs various sensitivities on its liquidity position on a  
quarterly basis throughout the year . Further details are noted in the viability statement provided on page 43.
The Group currently has surplus cash that is invested in a combination of money market liquidity funds, notice accounts and term deposits with a number of 
international and UK financial institutions, ensuring sufficient liquidity to enable the Group to meet its short and medium-term expenditure requirements.   
CREDIT RISK
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, investments with banks and financial institutions and joint operations. 
Joint operation partners are subject to a risk assessment using publicly available information and credit reference agencies, with follow-up due diligence and 
monitoring if required. 
Investment credit risk for investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the Group Treasury function in accordance with the Board-approved 
policies of Cairn Energy PLC. These policies limit counterparty exposure and maturity and take account of published ratings, market measures and other market 
information. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate the risk of financial loss through counterparty failure. It is Cairn’s policy to 
invest with banks or other financial institutions that firstly offer the greatest degree of security in the view of the Group, and, secondly the most competitive interest 
rates. Repayment of principal is the overriding priority and this is achieved by diversification and shorter maturities to provide flexibility. The Board continually 
re-assesses the Group’s policy and updates as required. 
At the year end the Group does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk. As at 31 December 2015 the Group had investments with 24 counterparties 
(2014: 22) to ensure no concentration of counterparty investment risk. The maturity of these investments ranged from instant access to three months.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date. 130 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 3 – FINANCIAL ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL CONTINUED
3.6 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT: OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
Cairn manages exposures that arise from non-functional currency receipts and payments by matching receipts and payments in the same currency and actively 
managing the residual net position. Generally the exposure has been limited given that receipts and payments have mostly been in US dollars and the functional 
currency of most companies in the Group is US dollars. 
The Group also aims where possible to hold surplus cash, debt and working capital balances in functional currency that in most cases is US dollars, thereby matching 
the reporting currency and functional currency of most companies in the Group. This minimises the impact of foreign exchange movements on the Group’s 
Balance Sheet. 
Where residual net exposures do exist and they are considered significant the Company and Group may from time to time opt to use derivative financial instruments 
to minimise exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to movements in the US$:GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Group’s monetary assets 
and liabilities.  The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
2015 2014
Effect on loss 
before tax
US$m
Effect on  
Equity
US$m
Effect on loss  
before tax
US$m
Effect on 
Equity
US$m
10% increase in Sterling to US$ 0.8 69.0 28.3 80.1
10% decrease in Sterling to US$ (0.8) (69.0) (28.3) (80.1) 131 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
SECTION 4 – RESUL TS FOR THE YEAR
This section includes the results and performance of the Group, with segmental disclosures 
highlighting the core areas of the Group’s operations in its three regions of the Atlantic Margin,  
North West Europe and the Mediterranean.
This section also includes details of employee benefits paid in the year and finance income and costs.
4.1 SEGMENTAL ANAL YSIS
OPERATING SEGMENTS
Cairn holds a balanced portfolio of exploration and development assets focused in three geographical regions: North West Europe; the Atlantic Margin; and  
the Mediterranean. 
The operations of the Group are organised on a country-by-country basis; countries form the Group’s operating segments. For management reporting purposes, 
operating segments are combined into regional business units. Cairn monitors the results of each regional unit separately for the purposes of making decisions about 
resource allocation and performance assessment. 
The Group’s Atlantic Margin exploration region contains two units. Assets in Greenland and the Republic of Ireland are combined into one unit while the Group’s 
African operating segments in Senegal, Morocco and Mauritania also form a separate unit. There were no profit or loss items incurred during the year for Senegal 
or Mauritania. 
The North West Europe regional unit holds the UK and Norway operating segments. Currently the segment contains the Group’s North Sea assets including the 
Skarfjell discovery in Norway and the UK Catcher and Kraken developments. 
The results of the Mediterranean region are reported along with the Group’s corporate assets within ‘Other Cairn Energy Group’. 
Subsequent to the year end, the Group reorganised its Atlantic Margin and Mediterranean business units into two new units: Senegal and International. This change  
is not reflected in the analysis provided in these financial statements.
GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION: NON-CURRENT ASSETS 
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of intangible exploration/appraisal assets; property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets; intangible assets 
– goodwill; and other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets.
Other Cairn Energy Group: 
Others
2015 2014
US$3.6m US$4.8m 
Other Cairn Energy Group: 
Mediterranean 
2015 2014
US$5.2m US$4.6m
North West Europe:  
UK and Norway
2015 2014
US$845.8m US$807.0m
Atlantic Margin:  
Greenland and Republic of Ireland
2015 2014
US$24.9m US$21.7m
Atlantic Margin:  
Senegal, Morocco and Mauritania
2015 2014
US$259.3m US$197.3m 132 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 4 – RESUL TS FOR THE YEAR CONTINUED
4.1 SEGMENTAL ANAL YSIS CONTINUED
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2015 are as follows:
  Atlantic Margin
 
Africa
US$m
Greenland and 
Republic of Ireland
US$m
North West Europe 
– UK and Norway
US$m
Other  
Cairn Energy
Group
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-award costs (1.9) (1.9) (27.6) (3.8) (35.2)
Unsuccessful exploration costs (56.2) (0.9) (44.2) 3.9 (97.4)
Inventory disposal/write down – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Depreciation (0.1) – (0.3) (0.6) (1.0)
Amortisation – – – (2.4) (2.4)
Other income and administrative expenses – (0.3) (2.1) (23.7) (26.1)
Impairment of oil and gas assets – (1.2) (41.8) – (43.0)
Gain on disposal of oil and gas assets – – 26.6 – 26.6
Operating loss (58.2) (4.3) (89.4) (26.8) (178.7)
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets – – – (318.6) (318.6)
Interest income – – 1.4 2.2 3.6
Interest expense – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Other finance income and costs – – 1.1 (4.9) (3.8)
Loss before taxation (58.2) (4.3) (87.2) (348.1) (497.8)
T ax (charge)/credit – – (27.2) 9.5 (17.7)
Loss for the year (58.2) (4.3) (114.4) (338.6) (515.5)
Capital expenditure 118.2 5.3 263.1 (1.4) 385.2
Total assets 291.9 26.6 977.9 1,011.8 2,308.2
Total liabilities 52.4 0.1 139.5 16.8 208.8 133 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
4.1 SEGMENTAL ANAL YSIS CONTINUED
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Atlantic Margin
 
Africa
US$m
Greenland and 
Republic of Ireland
US$m
North West Europe 
– UK and Norway
US$m
Other  
Cairn Energy
Group
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-award costs – (0.7) (45.1) (9.0) (54.8)
Unsuccessful exploration costs (100.1) (6.6) (94.8) (6.9) (208.4)
Inventory disposal/write down – – – (8.4) (8.4)
Depreciation – (0.1) (0.3) (0.7) (1.1)
Amortisation – – – (2.2) (2.2)
Other income and administrative expenses – (0.4) (2.1) (50.3) (52.8)
Impairment of oil and gas assets – (22.7) (24.2) – (46.9)
Gain on disposal of oil and gas assets – – 2.3 – 2.3
Operating loss (100.1) (30.5) (164.2) (77.5) (372.3)
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets – – – 3.9 3.9
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets – – – (194.3) (194.3)
Interest income – – 1.2 1.9 3.1
Interest expense – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Other finance income and costs 0.8 (0.4) 3.5 (3.3) 0.6
Loss before taxation (99.3) (30.9) (159.6) (269.3) (559.1)
T ax (charge)/credit (1.3) – 134.0 45.3 178.0
Loss for the year (100.6) (30.9) (25.6) (224.0) (381.1)
Capital expenditure 245.5 19.1 159.5 8.0 432.1
Total assets 358.1 28.0 988.8 1,642.5 3,017.4
Total liabilities 203.7 0.8 119.2 30.6 354.3
All transactions between the segments are carried out at arm’s length basis. 
4.2 PRE-AWARD COSTS 
During the year , the Group incurred total pre-award costs of US$35.2m (2014: US$54.8m) as Cairn looked at new opportunities in North West Europe and elsewhere. 
US$12.3m (2014: US$30.3m) relates to pursuing new opportunities in the Norwegian Barents Sea and US$15.5m (2014: US$14.8m) relates to new opportunities in 
the UK and Norwegian North Sea, including licensing round applications. Further costs of US$7 .4m (2014: US$9.7m) were incurred in pursuit of new opportunities in 
other regions. These expenses include a combined US$17 .1m (2014: US$22.0m) of seismic data acquisition.
In the recent 2015 APA Norwegian licencing round, Cairn was awarded non-operated interests in four licences – PL828 (Cairn 40%), PL747B (Cairn 40%), PL840 
(Cairn 20%), PL844 (Cairn 20%) and operatorship in PL842 (Cairn 40%). 
In the Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round, Cairn was awarded non-operated interests in five licences: PL788 (Cairn 50%), PL787 (Cairn 30%), PL790 (Cairn 25%), 
PL159 (Cairn 18%) and PL800 (Cairn 35%).  134 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 4 – RESUL TS FOR THE YEAR CONTINUED
4.3 NET OPERATING EXPENSES 
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Other income – (3.1)
Administrative expenses 29.5 59.2
Inventory disposal/write down 0.2 8.4
29.7 64.5
Administration expenses in 2015 include charges of US$4.3m (2014: US$8.5m) incurred to defend the Group’s tax position in India. 
The reduction in administration expenses partly reflects the Group re-organisation completed in 2014. Administrative expenses to December 2014 include US$7 .6m 
relating to the Group reorganisation, US$1.6m of which were accelerated share-based payment charges. There were no such re-organisation costs in 2015.
4.4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: STAFF COSTS, SHARE-BASED PA YMENTS AND DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
(A) ST AFF COSTS
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Wages and salaries 30.2 43.2
Social security costs 7.0 5.6
Redundancy costs – 4.7
Other pension costs 2.4 3.4
Share-based payments charge 15.2 21.4
54.8 78.3
Staff costs are shown gross before amounts recharged to joint operations and include the costs of share-based payments. The share-based payments charge 
represents amounts in respect of equity-settled options.
During 2014, the Company carried out a programme of restructuring which included redundancy costs of US$4.7m.
The monthly average number of full time equivalent employees, including executive directors and individuals employed by the Group working on joint operations, was:
Number of employees
2015 2014
UK 135 164
Norway 18 14
Morocco 2 1
Spain – 4
Greenland 2 15
Group 157 198 135 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
4.4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: STAFF COSTS, SHARE-BASED PA YMENTS AND DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS CONTINUED
(B) SHARE-BASED PA YMENTS
Income Statement Charge
2015 
US$m
2014 
US$m
Included within gross staff costs:
2010 SIP 0.8 0.8
2009 Approved Plan 0.3 1.0
2009 Unapproved Plan 1.9 4.4
2009 LTIP 11.8 15.0
2012 Share awards – 0.2
2015 Share awards 0.4 –
15.2 21.4
Details of those awards with a significant impact on the results for the current and prior year are given below together with a summary of the remaining awards. 
Share-based payment schemes and awards details
The Group operates a number of share award schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The number of share awards made by the Company during the year is given in the table below together with their weighted average fair value (‘WAFV’) and weighted 
average grant or exercise price (‘WAGP/WAEP’):
2015
WAFV
£
2015 
WAGP/WAEP
£
2015
Number 
of shares
2014
WAFV
£
2014 
WAGP/WAEP
£
2014
Number 
of shares
2010 SIP – free shares 1.45 1.70 245,458 1.40 1.68 264,810
2010 SIP – matching shares 1.45 1.73 209,952 1.40 1.86 197 ,097
2009 Approved Plan 0.17 1.82 393,879 0.28 1.68 589,320
2009 Unapproved Plan 0.17 1.84 3,705,901 0.28 1.68 6,479,802
2009 LTIP 1.01 1.85 8,818,917 1.06 1.68 10,986,850
2015 Share awards 1.75 1.79 186,780 1.81 1.81 55,096
13,560,887 18,572,975
The awards existing under the 2009 LTIP with the weighted average grant price (‘WAGP’) are as follows:
2015 2014
Number WAGP (£) Number WAGP (£)
Outstanding as at 1 January 18,024,165 2.28 12,710,604 3.04
Granted during the year 8,818,917 1.85 10,986,850 1.68
Vested during the year (486,886) 2.87 – –
Lapsed during the year (4,587 ,358) 2.62 (5,673,289) 2.84
Outstanding at 31 December 21,768,838 2.02 18,024,165 2.28
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 1.4 years 1.5 years 136 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 4 – RESUL TS FOR THE YEAR CONTINUED
4.4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: STAFF COSTS, SHARE-BASED PA YMENTS AND DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS CONTINUED
(B) SHARE-BASED PA YMENTS CONTINUED
The awards existing under all share schemes other than the 2009 LTIP with the weighted average of the grant price, exercise price and notional exercise prices 
(‘WAGP/WAEP’) are as follows:
2015 2014
Number WAGP/WAEP (£) Number WAGP/WAEP (£)
Outstanding at 1 January 15,778,749 2.26 11,011,826 2.82
Granted during the year 4,741,970 1.82 7,586,125 1.69
Vested/exercised during the year (347,629) 1.87 (363,053) 2.10
Lapsed during the year (5,256,613) 2.56 (2,456,149) 3.00
Outstanding at 31 December 14,916,477 2.03 15,778,749 2.26
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 7 .9 years 8.0 years
Assumptions and Inputs
The fair value of the Cairn Energy PLC 2009 LTIP scheme awards are calculated using a Monte Carlo model. The primary inputs to the model are consistent with those 
of the other share award schemes, though vesting percentages for LTIPs can be above 100%. For details on the vesting conditions attached to the LTIPs refer to the 
Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 81 to 104.
The other Cairn Energy PLC share awards during 2015 were valued using a Monte Carlo model with the exception of the SIP awards which were valued using a 
Black-Scholes model. Awards in prior years were valued similarly. Cairn Energy PLC share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year , subject  
to the normal employee dealing bans imposed at certain times by the Company. The weighted average share price during the year was £1.653 (2014: £1.877). 
The main inputs to the models include the number of options, share price, leaver rate, trigger points, discount rate and volatility. 
 – Leaver rate assumptions are based on past history of employees leaving the Company prior to options vesting and are revised to equal the number of options that 
ultimately vest.
 – Trigger points are based on the length of time after the vesting periods for awards in 2015, further details are below.
 – The risk-free rate is based on the yield on a zero coupon Government bond with a term equal to the expected term on the option being valued.
 – Volatility was determined as the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the shares of a peer group of similar companies 
selected from the FTSE, as disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 81 to 104, over a 10-year period to the date of award.
The following assumptions and inputs apply:
Scheme name Volatility
Risk-free rate
per annum
Lapse due to 
withdrawals
per annum
2010 Share Incentive Plan 29% – 52% 0% – 1.91% 5% 
2009 Approved and Unapproved Plans 29% – 52% 0.29% – 2.71% 5% 
2009 LTIP 29% – 52% 0% – 2.33% –
2015 Employee Share Awards – – 5%
Employee exercise trigger point assumptions
For 2015 awards, the assumption used for the 2009 Approved and Unapproved awards is that employees will exercise half of the awards on the vesting date and the 
remaining half will be exercised equally each year over the following seven years. This assumption is modified for the 2009 LTIP awards such that awards are assumed 
to be exercised 10% on the three-year anniversary of the award date and 22.5% each year thereafter up until the seventh anniversary date. The assumption used for 
the valuation of the SIP is that employees will withdraw shares five years after the award date. 137 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
4.4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: STAFF COSTS, SHARE-BASED PA YMENTS AND DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS CONTINUED
(C) DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS AND REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
Details of each Director’s remuneration, pension entitlements, share options and awards pursuant to the LTIP are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report  
on pages 81 to 104. Directors’ remuneration, their pension entitlements, and any share awards vested during the year is provided in aggregate in Section 7 .8.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors of the Company and of the members of the Management and Corporate teams who are the key management personnel of the 
Group is set out below in aggregate.
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Short-term employee benefits 6.4 9.8
Termination benefits 0.7 0.3
Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6
Share-based payments 4.4 6.8
12.1 17.5
In addition employer’s national insurance contributions for key management personnel in respect of short-term employee benefits were US$0.9m (2014: US$1.4m).
Share-based payments shown above represent the cost to the Group of key management personnel’s participation in the Company’s share schemes, measured 
under IFRS 2. 
During 2015, 295,186 shares awarded to key management personnel vested under the 2009 LTIP scheme (2014: nil).
4.5 FINANCE INCOME 
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Bank and other interest receivable 3.6 3.1
Dividend income 11.6 35.2
Unwinding of discount – Other receivables 4.6 –
19.8 38.3
Dividend income is receivable from Cairn India Limited. See Section 3.1.  138 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 4 – RESUL TS FOR THE YEAR CONTINUED
4.6 FINANCE COSTS
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Bank loan and overdraft interest 0.3 0.3
Other finance charges 5.9 3.1
Exchange loss 14.1 31.3
20.3 34.7
4.7 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated using the following measures of loss: 
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Loss and diluted loss attributable to equity holders of the parent (515.5) (381.1)
The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 
2015
‘000
2014
‘000
Weighted average number of shares 576,336 578,845
Less weighted average shares held by ESOP and SIP Trusts (5,244) (5,730)
Basic and diluted weighted average number of shares 571,092 573,115
Anti-dilutive shares:
2009 LTIP awards 15,885 –
2009 Approved and Unapproved Plans 365 33
2015 Employee Share Awards 166 –
Anti-dilutive number of shares 16,416 33 139 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
SECTION 5 – TAXATION
This section highlights the Group’s taxation policies, including both the accounting policy and wider 
strategy and governance policies.
Analysis is provided of the Group’s Income Statement charges and credits and deferred tax 
movements through the Balance Sheet.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS IN THIS SECTION:
DEFERRED T AXATION
In prior years, Cairn recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of UK North Sea oil and gas assets. This deductible temporary difference represented eligible field 
allowances on the Kraken and Catcher assets and tax losses available to offset future taxable profits from those assets offset by other taxable temporary differences. 
At each reporting date, Cairn reviews the carrying value of deferred tax assets to assess whether it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the 
Group can utilise unused tax losses and allowances which give rise to the asset. 
Given the low oil price, Cairn no longer believes that it is probable that UK North Sea assets will generate the taxable profits necessary to allow the temporary 
differences reflected in the deferred tax asset to be utilised in full. The Group’s deferred tax asset remaining at 31 December 2015 of US$22.2m has therefore  
been reversed.
CONTINGENT LIABILITY – INDIAN TAX
Cairn has been resolutely defending the Group’s tax position in India following the tax issue raised and subsequent demand notice issued by the Indian T axation 
department. Cairn has filed a notice of dispute with the Indian Government and international arbitration proceedings have commenced. Based on the strengths  
of Cairn’s legal arguments, no provision is made in the financial statements for any claim made by the Indian T ax Department.
KEY ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS IN THIS SECTION:
There were no key estimates or assumption in this section.
ACCOUNTING POLICY
The total tax charge or credit represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. 
The current tax credit is based on the taxable loss for the year . T axable profit or loss differs from net profit or loss as reported in the Income Statement because  
it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. In Norway,  
tax refunds may be claimed on exploration activities and related overhead costs; the tax refundable is included as a tax credit in the period in which the qualifying 
expenditure is incurred.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit or loss. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences that exist only where it is probable that taxable profits will be generated against which the 
carrying value of the deferred tax asset can be recovered. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint operations where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
A deferred tax asset or liability is not recognised if a temporary difference arises on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Current and deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
5.1 T AX STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE
The Group’s tax strategy is fully aligned with its overarching business objectives and principles. Cairn commits to managing its tax affairs in a transparent and responsible 
manner and ensuring that all statutory obligations and disclosure requirements are met. Cairn’s aim is to comply with both the letter and spirit of the law in the relevant 
jurisdictions in which we operate, to ensure that the right amount of tax is paid, at the right time, within the right jurisdiction. 
As the Group’s UK activities are focused on assets in development, with no saleable production at present, there are currently no taxable profits in the UK. T axable 
profits in other jurisdictions, where Cairn’s assets are in the early stages of the value creation cycle, are also minimal and as a result there were no cash payments of 
corporation taxes made during the year (2014: nil).  140 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 5 – TAXATION CONTINUED
5.1 T AX STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
Cairn’s policy is to not enter into any artificial tax avoidance schemes and to build and maintain strong collaborative working relationships with all relevant tax authorities, 
based on honesty, integrity and proactive cooperation. The Group aims for certainty in relation to the tax treatment of all items; however , it is acknowledged that this  
will not always be possible, for example where transactions are complex or there is a lack of maturity in the tax regime in the relevant jurisdiction in which the Group are 
operating. In such circumstances Cairn will seek external advice where appropriate and ensure that the approach adopted in any relevant tax return is supportable and 
includes full disclosure of the position taken.
5.2 T AX CHARGE/(CREDIT) ON LOSS FOR THE YEAR
ANAL YSIS OF TAX CHARGE/(CREDIT) ON LOSS FOR THE YEAR 
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Current tax credits:
Norwegian tax refunds receivable (37.1) (67.3)
Withholding taxes deducted at source – 1.4
(37.1) (65.9)
Deferred tax charge/(credit):
Norwegian deferred tax charges 4.7 (13.4)
Reduction in UK supplementary charge tax rate 45.6 –
Recognition of eligibility to future field allowances on UK development asset – (71.2)
Reversal of eligibility to future field allowances on disposal of UK development asset 13.7 –
Release of provision on disposal of UK development asset (18.7) –
Release of provision on impairment of UK intangible exploration/appraisal asset – (15.0)
Reversal of UK deferred tax asset 22.4 –
Release of provision on carried interests due to change in tax rate (3.4) –
Other UK deferred tax charges – 28.4
Recycled from other comprehensive income on impairment of financial assets (9.5) (42.0)
Recycled from other comprehensive income on sale of financial assets – 1.1
54.8 (112.1)
17.7 (178.0)
T ax included in Other Comprehensive Income:
Deferred tax credit on valuation of financial assets (9.5) (56.6)
Deferred tax credit on valuation movement recycled to Income Statement 9.5 40.9
Total tax charge in Other Comprehensive Income – (15.7)
 
Norwegian deferred tax charges includes a charge of US$5.2m (2014: credit of US$6.9m) on temporary differences in respect of non-current assets and a credit  
of US$0.5m (2014: credit of US$6.5m) on losses and other temporary differences.
Deferred tax liabilities on the Group’s available-for-sale financial asset fully reversed in the year as the valuation of the Group’s residual interest in Cairn India Limited 
declined. As the deficit on the valuation of the financial asset was recycled to the Income Statement as impairment, the US$9.5m (US$40.9m) of deferred tax credits 
relating to the deficit were also recycled. 141 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
5.2 TAX CHARGE/(CREDIT) ON LOSS FOR THE YEAR CONTINUED
FACTORS AFFECTING TAX CHARGE/(CREDIT) FOR THE YEAR
A reconciliation of income tax charge applicable to loss before income tax at the UK statutory rate to income tax credit at the Group’s effective income tax rate is 
as follows:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Loss before taxation (497.8) (559.1)
Loss before tax multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) (100.8) (120.2)
Effect of:
Special tax rates and reliefs applying to oil and gas activities (71.5) (145.5)
Impact of change in tax rate on opening deferred tax 89.5 –
Impact of field allowances on deferred tax – (47.8)
Temporary differences not recognised 100.5 147.2
Deferred tax credit on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset – (3.3)
Release of provision on carried interests due to change in tax rate (3.4) –
Foreign exchange movements (1.7) (1.6)
Other 5.1 (6.8)
17.7 (178.0)
The reconciliation shown above has been based on the average UK statutory rate of corporation tax for 2015 of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%). 
The UK main rate of corporation tax was 21% prior to 1 April 2015, and 20% from that date onwards. The reduction in the tax rate from 21% to 20% has resulted  
in an average rate of corporation tax of 20.25% for the year ended 31 December 2015, as shown above. 
The applicable UK statutory tax rate applying to North Sea oil and gas activities is 50%. The applicable rate applying to the prior year was 62%. The reduction in rate 
was effective from 1 January 2015. The applicable Norwegian rate applying to oil and gas activities is 78%.
Temporary differences not recognised represents the reversal of the UK deferred tax asset during the year and other temporary differences originating during the 
year on which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
5.3  INCOME TAX ASSETS
Income tax assets of US$33.0m (2014: US$60.3m) relate to cash tax refunds due from the Norwegian authorities on the tax value of exploration and other qualifying 
expenses incurred in Norway during the year . This refund will be received in 2016. 142 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 5 – TAXATION CONTINUED
5.4 DEFERRED T AX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax assets/(liabilities):
Temporary 
difference in 
respect of 
non-current  
assets
US$m
Losses
US$m
Other  
temporary 
differences
US$m
Total 
US$m
Deferred tax assets
At 1 January 2014 (50.6) 109.3 – 58.7
Foreign exchange (0.2) (5.5) – (5.7)
Deferred tax credit though Income Statement (31.3) 84.5 – 53.2
At 1 January 2015 (82.1) 188.3 – 106.2
Foreign exchange 6.4 (9.8) – (3.4)
Deferred tax credit though Income Statement (35.0) (24.6) – (59.6)
Deferred tax movement on acquisition of development assets in respect of carried interests (43.2) – – (43.2)
At 31 December 2015 (153.9) 153.9 – –
Deferred tax liabilities
At 1 January 2014 (156.2) 1.0 7.2 (148.0)
Foreign exchange 14.5 4.2 (6.9) 11.8
Deferred tax credit though Income Statement 52.3 3.9 2.6 58.8
Deferred tax credit through Other Comprehensive Income 15.7 – – 15.7
At 1 January 2015 (73.7) 9.1 2.9 (61.7)
Foreign exchange 10.2 (1.7) (0.4) 8.1
Deferred tax credit though Income Statement 4.2 3.1 (2.5) 4.8
At 31 December 2015 (59.3) 10.5 – (48.8)
Analysis by country:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Deferred tax assets:
UK – 106.2
– 106.2
Deferred tax liabilities:
Norway (48.8) (52.2)
India – (9.5)
(48.8) (61.7)
RECOGNISED DEFERRED T AX ASSETS
As at the Balance Sheet date, no net deferred tax asset or liability has been recognised in the UK as other temporary differences and tax losses are recognised to offset  
the UK deferred tax liability arising on business combinations and carried interests attributable to UK Ring Fenced trading activity as it is no longer deemed probable that 
future profits will be available to recover the value of the asset given the detrimental change in market conditions impacting the oil and gas industry. At 31 December 2014 
a deferred tax asset of US$ 106.2m was recognised. 
A deferred tax asset in respect of Norwegian tax losses of US$10.5m (2014: US$9.1m) is offset against a Norwegian deferred tax liability arising from business 
combinations and expenditure on assets for which current tax refunds have been claimed. 143 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
5.4 DEFERRED T AX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED
UNRECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
No deferred tax asset has been recognised on the following as it is not considered probable that it will be utilised in future periods:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
UK fixed asset temporary differences 294.2 244.5
UK Ring Fence trading losses 260.1 167.8
UK non-Ring Fence trading losses 3.7 3.9
UK non-Ring Fence pre-trade losses 5.5 5.3
UK excess management expenses 288.6 311.9
UK non-trade deficits 64.3 39.8
UK temporary differences on share based payments 21.0 4.7
UK other temporary differences 0.3 2.9
Greenlandic tax losses 1,031.3 1,301.5
Temporary differences in respect of available for sale financial asset 274.8 –
At the Balance Sheet date, the Group has US$567 .9m (2014: US$471.5m) UK Ring Fence trading losses available to offset against future UK Ring Fence trading 
profits. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of US$307 .8m (2014: US$303.7m) of these losses, offsetting in full a deferred tax liability on Ring Fence 
fixed asset temporary differences. No deferred tax asset has been recognised on the remaining UK Ring Fence losses of US$260.1m (2014: US$167 .8m) as it is not 
considered probable that this amount will be utilised in future periods.
The deferred tax liability recognised on UK Ring Fence fixed asset temporary differences of US$153.9m (2014: US$82.1m) includes temporary differences in respect 
of investment allowances (previously field allowances) of US$722.2m (2014: US$833.3m) on the Catcher and Kraken developments which will reduce future Ring 
Fence profits subject to Supplementary Charge.
5.5 CONTINGENT LIABILITY – INDIAN TAX ASSESSMENT
Cairn UK Holdings Limited (‘CUHL ’), a direct subsidiary of Cairn Energy PLC, is in receipt of an assessment order from the Indian Income T ax Department (‘IITD’) 
relating to the intra-group restructuring undertaken in 2006 prior to the IPO of CIL in India, which cites a retrospective amendment to Indian tax law introduced in 
2012. Cairn strongly contests the basis of this attempt to retrospectively tax the group for an internal restructuring. 
The assessment order is in the amount of INR 102 billion (approximately US$1.6bn) plus interest back dated to 2007 totalling INR 188bn (approximately US$2.8bn). 
The total assets of CUHL have a current value of US$477 .5m (comprising principally the group’s 9.8% shareholding in CIL) and any recovery by the Indian authorities 
would be limited to such assets.
CUHL is pursuing its rights under Indian law to appeal the assessment, both in respect of the basis of taxation and the quantum assessed. CUHL ’s 9.8% shareholding  
in CIL was originally attached by the IITD in January 2014 and CUHL continues to be restricted by the IITD from selling such shares. See Section 3.1.
Furthermore, Cairn has also commenced international arbitration proceedings against the Republic of India under the UK-India Bilateral Investment T reaty (the ‘T reaty’), 
on the basis that India’s actions have breached the T reaty by (1) expropriating Cairn’s property without adequate and just compensation, (2) denying fair and equitable 
treatment to Cairn in respect of its investments and (3) restricting Cairn’s right to freely transfer funds in connection with its investment. Based on detailed legal advice, 
Cairn is confident that it will be successful in such arbitration. Cairn’s claim will seek relief by way of indemnification in respect of the tax demand, plus full compensation for 
its losses (including the loss of the value in the CIL shares).  144 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 6 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND OTHER DISCLOSURES
This section includes details of Cairn’s issued share capital and equity reserves.
Other disclosures include details on auditors’ remuneration and post balance sheet events.  
Details on the Group’s policy on the award of non-audit work to the auditors can be found  
in the Report of the Audit Committee and on the Group’s web site.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS IN THIS SECTION:
There are no significant accounting judgements in this section.
KEY ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS IN THIS SECTION:
There are no key estimates or assumptions in this section.
6.1 ISSUED CAPITAL AND RESERVES
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL
Number
231/169p
ordinary
‘000
231/169p
ordinary
US$m
Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares
At 1 January 2014 595,057 12.8
Issued and allotted for employee share options 94 –
Shares repurchased and cancelled by the Company (18,887) (0.4)
At 1 January 2015 576,264 12.4
Issued and allotted for employee share options 80 –
At 31 December 2015 576,344 12.4
SHARE PREMIUM
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
At 1 January 487.0 486.9
Arising on shares issued for employee share options 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 487.1 487.0
SHARES HELD BY ESOP TRUST 
Shares held by the ESOP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Trust at 31 December 2015 of US$16.7m (2014: 
US$19.3m). The number of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Trust at 31 December 2015 was 3,721,956 (2014: 4,284,055) and the market 
value of these shares was £5.9m/US$8.7m (2014: £7 .6m/US$11.9m).
SHARES HELD BY SIP TRUST 
Shares held by the SIP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2015 of US$6.3m 
(2014: US$7 .4m). The number of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2015 was 1,158,137 (2014: 1,35 1,203) and the 
market value of these shares was £1.8m/US$2.7m (2014: £2.4m/US$3.8m).
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses arising on consolidation of subsidiary undertakings are taken directly to reserves. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on intra-group loans are not eliminated on consolidation; this reflects the exposure to currency fluctuations where the subsidiaries involved have differing functional 
currencies. These intra-group loans are not considered to be an investment in a foreign operation.
MERGER AND CAPITAL RESERVES
The merger reserve of US$255.9m arose in 2012 on shares issued by Cairn on the acquisition of Capricorn Norge AS. Capital reserves – non-distributable include 
non-distributable amounts arising on various Group acquisitions and the capital redemption reserve arising from the 2013/2014 share buy-back programme.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE RESERVE
The available-for-sale reserve represents fair value movements on the available-for-sale financial assets (see Section 3.1). At 31 December 2015, the deficit for the 
year was recycled to the Income Statement as impairment. 145 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
6.2 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The objective of the Group’s capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Group to carry out committed work 
programme requirements. The Group monitors the long-term cash flow requirements of the business in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital 
structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility. The group is subject to quarterly forecast liquidity tests as part of the Reserve Based Lending facility.  
The group has complied with the capital requirements of this test at all times during the year .
Cairn manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes to economic conditions.  To maintain or adjust the capital structure, Cairn may buy 
back shares, make a special dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for cash, repay debt, put in place new debt facilities (see Section 3.2)  
or undertake other such restructuring activities as appropriate. No significant changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 
31 December 2015. 
Capital and net debt were made up as follows:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Continuing operations
Trade and other payables 120.1 278.2
Less cash and cash equivalents (602.8) (869.3)
Net funds less payables (482.7) (591.1)
Equity 2,099.4 2,663.1
Capital and net funds less payables 1,616.7 2,072.0
Gearing ratio 0% 0%
6.3 GUARANTEES
It is normal practice for the Group to issue guarantees in respect of obligations during the normal course of business. 
Details of the Group’s senior secured borrowing facility can be found in Section 3.2. On entering into the facility certain subsidiaries granted cross-guarantees to each 
of the lenders.
The Group also provided the following guarantees at 31 December 2015:
 – Various guarantees under the borrowing facility for the Group’s operational commitments for the current year of US$7 .6m (2014: US$7 .8m)
 – A guarantee under the borrowing facility for the Group’s Associate Membership of Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) of US$100.0m (2014: US$nil)
 – Parent company guarantees for the Group’s obligations under joint operating agreements and other contracts.  146 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
Non Audit fee,
US$218,000
Audit fee,
US$670,000
Non Audit fee,
US$203,000
Audit fee,
US$596,000
SECTION 6 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED
6.4 AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
2015
US$’000
2014
US$’000
Fees payable to the Group’s auditors and its associate firms for:
Audit Fees:
Auditing of the accounts of the Group and the Company 367 346
Auditing of the accounts of subsidiaries 303 250
Audit-related assurance services 50 94
Other fees:  
T ax advisory services 12 20
Other assurance services relating to corporate finance transactions 133 83
Non-audit services not included above 23 6
888 799
The Group has a policy in place for the award of non-audit work to the auditors which, in certain circumstances, requires Audit Committee approval (see the Audit 
Committee report on pages 76 to 80). 
Fees payable to the Group auditors in 2015 include US$46,000 within Auditing of the accounts of subsidiaries and US$49,000 within Other assurance services 
relating to 2014 work, billed in the current year and not included in prior year disclosures. The split of audit fees to non-audit fees payable to the auditors is as follows:
6.5 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS 
ACQUISITION OF 4.5% WORKING INTEREST IN KRAKEN
On 22 February 2016, Cairn entered into an agreement to acquire a further 4.5% working interest share in the Kraken development asset in the UK North Sea from 
First Oil Limited, bringing Cairn’s total working interest in the development to 29.5%. 
The 4.5% working interest was acquired for a nominal value. Under the agreement Cairn have settled First Oil Limited’s outstanding cash calls from January and 
February 2016 of US$2.9m and are liable for working capital balances relating to the 4.5% working interest of ~US$15m. The acquisition increases the Group’s capital 
commitments by US$95.1m over those disclosed at 31 December 2015.
2014 Fees to Auditors 2015 Fees to Auditors 147 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 December 2015
 
 
Section
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Non-current assets      
Investments in subsidiaries 7.6 2,815.5 2,804.7
Current assets  
Other receivables 7.3 17.0 18.9
Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 0.7 24.0
    17.7 42.9
Total assets   2,833.2 2,847.6
   
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 7.4 54.4 68.4
Total liabilities   54.4 68.4
Net assets   2,778.8 2,779.2
   
Equity  
Called-up share capital 6.1 12.4 12.4
Share premium 6.1 487.1 487.0
Shares held by ESOP/SIP Trusts 6.1 (23.0) (26.7)
Capital reserves – non-distributable 6.1 0.7 0.7
Merger reserve 6.1 255.9 255.9
Retained earnings 2,045.7 2,049.9
Total equity   2,778.8 2,779.2
The financial statements on pages 147 to 154 were approved by the Board of Directors on 14 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
    
JAMES SMITH    SIMON THOMSON
Chief Financial Officer   Chief Executive 148 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Section
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Cash flows from operating activities 
Loss before taxation (15.7) (14.9)
Share-based payments charge 2.5 4.6
Finance income (0.4) (0.9)
Finance costs 5.7 2.9
Other receivables movement 3.6 307.4
Trade and other payables movement (13.0) (1,075.5)
Net cash used in operating activities (17.3) (776.4)
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.1 0.7
Net cash from investing activities 0.1 0.7
Cash flows from financing activities 
Cost of shares purchased – (64.3)
Facility, arrangement fees and bank charges (6.2) (19.2)
Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.1 0.3
Net cash flows used in financing activities (6.1) (83.2)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (23.3) (858.9)
Opening cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 24.0 882.9
Closing cash and cash equivalents 7.2 0.7 24.0 149 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Equity 
share 
capital 
US$m
Shares held 
by ESOP Trust
and SIP Trust 
US$m
Merger 
and capital
reserves 
US$m
Retained 
earnings 
US$m
Total 
equity 
US$m
At 1 January 2014 499.7 (28.0) 256.2 2,094.8 2,822.7
Loss for the year – – – (14.9) (14.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (14.9) (14.9)
Share buy-back (0.4) – 0.4 (50.3) (50.3)
Share-based payments – – – 21.4 21.4
Exercise of employee share options 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3
Cost of shares vesting – 1.1 – (1.1) –
At 31 December 2014 499.4 (26.7) 256.6 2,049.9 2,779.2
Loss for the year – – – (15.7) (15.7)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (15.7) (15.7)
Share-based payments – – – 15.2 15.2
Exercise of employee share options 0.1 – – – 0.1
Cost of shares vesting – 3.7 – (3.7) –
At 31 December 2015 499.5 (23.0) 256.6 2,045.7 2,778.8 150 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 7 – NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
This section contains the notes to the Company Financial Statements.
The issued capital and reserves of the Company are largely consistent with Cairn Energy PLC Group 
Financial Statements. Refer to Section 6.1 of the Group Financial Statements.
KEY ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS IN THIS SECTION:
IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES 
The Company’s investments in subsidiaries have been tested for impairment by comparison against the underlying value of the subsidiaries’ exploration/appraisal 
assets based on fair value less costs of disposal calculated using the same assumptions as noted for the testing of goodwill impairment in Section 2.6. 
7 .1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. 
The Company applies consistent accounting policies as applied by the Group. T o the extent that an accounting policy is relevant to both Group and Company Financial 
Statements, refer to the Group Financial Statements for disclosure of the accounting policy. Material policies that apply to the Company only are included as appropriate.
Cairn has used the exemption granted under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 that allows for the non-disclosure of the Income Statement of the parent company. 
The loss attributable to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015 was US$15.7m (2014: US$14.9m).
7 .2 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 24.0
0.7 24.0
7 .3  OTHER RECEIVABLES
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Prepayments 14.8 15.0
Other receivables 2.2 3.9
17.0 18.9
Prepayments relate to facility fee incurred during 2014 which will be amortised over the expected useful life of the facility.
As at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, no amount of the Company’s other receivables were past due or impaired.
7 .4 TRADE AND OTHER PA Y ABLES
  
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Trade payables 0.1 0.2
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 52.2 57.6
Other taxation and social security 0.2 1.3
Accruals 1.9 9.3
54.4 68.4 151 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
7 .5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Company’s financial instruments that are carried in the Financial Statements.
  
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Financial assets: Carrying amount and fair value 
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 24.0
Other receivables 2.2 3.9
2.9 27.9
All of the above financial assets are current and unimpaired.
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Financial liabilities: Carrying amount and fair value
Amortised cost
Trade payables 0.1 0.2
Accruals 1.9 9.3
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 52.2 57.6
54.2 67.1
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
MATURITY ANAL YSIS
All of the Company’s financial liabilities have a maturity of less than one year (2014: less than one year).
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT: RISK AND OBJECTIVES
The Company’s financial risk management policies and objectives are consistent with those of the Group detailed in Section 3.6.
The Company’s sensitivity to foreign currency risk is as follows:
Company
2015 2014
Effect on loss 
before tax
US$m
Effect on 
Equity
US$m
Effect on loss 
before tax
US$m
Effect on 
Equity
US$m
10% increase in Sterling to US$ 86.0 86.0 89.8 89.8
10% decrease in Sterling to US$ (86.0) (86.0) (89.8) (89.8)
7 .6  INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
ACCOUNTING POLICY
The Company’s investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provisions resulting from impairment. In testing for impairment the carrying value of the investment 
is compared to its recoverable amount, being its fair value less costs of disposal. The fair value is based on the discounted future net cash flows of oil and gas assets 
held by the subsidiary, using estimated cash flow projections over the licence period. For exploration assets, estimated discounted cash flows are risk-weighted for 
future exploration success.
Discounted future net cash flows are calculated using an estimated short-term oil price based on the forward curve and long-term oil price of US$80 per boe (2014: 
long-term oil price of US$90 per boe), escalation for prices and costs of 2.0% (2014: 2.5%), and a discount rate of 10% (2014: 10%). Full details on the assumptions 
used for valuing oil and gas assets can be found in Section 2. 152 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 7 – NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
7 .6  INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
Subsidiary 
undertakings
US$m
Total 
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2014 1,649.7 1,649.7
Additions 1,155.0 1,155.0
At 1 January 2015 2,804.7 2,804.7
Additions 10.8 10.8
At 31 December 2015 2,815.5 2,815.5
Additions during the year of US$10.8m (2014: US$16.1m) relate to the Company’s investment in Capricorn Oil Limited. These represent the award of share options  
of the Company to the employees of Capricorn Energy Limited (a principal subsidiary of Capricorn Oil Limited). 
In 2014 there were further additions of US$1,138.9m for the issue of 731,262,214 shares of £1 each at par by Capricorn Oil Limited which reduced the amounts 
owed to the Company by Capricorn Oil Limited. 
At the year end, investments in subsidiaries were reviewed for indicators of impairment and impairment tests conducted where indicators found. Given that the 
market capitalisation of Cairn is less than its net book value, impairment tests were conducted on all investments in subsidiaries held by the Company. Impairment 
tests confirmed that no impairments of the Company’s investments in its subsidiaries were required.
The Company’s subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet date are set out below. The Company holds 100% of the voting rights and beneficial interests in the ordinary 
shares of the following companies:
Principal activity Country of incorporation Country of operation
Direct Holdings
Capricorn Oil Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland
Cairn UK Holdings Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland
Indirect holdings – Capricorn Oil Limited Group
Capricorn Energy Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland
Capricorn Spain Limited Exploration Scotland Spain
Capricorn Malta Limited Exploration Scotland Malta
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 1 Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration A/S Exploration Greenland Greenland
Capricorn Exploration and Development Company Limited Exploration Scotland Morocco
Capricorn Mauritania Limited Exploration Scotland Mauritania
Capricorn Senegal Limited Exploration Scotland Senegal
Capricorn Ireland Limited Exploration Scotland Republic of Ireland
Capricorn Norge AS Exploration Norway Norway
Nautical Petroleum Limited Exploration England UK
Nautical Petroleum AG Exploration and development Switzerland UK
Agora Oil and Gas (UK) Limited Exploration Scotland UK
Alba Resources Limited Exploration Scotland UK
Transunion Petroleum Italia SRL Exploration Italy Italy
Nautical Italia SRL Exploration Italy Italy
Nautical Holdings Limited + Holding company England UK
UAH Limited + Holding company England UK 153 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
7 .6  INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
Principal activity Country of incorporation Country of operation
Indirect holdings – Capricorn Oil Limited Group (continued)
Capricorn Energy Search Limited Exploration Scotland India
Capricorn Resources Management Limited Royalty interest Scotland Mongolia
Capricorn Petroleum Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland
Capricorn Oil and Gas Tunisia GmbH Non-trading Switzerland None
Avannaa Exploration Limited Exploration England Greenland
Command Petroleum (Gulf) Limited (in liquidation) Non-trading Papua New Guinea None
Capricorn Minerals Limited (in liquidation*) Holding company Scotland Scotland
Avannaa Resources Limited (in liquidation*) Holding company England Scotland
Avannaa Diamonds Limited (in liquidation*) Non-trading England None
Cairn Energy Nepal Holdings Limited (in liquidation) Holding company Scotland Nepal
Cairn Energy Dhangari Limited (in liquidation) Exploration Scotland Nepal
Cairn Energy Karnali Limited (in liquidation) Exploration Scotland Nepal
Cairn Energy Lumbini Limited (in liquidation) Exploration Scotland Nepal
Cairn Energy Malangawa Limited (in liquidation) Exploration Scotland Nepal
Cairn Energy Birganj Limited (in liquidation) Exploration Scotland Nepal
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 7 Limited (in liquidation) Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 8 Limited (in liquidation) Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 9 Limited (in liquidation) Exploration Scotland Greenland
Mountwest 560 Limited (in liquidation) Exploration Scotland UK
Alba Resources (Holdings) Limited (in liquidation) Holding company Scotland UK
* In liquidation from January 2016.
+ Exempt from audit under Section 480 of the Companies Act.
7 .7 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
Capital and net debt were made up as follows:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Trade and other payables 54.4 68.4
Less cash and cash equivalents (0.7) (24.0)
Net debt 53.7 44.4
Equity 2,778.8 2,779.2
Capital and net debt 2,832.5 2,823.6
Gearing ratio 2% 2% 154 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements
SECTION 7 – NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
7 .8  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Company’s principal subsidiaries are listed in Section 7 .6. The following table provides the Company’s balances which are outstanding with subsidiary companies 
at the Balance Sheet date:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings (52.2) (57.6)
(52.2) (57.6)
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and repayable on demand and will be settled in cash. 
The following table provides the Company’s transactions with subsidiary companies recorded in the loss for the year:
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Amounts invoiced to subsidiaries 10.4 17.3
Amounts invoiced by subsidiaries 10.8 7.2
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The remuneration of the directors of the Company is set out below. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 81 to 104.
2015
US$m
2014
US$m
Emoluments 3.3 5.8
Share-based payments 0.3 –
3.6 5.8
Pension contributions were made on behalf of directors in 2015 of US$0.2m (2014: US$0.4m).
120,297 LTIP share awards to directors vested during 2015 (2014: none). Share-based payments shown above represent the market value at vesting date of  
these awards. 
OTHER TRANSACTIONS 
During the year the Company did not make any purchases in the ordinary course of business from an entity under common control (2014: US$nil). 155 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
GROUP BOOKED RESERVES AND RESOURCES
A total of 49.5 mmboe were booked as 2P Reserves and 196.5 mmboe as 2C Resources at 31 December 2015 on a net working basis.
Net 2P Reserves
31.12.14
mmboe
Revisions
mmboe
Discoveries 
& Extensions
mmboe
Acquistions 
& Disposals
mmboe
Production
mmboe
31.12.15
mmboe
UK 56.1 2.3 0.0 (8.9)
1
(0.001) 49.5
Totals 56.1 2.3 0.0 (8.9)
1
(0.001) 49.5
Net 2C Contingent Resources
UK 1.1 0.0 1.0 (0.6) 0.0 1.5
2
Ireland 23.4 (8.8)
3
0.0 0.0 0.0 14.6
Norway 26.9 (1.6)
4
0.0 0.0 0.0 25.3
Senegal 120.1 34.9
5
0.0 0.0 0.0 155.1
Totals 171.6 24.6 1.0 (0.6) – 196.5 
(1) Catcher reserves have revised due to the 10% equity sale to Dyas, which was completed in January 2015. Kraken reserves will increase by 5.9 mmboe in 2016 following the acquisition of an 
additional 4.5% interest from First Oil.
(2) Revisions on Carnaby and relinquishment of Bonneville, plus additions from West of Kraken discovery.
(3) Spanish Point’s bookings have been revised as a proportion of Contingent Resources have been re-classified as Prospective Resources.
(4) Revision to Skarfjell.
(5) Senegal resources increased by 20 mmboe. 156 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Additional information
LICENCE LIST
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015
Country Asset name Licence Block(s) Operator Cairn interest (%)
Senegal
Senegal RUFISQUE OFFSHORE, 
SANGOMAR OFFSHORE 
AND SANGOMAR DEEP 
OFFSHORE
PSC Sangomar-Rufisque RUFISQUE OFFSHORE, 
SANGOMAR OFFSHORE  
AND SANGOMAR DEEP 
OFFSHORE
Cairn 40
UK and Norway
UK KEDDINGTON PEDL005 TF/38b (PEDL005-2), TF/49b 
(PEDL005-3)
Egdon 10
UK EAKRING/DUKES WOOD PEDL118 SK/65c, SK/66d Egdon 15
UK KIRKLINGTON PEDL203 SK/65b Egdon 15
UK GAMMA P218 15/21a MOL 21
UK KRAKEN P1077 9/2b Enquest 25(1)
UK CATCHER P1430 28/9a Premier 20
UK NORFOLK P1887 12/16b, 12/17b First Oil 26.67(2)
UK WAYLAND’S SMITHY P1976 8/5, 9/1b Enquest 40
UK TULLA P1995 210/25b, 211/21b, 211/26b TAQA 50
UK LAVERDA P2070 28/4a Premier 36
UK SUNBEAM P2077 28/8a Premier 36
UK DOYLE EXTENSION P2124 113/22a Centrica 10
UK KRAKEN EXTENSION P2148 9/2c Enquest 25(1)
UK SCYLLA P2149 9/6 Cairn 100
UK EKLAND P2184 22/18c, 22/19d E. ON 25
UK THUNDER EXTENSION P2198 210/29b, 210/30c TAQA 50
Norway KLARA PL159C 6507/3a Statoil 18
Norway LANGBEIN PL159E 6507/3 Statoil 18
Norway XYSTICUS PL248C 35/11g, 35/11h Statoil 20
Norway GROSBEAK PL378 35/12a Wintershall 20
Norway GROSBEAK PL378C 35/12a Wintershall 20
Norway SKARF JELL PL418 35/8f, 35/9e Wintershall 20
Norway ATLAS PL420 35/9d RWE Dea 20
Norway HARDEN PL630 35/10b, 31/1b Statoil 20
Norway CARAMELLO PL665S 2/2d, 2/3b, 3/1a Faroe Petroleum 20
Norway ALOPECOSA (SATURN) PL682 35/9b Bayerngas 10
Norway LAPETUS PL747 35/8 Bayerngas 40
Norway LIMAX PL748 34/2, 34/5 DNO 20
Norway GROSETKOLLEN PL758 6508/1, 6608/10, 6608/11 Enquest 35
Norway CROSSBILL PL787 35/9 Bayerngas 30
Norway MORKEL PL788 34/9, 35/4, 35/5, 35/7 , 35/8  
& 35/10
Wintershall 50
Norway OFTENASEN PL790 34/2, 34/5 Det Norske 25
Norway TINGHAUG PL800 6508/1, 6508/2 Lundin 35 157 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
LICENCE LIST
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015  
CONTINUED
Country Asset name Licence Block(s) Operator Cairn interest (%)
International
Greenland PITU 2011/13 N/A Cairn 87.5
Ireland SPANISH POINT FEL 2/04 35/8, 35/9 Cairn 38
Ireland SPANISH POINT NORTH FEL 4/08 35/2b, 35/3b, 35/4a Cairn 38
Ireland FEL 1/14 FEL 1/14 35/13, 35/14, 35/15 (p), 35/18, 
35/19
Cairn 38
Malta BLOCKS 1, 2 and 3 Area 03 N/A Cairn 60
Mauritania C-19 PSC C-19 N/A Chariot 35
Morocco CAP BOUJDOUR I – XV Cap Boujdour N/A Kosmos 20
Notes:
(1) Cairn received an additional 4.5% interest in P1077 and P2148 on 22 February 2016.
(2) Licence P1887 expired on 31 January 2016.
Cairn has received five new licences in the 2015 APA Licensing Round (PL747B, PL828, PL 840, PL842 and PL844).
Cairn has received a new licence in the UK 14th Onshore Licensing Round (PEDL339).  158 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Additional information
The following are the main terms and abbreviations used in this report:
Corporate 
Other 
GLOSSARY
2C best estimate of contingent resources
2D/3D two dimensional/three dimensional
2P proven plus probable
ABC anti-bribery and corruption
ALARP as low as reasonably practicable
APA awards in predefined area
bbl barrel
boe barrel(s) of oil equivalent
boepd barrel(s) of oil equivalent per day
BOP blow out preventer
bopd barrels of oil per day
CIS Commonwealth of Independent States
DC drill centre
DECC Department of Energy and Climate Change
DEFRA Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs
E&P exploration and production
EAA environmental area assessment
ESA exploration study agreement
EIA Environmental Impact Assessment
EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
FDP field development plan
FEED front end engineering design
FEL frontier exploration licence
FID final investment decision
FPSO floating production, storage and offloading
GHGs Greenhouse gases
GMT Greenwich Mean Time
GRI Global Reporting Initiative 
HSE Health, safety and environment
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IOGP International Association of Oil & Gas Producers
JV Joint Venture (referring to industry term, not IFRS definition)
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LPI leading performance indicator
LTI lost time incident/injury
LTIF lost time injury frequency
mmbbls million barrels of oil
mmboe million barrels of oil equivalent
mmbopd million barrels of oil per day
MMO marine mammal observer 
mmscfd million standard cubic feet of gas per day
NCS Norwegian Continental Shelf
NGO Non-governmental organisation
NOC National Oil Company
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
ONHYM Office National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines
OPEC Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCDP Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan
PDP Project Delivery Process
PSC  production sharing contract
Q1/2/3/4 quarter 1/2/3/4
STOIIP stock-tank oil initially in place
TRIR total recordable injuries rate
TD target depth
TVDSS total vertical depth sub sea
UKCS UK Continental Shelf
US$ US dollar
WEC well engineering and construction
WI working interest
AGM Annual General Meeting
Board the Board of Directors of Cairn Energy PLC
Cairn Cairn Energy PLC and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate
Cairn India/CIL Cairn India Limited and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate
Capricorn Capricorn Oil Limited and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate
Company Cairn Energy PLC
CR Corporate Responsibility
CRMS Corporate Responsibility Management System
ELT Exploration Leadership Team
ESOP employee share trust
Group the Company and its subsidiaries
LTIP long term incentive plan
MT Management Team
RMC Risk Management Committee
SIP Share incentive plan
SLT Senior Leadership Team 159 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
NOTES 160 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Additional information
NOTES Printed on FSC-recognised paper, produced from sustainably managed forests.  
This report was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised  
printer that holds an ISO 14001 accreditation.
FINANCIAL ADVISERS 
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
New Court
St Swithin’s Lane
London 
EC4N 8AL
SECRETARY
Duncan Wood LLB
SOLICITORS 
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
1 Exchange Crescent
Conference Square
Edinburgh  
EH3 8UL
AUDITOR
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
141 Bothwell Street
Glasgow
G2 7EQ
STOCKBROKERS
Jefferies
Vintners Place 
68 Upper Thames Street
London
EC4V 3BJ
Morgan Stanley
20 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London
E14 4AD
REGISTRARS
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex  
BN99 6DA
T 0871 384 2030
OVERSEAS SHAREHOLDER  
HELPLINE NUMBER
T +44 121 415 7047
www.shareview.co.uk
These materials contain forward-looking statements regarding Cairn,  
our corporate plans, future financial condition, future results of operations,  
future business plans and strategies. All such forward-looking statements  
are based on our management’s assumptions and beliefs in the light of 
information available to them at this time. These forward-looking statements  
are, by their nature, subject to significant risks and uncertainties and actual 
results, performance and achievements may be materially different from  
those expressed in such statements. Factors that may cause actual results, 
performance or achievements to differ from expectations include, but are not 
limited to, regulatory changes, future levels of industry product supply, demand 
and pricing, weather and weather-related impacts, wars and acts of terrorism, 
development and use of technology, acts of competitors and other changes  
to business conditions. Cairn undertakes no obligation to revise any such 
forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in Cairn’s expectations with 
regard thereto or any change in circumstances or events after the date hereof.
COMPANY INFORMATION Head Office
50 Lothian Road
Edinburgh 
EH3 9BY
T : +44 131 475 3000
F: +44 131 475 3030
E: pr@cairnenergy.com
www.cairnenergy.com
London
6th Floor
20 Berkeley Square
London
W1J 6EQ
Norway
Jåttåvågveien 7
Blokk C
3 etasje (2nd floor)
4020 Stavanger
Norway
Senegal
Immeuble EPI
Blvd du Sud x Rue des Ecrivains
3eme etage
Point E
Dakar 
Senegal
BP . 25087 Dakar Fann
WWW.CAIRNENERGY.COM/AR2015
CAIRN ENERGY PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
