 the infrastructure 
business
annual report and accounts 2010 t he infrastructure business
 Balfour Beatty is an international infrastructure 
business. We are a leader in growing global 
markets which are forecast to be worth over 
£20 trillion over the next 10 years. Our breadth 
of capability and presence in over 80 countries 
give us competitive advantage across a diversity 
of sectors and economies, putting us in a strong 
position to deliver value to shareholders in the 
short, medium and long term.
 Here’s how…
Dallas, US
Front cover Grimsby, UK 1 Annual report and accounts 2010
At a glance 2
Message from the Chairman 4
Our business 
How we performed 8
Strategic review from 
the Chief Executive 12
Market review from the 
Chief Operating Officer 24
Operating review
Professional Services 28
Construction Services 32
Support Services 40
Infrastructure Investments 44
Financial review from 
the Finance Director 48
Directors’ valuation 
of PPP concessions 52
Principal risks and 
risk management 55
Sustainability 62
Our governance
Chairman’s introduction 72
Board of Directors 74
Directors’ Report 76
Remuneration Report 89
Our accounts
Independent auditor’s report 102
Financial statements 103
Notes to the accounts 108
Group five-year summary 170
Shareholder information 171 Balfour Beatty 2
Diverse spread of sectors in infrastructure
We have strong positions in both civil infrastructure – transportation, power, water and communications 
– and social infrastructure, which includes buildings in the health, education and social and military housing 
sectors. This diversity demonstrates the breadth of our capabilities and makes our business resilient.
Civil infrastructure (49% of Group revenue) Social infrastructure (36% of Group revenue)
Other infrastructure (15%)
A global business generating £10 billion  
of revenue across 80 countries
Organic growth and recent acquisitions have added to our global scale; we are now one of the largest players in 
infrastructure by revenue. Our international reach and ability to access emerging markets have been greatly enhanced 
in recent years, particularly through the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff.
Focused on strong 
growing markets
at a glance
Regional infrastructure market size for the period 2010–2020 by Global Insight (£22 trillion). 
Growth rates for the period 2010–2020.
Countries where we generate revenue.
1 Road 18%
2 Rail 17%
3 Air 2%
4 Power 8%
5 Water 4%
1
2
3
4
5
1 Education 13%
2 Health 6%
3 Defence 5%
4 Military housing 3%
5 Social housing 2%
6 Other 7%
1
2
3
4
6
5
1.5
10.0
3.0
5.5
2.0
North America
Group revenue 
£3.1bn 
Market growth 
3.5% p.a. 
Europe
Group revenue  
£6.2bn 
Market growth  
4.0% p.a. 
South America
Group revenue  
£11m 
Market growth  
12.5% p.a. 
Africa and 
Middle East
Group revenue  
£219m 
Market growth  
14% p.a. 
Australia and Asia
Group revenue  
£994m 
Market growth 
9.5% p.a.  Annual report and accounts 2010 3
The infrastructure business | At a glance | Message from Chairman |
Depth of infrastructure knowledge
Customers turn to us for our technical expertise. But increasingly we must augment technical expertise 
with local knowledge, ability to manage the complex needs of our customers and the skills to integrate a 
host of stakeholders from contractors to owners, end-users and regulators. Our balanced, global strength 
in all these core skills gives us crucial competitive advantage.
Breadth of capability
With more comprehensive capabilities than our international peers, we can access a broader range 
of markets and customers. While we are organised along capability lines – infrastructure investments, 
professional services, construction services and support services – the breadth of capabilities across 
the Group create a strong platform for growth and delivering shareholder value.
structured For  
competitive advantage
Technical 
expertise
Integrator  
capability
Local 
knowledge
Managing  
complexity
Infrastructure market
Infrastructure 
Investments
Develop  
Invest  
Operate
Professional 
Services
Plan  
Design  
Manage
Construction 
Services
Procure  
Construct 
Commission
Support 
Services
Renew  
Maintain  
Support
Strength of balance sheet
Infrastructure projects are long term and large in value. Being able to demonstrate that we have the 
financial strength to complete them is fundamental. Hence, we maintain positive cash and PPP assets 
to balance against our pension deficit and negative working capital.
Cash
1
PPP assets
2
Pension deficit
£435m
 
+54 %
£679m
 
+ 1 1 %
£441m
 
-25 %
1
 Average net cash for the year 2010, excluding PPP subsidiaries.
2
 Directors’ valuation of PPP concessions at 31 December 2010. Balfour Beatty 4
We have the capability to become 
the global leader in infrastructure
message from the chairman
“ What shines through is the dedication, 
expertise and self-confidence of our people.”
Steve Marshall  
Chairman Annual report and accounts 2010 5
The infrastructure business | At a glance | Message from Chairman |
Our people
As we become a genuinely global infrastructure business, 
it is imperative that we are organised in line with our 
strategic priorities. 
During 2010, we took steps to organise ourselves through 
a divisional structure focused on worldwide professional 
services, UK construction, US construction, international 
rail, support services and infrastructure investments. 
As we continue to grow, our success will depend on 
both our ability to be world-class in all these areas and 
our effectiveness in collaborating, as appropriate, across 
the Group. 
From my visits to our operations in North America, Asia, 
Continental Europe and the UK during the year, it is clear 
that our businesses are actively exploring how to work 
more effectively together and harness the power of our 
unique capabilities.
Balfour Beatty is an exciting place to work. Some of 
our businesses have had a tough year, but what shines 
through is the dedication, expertise and self-confidence 
of our people, whatever environment they are working in.
Our reputation
We have a continuous obligation, and desire, to engage 
with and retain the trust of the Group’s stakeholders. By 
doing so, we ensure that we have the licence to develop 
our business for the long term and thereby create value.
Our Group-wide safety vision, Zero Harm, has had a real 
impact in terms of raising awareness of the standards 
we aspire to and improving our safety record. Despite 
this, very sadly there were five fatalities in the business 
in 2010. We will be re-doubling our efforts during 2011 
to ensure that our safety performance doesn’t plateau. 
Our ethics and values programme, including our 
Code of Conduct, aims to support people to make 
the right decisions. There are many ways in which we 
are embedding these values throughout the business. 
The online training course to support the Code of 
Conduct for instance, was produced in eight languages 
and completed by nearly 28,000 employees in 2010. 
I am conscious that our share price has not reflected 
what we believe to be the underlying strength and value 
of the business in recent years. As ever, performance 
and long-term strategy are the keys to a high market 
rating over time; but we are also putting increased 
effort into ensuring that we communicate with our 
stakeholders effectively.
Our priorities in 2011
Balfour Beatty is a high-quality business and we intend 
to build on our strengths.
Our newly-established divisional structure will enable 
us to focus on driving growth strategies and to realise 
efficiencies where we can. We will be accelerating 
our collaborative efforts for the benefit of our customers 
and seeking to capitalise on the opportunities in new 
geographies and market sectors.
We have the capability to become the global leader 
in infrastructure. I am confident we will make further 
progress during the year.
Balfour Beatty had another successful year in 2010.
We have created a resilient business, which performed 
well in spite of the weak economic environment in some 
of our major markets.
Our strong order book increased by £1.1bn in the year 
to £15.2bn and we maintained a robust balance sheet 
with net cash of £518m at the year-end, excluding PPP 
subsidiaries.
Over the past few years, Balfour Beatty has become 
an increasingly diverse company, both in terms of the 
geographies we operate in and the end-markets we 
address. The Group is not over-reliant on any one market 
segment and has the flexibility and capabilities to pursue 
the most attractive growth opportunities. 
Looking forward, we are excited about the significant 
opportunities in the power sector, particularly in the 
nuclear, renewables and offshore markets; in the rail 
industry, both in transit and high-speed; and the growing 
market for business services outsourcing in the UK and 
for professional services worldwide. 
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 7.65p per 
ordinary share, making a total dividend of 12.7p for the 
year, an increase of 6% on 2009.
Our progressive dividend policy reflects our confidence in 
the Group’s ability to deliver growth over the medium term. 
The Board 
We have actively continued to review the make-up of 
the Board over the past few years in light of the increased 
scale and breadth of our business.
Iain Ferguson was appointed as a non-executive Director 
on 1 January 2010. His extensive international operational 
experience and his strategic insight, latterly in his capacity 
as chief executive of Tate & Lyle PLC, will make a 
significant contribution in the coming years.
Last year, I indicated that the Board intended to appoint 
a non-executive Director with significant US experience 
and, in June 2010, we were pleased to announce the 
appointment of Robert Amen. Rob has a proven track 
record in leading and developing large multinational 
businesses and his background and experience are 
already proving highly relevant to the Group’s continuing 
programme of international development.
In December 2010, we announced that Gordon Sage was 
retiring from the Board. He leaves with our sincere thanks 
for the significant contribution he has made over the past 
seven years and our best wishes for the future.
More information on the work of the Board can be found 
in the Governance section on pages 72 to 99. Hong Kong
The Infras Truc Tur e bus Ine ss
6 Balfour Beatty
our bus Iness 7 Annual report and accounts 2010
Our business 
How we performed 8
Strategic review from 
the Chief Executive 12
Market review from the 
Chief Operating Officer 24
Operating review
Professional Services 28
Construction Services 32
Support Services 40
Infrastructure Investments 44
Financial review from 
the Finance Director 48
Directors’ valuation 
of PPP concessions 52
Principal risks and 
risk management 55
Sustainability 62
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Balfour Beatty 8
how we performed
delivering resilient  
performance
We are pleased with the resilient set of results achieved in 2010 in challenging market 
conditions in a number of our major markets. The diversity and strength of the Group is 
evident in the overall performance, and the successful integration of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
has driven our growth.
We have started 2011 with a record order book, a focus on cost and operational delivery 
and the intention to generate additional profits from PPP asset disposals. While we do not 
expect, in the short term, a meaningful recovery in the UK and US infrastructure markets, 
we expect to make progress this year.
Over the medium and long term, we expect global infrastructure to be a growth market. 
We have put in place a clear strategy, and the Group is well-placed to benefit from the 
growth in this market based on our depth of infrastructure knowledge, breadth of 
capability and the strength of our balance sheet.
Highlights of the year
Record order book up 8% at £15.2 billion (2009: £14.1 billion)
Pre-tax profit
1
, up 20% to £319 million, lifting Group operating margin
1
 
to 3.2% (2009: 2.7%)
Adjusted earnings per share
1
 up 1% at 34.7p
Final proposed dividend of 7.65p per share; full-year dividend up  
6% at 12.7p per share
Balance sheet remains strong; average net cash in the year of £435 million  
(2009: £283 million) 2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
£319m
£265m
£246m
£200m
£135m
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
34.7p
34.4p
34.2p
30.3p
23.5p
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
12.7p
12.0p
11.1p
10.0p
7.9p
Annual report and accounts 2010 9
Financial summary
(£m unless otherwise specified) 2010 2009 Change (%) 
Revenue including joint ventures and associates 10,541 10,339 +2
Group revenue 9,236 8,954 +3
Profit from operations
– before exceptional items and amortisation 338 280 +21
– after exceptional items and amortisation 206 295 -30
Pre-tax profit
– before exceptional items and amortisation 319 265 +20
– after exceptional items and amortisation 187 265 -29
Earnings per share
– adjusted
1
34.7p 34.4p +1
– basic 21.0p 37.1p -43
Dividends per share 12.7p 12.0p +6
Financing 
– net cash before PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse) 518 572
– net borrowings of PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse) (270) (248)
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Pre-tax profit
1
+20%
Adjusted earnings per share
1
+ 1%
Dividends per share
+6%
 2009 accounts restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. 
 Per share data restated for the bonus element of the 2009 rights issue.
1
 Before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets. 2010
2009
£15.2bn
£14.1bn
2010
2009
£10,541m
£10,339m
2010
2009
£1,224m
£930m
2015
2010
2009
3.5%–4%
3.2%
2.7%
Balfour Beatty 10
Performance
Order book
+8%
Performance
Revenue
1
 in higher growth markets
+32%
Performance
Group operating margin
2
Revenue
1
+2%
We operate in infrastructure markets around the world. 
We seek to achieve growth in these markets organically 
and through strategic acquisitions. 
Key performance indicators
A growing order book is a leading indicator of good 
revenue growth. Our order book has increased by 
£1.1bn during the year, an increase of 8%. 
In 2010, our revenue
1
 grew by 2% despite the headwinds 
we faced in our major markets, due to the consolidation 
of Parsons Brinckerhoff for the full year for the first time.
More information on page 14.
Establishing ourselves in emerging infrastructure markets 
in Asia, Africa and South America is important for growth 
because those markets are growing faster than our 
traditional markets.
Key performance indicator
Last year, our revenue
1
 in markets outside Europe and 
North America grew by 32% and represented 12% of 
the Group total.
More information on page 16.
We aim to increase our Group operating margin
2
 from 
2.7% in 2009 to a level of 3.5% to 4% over the next 
four to five years.
Key performance indicator
In 2010, we achieved a Group operating margin
2
 of 3.2%, 
due to a better mix of business with higher professional 
services revenue and good operating performance in 
construction services.
More information on page 18.
1
 Including joint ventures and associates.
2
 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation as a percentage of revenue including joint ventures and associates.
how we performed
measuring  
our progress
Our strategy, which evolves with our environment and competition, sets our 
direction and determines our objectives for each year. It is crucial that we are able 
to measure the achievement of our five strategic objectives, set out below, and to 
report on our key performance indicators for our own benefit as well as the benefit 
of our stakeholders. 
1 Develop our business further
2 Focus on markets with the greatest opportunities
3 Improve operational performance and cost-effectiveness Target
2010
2009
0.10*
0.16
0.17
Target
2010
2009
38.5
†
42.8
36.3
Annual report and accounts 2010 11
Performance
Go-To List rankings for Parsons Brinckerhoff
 No.1
in the Road & Highway, Bridge,  
Airport and Mass-Transit categories
 No.2
in the Design-Build category
 No.3
in the Storm-Water category
Source: Roads and Bridges magazine.
Four core skills – technical expertise, local knowledge, 
managing complexity and integrator capability – run 
through all of our activities and give us a competitive 
advantage. Strengthening these core skills even further 
is crucial to the strength of our business going forward.
Key performance indicator
Every year, Roads and Bridges magazine in the US survey 
10,000 government officials and ask them which design 
firm they prefer to work with. In the industry, this is called 
the Go-To List.
More information on page 20.
Performance
Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
-6%
Greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO
2
/£m revenue)
To be the leading provider of infrastructure services, 
we aim to be a leader in areas such as ethics, safety and 
the environment to ensure that we have a sustainable, 
long-term future.
Key performance indicators
The safety of our people and everyone we come into 
contact with is a key priority.
2010 was the first year we have been able to set a global 
baseline for our environmental impacts. As our data 
collection systems have improved, and our understanding 
of these impacts has grown, we have reported increases 
in our CO
2
, water and waste. Our challenge, and 
opportunity, is to reduce these impacts and achieve 
the 2012 targets in our sustainability roadmap. 
More information on page 22.
†
  10% reduction by 2012 and 50% by 2020, both against 
the 2010 baseline.
* Or lower by end 2012.
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
4 Continue to strengthen core skills
5 Continue to show leadership in values and behaviour Balfour Beatty 12
a clear strategy to build  
t he infrastructure business
strategic review from the chief executive
“ Whatever the challenges ahead, we face them with 
ever greater capability, a strong balance sheet based 
on robust cash generation, and a strong platform for 
further growth.”
Ian Tyler  
Chief Executive Annual report and accounts 2010 13
Complex customers
In both developed and developing economies, our 
customers, often governments and large regulated 
bodies, are facing more complex challenges. One of 
our core skills is our ability to understand customers’ 
varied needs and the complexities of the environments 
in which they operate – and to harness the potential 
of our whole business to deliver solutions.
Integrator capability
One key to delivery in a complex world is the ability to 
bring together all the necessary elements and resources. 
Increasingly, our customers want us to reduce interface 
and delivery risk on complex projects by integrating the 
supply chain as well as the related stakeholders such as 
owners, end-users and regulators. Integrating the supply 
chain is a core competency in the industry, but few, if any, 
of our competitors can match our ability to manage these 
critical interfaces that deliver a quality asset – and to do 
this on a global scale.
Our combined strength in these core skills differentiates 
us – especially on large, complex projects. Projects 
such as Heathrow’s Terminal 2B described on page 21 
or Denver’s rapid transit P3 described on page 39 show 
how we harness skills across our business to deliver and 
manage not just individual assets but complex 
infrastructure systems.
Despite the undoubted short-term challenges in some 
parts of the world, the infrastructure market offers 
excellent medium and long-term growth opportunities 
– you can read more about these on pages 24 to 27.
So how will we seize those opportunities? Our strategy 
has five elements: 
1  Develop our business further 
More information on page 14
2  Focus on markets with the greatest opportunities 
More information on page 16
3  Improve operational performance 
and cost-effectiveness  
More information on page 18
4  Continue to strengthen core skills  
More information on page 20
5  Continue to show leadership in values  
and behaviour  
More information on page 22
Over the past five years we have been building Balfour 
Beatty into a world-leading provider of services to 
infrastructure owners. We want to be recognised as 
‘the infrastructure business’.
The results speak for themselves. Since 2005, we 
have delivered 22% annual growth in pre-tax profit 
and 12% annual growth in dividends per share. We have 
maintained revenue and profit growth throughout the 
global downturn. Whatever the challenges ahead, we 
face them with ever greater capability, a strong balance 
sheet based on robust cash generation, and a strong 
platform for further growth.
We have deepened our insight into what infrastructure 
owners really want ‘the infrastructure business’ to be. 
We have refined our business model, and assembled 
a more comprehensive set of capabilities than those 
of our international peers. In turn, this gives us access 
to a broader range of markets and customers.
We set out to establish a business delivering a full range 
of services to owners and operators of the transport 
systems, power and water assets and complex buildings 
that all societies need. And we aim to support these 
assets through all stages of their lifecycle, from planning 
and investment to construction and maintenance. 
To do this effectively, we bring together four core skills:
Technical expertise
Only a handful of organisations across the world 
can match the breadth and depth of expertise about 
infrastructure assets that we have accumulated in 
the Group.
Local knowledge
Infrastructure is bought by local customers to serve 
local communities, so knowledge of local markets and 
their needs makes a real competitive difference. Working 
in more than 80 countries and 300 offices worldwide, 
we are strongly placed to capture local knowledge and 
nurture local relationships. 
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | 2010
2009
£15.2bn
£14.1bn
2010
2009
£10,541m
£10,339m
Balfour Beatty 14
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Pursue opportunities to add capability to Professional 
Services by acquisition
Complete the transition of administration and operation 
for the majority of Support Services contracts to the 
National Operations Centre
Seek acquisitions for Construction Services to fill gaps 
in our US coverage, particularly in Atlanta and on the 
West Coast
Apply the skills of Infrastructure Investments and PB 
to launch an infrastructure funds management business
Why is this important?
To address our broad range of markets effectively, 
we have grouped our operating companies into four 
segments by fundamental capability. Within each 
segment their strategies are tailored to their individual 
markets. To generate consistent growth, we need 
to ensure that they can all make a full contribution, 
both individually and as part of bespoke project teams.
What are we doing?
We have a good record of acquiring and growing 
businesses. Between 2005 and 2010, we nearly doubled 
our UK construction business. We grew our facilities 
management business from £250m sales to £600m in 
six years, doubled our US construction business profits 
in the three years since acquisition, and built our PPP 
business from scratch into the UK’s largest primary 
PPP infrastructure investor outside the financial sector.
We also have a cash-generative business which 
could give us the capacity to make acquisitions worth 
£500m–£700m over the next four to five years if the 
right opportunities arise at an attractive price.
In recent years, we have been focusing attention on 
growing our Professional Services and Support 
Services activities to even the balance between our 
capabilities and increase the prominence of these 
relatively high-margin activities in our business mix. 
We expect to continue this pattern. 
As in the past, we will maintain a combination of organic 
growth and acquisitions. Before acquiring Parsons 
Brinckerhoff (PB) in 2009, we had already grown a 
600-strong professional services business in the UK from 
scratch. With PB, we have grown this highly technical 
team to 13,500. We want to keep adding capabilities 
and geographic coverage to this business – as we did 
recently by acquiring Halsall in Canada. We see further 
opportunities in the power, water, mining and 
transportation sectors.
In Support Services, we may need to acquire some 
additional skills as the scope for public sector outsourcing 
expands. But our investment is more likely to be in 
creating the infrastructure to support organic growth – 
as with the new National Operations Centre in 
Manchester – and in contract start-ups. 
We will continue to grow Construction Services both 
organically and by acquisition. Our acquisition focus 
will be mainly outside the UK, although there may 
occasionally be niche opportunities in the UK, such 
as our recent purchase of parts of Rok. This enhanced 
our position in the UK affordable housing market and 
expanded our airport construction capabilities.
Our diverse range of capabilities is a great strength in uncertain times. It enables us 
to access a wide range of markets and change focus between them to go where the 
opportunities are greatest at any given time. We believe we have a balanced group of 
businesses that are all capable and competitive players in their own areas of expertise 
and that each of our divisions has the right ingredients to develop further.
strategic review
1 Develop our business further
How are we performing?
Order book
+8%
Revenue
1
+2%
1
 Including joint ventures and associates. Annual report and accounts 2010 15
Canada’s buoyant infrastructure market offers significant opportunities. 
Our £33m acquisition of Toronto-based Halsall has brought us over 
300 people providing design and engineering services from seven offices 
across the country. Previously employee-owned, Halsall will gain new 
momentum from being part of Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
Growing our businesses in buoyant markets Canada
“ Being part of PB is exciting and inspiring. Our 
customers can look to us for a broader range of 
solutions for their projects. Our employees will 
increasingly be able to apply their ideas, practices 
and innovations to infrastructure as well as buildings.”
 Peter Halsall, 
 Chairman, Halsall
The acquisition builds on PB’s presence in Canada, 
increasing our access to projects at the earliest stages 
of development. Halsall’s focus on sustainability as 
it applies to communities, buildings and infrastructure 
neatly complements PB’s positioning in Canada. 
We have plans to build Professional Services’ presence 
in other markets and geographies. 
Given our strength in UK and US public-private 
partnerships (PPPs), Canada looks attractive to our 
investment business. We have set up an investment 
team in Toronto supported by our US and UK PPP 
businesses. Bidding with our US construction business, 
it has already been shortlisted for two projects and 
is currently looking at another 10 opportunities.
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Walking tall Halsall projects include the Royal Ontario 
Museum and Canada’s National Gallery (far right).
Line drawing courtesy of Studio Daniel Libeskind. 2010
2009
£1,224m
£930m
Balfour Beatty 16
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Leverage our presence in emerging markets, particularly 
Asia, India and South Africa 
Develop our capabilities in utility markets such as water 
and power, including nuclear and renewables, where 
investment is likely to increase
Continue to develop our US business and build on our 
presence in Australia and Canada
Why is this important?
We do not want our growth to be constrained by the pace 
of growth in our traditional markets. The breadth of our 
capabilities, and the extent of our international reach, give 
us access to an exceptionally broad range of markets and 
customers. We will exploit this by increasing the focus of 
our activity in markets where opportunities are bigger and 
growth rates higher.
What are we doing?
In the past, our focus has been very much on developed 
economies. However, we recognise that demand for 
infrastructure is growing fastest in emerging economies. 
The capabilities we have brought together, particularly 
in professional services and project finance, now allow 
us to access these markets as they develop, in ways 
that offer potential for long-term growth without taking 
disproportionate risk.
But we also see further opportunities in developed 
economies. Through the acquisitions of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff and Halsall, we have increased our presence 
in markets such as Australia and Canada, and we will 
continue to build on this. 
Developed economies tend to commit a reasonably 
consistent proportion of their GDP to maintaining and 
developing their infrastructure. Over the next 10–15 years 
we expect an increase in the proportion of GDP 
committed to infrastructure as the need to renew ageing 
post-war assets becomes critical. We do, however, 
anticipate some changes in the pattern of spending. 
In the UK, for example, we expect a significant shift 
of emphasis from social infrastructure (such as schools 
and hospitals) to civil infrastructure.
In civil infrastructure markets we are developing our 
capabilities in areas that we expect to show good growth 
– including utilities such as water and power, and areas 
such as nuclear and renewable energy that will be 
boosted by developed economies’ increasing concerns 
about sustainability.
For more on areas of opportunity, see pages 24 to 27.
Through the economic downturn in many developed economies, infrastructure has proved 
to be a relatively resilient market. We maintained revenue and profit growth through the 
recession; and in the uncertain post-recovery landscape we intend to sustain our growth 
by being light on our feet. Around half our work comes from governments around the 
world, and we recognise that cutbacks in public spending may have some impact on future 
opportunities in some of our markets. However, this will be offset by growth elsewhere – 
and we now have the resources to go where we see the greatest opportunities.
strategic review
2 Focus on markets with the greatest opportunities
How are we performing?
Revenue
1
 in higher growth markets
+32%
1
  Including joint ventures and associates. Annual report and accounts 2010 17
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
New opportunities that change lives South Africa
Parsons Brinckerhoff is working as half of a joint PB/
Eskom team providing the engineering and project 
management. Currently at the height of the project, 
the team involves 320 staff from the UK, US, and South 
Africa, overseeing a daily workforce of close to 9,000.
Medupi will change lives. Domestic living conditions 
will be far more comfortable. It will advance the country’s 
socio-economic objectives and other countries will also 
receive power from Medupi.
Medupi will use supercritical boiler technology to produce 
cleaner emissions than traditional coal-fired power 
stations. To preserve scarce water supplies, it will use 
dry-cooling technology.
“ The project is fuelling an economy. We are providing 
unprecedented employment opportunities for thousands 
of South Africans. They will come away with technology, 
welding, carpentry, and supervisory and construction 
management skills that enable them to do future work 
of this kind.”
 Joe Schroedel, 
 PB’s Medupi Project Director
Powering ahead Medupi could supply 
South Africa and its neighbours from 2012.
Courtesy of Hitachi Power Africa
Like many emerging economies, South Africa anticipates steeply rising 
demand for electricity – driven by population growth, industrialisation, 
urbanisation and rising living standards. With its existing power stations 
now ageing, the country’s power utility, Eskom, needs to increase 
capacity rapidly. Its new Medupi power station, due to start 
commissioning in 2012, is its first new plant in 20 years. It’s massive – 
at 4,800MW it will be the world’s fourth-largest thermal power station. Customer
2015
2010
2009
3.5%–4%
3.2%
2.7%
Balfour Beatty 18
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Continue to implement procurement and back 
office initiatives
Continue the integration in Professional Services 
by increasing focus on client service, technical expertise 
and project execution, and ultimately driving performance 
in the business
Further strengthen our capabilities in markets and areas 
where we can command higher margins
Why is this important?
We operate in a competitive environment: our customers 
are large, our peers strong, and some of our markets 
adversely affected by the economic turmoil. Improving 
our profits and converting those to cash is crucial in order 
to maintain our progressive dividend policy, have capacity 
for acquisitions and demonstrate financial strength to 
qualify for long-term infrastructure projects.
What are we doing? 
After a year of integrating Parsons Brinckerhoff, we are 
confident of raising Professional Services’ profitability 
while enhancing value for customers. Improved staff 
utilisation, collaboration with the rest of the Group, and 
growing involvement in Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction (EPC) contracts should lift margins
1
 from 
PB’s historic 4.5% to 6–7%.
Support Services also offers good potential for margin 
enhancement over the medium term; the mobilisation 
costs at the start of new contracts and the investment 
in capability can depress margins in the short term. 
Over time we will benefit from economies of scale in 
back office support and our investment in the National 
Operations Centre (NOC), which opened in 2010.
In Construction Services, we expect to maintain stable 
margins over the medium term, as cost efficiencies and 
economies of scale from collective procurement are 
potentially offset by revenue growth in the US – where 
contractual models present more predictable, but also 
lower returns than in the UK.
In order to underpin these margins, this year we have 
put into action initiatives in procurement and back office 
that aim to achieve £30m p.a. of gross efficiency savings 
by the end of 2012, £20m of which we expect to flow 
through to the bottom line. 
As a Group, we believe we have the potential to lift our 
overall margin
1
 from 3.2% in 2010 to 3.5–4% over the 
next four to five years.
1
  Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 
as a percentage of revenue including JVs and associates.
Balfour Beatty has been through a period of expansion in the last five years – entering 
new geographies and adding complementary capabilities – much of this through sizeable 
acquisitions. We have now created a platform that offers scope for improving operational 
performance and profitability by using our resources in a more cost-effective manner. 
Moreover, the increasing prominence of professional and support services in our business 
mix is creating opportunities to enhance Group margins further. 
3 Improve operational performance and cost-effectiveness 
strategic review
How are we performing?
Group operating margin
1 NOC
Helpdesk
Annual report and accounts 2010 19
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Our UK facilities management business is growing fast. In a competitive market, 
it aims to differentiate itself through expert business integration and continuous 
investment in customer service. Its new 24/7 National Operations Centre (NOC) 
in Manchester takes it a big step forward.
Enhanced customer service builds wider margins UK
With around 100 key accounts, our business had too many 
systems and processes, and inconsistent management 
information. The NOC, opened in April 2010, is enabling 
it to bring the management and administration of most 
of these contracts together on one site – sharing best 
practice, standardised and streamlined processes 
and a common IT platform to provide a simplified and 
improved customer service. The result: unified risk 
management and increased efficiency, delivering a 
winning combination of higher margins with enhanced 
customer service and responsiveness.
“ Our investment in the NOC will pay back rapidly 
through increased efficiency alone. It also gives us 
the resources to bid for larger and more complex 
contracts and the data to price more effectively.”
 James Janion, 
 NOC Operations Director
Operations centre Up to 200 staff will 
be working in the NOC by the end of 2011. Balfour Beatty 20
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Improve our technical teams by transferring our skilled 
labour force between geographies and adding more 
skill where necessary
Develop management platforms to aid collaboration 
and delivery to customers
Leverage Parsons Brinckerhoff’s customer relationships 
in emerging markets into other parts of the business
Why is this important?
Wherever they are, our customers own and operate 
complex assets. Their business and operational needs are 
increasingly complex, and in most cases the environment 
in which they operate is challenging. Our infrastructure 
expertise, knowledge of the local market and ability 
to understand – and meet – complex needs gives us 
competitive advantage. So we aim to keep enhancing 
the range and depth of our capabilities, and our ability 
to deliver them seamlessly across the Group.
What are we doing?
Whether delivering one or more of our capabilities to a 
customer, we are increasingly adding value by leveraging 
technical expertise from another part of the Group. 
We are doing this at Heathrow Airport’s Terminal 2B, by 
bringing in specific expertise from Parsons Brinckerhoff’s 
US airports team – a key to winning the project’s £460m 
second phase recently. Similarly, PB is an important part 
of Construction Services’ ambitions in the new nuclear 
and offshore wind markets. 
More and more customers want us to reduce interface 
and delivery risk on complex activities by integrating the 
supply chain as well as the other stakeholders such as 
owners, users and regulators that impact the project. 
We are now showing world-class ability to pull together 
the resources of our customers and the wider supply 
chain to deliver a new asset or operate an existing one. 
This is particularly evident in public-private partnerships 
where we combine skills in development, financing, 
construction, operation and maintenance – as in the 
Denver rapid transit P3 project described on page 39.
By bringing skills together we are also creating wholly 
new possibilities. In 2010, we announced the creation 
of an infrastructure funds management business. 
This is a logical expansion of the capability we have 
in Infrastructure Investments and Professional Services 
and is expected to generate additional income for us.
We believe our customers turn to us, first and foremost, for our technical expertise. 
But increasingly, it is necessary to combine the power of our technical expertise with 
our local knowledge, our ability to integrate all stakeholders as well as the supply chain, 
and to do this on a Group-wide scale to manage complexity for our customers. 
strategic review
4 Continue to strengthen core skills 
How are we performing?
Go-To List rankings for Parsons Brinckerhoff
 No.1
in the Road & Highway, Bridge,  
Airport and Mass-Transit categories
 No.2
in the Design-Build category
 No.3
in the Storm-Water category
Source: Roads and Bridges magazine. Annual report and accounts 2010 21
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Airport operator BAA invests over £1bn each year in developing its airports, and is 
one of the UK’s most innovative infrastructure clients. It is now taking a less hands-on 
role in complex projects, trusting selected ‘framework suppliers’ like Balfour Beatty 
to integrate programmes and co-ordinate relationships between all its stakeholders.
Integrating capabilities saves time and cuts costs UK
Track record Balfour Beatty has delivered projects 
successfully for BAA over a long period of time.
“ Long-term business relationships are built on 
respect and responsibility, to which Zero Harm 
is fundamental. Our BAA relationship has matured 
to a position where, for example, we chair the 
Employment and Skills Working Group for BAA’s 
Sustainability Forum that represents BAA and all 
its other suppliers.”
 Steve O’Sullivan, 
 Balfour Beatty’s BAA Framework Director
10%
Faster than any 
equivalent project
£585m
Value of project
We have a long record of successfully delivering projects, 
large and small, at all BAA’s airports. 
In the past, our operating companies contracted separately 
with BAA. Now, on major contracts such as the Terminal 
2B project at Heathrow, Balfour Beatty works together as 
one team. 
Terminal 2B is a £585m phased project designed to create 
a new 16-stand satellite pier. Six of these stands were 
handed over in 2010 in the first phase of the development. 
Five Balfour Beatty operating companies are working 
closely together, combining our capabilities from 
professional services, through the engineering process 
and into the final construction solution. 
In 2010, we were awarded the second phase of the 
project, a £460m design and build contract that will 
deliver the remaining 10 new aircraft gates by late 2013. 
We have developed our initial scheme design and shared 
significant cost reductions with BAA. Target
2010
2009
0.10*
0.16
0.17
Target
2010
2009
38.5
†
42.8
36.3
Balfour Beatty 22
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to:
Roll out our Code of Conduct to our joint venture 
businesses and site-based staff – and work to embed 
our values in our global supply chains
Launch an online sustainability course for all staff 
Continue to work towards our 2012 roadmap targets for 
people management, Zero Harm, energy and carbon 
reduction, waste reduction, materials sustainability and 
water conservation.
For more information on our sustainability performance, 
see pages 62 to 69.
Why is this important?
Our reputation is our livelihood. As we grow and are 
joined by more people, as a result of organic growth 
and acquisitions, we need a clear culture and values 
that enable everyone to make decisions that consistently 
protect both our finances and our reputation. 
Given rising global concern over corruption, companies 
that are seen to have the highest ethical standards have a 
clear competitive advantage. And emerging anti-corruption 
legislation, which has global reach, makes ethical rigour 
an essential part of risk management.
What are we doing?
In 2009 we published a roadmap – setting out where we 
want to be by 2020 on 31 sustainability issues. Since then 
we have been embedding our sustainability vision across 
the business. 
Our Code of Conduct has been issued across the Group. 
Nearly 28,000 people have completed the ethics training 
course to support the Code of Conduct.
The Code sets standards consistent with the new UK 
Bribery Act, but we have taken additional measures in 
high-risk areas. Every operating company has at least one 
compliance officer to help management ensure compliance.
In pursuit of our goal of Zero Harm by 2012, we ran 
training programmes for 369 leaders across the Group 
in 2010 and plan to reach 600 by the end of 2011. 
We trialled new management tools for distribution in 
2011 and moved more health and safety experts into 
our operating companies to drive progress.
We aim to attract talented people. In 2010, we were 
ranked 40th in Fortune magazine’s 100 Best Places to 
Work
®
 in the US. In the UK, Management Today’s 2010 
Most Admired Companies placed us top in our sector 
for the fifth year running and 22nd overall. We launched 
new apprenticeship schemes and rolled out a framework 
of values and behaviours that we seek from our present 
and future leaders.
Leadership is not just about having the biggest market share. If we want to be seen as 
‘the infrastructure business’, we need to act like a leader – setting the industry standard 
for ethics, safety, sustainability, and the way we treat our customers and people. We aim 
to embed ethical and sustainability thinking among our own 50,000 people and our wider 
500,000-strong community of partners, contractors and suppliers.
strategic review
5 Continue to show leadership in values and behaviour
How are we performing?
Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
-6%
Greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO
2
/£m revenue)
†
  10% reduction by 2012 and 50% by 2020, both against 
the 2010 baseline.
* Or lower by end 2012. Kennedy Town Station
Hong Kong University Station
Sai Ying Pun Station
Annual report and accounts 2010 23
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
In less than 10 months we have won three major contracts from 
Hong Kong’s Mass Transit Railway Corporation (MTR) – including the 
largest in its history. Together, they mean that our Hong Kong-based joint 
venture, Gammon, is building the majority of the island’s new West 
Island Line, including all three new stations and 2.2km of its 3km tunnels.
Keeping quiet about HK’s biggest metro contract Hong Kong
Unspoilt Covered conveyors take spoil to 
barges for re-use without disturbing traffic 
(or mah-jong players).
” Gammon was not awarded this project on price; 
it was because the customer liked our proposed 
methods and our track record with similar projects.”
 Brian Gowran, 
  Gammon Project Director for the Kennedy 
Town Station and Overrun Tunnel project
Why choose us? A key reason was our commitment 
to minimise the impact on neighbours, traffic and the 
environment as we carve out an underground railway 
in one of the world’s most densely populated areas. 
We will set new standards in noise and dust suppression 
by using elaborate shielding and electrically-driven 
equipment rather than diesel engines. For above-ground 
structures we have developed a self-compacting 
concrete: which means less noise. To minimise the 
impact on traffic and the environment, some 80% of 
tunnelling spoil will travel by conveyor belt to barges for 
re-use, mainly on reclamation projects within Hong Kong. 
To reduce noise and dust further, the crushers feeding 
the conveyors will be underground.
On the largest contract, we have agreed with MTR 
to share the benefits of cost savings and the cost 
of any overruns, using a target-cost contract form.
Together, the three contracts are worth over £500m – 
making the West Island Line the largest civil infrastructure 
project Gammon has ever worked on. In the past decade, 
Gammon has built more underground stations in Hong 
Kong, Singapore and Thailand than anyone.  Balfour Beatty 24
Focused on strong,  
growing markets
market review Fro m the chieF operating oFFicer
“Balfour Beatty’s positioning as a global infrastructure 
business provides a sound platform for growth. 
It gives us access to a diversity of markets that share 
very similar needs for skills and resources. On this 
platform, we have built a business model that has 
competitive advantage in both developed and 
emerging markets.”
Andrew McNaughton 
Chief Operating Officer Annual report and accounts 2010 25
As GDP grows, there are more resources available 
for infrastructure investment. In turn, investment in 
infrastructure is one of the best ways of stimulating 
growth in the economy. Governments recognise the 
significance of this virtuous circle – as evidenced by 
the Hong Kong Government’s infrastructure stimulus 
spending and the UK Government’s support for major 
transportation projects such as Thameslink and Crossrail. 
Moreover, infrastructure markets are relatively stable. 
The chart below shows that civil infrastructure spending 
in the US, for example, has taken a fairly constant share 
of GDP over almost 30 years, compared with the much 
more volatile pattern of housing investment.
Infrastructure demand is relatively stable
US construction spending
Emerging economies offer particular opportunity
The correlation between infrastructure investment 
and GDP growth means that fast-growing emerging 
markets will see particularly strong infrastructure 
growth. In countries such as India, already-high GDP 
growth is being outstripped by the rise in infrastructure 
investment – see below.
In developing economies, infrastructure is growing 
even faster than GDP
Civil infrastructure spending in India
It is important to note the significant differences between 
developed and emerging markets. 
Much of the developed world’s infrastructure was put 
in place many years ago. The key growth drivers today 
include the sustainability and green agendas, and the 
need to renew ageing assets that were built 40 or more 
years ago.
Infrastructure is a good business to be in
It offers a broad spread of opportunities throughout the 
world, across a range of sectors. It promises long-term 
growth, propelled by powerful factors such as population 
growth, urbanisation and the need to renew ageing 
assets. It involves both public and private sectors. 
And across all its diversity of opportunities, it relies 
on a remarkably similar set of core competencies 
and processes: asset knowledge, risk management, 
commercial management and supply chain integration.
Our chosen marketplace comprises the assets and 
systems that all societies need in order to function 
and develop. We group these into two broad categories:
Civil infrastructure – road, rail and air transport networks, 
and the utility systems that bring people power, water 
and communications
Social infrastructure – which includes education and 
healthcare facilities, and social and military housing. 
Around the world the ownership of these assets varies 
considerably, with the private sector increasingly taking 
a more significant role.
Our confidence in the future is underpinned by three firm 
beliefs: that infrastructure is a strong and growing global 
market; that emerging economies offer particular 
opportunity for growth; and that infrastructure investment 
in the UK and the US remains very much on the agenda.
Our overall conclusion is that in the infrastructure markets 
where we operate, the adverse impacts of the global 
economic crisis will be limited with good prospects for 
the next five years.
A strong, growing global market
Based on the available forecasts of global infrastructure 
investment, we expect total spending to exceed 
£20 trillion between 2010 and 2020. As the map on 
page 2 indicates, growth rates are expected to be highest 
in the fast-developing markets of Asia, Australia, South 
America, Africa and the Middle East; but even in the more 
mature economies of North America and Europe, we 
expect healthy growth rates of 3.5–4.0%.
What underpins this growth is the close interdependency 
between infrastructure spending and GDP – illustrated 
clearly by the chart below.
Infrastructure and GDP grow hand in hand
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Investment growth %
GDP growth %
0
3
6
9
12
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
Source: World Bank. Figures are for 1960–2008 and 
based on US$ at PPP. Investment is Gross Fixed Capital Formation.
India
China
Share in GDP %
Housing Civil infrastructure
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2009
Source: US Census Bureau.
Share in GDP %
0
0.5
1 .0
1 .5
2.0
2.5
3.0
1970
1985
1980
1975
1990
1995
2000
2005
2009
Source: Balfour Beatty analysis. Balfour Beatty 26
UK social infrastructure spending will fall, 
but to a level above historical levels
Education spending Health spending 
in the UK in the UK
Meanwhile, cuts in social infrastructure spending are 
likely to be balanced by growth in civil infrastructure. 
Although central government intends to cut back 
civil infrastructure investment, we expect the private 
sector utilities to offset this with their programmes 
of significantly increased investment in power station 
replacements, offshore wind farms, new waste 
management assets and other green initiatives. 
Recent announcements such as the Infrastructure 
Investment Plan and the government’s changing 
attitude to delivery of energy from waste have also given 
us confidence that investment in infrastructure will be 
higher over the next five years than in the previous five.
We expect the impact of government cutbacks on the 
overall UK infrastructure market to be relatively modest 
with civil infrastructure growing by some 20% over the 
next five years – see chart below. 
Dynamics are changing in the UK
UK civil infrastructure spending
In emerging markets the most salient factors are population 
growth, rapid urbanisation and sharply-increasing GDP per 
capita, creating demand for more and better infrastructure.
By contrast, we have seen flat or even declining power 
consumption per head in the UK. Not that infrastructure 
investment is faltering – far from it. In developed 
economies, the key drivers are not so much burgeoning 
demand as crumbling supply and sustainable energy. 
The post-war infrastructure boom tailed off in the late 
1960s, and since the 1980s spending has been a roughly 
constant proportion of GDP. But as much of the post-war 
infrastructure approaches the end of its life, replacement 
activity is adding new impetus to the infrastructure market. 
Another important difference between developed and 
emerging markets is the balance between civil and 
social infrastructure. Emerging markets tend to devote 
a higher proportion of expenditure to civil infrastructure 
as transport and distribution networks are built and 
expanded. In developed economies, where these 
networks are largely in place, social infrastructure such 
as schools and hospitals takes a significantly higher 
share of total spend.
Balfour Beatty operates in both developed and emerging 
markets. This will not change; but the sheer scale 
of opportunity means that we shall seek to increase 
our engagement with faster-developing economies. 
The access that Parsons Brinckerhoff’s business gives 
us to these markets was a key consideration in the 
rationale for acquiring the company.
Growth at home is still on the agenda
While our international operations have been growing 
rapidly, the UK still accounts for some 50% of our 
revenue. Following the new UK Coalition Government’s 
Comprehensive Spending Review (CSR) there have been 
concerns that a period of austerity in public spending 
might constrain our domestic infrastructure market. 
Our analysis indicates that this is unlikely to be the case.
Across the developed world there has historically 
been a relatively stable split between civil and social 
infrastructure expenditure. But in the UK something very 
unusual happened after 1997: the proportion of spending 
on social infrastructure grew sharply, due largely to a 
surge in spending on education. This sector has recently 
been running at levels far beyond the norm, and health 
spending has also been unusually high.
Analysing the implications of the CSR for future spending 
on education and health, we see the bubble in education 
spending coming to an end. But as the chart below 
demonstrates, education spending will still be above 
historic levels while health spending is expected to be 
largely maintained. So although there will be a reduction 
in social infrastructure spending, this will simply bring it 
closer to normal levels.
market review
Share in GDP %
0
0.2
0.1
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2014
Source: ONS and CSR.
2010-2014 Forecast period
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2014
Source: HM Treasury, 2010.
Adjusted by Balfour Beatty for CSR. Figures are in real terms.
1 Water £27bn
2 Waste £2bn
3 T ransport £54bn
4 Power £29bn
5 Comms £35bn
1 Water £28bn
2 Waste £8bn
3 T ransport ~£60bn
4 Power £57bn
5 Comms £34bn
1
1
2
3
4
5
2
3
4
5
Total
£150bn
2005/06–2009/10 2010/11–2014-15
Total
£186bn Annual report and accounts 2010 27
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
We are among the top US construction players in our 
field. But our peers are heavily concentrated on their 
domestic market: we have far greater international 
presence and a broader range of capabilities. 
In Europe, our construction peers have scale, broad 
geographical reach and strong knowledge and capability 
in infrastructure investment. But none comes close 
to our scale and capability in professional services.
These differences – particularly our strength in 
professional services – give us an edge in both 
developed and emerging markets.
Strong in developed and emerging markets
In developed economies asset owners are generally 
experienced and well regulated. They make informed 
judgements on outsourcing and on partnerships with 
third-party investors. Typically they are building new 
infrastructure to replace life-expired assets or extend 
capacity. Development constraints and an intricate 
web of stakeholders result in highly complex solutions. 
Countries such as these need companies with the skills 
to design, integrate, deliver and maintain large, complex 
assets. They also need innovative financing solutions to 
support the delivery of major capital programmes. In the 
UK’s recently published national infrastructure plan, for 
example, private funding is seen as key to the delivery 
of a £200bn programme.
By contrast, emerging economies are building new 
infrastructure primarily to help their communities develop. 
Projects as well as procurement methods are typically 
less structured. Business conditions can be challenging 
and attitudes to safety and the environment may be lax. 
Local skills are typically focused on construction while 
strategic and detailed planning skills are in short supply, 
along with the technical capability to deliver engineering 
solutions that suit the local environment. 
These countries benefit from working with companies 
that can help governments, developers and global 
finance organisations to develop and deliver long-term 
programmes of infrastructure investment. The benefit 
is greater if these companies apply their construction 
knowledge and technical expertise to supplement and 
develop the skills in the local supply chain. To sustain 
their rapid growth over time, these countries will also 
need increasing access to expertise in infrastructure 
project development and finance.
Our multi-capability business model gives us the 
expertise to meet the needs of both developed 
and emerging economies, and to evolve our service 
to them as they mature. Our scale and international 
footprint give us the depth of resource to respond 
to global markets and to pursue the most attractive 
opportunities as they emerge.
Structured for competitive advantage
If, as we believe, infrastructure is a good business to be in, 
where does Balfour Batty fit in the competitive landscape?
Traditionally, infrastructure markets have been served 
by single service businesses in fields such as design, 
programme management, project development, finance, 
construction, operations and maintenance. Yet these 
businesses share not only common customers but also 
many core skills and processes. Building on these core 
skills, we have set out to establish a business that can 
deliver a full range of services to owners and operators 
across the whole spectrum of infrastructure assets.
Today, Balfour Beatty is one of the largest global 
infrastructure players. All of our principal competitors 
can mobilise extensive capabilities and resources to 
satisfy the demands of major infrastructure delivery 
programmes; all can deploy skilled staff with deep 
knowledge and experience. Most can deploy their 
capabilities across a broad geographic base. But the 
distinctive combination of attributes that make Balfour 
Beatty stand out are its sharp focus on infrastructure 
combined with its international reach, and professional 
services and financing capabilities.
Balfour Beatty is a global infrastructure business
Some of our peers in our markets
Our strength in infrastructure is underpinned by global 
capability in professional services. We are worldwide 
experts in getting infrastructure projects off the ground: 
planning, designing and managing them. A handful of our 
competitors have larger professional services capability 
– but none of these comes close to us for overall scale 
and resources, and few have broad geographical coverage.
Compared with the leading global engineering and 
construction players in our marketplace, we have 
significantly more infrastructure-focused knowledge 
and experience.
Infrastructure
Jacobs
Vinci
Hochtief
ACS
Balfour Beatty
Skanska
Bechtel
URS
AECOM
CH2M
Fluor
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Infrastructure represents infrastructure and commercial building revenue.
Source: Engineering News Record.
Industrial Other
Revenue £bn p.a. Balfour Beatty 28
professional services  
ahead of expectations
operating review
“ This was a transformational year for 
the Group in respect of its professional 
services capability. Parsons Brinckerhoff 
is now an integral part of Balfour Beatty’s 
core business, restructured to improve 
visibility, efficiency and focus.”
George Pierson  
Chief Executive Officer, Professional Services
What do we do?
Programme and project management
Construction management
Project design
Technical services
Planning
Consultancy
What’s happened?
Parsons Brinckerhoff became an integral part 
of Balfour Beatty
Professional Services was reorganised with more 
focus placed on customer service, technical expertise 
and project execution
Halsall, an employee-owned Canadian professional 
services business, was acquired 
What’s next?
Pursue opportunities to add capability to Professional 
Services by acquisition, particularly in power, water 
and mining
Improve technical teams by transferring skilled labour 
force between geographies
Leverage Parsons Brinckerhoff’s customer relationships 
in emerging markets into other parts of the business
How we performed
Order book
+7%
Revenue including JVs and associates
Profit before exceptionals and amortisation
KPI
Billability
Billability is a good measure of resource utilisation, 
and hence profitability, in what is essentially a billable 
hours business.
+ 100bps
Computes PB’s total direct labour cost charged to projects divided 
by total labour cost of employees.
*  Parsons Brinckerhoff was consolidated for the full year for 
the first time.
2010
2009
58.7%
57.7%
2010
2009
£1,613m*
£558m
2010
2009
£1.5bn
£1.4bn
2010
2009
£85m*
£13m Annual report and accounts 2010 29
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Creating South Asia’s premier aviation hub India
Demand for transport infrastructure is growing fast in India. The new third terminal 
has more than tripled capacity at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport from 
12m passengers a year to 37m; and by 2030 the airport is aiming for 100m.
” PB’s extensive international aviation experience 
made it a natural choice for managing this big, complex 
project – particularly since some 90% of passengers 
using the airport will pass through Terminal 3. It really 
is the global gateway to Delhi.”
  Arun Chandran, 
PB Project Director, Delhi International Airport
Opened in July 2010, Terminal 3 made Indira Gandhi 
International South Asia’s largest and most important 
aviation hub. Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) was project 
management consultant for the new terminal, a 2.8-mile 
runway, 19 miles of taxiway and two fire and rescue 
stations. PB has also provided general engineering 
consultancy for a new rail link with downtown Delhi.
At 500,000 square meters, Terminal 3 is the world’s 
eighth largest passenger terminal. It has 168 check-in 
counters, 78 air bridges at 48 contact stands, 30 parking 
bays, 95 immigration counters, 15 X-ray screening areas 
and extensive shopping facilities.
The new 2.8-mile runway enables the airport to handle 
25% more air traffic. It is one of the longest at an 
Indian airport and one of the few in Asia with a CAT IIIB 
instrument landing system capable of guiding aircraft 
in low-visibility conditions.
Guiding light Delhi’s new gateway sets 
the standard for South Asia airports.
Artist’s impression Balfour Beatty 30
operating review – professional services
Our strategy
The acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) has made 
Balfour Beatty a global player in project management and 
design, as well as the market leader in US transportation 
and UK power.
Professional Services is, in effect, a fee-based consultancy 
business. Its success relies on maximising staff utilisation 
to increase billable hours, while winning work on the 
strength of its track record and staff qualifications.
Our strategy is two-pronged: pursuing geographic and 
market growth, and increasing profitability. Regions 
where we see particular scope for growth include 
Canada, India and Northern Europe. The acquisition of 
Halsall was a significant step in developing our business 
in Canada, and we will seek further infill acquisitions and 
joint ventures where this provides the most appropriate 
means of developing our business. Similarly, where we 
have gaps in our capability in water, mining, building 
engineering and transportation in specific geographies, 
we will pursue opportunities.
We have identified a number of areas where there is 
scope for increasing profitability. Firstly, we will concentrate 
on high-margin services and projects such as programme 
and construction management, design-build and PPP. 
Secondly, we will focus on retaining a higher proportion of 
gross revenue by subcontracting less. We are also 
continuously reducing costs by increasing our organisational 
efficiency. Some of the successful initiatives in this area 
are outlined in the Operational performance section below. 
Our marketplace
US 
The financial crisis has delayed the formalisation of 
spending plans embodied in the Highways Bill, 
which has constrained progress on the award of larger 
projects. However, government stimulus measures 
have been indirectly helpful: although they mainly 
funded ‘shovel-ready’ projects such as road resurfacing, 
this did free up other money for states to spend on 
professional services for other projects. 
We continue to win work in transportation as a result 
of our strong relationships with our customers and our 
early-stage involvement in the design and development 
of potential projects. 
By contrast, the US power market has not seen many 
major new projects – though there is activity in the 
small power plant sector, where we are strong. 
The private building market has virtually ground to a halt, 
though we still have work in public buildings and hospitals. 
UK
The UK market in 2010 was impacted by the change of 
government. The incoming coalition’s Comprehensive 
Spending Review (CSR) put a brake on market activity 
even before its conclusions were announced, and the 
proposed reductions in government capital spending 
were broadly in line with expectations. While the 
government acknowledges the need for continued 
infrastructure spending, particularly in transport and 
energy, it is too early to predict the precise effect that 
the CSR will have on our business.
In the power sector, uncertainty over government and 
regulatory attitudes to new initiatives limited the amount 
of work available.
Rest of the world
The business environment in Australia continued to be 
robust, driven by resource demand, primarily from Asia. 
The buoyant markets of Hong Kong, Singapore and South 
Korea encouraged the further development of our already 
successful businesses. 
However, demand in the Middle East was sluggish as 
continued uncertainty over debt continued to affect the 
flow of new projects. 
Financial performance
A series of major project wins has maintained a healthy 
pipeline of work for 2011; our order book increased 
by £0.1bn to £1.5bn. Revenue at £1,613m reflects the 
mixed dynamics in our geographies and end-markets 
as explained below. Profit from operations before 
exceptional items and amortisation was ahead of 
expectations at £85m. Margin was enhanced by the 
consolidation of PB, the effect of additional £8m incentive 
income in the UK and improved project execution.
Operational performance
This was a transformational year for the Group in 
respect of its professional services capability. Parsons 
Brinckerhoff is an integral part of Balfour Beatty’s core 
business, restructured to improve visibility, efficiency 
and focus. Professional Services is now organised 
through four market-focused divisions in the Americas, 
together with two international divisions covering 
Australia, Asia Pacific and South Africa (AAPSA) and 
Creating a Motor City icon US
The key to growing long-term relationships isn’t just 
understanding the customer’s needs. It’s having the 
resources to satisfy them. The Detroit Department 
of Transport (DDOT) wanted a new US$22m (£14m) 
transport interchange to replace the demolished bus 
station. It found a city centre site, ideally located 
but extremely tight for the planned 15 bus stands. 
When the transit centre’s original designers declared 
the site unfeasible, their client called PB to create this 
innovative solution.
The idea was to link 21 city bus routes with the People 
Mover metro and regional bus lines. More ambitiously, 
the facility should also be an ‘iconic’ local landmark and a 
stimulus to urban regeneration. PB met these goals with 
flair, teaming a three-storey building with a seven-peaked 
canopy slung from 100ft masts. It’s eye-catching – 
General Motors even wanted to shoot commercials 
there – but, says PB architect Tushar Advani, the first 
priority was to provide “the greatest comfort for the 
city’s travelling public at the most reasonable cost”. Annual report and accounts 2010 31
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Europe, the Middle East and North Africa (EuMENA). 
Management structure has been simplified and more 
focus has been placed on client service, technical 
expertise and project execution. The changes, welcomed 
by customers and key staff, have driven improved 
performance in the business.
In October, we acquired the employee-owned Canadian 
professional services business – Halsall. See case study 
on page 15. Halsall provides design and engineering 
services to the building market and structural engineering 
services to transportation clients. Due to its resilient 
economy and good infrastructure demand, Canada 
is an attractive infrastructure market for Balfour Beatty, 
and developing the Group’s business there is a 
strategic priority.
A series of major project wins has maintained a healthy 
pipeline of work for 2011.
Notable wins in the US include a joint venture in which 
PB will be responsible for design management and key 
design aspects of a 1.9 mile underground connection 
on the Los Angeles metro, as well as project controls 
and risk assessment.
Further east, we will deliver design services for the 
expansion of the University of Arizona Stadium, 
connecting two grandstands in a bowl configuration.
In Australia, PB has partnered with Thiess to provide 
environmental, electrical, civil and structural services 
in support of Thiess’s transmission cable installation 
programme.
In the rail sector, the Guizhou section of the Changsha-
Kunming high speed line is a joint venture in which PB 
will establish the management system for the project’s 
construction supervision work. 
And in London, PB is part of an integrated Balfour 
Beatty team for the design of a two-mile segment 
of the Crossrail project. This will include the design 
of a new station, a four-track railway, and new overhead 
electrified railway lines.
Our Americas transportation business performed 
very well, increasing market share in a difficult market. 
Additional project management training, increased 
project reviews and focus on simplifying the management 
structure enabled managers to get closer to project 
teams and tackle margin erosion. This improved project 
execution as well as profitability. 
Curbs on public spending mean that new work in 
transportation is tending to come from the expansion 
of existing programmes rather than the launch of new 
projects. The cancellation of the Trans-Hudson tunnel 
project in New York, which we had been leading, 
was a manifestation of the pressures on public finances, 
but we have a good base of work going forward, and 
are confident that we will continue to win an increasing 
share of the market.
The Americas power business delivered good results, 
having kept costs under tight control. However, a year 
with reduced emergency work for the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency significantly affected the 
performance of our US federal business.
Covering design and programme management, the 
Americas buildings business has been adversely affected 
by a surge in competition for work on public buildings 
as many firms move from the subdued private market. 
Our EuMENA business performed satisfactorily. Reduced 
revenue in the UK was offset by city transit work in 
Northern Europe and North Africa. In contrast, the Middle 
East continues to underperform as the global financial 
crisis is still affecting the flow of new work. In response, 
we have continued to adjust our resources to the amount 
of work available. 
Our AAPSA business has particular expertise in power 
in Australia, building in Asia, and mining in South Africa. 
The combined operation performed well during the year, 
benefiting from the organisational changes and good 
operational performance on key projects. We will continue 
to drive efficiency improvements.
Looking forward
Our UK market is likely to remain difficult in 2011 
as public-sector spending cuts take effect, creating 
uncertainty and project delays. In the US, the building 
market will continue to be challenging – but we are 
well-positioned in the power sector, with a good base 
load of work. We are particularly optimistic about our 
underground energy storage business, where we are 
the global market leader. 
Our most positive outlook is in Asia. This region has 
emerged most quickly and strongly from the financial 
crisis and is projecting the highest growth rates. We 
are building our capabilities accordingly. Our focus will 
be on developing profitable, sustainable businesses 
in the emerging markets of India and Vietnam, as well 
as in markets such as Hong Kong, Singapore and South 
Korea where we are already successful and possess 
significant scale.
Virtuous zircon Australia
Parsons Brinckerhoff brings us exciting new 
opportunities in the mining sector and in Australia. The 
Jacinth-Ambrosia Mineral Sands Mine combined the 
two. In a joint project team with the mine owner, PB 
delivered the AU$420m (£275m) development of one of 
the world’s richest zircon deposits in just 18 months – six 
weeks ahead of schedule and 10% under budget. Safety 
performance was outstanding: over 900,000 hours’ 
work in a remote Southern Australian desert without a 
single lost-time injury. Consult Australia named it 2010’s 
Project of the Year. Balfour Beatty 32
construction services  
Maintaining progress
operating review
“ This was a good year in a weak UK 
market, with excellent operational 
delivery of completed projects and 
project milestones.”
Mike Peasland 
Chief Executive Officer, Construction Services UK
“ Our ‘early adopter’ decision in 2008 to 
focus on federal work stood us in good 
stead; we won a number of bids for 
large federal projects.”
Robert Van Cleave 
Chief Executive Officer, Construction Services US Annual report and accounts 2010 33
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
“ Performance in rail was unchanged 
from the previous year in markets 
characterised by uncertainty.”
Manfred Leger 
Chief Executive Officer, Rail
What do we do?
Building
Refurbishment and fit-out
Mechanical and electrical services
Civil engineering
Ground engineering
Rail engineering
What’s happened?
Reduced volumes but excellent operational delivery 
in weak construction markets in the UK and the US
US construction, infrastructure and rail activities 
merged to enhance synergies, share best practice 
and pursue joint projects
Gammon in Hong Kong delivered good growth 
and a record order book
Rail business suffered from project funding delays
What’s next?
Seek acquisitions to fill gaps in our US coverage, 
particularly in Atlanta and on the West Coast
Implement procurement and back office initiatives 
to underpin margins
Pursue opportunities in new UK markets such as 
nuclear and offshore wind
How we performed
Order book
+ 12%
Revenue including JVs and associates
-10%
Profit before exceptionals and amortisation
+2%
KPI
Secured orders and ABNC as % of revenue
The secured order book and the awarded but not 
contracted orders (ABNC) are a leading indicator of our 
future revenue.
+32%
2010
2009
188%
156%
2010
2009
£6,743m
£7,491m
2010
2009
£9.2bn
£8.2bn
2010
2009
£212m
£207m Balfour Beatty 34
US
In 2010, the US economy remained difficult and 
competition in the industry was fierce, as contractors 
switched from the private construction market – which 
has virtually ground to a halt – into the federal market. 
The education and defence sectors were particularly 
tough. Our ‘early adopter’ decision in 2008 to focus on 
federal work stood us in good stead; we won a number 
of bids for large federal projects.
Opportunities in civil infrastructure were reduced by 
an intensity of competition that saw bids being won 
below the levels at which we would wish to operate. 
The government’s stimulus package did little to help 
us directly as most of it was focused on ‘shovel-ready’ 
projects. The rail market was also limited by funding. 
However, we are starting to see one positive trend in 
the move towards qualification-based tendering rather 
than price-based processes.
International
Our joint venture, Gammon, operates in Hong Kong 
and Singapore, which are very different markets. 
In Hong Kong, Gammon’s technical capabilities and 
track record are important as bids tend to be assessed 
on quality, not just on price. The Hong Kong economy 
has received considerable stimulus from public sector 
spending on infrastructure: mass transit, road schemes, 
and other heavy civil engineering work. We expect this 
spending to continue for the medium term.
In contrast to Hong Kong, Gammon’s Singapore market 
is highly price-sensitive with significant competition on 
open tender lists.
Elsewhere in Asia, Macau has opened up again and 
Gammon is working on a number of projects. Gammon 
is also targeting opportunities in Vietnam. There is also 
considerable potential in Indonesia, where GDP growth 
is coupled with a need for infrastructure to support the 
export of natural resources.
In the Middle East, Dubai has experienced difficult 
economic conditions resulting in fewer opportunities for 
new projects. However, this has been offset by a number 
of awards in the civil and electrical and mechanical 
engineering sectors in Abu Dhabi, where prospects are 
good. In addition, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and other GCC 
countries are showing strong infrastructure demand.
Our strategy
The strength of our construction business lies in our 
ability to integrate and manage local supply chains to 
deliver projects on budget and on time. Our technical 
expertise, supplemented by Parsons Brinckerhoff’s 
capabilities, is crucial in meeting the complex needs of 
our customers. Increasingly they are seeking to reduce 
interface and delivery risks by asking us to integrate 
not only the supply chain, but also other stakeholders 
such as owners, users and regulators. We believe that 
integrator capability is a competitive advantage that 
differentiates us from our peers. 
Our strategy for the UK construction business is to seek 
growth across the breadth of the market, where our 
experience in all segments – buildings, roads and ground 
engineering – enables us to operate flexibly. We manage 
risk and focus closely on cost and operational 
performance to maintain robust margins.
In the US, our construction business has become much 
broader after recent acquisitions and the merging of our 
US rail and infrastructure businesses. We see this as an 
opportunity to achieve synergies and efficiencies while 
differentiating ourselves in a very competitive market. 
We are currently number five among US building 
contractors and aim to become the true national player. 
We will seek to achieve this through organic growth 
and infill acquisitions, leveraging our capabilities into 
other regions and differentiating ourselves through our 
integrated service offer and innovation. 
Our marketplace
UK
The UK market in 2010 was significantly affected by the 
change of government and subsequent Comprehensive 
Spending Review (CSR) the anticipation of which reduced 
market activity. Around 20% of the Group’s business 
derives from UK government capital expenditure 
programmes and the majority of that revenue is in 
Construction Services. It is too early to predict precisely 
what effect the CSR will have, though the government 
acknowledges the need for continuing infrastructure 
spending, particularly for civil infrastructure in transport 
and energy. 
Despite uncertainty in the market, a number of the 
large projects in which we are involved are still going 
ahead, including Crossrail, nuclear, power and offshore 
wind farm projects.
There is still a good level of construction activity in 
social infrastructure markets. Several Building Schools 
for the Future (BSF) schemes have progressed to 
financial close despite cancellation of the remainder; 
a number of major hospital projects are on offer; and 
in student accommodation we are harnessing the 
capabilities of our regional construction businesses. 
However, there is little sign of green shoots in the 
commercial sector. 
operating review – con struction services 100%
outside air
55%
less energy
50%
less water
Annual report and accounts 2010 35
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Our joint venture was selected in September 2010 to 
design and build this US$503m (£325m) new Carl R. 
Darnall Army Medical Center hospital for the US Army’s 
Fort Hood base in Texas. We are a proven team: five 
members of our team have already collaborated on the 
outstanding Walter Reed National Military Medical Center 
in Bethesda. Building on that experience, we have worked 
closely with project stakeholders to design a world-class 
facility that combines clinical effectiveness and energy 
efficiency with stress reduction and comfort for patients 
and visitors.
In the US, we are ranked as a Top 10 Green Builder 
and the new medical centre is designed to meet the 
internationally-recognised LEED Gold standard for 
environmental performance. It will use 30% less 
energy than a baseline building and at least 55% less 
utilities energy than the 45-year-old building it replaces. 
The climate control system will use 100% outside air 
to minimise the risk of cross-infection.
The downturn in US private sector construction highlights the value of our strength in 
major federal projects. Recent high-profile wins include a new state-of-the-art medical 
centre for one of the largest military bases in the US. To date, it’s the largest project 
backed by the US Government’s economic stimulus programme.
State-of-the-art medical centre for giant US base US
” We are great believers in bringing local small businesses 
into our supply chains. We met with over 170 firms at 
outreach events and provided support such as 
mentoring for managers and joint employee training.”
  Tommy Campbell, Operations Director
Brent Blake, Senior Project Manager 
Balfour Beatty Construction, US
Ward zone The hospital serves a community of 65,000 
on one of the US’s largest military bases.
Artist’s impression Balfour Beatty 36
operating review – con struction services
“ We were building onto six storeys of supported 
façade with limited access in a sensitive 
conservation area with tight space restrictions. 
That’s quite a challenge, but we delivered 
to a tight schedule – while staying on good 
terms with neighbours and the customer.” 
  Graham Mercer
Project Director, Balfour Beatty Construction
The £32.5m project involved retaining the six-storey 
façade of a 1930s bank building. Behind this, and rising 
four floors above it, we built a highly-efficient modern 
office offering almost 7,400 square meters of space on 
12 floors. 
The building is built to high energy-efficiency standards 
and has a BREEAM rating of Very Good.
Successful completion of this high-profile and complex 
project on a challenging site positions us well to tender 
for other commercial developments, particularly where 
façade retention is involved.
The breadth of skills we have assembled to address all aspects of infrastructure 
gives us great flexibility. We are well placed to bid successfully for a broad range of work, 
in line with our strategic aim to ‘focus on markets with the greatest opportunities’.
A case in point is the recovery in commercial office developments, particularly 
in London. We emphasised our credentials in this market with the completion 
in 2010 of 1 Bartholomew Lane, an imposing office development on a sensitive 
corner site in the City of London, opposite the Bank of England.
Broad capabilities create wide opportunities UK
Lime and a twist The limestone-lined reception 
features an elegant spiral staircase. Annual report and accounts 2010 37
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
In January 2011, we won in joint venture a £235m contract 
from Crossrail for the construction of Whitechapel and 
Liverpool Street Station tunnels and associated works 
in London. This is the first of a series of contracts that 
we expect to win from Crossrail as this enormous project 
gets underway.
We strengthened our presence at Sellafield with two 
contracts to build new storage facilities at the facility, 
adding to our nuclear experience. We have also been 
shortlisted for work at Hinckley Point, where EDF is 
planning to build two new nuclear power stations, and we 
are looking to bid for work at the proposed RWE/E.ON 
nuclear power station at Wylfa on Anglesey. 
Mansell, our regional building business, had a busy year. 
The Strata business we acquired in December 2009 was 
integrated successfully, and in October 2010 we bought 
parts of the Rok business, which have the potential to add 
£100m of revenue to Mansell’s operations. Two significant 
awards were a £65m design and build contract to 
redevelop Wornington Green Estate for Kensington 
Housing Trust and a share of a £220m four-year 
framework for the London Borough of Hackney. 
The secured order book at Mansell improved in the year 
by more than £200m – almost 40% up on 2009. 
We rebuilt 1 Bartholomew Lane, a historic building next 
to the Bank of England, as a commercial office and we are 
seeking further opportunities in the commercial buildings 
sector. See case study on page 36.
Meanwhile, we have a good pipeline of projects as 
part of the Building Schools for the Future programme. 
We completed 10 projects during the year, and began 
construction in Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton, 
Islington, Greenwich, and Southwark. Several other 
schools reached financial close in 2010 and construction 
is due to start on 17 schemes in 2011.
US
During the period 2007–2009, we grew our US business 
with acquisitions in regions where we expect good 
growth. The acquired companies are now fully integrated 
into our business, and we have introduced a new 
organisational structure to improve collaboration and 
more effective access to the national market. This includes 
combining our rail and infrastructure activities with US 
construction under a single management structure to 
enhance synergies, share best practice and pursue joint 
projects. We have also created four regions covering the 
US, each with a wide range of capabilities and its own 
regional management. 
We are looking to work with PB on projects that require 
design-build, vertical skill sets or geographic leverage. 
One example is the Eagle P3 commuter rail project in 
Denver, Colorado. This is for the design, build, finance 
and operation (DBFO) of more than 30 miles of 
commuter rail lines and was a spectacular win for 
Balfour Beatty in joint venture with Fluor. We are 
responsible for a US$500m (£333m) share in the 
engineering, procurement and construction contract, 
and have a third share worth US$340m (£227m) 
of a 29-year operations and maintenance contract. 
The project integrates our construction and rail activities 
as well as PB. 
Rail
In most of our markets 2010 was characterised by 
uncertainty, with many rail projects being postponed 
or scaled down.
In the UK, the concern over government spending 
caused project delays and inhibited growth. However, 
in Germany, where we are particularly strong in 
electrification and track, market conditions have remained 
stable. Customers have been focusing on cost-cutting and 
we have been working with them to achieve their goals. 
Sweden has shown excellent growth – up 30% in volume 
compared to 2009, and our business in Spain also had a 
good year, despite the economic difficulties. 
Financial performance
2010 was a good year for Construction Services in weak 
construction markets. Revenue declined by 10% relative 
to 2009, although compared to the 13% decline in the 
first half of the year, this was an improved performance 
in the second half. Several successful completions, good 
operational delivery and focus on cost-efficiency have 
resulted in profit from operations before exceptional items 
and amortisation of £212m (2009: £207m) – up 2% on 
2009 – and hence a higher margin. 
Order intake was particularly encouraging, bringing 
the year-end secured order book to £9.2bn compared 
to £8.2bn at the end of 2009. 
Operational performance
UK
This was a good year in a weak market, with excellent 
operational delivery of completed projects and project 
milestones. 
Successful completions included Pinderfields Hospital, 
Birmingham New Hospital and Tameside Hospital. The 
next phase of bidding for acute hospitals is underway. 
There was good progress on London’s Blackfriars Bridge. 
The railway station has remained open while we widen 
the bridge, and the successful switch from old to new 
track over Christmas was a major milestone.
The roads and bridges contracts for the Olympic 
Delivery Authority were handed over during October 
and November on schedule, and we are now involved 
in building and fitting-out work on this complex project.
Successful completion of the first phase of Heathrow 
Terminal 2B in November 2009 led to the award of 
second phase work. This involves not only our design, 
construction, ground engineering, and specialist 
mechanical and electrical expertise, but also the 
professional services capabilities of Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
The technical expertise that PB provides was crucial in 
the award of this £460m contract. 
Highways activity on the M74, A46, A421 and A3 at 
Hindhead made significant progress. Key programme 
milestones were achieved on the M25 DBFO (Design 
Build Finance and Operate) contract with the first section 
completed in March 2010 and the next section due for 
completion in May 2011.  Balfour Beatty 38
In April 2010, we were selected in joint venture for 
pre-construction and construction services on Dallas 
Fort Worth International Airport’s terminal development 
programme. Construction is already underway and we 
are making good progress on this US$900m (£600m) 
seven-year project for which we were picked purely on 
qualification – a testament to our strength in aviation. 
In September, we won the contract in joint venture to 
provide design-build services for the US$503m (£325m) 
Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center at Fort Hood, Texas. 
Construction is scheduled to start in the second quarter 
of 2011. See case study on page 35.
We were also selected by the US Army Corps of 
Engineers to provide design-build services for the Utah 
Data Centre at Camp Williams, Utah. The US$1.2bn 
(£0.8bn) project includes a 100,000 square feet technical 
data centre and 900,000 square feet of technical support 
and administrative space. 
The headquarters for the National Geospatial Agency has 
progressed well and will be delivered according to plan. 
This is a highly technical project for a national agency, 
and the skills and experience we demonstrated were 
instrumental in winning the Utah Data Centre project.
International
Gammon’s forward order book is at record levels, with 
projects worth HK$23bn (£1.9bn). 
Gammon has won in joint venture its third contract on 
the West Island Line project for the Hong Kong metro. 
This is a HK$4.75bn (£407m) contract involving the 
construction of two stations and a 2.2km running tunnel. 
See case study on page 23.
The widening of Hong Kong’s Tolo and Fanling highways 
is another high-profile project win. The contract, worth 
HK$2.4bn (£195m), includes the modification, demolition 
or construction of numerous bridges. Work began in 
February 2011.
Gammon has won in joint venture a HK$2.883bn (£238m) 
contract to build part of the Hong Kong section of the 
Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Express Rail Link – 
a direct line from mainland China to Hong Kong. 
Gammon’s strength in aviation infrastructure was 
confirmed by the award in joint venture of a HK$4.2bn 
(£353m) air cargo terminal construction contract by 
Cathay Pacific Services. 
Following the contract for the redevelopment of the 
Victoria Park swimming pool complex, Gammon won 
a contract for a leisure complex in Kwun Tong featuring 
several Olympic-size pools and ancillary facilities. 
Gammon has also been awarded a five-year transmission 
line project and an electrical and mechanical contract on 
the West Island Line. Together, these contracts are worth 
HK$2.3bn (£190m).
Rail
In the UK, we successfully delivered the Airdrie to 
Bathgate electrification project and in Scotland, we 
secured the Paisley corridor project.
In Switzerland, we are laying track in the 57km Gotthard 
train tunnel, and starting electrification. This massive 
project took a year of preparatory logistics before 
work began. 
Signalling Solutions, our joint venture with Alstom, 
had another good year and our catenary manufacturing 
business in China performed extremely well. 
We are now starting to submit bids in collaboration 
with PB, to offer more integrated solutions. We are 
preparing our final bid for a project in Denmark, and 
another in Australia. Without PB as a partner, both of 
our bids would simply have been as a sub-contractor 
to the contract winner. 
Looking forward
Overall, the medium-term prospects for Construction 
Services look good. While the lingering effects of the 
financial crisis mean that some markets remain weak, 
others are thriving. Short-term reductions in public sector 
spending will be offset by long-term spending on new 
energy and infrastructure projects worldwide. Balfour 
Beatty is well placed to benefit from these developments.
We expect to maintain growth in general construction in 
the UK through our school building work and a slow return 
of commercial markets.
operating review – con struction services
Safety first in the Gulf UAE
Zero Harm means the same wherever in the world 
we work. But the way we make it happen is tailored to 
every project and workforce. Our BK Gulf joint venture in 
the UAE, with its multicultural workforce, puts particular 
emphasis on communication and training – all its safety 
officers are multilingual. 
It also makes effective use of new techniques and 
products to reduce hazards. Last year it completed over 
a million hours’ work without a single lost time incident 
on the extension to the gigantic Mall of the Emirates, 
thanks in part to its use of prefabricated wiring and 
pipework modules – the first system of its kind to 
be approved in Dubai. These eliminated the need for 
hot work on-site. Across all its projects, the company 
clocked-up 21.4m manhours without a reportable 
incident between October 2009 and November 2010 
and won the MEP Middle East Health and Safety 
Achievement Award in December. Annual report and accounts 2010 39
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Senior living is an area of opportunity for our regional 
building business. Budget hotels are also growing, 
and our 2010 acquisition of Multibuild gives us strength 
in this segment. The contracts we acquired with our 
purchase of parts of Rok’s business should support 
our activity in the affordable new-build housing 
construction market. 
Energy and power markets are coming to the fore, 
with an increasing number of nuclear and wind power 
initiatives. Energy from waste and related waste 
treatment projects are also growing in number, presenting 
us with further opportunities. Carbon capture and storage 
is another new market that we are looking at with 
technical expertise from PB. 
In the US, federal markets are reaching a trough and 
we expect this sector to present fewer opportunities in 
the near future. There are some green shoots in private 
construction, though these are tending to be individual 
projects rather than market-wide trends.
The restructuring of our US operations under one 
management structure will allow us to offer a broader 
range of services combining the full capabilities of 
the Group.
Gammon has a very strong order book in Hong Kong, 
and the fact that the government is continuing to spend 
on mass transit systems is encouraging for our business. 
Indonesia offers long-term opportunities to build an 
infrastructure capable of supporting its economic 
development. And in India, our joint venture with GVK 
is seeking to pre-qualify for a US$1.2bn road contract 
between Mumbai and Delhi.
In contrast, the Middle East is less active, with Dubai 
remaining challenging. Work continues to be let in Abu 
Dhabi, although at a slower rate than in the past. There 
are, however, opportunities in Qatar and Saudi Arabia.
We expect a year of growth for the rail business as a 
whole; and despite the UK Government’s spending 
cuts, we expect Crossrail to present opportunities in the 
medium term. In Europe we expect a steady year, with 
the business in Germany continuing to grow, while in 
Asia, the mass transit projects in Hong Kong could lead 
to further opportunities for our rail and electrification 
activities elsewhere.
P3 on track US
Public-private partnerships are gaining traction in 
the US, where they are known as P3s. We are part 
of the team selected to design and build the Eagle 
P3 commuter rail project in Denver, and maintain 
and operate it until 2044. This is the first rail P3 project 
in the US; it’s also our first transit project to include 
both operation and maintenance, and the first where 
we are responsible for the delivery of rolling stock. 
We will be responsible for half the US$1.3bn (£0.8bn) 
engineering and construction contract and a third of the 
US$1.4bn (£0.9bn) operation and maintenance contract. 
The project includes 36 miles of commuter lines and 
a maintenance facility.
“ Rapid GDP growth is driving 
infrastructure demand in Asia. 
We are seeing interesting opportunities 
in India, Indonesia and Vietnam.”
Brian Osborne 
Director of International Business
Artist’s impression Balfour Beatty 40
support services  
continuous i Mpr ove Men t
operating review
“ Local authority requirements are 
changing, with a marked shift towards 
larger, multi-activity contracts, and 
the bundling together of contracts 
from more than one local authority. 
This trend favours companies like 
Balfour Beatty which can offer a 
broad range of capabilities.”
Kevin Craven  
Chief Executive Officer, Support Services
What do we do?
Upgrade and maintenance of water, gas and 
electricity networks
Total facilities management and business services 
outsourcing
Highways network management, operation and 
maintenance
Rail renewals
What’s happened?
Revenue and profit adversely impacted by the slow 
ramp-up of work in AMP5
Local Authorities unit established to position the business 
to benefit from the expected increase in outsourcing
National Operations Centre (NOC) established to provide 
centralised management and administration of contracts
What’s next?
AMP5 volumes expected to recover
Pursue opportunities in new markets such as renewable 
energy and carbon management
Deliver continuous improvement to customers to retain 
work and expand scope
How we performed
Order book
Revenue including JVs and associates
-1%
Profit before exceptionals and amortisation
-7%
KPI
Customer retention
Retained customer revenue is a key measure for 
Support Services, as it shows how well we have 
leveraged our existing customer relationships.
+400bps
Defined as the revenue from customers retained from one year to the 
next, relative to revenue from the same customers in the previous year. 
Based on Balfour Beatty WorkPlace and Utility Solutions revenue.
2010
2009
96.3%
92.3%
2010
2009
£1,434m
£1,443m
2010
2009
£4.5bn
£4.5bn
2010
2009
£51m
£55m A bold step beyond outsourcing UK
Annual report and accounts 2010 41
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
We have broken new ground by launching a partnership with a local council 
that crosses traditional outsourcing boundaries. Under a £250m, 10-year 
contract with North East Lincolnshire Council we will deliver a package 
of services spanning regeneration, highways, transport and planning, asset 
management and architectural support. As well as cutting costs and improving 
services, we have committed to meeting 140 KPI targets that add up to a 
significant improvement in quality of life for local people. Our risks and rewards 
link directly to how well we succeed.
Integration is key. Both parties are incentivised to 
work together to maximise results, and over 300 council 
staff have transferred to a team that integrates expertise 
from our facilities management business and Parsons 
Brinckerhoff.
 “ The partnership will deliver 3,500 new and improved 
homes, cut deaths and injuries on our roads by 33% 
and 50% respectively, secure at least £570m of 
inward investment into the borough and deliver key 
regeneration projects.” 
Marc Cole  
Director of Regeneration, North East Lincs Council
“ It’s a fantastic opportunity to accelerate regeneration 
of the borough. Balfour Beatty is working with 
North East Lincolnshire Council to create 4,200 
new jobs and generate 250 training, work or 
apprenticeship placements.” 
 Caroline Hopkins, 
 Regional Director for Balfour Beatty WorkPlace
Shared goals We are 
working with the council 
as one team, from managers 
to lollipop ladies. Balfour Beatty 42
In the utilities sector, market conditions in water were 
particularly tough as the ramp-up of work for the UK 
water industry’s 2010–15 asset management plan 
(AMP5) was slow. 
The facilities management and business services 
outsourcing sectors were intensely competitive. 
Volumes of work have held up reasonably well, 
although discretionary spend has reduced from the 
levels before the economic slowdown hit in 2008.
Financial performance
Support Services maintained a good level of activity 
in the year although revenue and profit were adversely 
impacted as the ramp-up of work for AMP5 was slower 
than expected. Revenue was down 1% to £1,434m 
and profit from operations before exceptionals and 
amortisation was down 7% to £51m, resulting in a slightly 
lower margin of 3.6%. We expect volumes to pick up in 
the remainder of the cycle as is typical with the AMP cycles.
Our strategy 
Support Services helps our customers maximise their 
organisational efficiency and the value they generate 
from their infrastructure while preserving the continuity 
of their services. The breadth of our offering includes 
but is not limited to facilities management, the upgrade 
and maintenance of utility and transport networks, 
business services and business process outsourcing, 
enabling us to maintain all aspects of a social or civil 
infrastructure asset. 
Our customers trust us to deal directly with their 
infrastructure users and stakeholders. It is these intimate 
customer relationships that underpin the organic growth 
of our core business, enabling us to extend the length 
and breadth of successful contracts.
We are a services integrator, bringing together different 
capabilities to meet varying customer needs. While 
bringing together our teams, sub-contractors and the 
customer’s stakeholders is part of the normal course 
of our business, this integrated offer increasingly 
involves capabilities from other parts of Balfour Beatty.
The majority of our business comes from the public 
and regulated sectors in the UK. The potential risk that 
this poses is mitigated by the different regulatory cycles 
in which the constituent parts of our business operate. 
As we leverage our scale and skills to grow our business 
in the private sector, we will bring more balance to our 
overall portfolio of customer activity. In addition, pressure 
on public spending is driving innovation and creating new 
opportunities with central and local government as well 
as other public entities. 
Our marketplace
Local authority requirements are changing, with a 
marked shift towards larger, multi-activity contracts, 
and the bundling together of contracts from more 
than one local authority. This trend favours companies 
like Balfour Beatty which can offer a broad range of 
capabilities, and our work on large highways management 
contracts was certainly buoyant in 2010. 
There was increased competition for more traditional 
highways work, and contracts have tended to be 
smaller as budgets tighten and levels of discretionary 
spend reduce.
operating review – support services
Turning up the power NZ
In alliance with Transpower, which is responsible for 
New Zealand’s national grid, we are undertaking, in joint 
venture, the country’s largest electricity transmission 
project in half a century. 
Our NZ$230m (£96m) contract involves designing 
and building a new 186km 400kV transmission line – 
including some 430 towers – and removing an obsolete 
line with 460 towers. The new line, going live in 
mid-2012, is vital to meet growing electricity demand 
in upper North Island. Annual report and accounts 2010 43
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
As part of the Group’s cost saving programme 
announced with the half-year results in August 2010, 
we have been developing a Shared Service Centre (SSC) 
in Newcastle to provide centralised accounting, payroll 
and procurement services. It is managed in the Support 
Services division and will deliver services across the 
majority of Balfour Beatty’s UK operating companies.
Live processing started to transition into the SSC in 
February 2011, with over 100 people now working in the 
centre, supporting the transition of the first six operating 
companies. The remaining operating companies will be 
added in the course of the next two years, and we expect 
the SSC to reach full operational capacity by the end of 
2012 with 380 employees.
Looking forward
A strong committed order book gives us confidence 
going forward. We expect AMP5 revenue to start 
increasing, and further income growth will be generated 
as our PPP schools and hospitals come on stream. 
We are also looking at emerging markets to improve 
returns. Renewable energy is one such market in which 
our experience in onshore power transmission should 
stand us in good stead. 
By developing existing client relationships, we are also 
looking to move into new areas such as energy and 
carbon management and extend our existing scope of 
work to the DWP to encompass employment services. 
Operational performance
Local authorities in the UK are becoming an increasingly 
important part of our business as they seek to outsource 
more activities to the private sector in order to cut costs. 
We have therefore established a new standalone Local 
Authorities unit to give the sector greater prominence 
and focus.
The £250m services contract we won with North East 
Lincolnshire local authority in March 2010 is a testament 
to the strength of the offer that Balfour Beatty can make 
as a group, and an example of the type of large, bundled 
contracts that are now available. This 10-year agreement 
will involve the provision of highways transportation and 
planning, asset management and architectural services. 
Parsons Brinckerhoff will undertake the town planning 
and regeneration services elements of this contract. 
Our order book of local authority work is approximately 
£800m, representing a pipeline of more than four 
years’ work.
Our first multi-activity highways contract, with the 
Southampton Highways Service Partnership, was 
signed in July. This £100m deal involves highways 
transportation planning as well as asset management 
services for an initial 10-year period. 
We also won contracts this year with the Highways 
Agency covering the strategic motorway and trunk road 
network in south-west England, with Yorkshire Water 
and with Anglian Water. These three contracts total 
£200m in revenue.
In UK rail renewals, we won a five-year contract to work 
in partnership with London Underground. The framework 
contract is worth £220m, with potential for additional 
work, and our share will be around half. We also secured 
a four-year extension to our track renewal contract for 
Network Rail’s south-east regions worth approximately 
£170m provided agreed targets are met during the first 
year of the contract. 
As a result of Balfour Beatty’s high level of PPP activity 
in recent years, we have four schools and five hospitals 
coming into operation in 2011 which will generate 
additional Support Services revenue.
We seek to deliver continuous improvements for our 
clients, and it is a measure of our success that the scope 
of work we undertake is becoming increasingly broad. 
For example, we are now collaborating with Remploy 
to provide employment-related support services for 
the Department for Work and Pensions’s (DWP) Work 
Programme. This is in addition to work that we currently 
carry out on behalf of the DWP in areas such as 
porterage, mail handling, call centre management and 
transcription services. 
Pipes renewed, past intact UK
In partnership with National Grid, we are responsible 
for maintaining and renewing the gas distribution 
network in north-west England. This includes replacing 
over 500km of obsolete large-diameter pipes each year.
We are currently replacing the old cast-iron network 
in the historic town of Chester. In the centre, the great 
majority of buildings are Grade 1 and Grade 2 listed: 
many are of national importance. So we have to work 
with sensitivity to our surroundings – and to a busy 
calendar of tourism and heritage events. We work 
closely with English Heritage to secure planning 
permission for pipe runs into buildings and have a 
full-time archaeologist on the staff to identify and protect 
the wealth of artefacts unearthed by our digging.  Balfour Beatty 44
infrastructure invest Men ts  
an evolving Mod el
operating review
“ We have now reached the point in the 
business cycle where it is appropriate 
to realise some of the value inherent in 
infrastructure investments. We began 
by disposing of interests in two assets 
in early 2010 and now plan to accelerate 
that process.”
Anthony Rabin  
Deputy Chief Executive, Balfour Beatty plc
What do we do?
Operate a portfolio of long-term PPP concessions in the 
UK, primarily in the education, health and roads/street 
lighting sectors
Operate a portfolio of long-term military accommodation 
PPP concessions in the US
Have interests in non-PPP assets at Blackpool and Exeter 
International Airports and Barking Power Station
What’s happened?
Won eight PPP bids including four schools projects
Reached financial close on three follow-on Building 
Schools for the Future projects
Received additional funding for the Fort Carson military 
housing project
Appointed preferred bidder for Thanet offshore 
transmission system (OFTO)
Sold interests in two PPP assets, realising disposal 
gains of £20m
What’s next?
Intend to dispose of some £200m–£300m of PPP 
and other assets over the next four to five years
Develop funds management business
Transfer the successful military housing model to other 
areas in the US, particularly student housing
Pursue PPP opportunities in Canada and in offshore 
wind in the UK
How we performed
Revenue including JVs and associates
-10%
Profit before exceptionals and amortisation
-38%
KPI
Directors’ valuation
While there are numerous factors that contribute to the 
movement in the Directors’ valuation of PPP concessions, 
it is a good indicator of the value we create in our portfolio.
+ 11%
2010
2009
£679m
£610m
2010
2009
£750m
£829m
2010
2009
£25m
£40m Annual report and accounts 2010 45
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
US university budgets are under strain as public support is reduced. But attendance 
continues to expand and there is growing demand for student accommodation. 
It’s a significant opportunity for public-private partnerships (PPP or P3 in the US), 
and we are due to open our first P3 student housing scheme at Florida Atlantic 
University (FAU) in August. 
Meeting buoyant demand for student beds US
“ P3 is an effective way to introduce private expertise and 
capital into the public sector, meeting the current and 
future needs for housing and infrastructure at colleges 
and universities while improving overall value.”
   Bruce Robinson
President and CEO, Balfour Beatty Capital Group
At FAU, we are building on the expertise we gained from 
providing P3 housing projects for the US military. Balfour 
Beatty’s investment and construction businesses have 
teamed up to design, build, and operate accommodation 
for over 1,200 students.
The US$123m (£79m) Innovation Village Apartments 
project will add 50% to FAU’s existing 2,400-bed 
accommodation, which we will also manage under the 
contract. There is also a likely option to develop a further 
1,200 beds by 2020.
Balfour Beatty invested capital in subordinated bonds 
to support the project. FAU’s existing student housing 
was incorporated into a new non-profit organisation which 
also owns the new assets we are building, allowing funds 
to be raised for additional infrastructure. 
489,000 375 1,216
square feet units beds
Green housing The 375 apartments in two buildings 
are anticipated to meet the LEED Silver standard.
Artist’s impression Balfour Beatty 46
Financial performance
At 31 December 2010, Balfour Beatty had total committed 
equity and subordinated debt of £582m across 57 projects, 
four of which were at preferred bidder stage. 
In April 2010, we sold our entire 50% interest in Aberdeen 
Environmental Services and a 23.9% interest in Consort 
Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) for a total of £24m, 
realising disposal gains of £20m (treated as an exceptional 
gain in the 2010 accounts).
The original 15-year contracts for the supply of gas and 
electricity off-take for Barking Power came to an end 
during 2010, and a non-cash impairment charge of £27m 
was recorded in exceptional items. We have made the 
decision to dispose of our interest in Barking Power.
Overall, despite the asset sales, the Directors’ valuation of 
the PPP portfolio rose in the year to £679m (2009: £610m).
Operational performance
UK
In an excellent year for our UK investment business, 
we won eight PPP bids including four schools projects. 
In addition, we have reached financial close on three 
follow-on Building Schools for the Future projects from 
our existing concessions and are working on the next 
phases, and have a number of bids in progress. The 
projects we won in 2010 secured future investment of 
£60m, as well as providing around £390m of construction 
work together with a number of long-term facilities 
management and operations and management contracts. 
Our strategy
Over the past 15 years, Balfour Beatty has built the UK’s 
largest public-private partnership (PPP or formerly PFI) 
portfolio, outside those held by financial institutions. 
This portfolio has increased in value significantly, with 
our ability to enhance operational efficiency adding further 
value to assets after their construction. 
We have now reached the point in the business cycle 
where it is appropriate to realise some of the value 
inherent in these assets. We began doing this by 
disposing of two assets in early 2010 and now plan 
to accelerate that process.
We intend to dispose of some £200m–£300m of PPP 
and other selected infrastructure assets over the next four 
to five years, achieving around £20m in disposal gains per 
annum. The proceeds will provide cash for reinvestment 
opportunities, both within Infrastructure Investments 
and elsewhere in the Group, as well as providing scope 
for enhancing dividends.
We will continue to be a substantial investor as well 
as, increasingly, a developer. In practice this will mean 
disposing of some equity positions after construction or, 
on occasions, simply taking fees to facilitate investment 
for others at financial close. The developer model will 
enable us to increase profit before tax from this business 
through profits on disposals and developers’ fees over 
the next few years, as well as continuing to receive 
income from the investments themselves.
Our marketplace
Following the change of government in the UK and the 
incoming coalition’s Comprehensive Spending Review, 
the coalition has indicated that it may seek to evolve the 
role of PPP.
Relatively positive statements from a number of spending 
departments on the continuing need for private finance 
reinforce our view that there will be a continuing and 
important place for PPP. But we believe the nature 
of PPP investment may change with projects put out 
to tender that require more complex solutions than 
previously necessary, probably involving greater income 
risk. However, we do not see this as negative and believe 
that our extensive skills base will enable us to address 
this new market successfully.
In the US, military family housing privatisation programmes 
are drawing to a close although we are still pursuing a 
small number of large projects. However, we have almost 
completed construction of our first student housing PPP, 
and see significant growth opportunities in the student 
housing market as well as an increasing acceptance that 
private finance has a role to play in refurbishing the 
nation’s infrastructure.
operating review – inf rastructure invest Men ts
999 call for private finance UK
Our investment expertise means we can help public 
sector clients make constrained budgets go further. 
In tough times, that’s a crucial competitive strength. 
For example, three fire and rescue authorities in 
north-west England have formed a consortium to buy 
services more efficiently. Together, they have awarded 
us a £48m PPP contract to finance, design and build 
16 new fire stations and to run them for 25 years. 
This is the UK’s largest fire and rescue PPP to date. Annual report and accounts 2010 47
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Canada
Canada is an attractive market for infrastructure 
investments. It has supported UK-style PPP programmes 
at both federal and provincial levels, particularly in Ontario.
In 2010, we set up an office in Toronto with local staff 
supported by our US and UK businesses. Together with 
Construction Services, this team has already been 
shortlisted for two courthouse projects in Ontario. 
The Group’s acquisition of professional services group 
Halsall in October 2010 will also support our increasing 
focus on Canada. 
Looking forward
Despite economic and political uncertainty we see 
continuing opportunities for high-quality investment 
in UK PPPs and anticipate over £3bn of bidding 
opportunities over the next two years. We also see 
increasing opportunities in Canada and are currently 
considering bids for five new projects. 
To expand the Group’s income generating potential, 
we have also begun establishing an infrastructure 
funds management business for which we have 
already recruited a core team.
During the year we focused attention on a newly 
emerging private finance sector: offshore power 
transmission. Under the EU Renewable Energy Directive, 
the UK has committed to meeting 15% of its energy 
needs from renewable sources by 2020, requiring a 
sevenfold increase in renewable energy generation 
compared with 2008 and some £100bn of capital 
investment. Activity has been relatively small-scale so far, 
but is likely to accelerate rapidly over the next 10 years. 
As part of its drive to stimulate investment, the 
government has been licensing wind farms in the UK 
sector of the North Sea. It has also been privatising the 
transmission infrastructure that links offshore wind farms 
to the onshore network, through three licensing rounds.
The first licensing round, relating to completed or 
part-completed assets, is in the final stages of bidding. 
We have been selected as preferred bidder to acquire the 
transmission assets of the world’s largest offshore wind 
farm – the 100-turbine Thanet array off the Kent coast 
– and have another bid in hand, for which the winner will 
be announced during 2011. Thanet will provide us with a 
sound investment and give Support Services a long-term 
contract to repair and maintain the asset.
We believe we have a good chance of success in the 
second round of existing and semi-completed assets, 
which begins in 2011, comprising six licences involving 
over £2bn of capital expenditure. We also see particular 
scope for our combination of capabilities in the third 
round, which covers assets yet to be built. Licences 
in this round will create construction, maintenance and 
investment opportunities. There is also the potential for 
additional construction activity of the offshore platform.
US
In the US, 2010 was a year of transition for us. While 
our Navy Northeast project experienced a decrease 
in occupancy due to reduced military demand, and our 
Navy Southeast project is expected to experience a 
further reduction in scope, which was driven by reduced 
rental rates, our Fort Carson project in Colorado received 
additional funding of US$100m (£65m) for further 
construction.
In February 2011, we were also selected as the highest 
ranked offeror for the Western Group of four US Air Force 
bases. Although family military housing programmes are 
expected to draw to a close in the short term, the military 
housing market may return to growth if the Armed Forces 
decides to privatise barracks or single personnel housing. 
Meanwhile, we are looking to transfer the successful 
military housing model to other areas, particularly student 
housing. Universities, like the military, have large property 
holdings, the financing and managing of which is not a 
core competency. Privatisation makes an attractive 
solution and Infrastructure Investments is collaborating 
with Construction Services to develop attractive solutions 
to meet universities’ real estate and financing needs. 
In March 2010, we reached financial close on a PPP to 
develop and manage new student residential facilities for 
Florida Atlantic University. This US$123m (£78m) project 
is an important step in developing our experience in this 
sector in the US.
Class not dismissed UK
We have committed £79m of equity investment in 
14 UK education PPPs to build over 100 schools and 
upgrade and maintain over 100 more.
There is a continuing need for investment in education 
infrastructure, although expenditure is expected to 
reduce following the decade-long boom in spending 
that saw education take an unsustainable share of GDP 
(see chart below). Comprehensive Spending Review 
figures indicate that spending will stay substantially 
above historical levels.
Education
GDP %
1 .8
1 .6
1 .4
1 .2
1 .0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2009
Source: ONS
Water
Harbours
Gas, Comms, Air
Electricity
Rail
Roads
Education
Health
Education Balfour Beatty 48
Strong margin  
performance
financial review from the finance director
“ With average cash of over £400m in the year, and 
our long-term confidence in infrastructure markets, 
we are proposing a 6% increase in dividend for 
the year.”
Duncan Magrath  
Finance Director Annual report and accounts 2010 49
three BSF project extensions, with preferred bidder status 
on a number of other projects including our first offshore 
transmission asset, and the disposal of investments in 
Aberdeen Environmental Services and Edinburgh Royal 
Infirmary for £24m. The original 15-year contracts for the 
supply of gas and electricity off-take for Barking Power 
came to an end during 2010, and a non-cash impairment 
charge of £27m was recorded in exceptional items. 
We also achieved our first financial close on a non-military 
housing PPP project in the US. Overall, despite the asset 
sales, the Directors’ valuation of the PPP portfolio rose in 
the year to £679m.
Financial review
Revenue including joint ventures and associates increased 
2% in the year to £10,541m (2009: £10,339m), also 
up 2% at constant currency. This included PB for the 
whole year, whereas it contributed two months of 
revenue in 2009. Adjusting for the extra 10 months for 
this acquisition and the much smaller impact of other 
acquisitions, underlying revenue declined 11%, or some 
£1,100m. The principal reason for the underlying reduction 
was due to Construction Services’ revenue declining by 
£748m or 10%, with reductions in both the UK and US 
only partially offset by growth in Hong Kong.
Our share of post-tax profits before exceptional items 
from joint ventures and associates increased from 
£81m last year to £85m this year, principally due to 
a better performance from our Rail joint ventures in 
Europe and China.
Profit from operations before exceptional items and 
amortisation of intangible assets increased by 21% to 
£338m (2009: £280m), also up 21% at constant currency.
See pages 28 to 47 for more detailed comments on 
performance by segment.
Net finance costs of £19m were up slightly on the prior 
year (2009: net cost £15m, before exceptional items), 
largely as a result of a £6m increase in the net finance 
cost on pension schemes.
Pre-tax profit before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangible assets therefore increased 20% to £319m 
(2009: £265m).
The pre-exceptional tax charge for the year of £83m 
(2009: £69m) equates to an effective tax rate of 35.5% 
(2009: 37.5%). Eliminating the finance cost of preference 
shares, which does not attract tax relief, the Group’s 
effective tax rate would be 33.7% (2009: 35.2%). 
Adjusting further to include tax in associates and joint 
ventures, and comparing this to pre-tax profits for the 
Group and associates and joint ventures, the effective 
tax rate is 29.5% (2009: 30.7%).
Exceptional items
Exceptional items of £50m (2009: £48m credit) before 
tax were charged to the income statement for the year. 
The most significant items were a £20m gain on the 
sale of two PPP investments, offset by £31m of costs 
for acquisition, integration, reorganisation and other costs 
principally related to the acquisition of PB, £12m of costs 
related to the creation of the UK Shared Service Centre, 
and a £27m non-cash impairment of our investment in 
Barking Power.
We have leased and fitted out a facility in Newcastle for 
the UK Shared Service Centre which is taking on staff to 
Group trading performance
Results for the year 2010 2009
Percentage 
increase
Revenue including 
joint ventures and 
associates £10,541m £10,339m +2%
Group revenue £9,236m £8,954m +3%
Profit from 
operations
–  before exceptional 
items and 
amortisation £338m £280m +21%
–  after exceptional 
items and 
amortisation £206m £295m -30%
Pre-tax profit
–  before exceptional 
items and 
amortisation £319m £265m +20%
–  after exceptional 
items and 
amortisation £187m £265m -29%
Earnings per share
–  adjusted* 34.7p 34.4p +1%
–  basic 21.0p 37.1p -43%
2009 accounts restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 Service 
Concession Arrangements and earnings per share restated for 
the bonus element of the 2009 rights issue.
* Before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets.
Introduction
2010 saw a good operating and financial performance 
in a year over-shadowed by uncertain outlooks as 
governments looked to tackle fiscal deficits.
In Professional Services we had our first full 12-month 
contribution from Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) whose 
performance has exceeded our expectations despite 
difficult conditions in the UK and US markets, particularly 
due to the delay in the re-authorisation of the US 
Highways Bill. Co-operation with the rest of Balfour 
Beatty has been very encouraging, and we are convinced 
that the knowledge and expertise PB brings to the Group 
will make us able to serve our infrastructure customers 
even more effectively in the future.
Following the 14% decline in the Construction Services 
order book in 2009 we have seen a 10% decline in its 
revenue in 2010. This cycle flowed through to a £12m 
increase in profit from operations* in the first half with 
a particularly strong performance in the US, offset by 
a £7m decline in profit* in the second half versus 2009. 
However, a particularly strong second half for winning 
work has seen an increase in the order book back to 
£9.2 billion, only £0.3 billion below the position at the 
end of 2008.
Support Services had a steady year with order book 
and revenue broadly flat, but with profitability* down 
7% largely on the back of start-up costs on some new 
contracts, the creation of a new National Operations 
Centre to support future growth, and slow volumes at 
the start of the new 5-year water regulatory cycle.
It was a busy year in Infrastructure Investments. Financial 
close was reached in the UK on five projects as well as 
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Balfour Beatty 50
Charges for the amortisation of other intangible assets 
increased to £82m (2009: £48m) due to the impact of 
acquisitions, with a related tax credit of £27m (2009: £17m).
Infrastructure investments
During 2010, the Group invested £73m (2009: £62m) 
in a combination of equity and shareholder loans to 
PPP project companies and at the end of the year 
had committed to provide a further £115m from 2011 
onwards, with a further £36m for projects at preferred 
bidder stage. 
At 31 December 2010, the Group’s share of non-recourse 
net debt within Balfour Beatty Capital’s continuing 
PPP project companies amounted to £1,886m 
(2009: £1,775m), comprising £1,616m (2009: £1,527m) 
in relation to joint ventures and associates as disclosed 
in Note 15.2 and £270m (2009: £248m) on the Group 
balance sheet in relation to wholly-owned project 
companies as disclosed in Note 23.1.
The Group’s share of the results of the military housing 
PPP concessions of Balfour Beatty Communities is 
contractually limited to a maximum pre-agreed level 
of return on funds invested, which is shown under the 
equity method of accounting within joint ventures and 
associates. The Group’s investment in those concessions 
is recorded on the balance sheet at the initial equity 
investment plus the value of the Group’s accrued 
preferred return. The fee income which is the bulk of 
the return earned by the Group from these concessions 
is included within Group operating profit.
The Directors have carried out a valuation of the Group’s 
PPP concessions, including the PPP concessions 
of Balfour Beatty Communities, and this is set out 
on pages 52 to 54. This shows that despite £39m 
of disposals, the value of the portfolio has increased 
during the year from £610m to £679m.
Pensions
The Group’s balance sheet includes aggregate deficits 
of £441m (2009: £586m) for the Group’s pension funds 
based on the assumptions set out in Note 25. The Group 
recorded net actuarial gains for 2010 on those funds 
totalling £86m (2009: losses £350m), with the effects 
of the lower discount rates applied to the funds’ liabilities 
more than offset by better than expected returns on the 
assets held by the funds, the rebasing of some benefits 
from RPI to CPI and increased Company contributions. 
Pensions – balance sheet movement
provide accounts, payroll and procurement transactional 
services across all of the UK divisions. We remain on 
track for annual gross savings of £30m, of which we 
expect £20m to flow through to the bottom line, for 
one-off exceptional costs of £12m in 2010 and £13m 
in 2011. 
Earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share of 34.7p are slightly up 
(2009: 34.4p). The increase in pre-exceptional profit 
before tax has been largely offset by the increase 
in the average number of shares in issue due to the 
full-year effect of the rights issue in 2009 to fund the 
acquisition of PB.
Cash flow performance
Cash generated from operations of £169m (2009: £294m) 
compared with profit from operations of £206m 
(2009: £295m).
Cash from operations was less than profit largely due to 
the pension deficit payments of £81m, which included a 
one-off payment of £40m in December 2010 in addition 
to regular deficit payments of £41m, and an increase 
in working capital of £32m as a result of anticipated 
contract settlement payments in PB and a reduction 
in the negative working capital in Construction Services 
due to the reduction in revenue. 
Average cash in the second half of the year was £434m, 
although the Group’s net cash at 31 December 2010 was 
in excess of that at £518m (2009: £572m), before taking 
into account the consolidation of £270m (2009: £248m) 
of non-recourse net debt held in wholly-owned PPP 
project companies.
Net cash balances
†
†
 excluding net debt of PPP subsidiaries.
More detailed analysis on the movements in net cash are 
shown in Note 35.
Balance sheet and capital structure
Goodwill and intangibles
Total consideration for acquisitions in the year amounted 
to £43m. Goodwill arising on these acquisitions amounted 
to £32m and a further £9m of intangible assets were 
recognised. As a result, and after exchange adjustments, 
the goodwill on the Group’s balance sheet at 
31 December 2010 increased to £1,196m (2009: £1,145m) 
and other intangible assets to £251m (2009: £298m). 
Impairment reviews have been carried out, and none of 
the goodwill has been impaired. Details of the calculations 
and assumptions are shown in Note 12.
financial review
Jun
2007
Dec
2007
Jun
2008
Dec
2008
Jun
2009
Dec
2009
Jun
2010
Dec
2010
0
100
300
200
400
500
600
6-monthly average £ US$ € Other
£m
Dec
2009
Service
cost
Company
contri-
butions
Actuarial
gain 
assets
Actuarial
loss
liabilities
Other
move-
ments
Dec
2010
Deferred tax assets
Pension deﬁcits, net of tax
£586m
£166m
£420m
£53m
£121m
£1 19m
£33m
£9m £441m
£120m
£321m Annual report and accounts 2010 51
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
A formal actuarial valuation of the Balfour Beatty Pension 
Fund (BBPF) was carried out at 31 March 2010 and 
showed a funding position of 85%. 
Following discussions with the Trustees, the Company 
agreed a funding plan to eliminate that deficit over eight 
years. The plan comprised an initial one-off payment of 
£40m, which was paid in December 2010, and regular 
monthly payments of £4m starting from April 2010. 
The monthly payments will be increased each April 
by the increase in CPI up to a cap of 5%, plus 50% of 
any increase in the Company’s dividend in excess of CPI.
Note 25 includes a sensitivity analysis which identifies the 
impact on the income statement and the balance sheet 
from changes in the assumptions. The future projected 
cash flows for benefit payments from 31 March 2010 
for the BBPF are shown below.
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund benefit payment 
cash flows
Dividend policy
Balfour Beatty aims over time to grow the dividend broadly 
in line with the growth in earnings, taking into account 
the investment needs of the business. The Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 7.65p in respect of 
2010, giving a full-year dividend of 12.7p (2009: 12.0p 
adjusted), up 6% on last year. Underlying dividend cover 
for 2010 is 2.7, slightly lower than the cover of 2.9 last 
year but the Board believes that this is reasonable given 
the strength of the Group’s cash reserves and future 
prospects. Going forwards the Company intends to treat 
disposals of PPP investments as part of regular trading, 
and include those earnings arising in the calculation of the 
level of dividend payout.
To appreciate the prospects for the Group as a whole, 
the complete Annual report and accounts 2010 needs 
to be read, with particular reference to Notes 20 and 23.
Treasury risk management
The Group’s financial instruments, other than derivatives, 
comprise cash and liquid investments, and borrowings. 
The Group enters into derivatives transactions (principally 
forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate 
swaps) to manage the currency and interest rate risks 
arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of 
finance.
The Group’s businesses manage their known foreign 
currency transactional exposures by taking out forward 
foreign exchange contracts through Group Treasury. 
The Group has decided not to adopt hedge accounting 
for its foreign currency transactional exposures except 
where the exposure is in excess of pre-set materiality 
limits in which case a decision is made as to whether 
to hedge account or not. As a result, there was a credit 
to profit of £1m (2009: £1m charge) which would 
otherwise have been taken directly to equity.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, 
the Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial 
instruments shall be undertaken. Compliance with policy 
is monitored through regular reporting and internal audits. 
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing 
the Group’s financial and treasury risks and they are 
summarised on pages 59 and 60. Details of the Group’s 
financial risk factors and financial instruments are shown 
in Note 20.
Treasury facilities
The Group has no significant net debt, other than the 
non-recourse borrowings of companies engaged in PPP 
projects and infrastructure investments.
The Group has a series of bilateral committed facilities 
which total £627m, the majority of which mature in 2012 
and the first half of 2013. The purpose of these facilities is 
to provide liquidity from a group of core relationship banks 
to support Balfour Beatty in its current and future activities. 
In the normal course of its business, the Group arranges 
for financial institutions to provide customers with 
guarantees in connection with its contracting activities 
(commonly referred to as “bonds”). Such bonds provide 
a customer with a level of financial protection in the event 
that a contractor fails to meet its commitments under the 
terms of a contract. In return for issuing the bonds, the 
financial institutions receive a fee and a counter-indemnity 
from Balfour Beatty plc. As at 31 December 2010, 
contract bonds in issue by financial institutions under 
uncommitted facilities covered £3.8bn (2009: £3.1bn) 
of contract commitments of the Group.
Going concern
The Directors have acknowledged the guidance “Going 
Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK 
Companies 2009” published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in October 2009. In reviewing the future 
prospects of the Group the following factors are relevant:
the Group has a strong order backlog, and good 
forward visibility; 
there continues to be underlying demand in infrastructure 
markets in the countries in which the Group operates;
the Group has an increasingly diversified business 
model that gives resilience to the business; and
the Group had £518m net cash at 31 December 2010, 
in addition to which it had undrawn committed facilities 
in excess of £600m, of which £420m continue until the 
fourth quarter of 2012.
Based on the above, and having made appropriate 
enquiries and reviewed medium-term cash forecasts, 
the Directors consider it reasonable to assume that the 
Group and the Company have adequate resources to 
continue for the foreseeable future and, for this reason, 
have continued to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the accounts.
£m
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
1
11
21
31
41
51
61
71
81
91
Year Balfour Beatty 52
director S’ valuation of ppp conce SSion S
director S’ valuation  
of ppp conce SSion S
Our portfolio Cash invested by December Our portfolio Total equity committed by sector
Portfolio valuation: December 2010 Value by sector
Disposal gains analysis 2010 £m 
Balfour Beatty Capital
Disposal gains analysis 2010 £m
Balfour Beatty Communities
Movement in value 2009/2010 £m
2009
Equity 
invested
Distrib-
utions
Unwind 
of 
discount
Disposal 
proceeds Rebased
New 
project 
wins
Gain on 
disposals
Opera-
tional 
perfor-
mance 
gains
2010 
(excl FX)
FX 
translation 2010
Growth 
(excl FX)
BB Capital 439 71 (38) 37 (24) 485 15 3 29 532 1 533 9.7%
BB Communities 171 2 (18) 13 (15) 153 – 1 (13) 141 5 146 (7.8)%
Total 610 73 (56) 50 (39) 638 15 4 16 673 6 679 5.5%
Portfolio valuation: December 2010 Value by phase
2
3
4
5
  No. of 2010 2009
  projects £m £m
1 Roads 1 1 165 154
2 Hospitals 9 125 125
3 Schools 14 79 58
4 Other 5 40 17
5 BB Communities 18 173 170
Total   582 524
1
2
3
4
5
   2010 2009
   £m £m
1 Roads  240 214
2 Hospitals  190 148
3 Schools  75 49
4 Other  28 28
5 BB Communities  146 171
Total   679 610
1
£m
Directors’ valuation 
rebased 31/12/2010
Gain on disposal
Directors’ valuation
rebased 31/12 2010
Income statement
Y/E 31/12 2010
0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
Book value at disposal
Proﬁt on disposal
£m
Directors’ valuation 
rebased 31/12/2010
Gain on disposal
Directors’ valuation
rebased 31/12 2010
Income statement
Y/E 31/12 2010
0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
Book value at disposal
Proﬁt on disposal
1
2
3
   2010 2009
   £m £m
1 Operations  476 450
2 Construction  193 158
3 Preferred bidder  10 2
Total   679 610
1
2
3
4
5
  No. of 2010 2009
  projects £m £m
1 Roads 1 1 103 84
2 Hospitals 9 122 89
3 Schools 14 52 34
4 Other 5 5 10
5 BB Communities 18 149 147
Total   431 364 Annual report and accounts 2010 53
New project wins
New project wins during 2010 for the Balfour Beatty 
Capital portfolio of £15m represented the preferred bidder 
appointment on eight PPP projects, and the financial close 
of three phase 2 BSF schemes.
Disposals
Disposals during 2010 from the Balfour Beatty Capital 
portfolio of £24m comprise the cash proceeds from 
the sale of its entire 50% shareholding in the Aberdeen 
waste water project and the reduction in its stake in the 
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary project to 50% by the disposal 
of a 23.9% shareholding. Disposals during 2010 from the 
Balfour Beatty Communities portfolio of £15m comprise 
the cash proceeds from the disposal of the Group’s entire 
investment in the AMC West senior bond for US$24m, 
translated at the exchange rate applicable at 31 December 
2009 of 1.62. Differences on exchange rate movements 
are shown in the movement analysis within FX translation.
Assurance
The calculations underpinning the valuation have been 
independently checked to ensure that the valuation 
has been accurately carried out in accordance with the 
specified methodology. However, the detailed financial 
models have not been audited.
The valuation method
The valuation does not set out to estimate the market 
value of the investments in the portfolio but rather, through 
the application of a consistent methodology, illustrates 
movements in underlying values between periods and 
highlights the impact of intervening transactions.
DCF
The method used to value the portfolio is discounted 
cash flow (“DCF”). This is applied to the future forecast 
cash flows to which Balfour Beatty as a shareholder 
and a holder of subordinated debt is entitled in order 
to create a net present value. DCF has been used on 
all the investments. For projects which have reached 
financial close, forecast future cash flows are extracted 
from detailed financial models, updated in line with 
operational experience and lenders’ requirements. 
For projects at preferred bidder stage, the current 
pre-close financial model has been used.
Discount rate
As in 2009, the Directors have adopted a single 
discount rate of 8.0% nominal post shareholder tax 
to value the portfolio of closed and preferred bidder 
projects. The Directors’ valuation of Balfour Beatty’s 
investment portfolio is sensitive to the discount rate 
adopted. The valuation for a range of discount rates 
is shown on the next page.
Shareholder tax
Balfour Beatty receives a number of cash flow streams 
from its investments. Most, but not all, of these cash 
flows are subject to tax upon receipt by the Balfour 
Beatty Group. The Directors’ valuation takes into account 
these cash flows after the imposition of taxation upon 
the Group and thus uses a post-tax discount rate. 
The post-tax discount rate of 8.0% used in the Directors’ 
valuation equates to a discount rate of 10.0% (9.4% 
for Balfour Beatty Capital and 11.5% for Balfour Beatty 
Introduction 
Balfour Beatty’s PPP concession portfolio has grown 
both organically and through acquisition to become a 
very significant part of the Group’s business and a major 
driver of shareholder value. At 31 December 2010, Balfour 
Beatty had total committed equity and subordinated 
debt of £582m across 57 projects (38 UK, 18 US and 
1 Singapore) four of which were at preferred bidder 
stage. At that date, £431m had already been invested 
and £151m was due over the next six years. 
The cash invested and committed equity values 
represent, respectively, the total investments to date 
and cash invested or committed to be invested across 
the 57 projects in Balfour Beatty’s PPP portfolio. 
For both cash invested and committed equity measures, 
acquisitions are reflected at the price paid rather than 
the nominal value of the interest acquired, and no 
adjustments have been made to reflect partial disposals 
or cash received from distributions. Assets in which 
the Group no longer holds any interest are not included 
in the December 2010 figures.
In order to provide an indicator of value, Balfour Beatty 
publishes its own valuation benchmark for the Group’s 
PPP investments, based on discounting expected future 
cash flows (“DCF valuation”) but without taking into 
account potential refinancing gains. The valuations 
do not include Balfour Beatty’s non-PPP infrastructure 
investments in Barking Power, Exeter International 
Airport and Blackpool International Airport.
Directors’ valuation
At 31 December 2010, the Directors’ valuation of 
Balfour Beatty’s investment portfolio stood at £679m, 
at a post-tax nominal discount rate of 8.0% (2009 
£610m). The movement in value arises from shareholder 
cash inflows and outflows during the year, and underlying 
growth in the portfolio arising from the unwinding of the 
discount rate from year to year, disposals, project wins, 
operational performance gains and foreign exchange 
translation movements.
The Directors’ valuation incorporates all anticipated future 
distributions to equity and repayment thereof, interest and 
principal payments on shareholder subordinated debt and 
fees payable to shareholders from projects that have either 
reached financial close or are at the preferred bidder stage. 
The DCF valuation does not take into account profits 
made by Balfour Beatty Group companies that perform the 
construction, maintenance or facilities management services 
associated with the projects other than fees directly arising 
from the Group’s investment in US projects.
Operational performance 
Operational performance movements arise principally 
from operational improvements identified leading to a 
revision of the future cost and/or revenue forecasts, as well 
as other inflows and outflows of cash. In 2010 operational 
performance gains from the Balfour Beatty Capital portfolio 
arose principally from reduced cost forecasts, a reduction 
in the rate of corporation tax and changes to economic 
assumptions. For Balfour Beatty Communities, operational 
performance losses principally arose from a combination of 
lower than forecast increases in revenue, de-scoping of the 
Navy SE military housing project and lower than forecast 
occupancy at the Fort Hamilton military housing project.
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Balfour Beatty 54
director S’ valuation of ppp conce SSion S
Of the Balfour Beatty Capital portfolio of 39 projects, 
one project, ITE West in Singapore, has non-sterling 
denominated cash flows. The unrealised translation gain 
on the value of ITE West is £1m, based on the exchange 
rate on 31 December 2010 of GBP:Singapore$ of 2.00 
(2009: 2.27).
At 31 December 2010 equity committed of £582m and 
equity invested of £431m included the acquired Balfour 
Beatty Communities portfolio of £123m (US$244m) at 
the acquisition exchange rate of 1.98. Equity of £23m 
was contributed during 2008 translated at an exchange 
rate of 1.98 and £1m during 2009 at an exchange rate 
of 1.46. £2m of equity contributed during 2010 together 
with future commitments of £24m (US$38m) were 
translated at 1.56. In addition, the movement in value 
analysis for Balfour Beatty Communities between years 
has been translated at an exchange rate of 1.62, the 
movement between that rate and the year-end exchange 
rate of 1.56 is shown separately as FX translation.
Communities) were the value of the cash flows to be 
reported before the imposition of Group taxation, a 
methodology also currently used in the market place.
The pre-tax discount rate of 11.5% for Balfour Beatty 
Communities at 31 December 2010 compares to a 
pre-tax discount rate of 12.1% in the Directors’ valuation 
at 31 December 2009, the reduction being due to 
changes in the mix of forecast cash flows from year to 
year. The pre-tax discount rate of 10.0% at 31 December 
2010 compares to a pre-tax discount rate of 10.1% in the 
Directors’ valuation at 31 December 2009, the reduction 
being due to changes in the proportionate values of the 
portfolios from year to year.
Translation gain
At 31 December 2010 the USD exchange rate used to 
translate the Directors’ valuation of the Balfour Beatty 
Communities portfolio was GBP:US$1.56 (2009: 1.62), 
generating an unrealised gain on translation of £5m. 
Balfour Beatty PPP Concessions’ valuation range
Balfour Beatty Capital Balfour Beatty Communities
Annual forecast cash flows and DCF valuation over time Balfour Beatty Capital
Annual forecast cash flows and DCF valuation over time Balfour Beatty Communities
Directors’ valuation £m
10.0% 9.5% 9.0% 8.5% 8.0% 7.5% 7.0% 6.5% 6.0% 5.5% 5.0% Post-tax
11.7% 11.2% 10.6% 10.0% 9.4% 8.9% 8.3% 7.7% 7.2% 6.6% 6.0% Pre-tax
0
200
100
300
400
500
600
800
700
900
Balfour Beatty Capital Portfolio 2010
Discount rate
Balfour Beatty Capital Portfolio 2009
£610m
£508m
£533m
£439m
£469m
£382m
Project cash ﬂow £m
Directors’ valuation £m
-100
0
-50
50
100
150
200
-400
0
-200
200
400
600
800
2011
2013
2015
2017
2019
2021
2023
2025
2027
2029
2031
2033
2035
2037
2039
2041
2043
2045
Dividends Fees Sub debt principal Sub debt interest Shareholder tax Equity and sub debt investment Directors’ valuation
Project cash ﬂow £m
Directors’ valuation £m
-30
-20
0
-10
20
10
30
40
50
60
-120
-80
0
-40
80
40
120
160
200
240
Dividends Tax beneﬁt Fees Shareholder tax Equity and sub debt investment Directors’ valuation
2011
2014
2017
2020
2023
2026
2029
2032
2035
2038
2041
2044
2047
2050
2053
2056
2059
2062
Directors’ valuation £m
10.0% 9.5% 9.0% 8.5% 8.0% 7.5% 7.0% 6.5% 6.0% 5.5% 5.0% Post-tax
14.2% 13.5% 12.8% 12.2% 11.5% 10.8% 10.1% 9.5% 8.8% 8.2% 7.5% Pre-tax
0
50
100
150
250
200
300
Balfour Beatty Communities Portfolio 2010
Discount rate
Balfour Beatty Communities Portfolio 2009
£194m
£169m
£171m
£146m
£152m
£129m Identify business objectives
Risks identified at operating 
company, functional and 
project level
Financial and non-financial 
risks recorded in risk 
registers
Risk owner identified
Risk and mitigation plans 
subject to regular and 
rigorous review
Key issues elevated, 
as appropriate, through 
management reporting 
structures
Risks analysed as to 
likelihood and impact 
Risk evaluation recorded 
in risk register
Action plans developed 
and implemented to  
mitigate/eliminate risks
Action owners and 
timescales defined
Analysis & evaluation
Mitigation
Identification
Reporting & monitoring
Board
Responsible for  
the Group’s system  
of risk management  
and internal controls
Operating companies
Maintain an effective system of internal  
control and risk management
Divisions
Ensure that operating companies’  
responsibilities are discharged 
Monthly review of risk and mitigation planning
Risks
Policy and review
Information and risk reporting
Annual report and accounts 2010 55
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Risk management process
The Group’s risk management policy requires all divisions 
and the operating companies within them to identify and 
assess the risks to which they are exposed and which 
could impact their ability to deliver their and the Group’s 
objectives. Risk registers are used to document the risk 
events identified, their causes and possible 
consequences. Risks are then analysed as to the 
likelihood of occurrence and also their potential impact 
on the business. Actions are developed and put in place 
to mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposures. Individuals 
are allocated responsibility for evaluating and managing 
the risks identified to an agreed timescale. Risk registers 
are regularly reviewed to identify new risks as they arise, 
update mitigation plans and to remove risks that are no 
longer relevant.
Principal risks
The Group operates in several different business 
environments in which a number of risks and uncertainties 
exist. Whilst acknowledging that it is not possible to 
eliminate such risks and uncertainties completely, 
established risk management and internal control systems 
and procedures exist within the Group to manage their 
impact and assist in the delivery of the Group’s business 
objectives and creation of shareholder value. 
In many of the territories in which the Group operates, 
2010 continued to be a challenging year as customers 
and suppliers coped with the ongoing effects of the 
global economic downturn. The Group’s exposure to 
changes in customers’ spending is mitigated by the fact 
that it operates across the whole infrastructure lifecycle 
in a number of sectors and territories and the impact 
of changes in spending varies across each part of that 
lifecycle in those sectors and territories.
The Group recognises the need for effective mitigation 
steps to address the changes in risk profile it faces as it 
operates in and seeks to expand into a larger number of 
territories (be it economic, political, commercial or related 
to business conduct). Execution of business across the 
broader geographical footprint may require the Group to 
Risk management
The effective management of risks within the Group is 
essential to, and underpins, the delivery of the Group’s 
objectives of achievement of sustainable shareholder 
value and the protection of its reputation.
The Group’s approach to risk management is to identify, 
at an early stage, key risks and then to develop actions 
to eliminate or mitigate the impact and likelihood of 
those risks either before they arise or if they crystallise.
Managing risk
 
 
Risk management and assurance
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control. Reporting structures 
ensure that risks are continually monitored and that 
mitigation plans are subject to review within the Group. 
Established business reporting systems ensure that 
significant risk exposures are escalated from operating 
company management to divisional management and 
ultimately to the Board, if appropriate, via monthly 
performance and operations reviews.
The Board has delegated to:
The Audit Committee – responsibility for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls, including 
the systems established to identify, assess, manage 
and monitor risks.
The Business Practices Committee – responsibility 
for monitoring and reviewing the Group’s performance 
in managing social, environmental, ethical and 
reputational risks.
These sub-committees of the Board report the findings 
of their reviews to the Board.
The Board has concluded that the Group maintained 
sound risk management and internal control systems 
throughout the year and has reviewed their effectiveness.
Underpinned by  
effective risk management
principal risks and risk management
Roles and responsibilities 
Significant risk exposures are escalated from operating 
company management to divisional management and 
ultimately the Board. Balfour Beatty 56
principal risks and risk management
External risks
Economic environment
The continued effect of the global economic downturn may cause the Group’s customers to cancel, postpone 
or reduce existing or future projects. In particular, the Group is dependent on UK and US government policies 
and spending for a significant part of its revenues.
Potential impact 
Any significant changes in the level or 
timing of customer spending or 
investment plans could adversely 
impact the Group’s order book.
Mitigation
The Group has a broad exposure to 
various infrastructure markets across 
the globe. This and the continued need 
for infrastructure spending mitigates 
the risk of changes in spending in any 
one market. 
The Group maintains a high level of 
engagement with its customers to 
understand and respond effectively to 
their evolving requirements at all phases 
of the infrastructure lifecycle. The recent 
appointment of a Head of Public Affairs 
will further help us understand the 
needs of the Group’s public sector 
customers in the UK and US.
The Group is also active in seeking out 
new infrastructure markets as they 
develop (eg nuclear, wind).
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly performance 
reviews
Medium-term planning process
Budgetary process
Commercial counterparty solvency
The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk of its customers, sub-contractors, joint venture partners, financial 
institutions and suppliers. This risk is increased further by the current economic climate.
Potential impact 
Failure of a customer, including any 
government or public sector body, 
could result in non-collection of 
amounts owed.
Failure of a sub-contractor or supplier 
would result in the Group having to 
find a replacement or undertaking the 
task itself which could result in time 
delays and additional costs.
Mitigation
The financial solvency and strength of 
counterparties is considered prior to 
the signing of contracts. During the life 
of the contract such assessments are 
updated and reviewed whenever 
possible. The Group seeks to ensure 
that it is not over-reliant on any one 
counterparty.
During the life of a project retentions, 
bonds and/or letters of credit will be 
obtained, where appropriate, from 
sub-contractors to mitigate the impact 
of any potential insolvency.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly finance and 
performance reviews
the challenges it faced in 2010. The Board believes these 
systems will continue to help it address the risks it faces 
in the future from the changing economic and commercial 
environment in which it operates.
Set out on the following pages are the principal risks 
which could have a material impact on the Group’s 
reputation, operations and financial performance. 
A number of the risks set out below reflect the ethical 
and sustainability issues that the Group faces. The table 
below also describes the potential impact of such risks, 
the mitigation steps in place and the key reporting and 
monitoring processes to review risks and their related 
mitigation plans.
enter into joint venture partnerships to deliver projects. 
The Group has in place selection criteria to ensure that 
appropriate partners are selected.
The acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff in the last quarter 
of 2009 whilst increasing the number of territories in 
which the Group operates also brought with it in-depth 
knowledge of customers and their requirements in the 
planning and design phase of the infrastructure lifecycle. 
This will help inform the other divisions within the Group 
in meeting customers’ demands and needs.
The Board believes that the Group’s established risk 
management and internal control systems have helped 
it to respond to the changing business environment and  Annual report and accounts 2010 57
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Legal and regulatory
The Group operates in a diverse number of territories and its businesses are subject to a number of complex, 
demanding and evolving legal, tax and regulatory requirements.
Potential impact 
A breach of these local laws and 
regulations could lead to legal 
proceedings, investigations or 
disputes resulting in a disruption of 
business, ranging from additional 
costs incurred on a project to potential 
debarment and reputational damage.
Mitigation
The Group monitors and responds to 
legal and regulatory developments in 
the territories in which it operates. 
A territory’s legal and regulatory 
framework is considered as part of 
any Group decision to conduct 
business in a new territory.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly performance 
reviews
Medium-term planning process
Strategic risks
Acquisition
The Group has made and continues to make acquisitions in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
Potential impact 
Failure to identify acquired liabilities or 
to integrate successfully the business 
acquired into the Group’s processes 
could result in an adverse impact on 
the Group’s future prospects, financial 
condition and profitability.
Mitigation
Detailed due diligence including 
preparation of a valuation model is 
performed on all potential acquisitions 
drawing upon both internal and 
external resources. Due diligence also 
includes an assessment of the ability 
to integrate the acquired business 
successfully into the Group. When a 
business is acquired detailed integration 
plans are developed and monitored to 
ensure the successful integration of the 
business into the Group and its internal 
control framework.
Reporting & monitoring 
Board/Divisional review and approval
Monthly/quarterly finance and 
performance reviews
Investments
The Group invests in a number of PPP and non-PPP infrastructure investments across the world. The success of such 
investments is dependent on a number of assumptions on future revenues and costs.
Potential impact 
If any of the assumptions should 
prove to be incorrect they could have 
an adverse impact on the profitability 
of those investments.
The degree of leverage involved in 
these investments means that small 
changes in these assumptions could 
negatively impact the Group’s equity 
investment.
Mitigation
All investment appraisals are conducted 
and managed by experienced 
personnel and those risks associated 
with revenues and costs are carefully 
analysed. Appropriate contractual and 
other risk mitigations are identified 
and established. The consequent 
delivery risk arising from an investment 
activity is managed by the selection 
of suitably qualified personnel and 
the careful selection of delivery and 
service partners.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly finance and 
performance reviews Balfour Beatty 58
Organisation and management risk
People
The success of the Group depends on its ability to recruit and retain the best management and employees.
Potential impact 
Failure to recruit and retain 
appropriately skilled people could 
adversely impact the Group’s ability 
to deliver specific contracts and its 
future growth.
Mitigation
Organisation and People reviews are 
undertaken by each division and its 
operating companies to review the 
role, competencies, performance 
and potential of personnel. This 
well-developed succession planning 
process includes a review in each 
operating company to identify and 
develop high potential/calibre personnel 
to fill key roles that arise. These plans 
are reviewed and discussed at all levels 
within the organisation and by the 
Board on a regular basis. Appropriate 
remuneration and incentive packages 
are in place to assist in the attraction 
and retention of key employees.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly operations and 
performance reviews
Annual succession planning review
Board review
Remuneration Committee
Nominations Committee
Business conduct
The Group operates in various international markets with partners and supply chains which may have inherent risks 
relating to business conduct including but not limited to fraud, bribery and corruption.
Potential impact 
Failure by employees to observe the 
highest standards of integrity and 
conduct in dealing with customers, 
suppliers and other stakeholders 
could result in civil and/or criminal 
penalties, debarment, as well as 
reputational damage.
Mitigation
The Group has clearly set out in its 
Code of Conduct its expectations of 
employees and operating companies in 
dealing with its stakeholders. This was 
distributed to all employees and during 
2010 e-learning continued to be used 
to raise awareness of the Code within 
the organisation.
Reporting & monitoring 
Business Practices Committee
Monthly/quarterly performance and 
operations reviews
Information technology
The efficient operation of the Group is increasingly dependent on the proper operation, performance and development 
of its IT systems.
Potential impact 
Failure to manage, integrate IT 
systems or implement successfully 
changes in IT systems could result in 
a loss of control over critical business 
information and/or systems.
This in turn could impact the 
Group’s ability to fulfil its contractual 
obligations and manage its 
businesses.
Mitigation
Group IT works with divisions to set 
IT strategy and to ensure that business 
critical systems are being properly 
managed. Significant investments in 
IT systems are subject to Board review 
and approval.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly operations and 
performance reviews
Information security
The Group is exposed to potential information security threats to its own information and also that which it holds 
on behalf of customers (in particular, in respect of its facilities management customers).
Potential impact 
A breach of information security or an 
improper disclosure of such 
information could expose the Group 
to adverse publicity, investigation and 
legal claims.
Mitigation
The Group has implemented minimum 
information security standards which 
divisions are expected to meet.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly operations and 
performance reviews
principal risks and risk management Annual report and accounts 2010 59
Financial and treasury risks
The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Group’s funding, liquidity and treasury derivative risks. 
The Board sets and reviews the Group Treasury policy which prohibits entering into speculative trading of financial 
instruments. The principal financial risks managed by Group Treasury are finance and liquidity, treasury counterparty, 
contract bonds, currency and interest rate risks, details of which are set out below:
Finance and liquidity
The Group has no significant net borrowings and manages its cash resources to finance its operations and growth.
Potential impact 
Failure to match availability of funds 
with the Group’s current and future 
funding requirements could lead to a 
shortfall.
Mitigation
The Group’s cash resources are 
maintained in a variety of cash, term 
deposits and money market funds of 
varying durations to ensure availability 
of funds to meet the Group’s 
requirements.
In addition, the Group has in place a 
number of committed facilities of 
differing maturities to supplement its 
cash resources.
Reporting & monitoring 
Finance and General Purposes 
Committee
Treasury counterparty
The Group is exposed by virtue of the deposits it holds with various financial institutions to the solvency of those 
financial institutions.
Potential impact 
Failure of any financial institution with 
which funds are placed could lead to 
a loss of those funds.
Mitigation
Treasury counterparty risk is monitored 
regularly and limits based on a 
counterparty’s credit rating are set as to 
the amounts and duration of deposits 
held in any one financial institution.
Reporting & monitoring 
Finance and General Purposes 
Committee
Contract bonds
In the normal course of business the Group is sometimes required to provide performance bonds to its customers. 
These bonds provide a customer with a level of financial protection in the event that a contractor fails to meets its 
commitments under the terms of the contract. Such bonds are provided, for a fee, by various financial institutions.
Potential impact 
If the Group were unable to issue 
sufficient bonds in the future then its 
ability to grow the business (by 
providing such bonds in support of 
new work) may be constrained.
Mitigation
The Group maintains relationships with 
a number of financial institutions which 
provide performance bonds. The Group 
also reviews the level of headroom 
available with individual institutions and, 
where appropriate and necessary, will 
seek to negotiate increases in capacity.
Reporting & monitoring 
Finance and General Purposes 
Committee
Monthly/quarterly finance and 
operations reviews
Currency
The global nature of the Group’s activities means that the Company is exposed to currency exchange rate volatility 
in respect of those transactions which are in foreign currencies or on the translation of the net assets and income 
statement of its foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Potential impact 
Fluctuations in exchange rates could 
adversely impact the Group’s results 
and net asset position.
Mitigation
Known foreign currency transactional 
exposures are managed by entering 
into forward foreign exchange 
contracts. The Group currently does 
not hedge its foreign currency 
exposures on the translation into 
sterling of profits or net investments in 
overseas subsidiaries. 
Reporting & monitoring 
Finance and General Purposes 
Committee
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Balfour Beatty 60
Interest rates
The Group has no significant borrowings other than PPP non-recourse term loans.
Potential impact 
Changes in interest rates could impact 
cash flows and cause the Group to 
incur additional borrowing costs on its 
PPP non-recourse term loans.
Mitigation
PPP concessions use interest rate 
swaps to swap floating rate borrowings 
to fixed rates to mitigate changes in 
interest rates on cash flows.
Reporting & monitoring 
Finance and General Purposes 
Committee
Pensions
The Group is exposed to funding risks arising from changes in longevity, inflation and investment assumptions 
in relation to its defined benefit pension schemes. At present there is an actuarial deficit in these schemes. 
Potential impact 
The amount of the deficit can be 
affected by a number of factors which 
would result in an additional funding 
requirement.
Mitigation
Measures to mitigate liabilities are under 
continuous review by the Group. The 
performance of the Group’s pension 
schemes is regularly monitored by the 
Group and the trustees of the pension 
schemes who, as appropriate, take 
advice from external consultants.
Steps have been taken to restrict 
certain future increases in the principal 
defined benefit scheme’s liabilities.
Agreement has recently been reached 
with the trustees of the principal fund 
for the Company to make additional 
contributions to reduce the deficit over 
eight years.
Reporting & monitoring 
Investment committee of the Balfour 
Beatty Pension Fund
Board and Audit Committee review
Management review of asset/liability 
and investment strategy
Delivery and operational risks
Bidding
The Group, through its operating companies, seeks to win work through a large number of bids each year.
Potential impact 
Failure to estimate risks, costs, the 
impact of inflation and the contractual 
terms being entered into and how 
best to manage them could have an 
adverse impact on the profitability of 
such contracts.
Mitigation
All bids are subject to rigorous 
estimating and tendering processes 
within a defined framework.
Defined delegated authority levels exist 
for the approval of all tenders and 
infrastructure investments, with all 
major and significant contracts being 
subject to Group review and approval 
by the Group Tender and Investment 
Committee.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly operations, 
performance and finance reviews
Joint ventures
In certain instances where the Group may not possess the necessary strengths/expertise it will engage in joint 
ventures with carefully selected partners to deliver certain contracts.
Potential impact 
In the event of a disagreement with, 
or failure of, or poor performance of a 
joint venture to deliver, the Group 
could be exposed to financial and 
reputational risks.
Mitigation
The Group has procedures in place to 
ensure that joint venture partners 
selected have the relevant skills, 
experience, resources and values to 
complement those of the Group. The 
performance of joint venture partners is 
monitored throughout the life of the 
project.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly operations, 
performance and finance reviews
principal risks and risk management Annual report and accounts 2010 61
Service delivery
The Group is engaged in a number of complex design, engineering, construction, facilities management and asset 
management projects.
Potential impact 
Failure to manage or deliver against 
contracted customer requirements to 
an appropriate quality and on a timely 
basis could result in a number of 
issues (ie contract disputes, unagreed 
claims, design issues, cost overruns, 
failure to achieve customer savings) 
which could adversely impact the 
profitability and reputation of the 
Group.
Mitigation
Each operating company has a number 
of defined operating procedures 
designed to address the risks inherent 
in project delivery. In addition, the 
Group’s risk management framework 
facilitates the identification of specific 
risks on projects and the mitigating 
actions required. Projects are subject to 
management review at all levels to 
monitor progress and to review steps 
put in place to address specific risks 
identified on those projects.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly performance 
reviews
Health and safety More information: see pages 66 and 67
The Group is involved in significant, complex and potentially hazardous projects which require the continuous 
monitoring and management of health and safety risks.
Potential impact 
Failure to manage these risks could 
expose our people or the public to 
injury/harm and the Group to 
significant potential liabilities and 
reputational damage.
Mitigation
Detailed Health and Safety policies and 
procedures exist to minimise such risks 
and are subject to review and 
monitoring by both operating 
companies and divisional management. 
Within each operating company there 
are experienced health and safety 
advisers who provide advice and 
support and also undertake regular 
reviews. 
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly operations reviews
Business Practices Committee
Group leadership meetings
Board review
Sustainability More information: see pages 62 to 69
The Group, through its activities, has the ability to impact either positively or adversely the world in which it operates 
and the communities with which it comes into contact. In addition, for a number of its customers the impact of 
projects in both the short term and the long term is a key consideration when evaluating bids. For example, failure 
to respond to the challenges of the low carbon economy could lead to the Group failing to win work.
Potential impact 
Failure to address this risk and to 
execute projects in a sustainable 
manner could result in significant 
potential liabilities, reputational 
damage and not being able to win 
future work.
Mitigation
The Group has developed and 
implemented a sustainability strategy 
covering its operations until 2020 in 
terms of profitable markets, healthy 
communities and environmental limits.
Reporting & monitoring 
Business Practices Committee
Sustainability Working Group
Supply chain
The delivery of a large number of the Group’s contracts are dependent on the continued availability and effective 
management of sub-contractors and other service providers.
Potential impact 
The failure of a sub-contractor to 
perform to an appropriate standard 
and quality could result in delays 
to a project and adversely impact 
the ability of the Group to meet 
its contractual commitments and 
its reputation.
Mitigation
The Group seeks to develop long-term 
relationships with a number of its key 
sub-contractors whilst at the same time 
not becoming over-reliant on any one.
As part of its selection criteria 
the Group seeks to partner with 
sub-contractors/suppliers which 
share its values.
Reporting & monitoring 
Monthly/quarterly operations 
and performance reviews
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Balfour Beatty 62
Sustainability – Our 2020 vision
We believe that sustainability is a collective responsibility 
and are working together to develop and implement 
a sustainability strategy covering our global operations 
until 2020.
We aim to be a leader in sustainability and to play 
a significant role in helping our customers to make 
sustainable choices. We also recognise that the 
impacts of climate change, resource depletion 
and the expectation of our customers, investors, 
employees and society will continue to intensify.
During 2009, we critically evaluated and set out our 
sustainability vision and roadmap, outlining where 
we wish to be in 2020. The roadmap addresses 
31 key issues grouped into 10 focus areas, and 
sets three critical milestones for each:
Minimum expectations by 2012 – mandatory first steps 
for all our operating companies
Excellence for 2012 – the goal for those pursuing best 
practice standards
The aspirational goal for 2020 – providing a clear direction 
for their thinking and practices
Further milestones will be developed for 2015 and 2018. 
A renewed focus on sustainability, facilitated by the vision, 
positions us to manage non-financial risk better, to exploit 
opportunities for increasing efficiency and to enter 
new markets, and enhance our reputation as a leader 
in infrastructure development and management.
During 2010, a good deal of work has been undertaken 
to embed our sustainability vision, as well as our ethics 
and values, across all areas of the business. Embedding 
will continue in 2011 with a range of activities aimed 
at employees, including a Company-wide e-learning 
programme.
Where can I find more? Visit our Sustainability 
hub at c o l l e c t i v e r e s p o n s i b i l i t y . n e t
Overview
Sustainability makes good business sense. That’s 
why we have now been reporting on it for 10 years. 
It’s why we have invested the time to understand the 
sustainability issues that matter most to our business 
and to our customers and the significant opportunities 
in the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Embedding sustainability in everything we do is now 
expected by our customers, our shareholders, our 
employees and the communities in which we operate. 
This applies to large and small projects alike.
Sustainability is not just about the environment, or a 
single issue like carbon. That is why our sustainability 
vision looks holistically at aligning profitable markets, 
healthy communities and environmental limits.
Our business continues to grow. As we are joined 
by more people from more cultures, our increasing 
size and scale mean we have a responsibility to embed 
sustainability thinking not just among our 50,000 people 
and in our own working practices, but across the wider 
500,000-strong Balfour Beatty community made up 
of partners, contractors and suppliers.
As a market leader, we have a real opportunity to have 
a positive influence and ensure that sustainability is a 
collective responsibility, taken seriously across all stages 
of the infrastructure lifecycle.
Building expertise on sustainability issues underpins our 
growth ambitions and helps us deliver value. As new 
markets are driven by the move towards sustainable 
development, there will be tremendous opportunities for 
continued growth in areas such as renewable energy, rail 
infrastructure and greener building stock. The low-carbon 
economy is estimated to be worth over £100bn over 
the next 10 years in the UK alone and we are determined 
to take advantage of the exciting opportunities ahead.
Balfour Beatty is committed to making its success sustainable. The long-term success 
of our business depends on us fulfilling our responsibilities to all our stakeholders; our 
business strategy and sustainability vision are closely aligned.
Our c Ollective 
r espOns ibility
sustainability
Our 2020 sustainability vision aligns profitable markets, 
healthy communities and environmental limits. Annual report and accounts 2010 63
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Buildings consume energy. In the US, where greenhouse gas emissions continue to 
rise, buildings account for 40% of energy use and 72% of electricity use*. For school 
administrations, energy is a major cost that they are eager to reduce. That’s why 
Lady Bird Johnson Middle School (LBJMS) in Texas is attracting a lot of attention, 
even before it opens in August 2011.
Zero-carbon school: a lesson in sustainability US
“ This has set a great example for schools across the 
country. We’re going to see it becoming the norm 
because it cuts operating costs, it’s an object lesson 
in sustainability for the students – and it’s the right 
thing to do.” 
  Mike Parkos, Senior Project Manager
John Miraldi, Superintendent
Balfour Beatty Construction, US
Self-sufficient Energy will come from 
rooftop solar panels and wind turbines.
It’s the state’s first ‘net zero’ public school, and the largest 
in the US. Net zero means it will generate all the energy it 
needs without using fossil fuels – on some days it will sell 
surplus power, eventually offsetting even the energy used 
to build it.
We are ideally qualified to build it: we are one of the 
largest educational building contractors in Texas, and 
have outstanding experience of working to Leadership 
in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) standards. 
As US population growth and migration patterns mean 
rising demand for school buildings despite tight public 
budgets, the sustainability expertise showcased at LBJMS 
represents a significant growth opportunity for us.
 By using the most energy-efficient materials and systems 
available, LBJMS will use about half the energy consumed 
by a typical middle school. Key features include high-
efficiency insulation and glazing, rainwater harvesting 
and grey water systems, geothermal heating and cooling, 
‘light shelves’ to reflect daylight deeper into the building, 
and automatic dimming and switching of lights.
The school will generate its own energy through rooftop 
solar panels and a dozen wind turbines alongside the 
building. The solar panels are designed to produce about 
850,000kWh a year.
* Source: US Green Building Council.
Artist’s impression Balfour Beatty 64
Linking our business strategy to the sustainability vision
The strategic priorities for the Group are highlighted on pages 12 to 23. To achieve this strategy, there is a clear 
connection with our sustainability vision and the risks and opportunities we face.
Business strategy Sustainability context, risks and opportunities
1  Develop our business further Demand for sustainable infrastructure is creating 
new growth opportunities for us. Our 2020 vision and 
roadmap set out how we will meet our customers’ 
expectations – and how we will ensure our businesses 
operate sustainably themselves.
As we grow and enter more diverse markets, we 
need to ensure that all our employees make decisions 
that prevent us from conducting business unethically 
or being exposed to potential damage. Our Group 
values, Code of Conduct and ethics helpline will help 
us manage these risks. 
2  Focus on markets with the greatest opportunities We work on infrastructure assets across their entire 
lifecycle and increasingly our customers are asking 
us to deliver more sustainable solutions.
The multi-billion pound low-carbon economy also 
presents us with significant opportunities in fields 
ranging from new nuclear generation to energy-efficient 
buildings. Renewable energy, rail and waste 
infrastructure and the increasing demand for integrated 
services in the water market are all areas of business 
that will increase in size and value to us.
3  Improve operational performance 
and cost‑effectiveness
Adequate margins are a prerequisite for investment 
in long-term sustainability. We aim to operate more 
efficiently to remain a competitive and sustainable 
business.
4   Continue to strengthen core skills Our customers in both developed and emerging 
economies are investing in increasingly complex projects 
requiring an ever broader range of skills.
Our people management strategy needs to ensure 
that we have these skills, and that our future leaders 
can manage increasing complexity and change across 
a broader range of countries. 
Our ability to integrate a range of stakeholders relies 
on effective engagement with suppliers and provides 
us with an opportunity to innovate for more sustainable 
outcomes. We anticipate particular opportunities in the 
low-carbon economy.
5  Continue to show leadership in values 
and behaviour
As a market-leading business, we are intent on setting 
the industry standard for ethical conduct, safety and 
sustainability.
Our Code of Conduct, ethics training and Zero Harm 
vision are essential markers of the standards we set 
for ourselves and, ultimately, our supply chain.
We will differentiate ourselves by embedding 
sustainability into everything we do as a business by 
2020. Over time, our leadership will result in sustainable 
infrastructure consistently being the best option from an 
economic, community and environmental perspective.
sustainability Annual report and accounts 2010 65
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
Responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation, 
mitigation, reporting and monitoring rests with divisional/
operating company management.
While risk management is a key driver for our sustainability 
vision, non-financial risk is also reflected in our Group-level 
risk management process (see pages 55 to 61).
Ethics and values
As an international infrastructure group, we operate in 
diverse markets.
We need to be certain that all who work for us are 
confident in their ability to make decisions that will 
consistently prevent the organisation from conducting 
business unethically or being exposed to serious risks.
We recognise that further growth could potentially stretch 
the boundaries of our businesses and their management 
teams and expose us to more risk. This has led to a lot of 
effort being focused on our Group-wide ethics and values 
programme, including our Code of Conduct, which aims 
to support our employees in making the right decisions 
and encourages all our employees to make our values 
second nature in their thinking.
We believe that having a common set of values that 
represent what we are as a Group and what we want to 
be recognised for will offer clear business benefits to us 
and support us through the challenges of future growth.
Our Code of Conduct has been issued to all levels 
of office-based staff across the Group. During 2010, 
they undertook online training, supported by targeted, 
in-person training where necessary, to ensure they fully 
comprehend the Code and the importance of ethical 
behaviour. This training course was produced in eight 
languages and completed by nearly 28,000 people. 
A significant focus of our work during 2010 was 
preparation for the new UK Bribery Act, which is due to 
come into force in 2011. We believe our Code of Conduct 
already sets a standard appropriate for the Bribery Act, 
but the Act has created a new, strict liability criminal 
offence of failure by a commercial organisation to prevent 
bribery occurring. It is a defence for us to demonstrate 
Safety leadership course UK/US
In 2010, over 350 senior managers took part in a course 
called Leading Change: Driving the Safety Agenda, 
honing their leadership skills to deliver Zero Harm in their 
businesses. We are extending the programme to the 
next tier of management, targeting 600 managers in all 
by the end of June 2011.
Leadership and governance
We aim to be a leader in areas such as ethics, safety 
and the environment and believe that the long-term future 
of the organisation depends on it.
We have put in place a series of measures to ensure that 
we are managing the business to achieve those goals:
The Board sets policy and takes responsibility for the 
Group’s non-financial performance, including issues 
relating to sustainability.
The Business Practices Committee, comprising non-
executive Directors chaired by Mike Donovan, reviews 
these activities and provides guidance on future activity. 
More information is available on page 83. The main 
topics it considered during the year related to aspects 
of corporate responsibility including safety, sustainability, 
legal duties, people, community and ethical issues.
The Sustainability Working Group (SWG) is chaired by 
Mike Peasland, Chief Executive Officer, Construction 
Services UK and consists of senior managers with 
responsibility for Group policy and strategy on key issues. 
It meets at least four times a year. The membership of 
the SWG will be strengthened in 2011, when Peter Halsall 
joins the team from Halsall Associates, a specialist 
sustainability firm acquired by Parsons Brinckerhoff in 
October 2010.
Policies
Balfour Beatty has clearly stated policies and principles 
(available in full at www.balfourbeatty.com) for key issues 
such as:
Risk management
Safety and health
Environment
Human rights
Equal opportunities
Ethics and competitive behaviour
Within this framework, operating companies are required 
to develop specific policies and practices, relevant to their 
particular business.
Risk management
In addition to setting out the roadmap to achieve our 
sustainability vision, maintaining and building on our 
leadership position also involves the effective 
management of risks within the Group.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that risks are 
identified and appropriately managed across the Group. 
Having a common set of Group values offers clear business 
benefits and will support the challenges of future growth. Balfour Beatty 66
that we have ‘adequate procedures’ to prevent bribery 
and we have been working to ensure that the Group 
has such procedures in place.
As reported last year, and as a result of the settlement 
with the Serious Fraud Office, at the end of 2008 we 
appointed the Global Infrastructure Anti-Corruption Centre 
(GIACC) to report on our anti-corruption compliance 
programme. During 2010, GIACC continued its detailed 
review of our operating companies. This included 
reviewing Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) for the first time, 
in the same way that all our other operating companies 
had been reviewed in 2009. GIACC’s main conclusions 
are set out in our 2010 Sustainability Report.
Our sustainability vision in action
Profitable markets
We believe that sustainability will have a growing 
influence on our business, our customers and other 
stakeholders over the coming decade. It will therefore 
be a competitive issue in the marketplace. Through 
our leadership, we can influence the market so that 
sustainable infrastructure is consistently the best option.
We want our customers and investors to choose 
Balfour Beatty because we contribute to their long-term 
profitability through more sustainable infrastructure. 
Over time, we have seen growing numbers of customers 
wanting sustainability to be a key part of our service.
An example of this is a project to provide street 
lighting for Coventry City Council, which has delivered 
a number of technical innovations that will result in a 
38% energy reduction across the city’s street lighting 
stock. Our innovative use of remote dimming technology 
was one of the key, winning aspects of the bid.
We are seeking to meet the sustainability aspirations of 
our existing customers and entering new growth markets 
such as clean energy. We have also started to capture 
data on the profitable markets component of our roadmap.
In 2010, we estimated that our baseline revenues 
of recognised sustainable goods and services, such 
as LEED, CEEQUAL and clean energy, amounted 
to 22% of our total revenues. We also established for 
the first time in 2010 that 4% of our projects had agreed 
sustainability deliverables with the customer. We will 
continue to track both these indicators as measures 
of our effectiveness in growing our revenues through 
sustainability and in influencing our customers.
As we look to offer our customers more sustainable 
solutions, we have engaged our business development 
teams in a series of work-winning workshops to 
understand how we articulate and promote this. 
We have established an energy forum to research and 
develop our approach to maximising new commercial 
opportunities across the Group from the transition to 
a low-carbon economy. These include offshore wind, 
carbon capture and storage, waste from energy facilities, 
new nuclear and developing the transmission network. 
In 2010, we were selected as preferred bidder on the 
world’s largest offshore wind farm project at Thanet in 
the UK. On financial close, this will see us own, operate 
and maintain the offshore high-voltage transmission 
assets of the 300MW capacity scheme.
sustainability
Smart streets dim the lights UK
We are updating Coventry’s 38,000 street lights and 
illuminated signs under a £230m PPP contract. With 
new lamp technology and a centrally-managed system 
that dims the lights when streets are quiet, we aim to 
cut Coventry’s energy use for street lighting by 38% – 
with more savings to come over the 25-year life of our 
maintenance contract.
Parsons Brinckerhoff is currently advising the UK 
Government on its carbon capture and storage 
demonstration projects.
Influencing the market to adopt more sustainable 
outcomes will also help the long-term growth of our 
business. Balfour Beatty, for instance, is a strategic 
partner and sponsor of the development of the 
UK Green Building Council’s sustainability leadership 
course in conjunction with Cambridge University.
More details on how we are meeting our customers’ 
sustainability needs, how we have been influencing the 
wider sustainability agenda and communicating externally 
can be found in our separate 2010 Sustainability Report.
Healthy communities
People and communities are at the heart of our business.
Our pre-eminent concern is safety – protecting the 
well-being not only of our own people, but of everyone 
we come into contact with.
Our sustainability as a business depends on how 
successfully we recruit, develop and motivate our people, 
so this must be a priority too.
We, and our customers, also recognise that we have a 
wider responsibility to the local communities wherever 
we work. So we seek to make a long-term contribution 
to society through our community investment, as well 
as the infrastructure we create.
Health and safety
Our employees have a fundamental right to enjoy safe 
work and go home every day free from injury. In addition, 
no member of the public should be put at any risk from 
our activities. These two guiding principles underline our 
approach to health and safety, which is core to our own 
reputation and that of the industry.
By looking after our employees, we will encourage 
them to look after themselves and others affected by 
their activities, so that we strengthen our reputation 
as a trusted employer and supplier of high-quality, safe  Annual report and accounts 2010 67
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
services to our customers. Only by setting the highest 
standards for ourselves will we be able to retain the trust 
of our customers and the people using our infrastructure.
Indeed, our industry-leading safety performance helps 
differentiate our offering and maintains our licence to 
operate, particularly for customers with a similar focus 
on safety excellence.
We have always set ourselves high standards in safety, 
but in October 2008 we went further still, committing 
to reach Zero Harm across all of our operating companies. 
The programme is now two years into its journey and 
Zero Harm thinking has been adopted and embedded 
across all our businesses
In 2010, the Accident Frequency Rate was reduced from 
0.17 to 0.16.
Regrettably, the Group experienced five fatalities during 
2010 (four in the UK and one in Indonesia), compared to 
three in 2009. Safety has never had a higher profile than 
it does now, and these tragic incidents serve to remind 
us that despite our real commitment to Zero Harm, and 
the progress we have made, our goals are challenging.
A suite of assessment tools called Zero In has been 
developed to measure vital indicators for organisational 
readiness for Zero Harm. Pioneer businesses trialled 
the full suite of tools towards the end of 2010, ready for 
Group-wide rollout in 2011.
AFR/hours worked (employees and sub‑contractors)
Governance of health and safety
Heath and safety issues are reviewed by the Board 
and the executive team. Balfour Beatty requires all its 
operating companies to have formal safety management 
systems. These are subject to external audit.
Our people
We believe we have been successful at developing 
strong leaders for the business and establishing great 
careers for our people. However, as we become larger, 
more complex and more geographically spread we 
need to evolve some of these strategies.
Our new divisional structure creates the need for more 
focused senior leadership roles to manage increasing 
complexity, working in new markets and geographies 
and with new cultures and changing political and 
economic landscapes.
Giving a city street the kiss of life US
Our US$14m makeover will turn Denver’s dowdy 14th 
Street into a vibrant cultural centre. But before work 
could start we had to broker a unique city/community 
partnership. Our film visualisation, showing how a 
revitalised street could add value, galvanised the 
community. Developers brought US$4m to the table, and 
property owners agreed to fund the annual maintenance. 
We have developed and published a leadership framework, 
which identifies the key areas we expect our leaders 
to focus on and sets out the values and behaviours we 
expect. All our businesses will consider how they use 
the leadership framework in their people management 
activities, demonstrating to our employees that there is, 
for the first time, a clearly-defined set of behaviours and 
expectations for our current and future leaders.
We have made significant steps towards our aim of 
enabling employees to see vacancies across the Group 
by launching our first online internal vacancy portal.
We have also developed a facility to allow employees 
whose current roles are coming to an end to upload 
their CVs through their HR teams so that our internal 
recruiters can view potential transferring employees 
to fill their vacancies.
Community engagement
We regard good corporate citizenship as an integral part 
of our business. We care about how our actions affect 
others and wish to contribute positively to communities 
wherever we work – not simply through the lasting 
infrastructure we leave for the public, but in our wider 
contribution to those communities.
We seek to engage fully with the communities and 
individuals directly impacted by our project work and 
appreciate the legitimate interests that many local 
communities have in the way we do business. By 
engaging with them, early and consistently, we can 
identify and deliver additional value through our projects.
Our customers increasingly wish to see our involvement 
with local communities shown in bid documentation. 
Providing local training and employment opportunities 
is now a key element in winning public sector work, and 
through the scale of our activities we can make a very 
positive contribution to communities. 
Consultation with local people often involves leaflet 
drops, project websites, communication via social media 
and community discussions or exhibitions. Our larger 
projects have permanent community relations staff, 
ensuring that we liaise with key stakeholders regularly.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1 .0
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2010
2009
AFR
Hours worked (millions)
AFR
Hours worked Balfour Beatty 68
2010 was the first year we have been able to set a global 
baseline for our environmental impacts. As our data 
collection systems have improved, and our understanding 
of these impacts has grown, we have reported increases 
in our CO
2
, water and waste. Our challenge, and 
opportunity, is to reduce these impacts and achieve the 
2012 targets in our sustainability roadmap.
Environmental factors are also creating new markets for 
us, from alternative energy generation and transmission 
to protecting assets from climate change.
Energy, carbon and climate change
As well as reducing our own energy use, we see huge 
opportunities in helping customers to reduce their carbon 
footprints, build new low-carbon assets and protect 
existing assets from the impacts of climate change.
We continue striving to reduce our CO
2
 emissions from 
our own buildings, project sites and transport fleets. 
We are also reducing the carbon embodied in the 
materials we use – for example, by replacing aggregates 
with recycled materials.
In 2010, we established a global baseline for our CO
2
 
emissions. CO
2
 emissions relative to revenue from our 
vehicles, plant and buildings were 42.8 tonnes/£m, 
(2009: 36.3 tonnes/£m). Our target is a 10% reduction 
against the 2010 baseline by 2012 and 50% by 2020.
Global tonnes equivalent CO
2
 per £m revenue 
excluding air travel
Some climate change impacts are unavoidable due to 
greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere. Increasing 
temperatures will affect material durability; higher rainfall 
and more intense storm events will bring more flooding. 
We need to consider these risks when designing and 
constructing to protect the value of our customers’ assets 
and the assets we invest in.
Parsons Brinckerhoff, a recognised leader in climate 
change adaptation, is working on major studies for the 
US and Australian Governments. Our adaptation strategy 
for the UK Highways Agency is now being used as an 
example around the world and will be used to develop 
best practice in Balfour Beatty too.
We will continue to work on delivering our goal of a 10% 
carbon reduction by the end of 2012 and a 50% reduction 
by 2020 against a 2010 baseline. 
Waste
Having established a global baseline for our waste in 
2010, we are now working on halving the total sent to 
landfill by 2012 and ultimately diverting all our worldwide 
project waste from landfill by 2020.
Community investment
We believe that employees who are more closely 
connected to their communities are more passionate 
about the work they do, so we have programmes to 
offer them the opportunity to make a significant and 
sustainable contribution.
In 2010, the Group donated over £2.8m to charitable 
causes around the world, including through The Balfour 
Beatty Charitable Trust which was set up in 2009 to 
mark our centenary year. 
The aim of the Trust is to assist in providing appropriate 
financial assistance to a wide range of projects, designed 
by expert organisations, to help disadvantaged young 
people advance in life. In 2010, the Group donated a 
total of £358,000 to the Charitable Trust, with a further 
£152,000 generously donated by employees.
In the UK, through the Building Better Futures initiative, 
we continued working with The Prince’s Trust to support 
their Community Cash Award and Development Award 
programmes and with Action for Children, providing 
disability learning equipment and supporting a young 
carers’ fund. In 2010, the Charitable Trust also appointed 
Coram as a new charity partner. Coram works with 
vulnerable children, young people and their families and 
provides adoption, parenting advice, supported housing 
and family support and education. During the year, the 
Trust helped to fund Coram’s adoption programme for 
hard-to-place children.
Outside the UK, the Trust has provided financial 
assistance to support Project H.O.M.E. in Philadelphia, 
US, a charity working to end homelessness. Through 
our professional services business, Heery International, 
the Trust has also provided support to CHRIS Kids, 
an Atlanta-based charity dedicated to healing children, 
strengthening families and building communities.
Additionally, our US operating companies donated over 
£1m to a variety of causes, including the United Way, 
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Save the Children’s 
Haiti Emergency Relief, Make a Wish and the Children’s 
Medical Center. Elsewhere, we contributed to Save the 
Children and Reach Italia Onlus, providing aid for children 
in developing countries.
We continue to sponsor the Balfour Beatty London 
Youth Games, Europe’s largest youth sports programme. 
In 2010, we donated £282,000 for the 2010 Games 
and supported the development of the volunteering 
communications systems with £255,000. As title 
sponsor, we have committed a further £930,000 to 
the Games up to 2013, as well as running a volunteer 
programme for employees.
Environmental limits
We see clear business advantage in taking a leadership 
position on environmental issues, recognising the 
opportunities in helping customers reduce their own 
impacts and respond to environmental pressures.
Improving our own performance in areas such as carbon 
and waste reduction will reduce our costs. As customers 
increasingly consider environmental performance, from 
carbon footprints to ecology, in their purchasing decisions, 
a leadership position will give us competitive advantage.
sustainability
Equivalent CO
2
 tonnes/
£m revenue
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
0
10
20
30
40
50
2012 target 2020 target Annual report and accounts 2010 69
Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability |
encompass a wider range of construction materials 
in the UK and possibly elsewhere. 
Water
Almost half the world’s population will be living in areas 
of water stress or scarcity by 2030. Delivering sustainable 
water solutions is a growth market and we will take a lead 
by developing a water footprinting tool in 2011. We see 
growth opportunities from integrated service offerings 
in desalination, treatment and distribution; urban water 
run-off collection; and detection and repair of leaks.
Our focus has also been to reduce water usage in our 
premises (for example, through self-closing taps, 
waterless urinals and staff awareness campaigns) and 
on construction sites (for example, capturing rainwater 
for vehicle/plant cleaning, concrete batching and dust 
suppression). Our site accommodation cabins can also 
be supplied with rainwater harvesting systems.
We seek to provide new buildings with water-saving 
technologies such as grey water recycling and use of 
rainwater harvesting techniques. 
We will continue working to reduce direct use of water 
per £m revenue by 10% by 2012 against a 2010 baseline 
of 233.3m
3
/£m revenue.
The water embodied in the materials we use or consume 
is likely to be much greater than our direct consumption. 
In 2011, we will develop a unique footprinting tool to help 
us determine where reductions can best be made. 
Environmental governance
Strategic environmental issues are reviewed by the 
sustainability working group. An environmental managers’ 
forum reviews key topics and shares best practice 
across the Group. Environmental performance is audited 
regularly and Group-wide statistics are collated to 
measure the Group’s major environmental impacts.
Five minor environmental incidents resulted in 
enforcement action and fines in 2010 (2009: 7) totalling 
£11,000 equivalent. All these minor incidents took 
place in Singapore for potential mosquito breeding 
sites, exceeding noise limits and site drainage. 
Corrective actions have been completed for each violation.
Waste disposal is a significant and rising cost. Reducing 
waste can help us to reduce project costs and meet 
customers’ desire for lower environmental impacts.
Increasing waste regulation is creating a significant 
new commercial opportunity for us. In the UK, 30–40 
municipal waste/energy from waste plants are needed 
within the next five years. This represents a market 
worth £8bn or more by 2015 in the UK alone.
We continue to seek opportunities to reduce, re-use, 
recycle and recover waste and to use recycled materials 
where possible. 
Total relative weight global waste disposed to 
landfill tonnes per £m revenue
To drive re-use of waste we have also set a target of at 
least 25% of our major materials coming from recycled 
sources by 2012, where we specify the material. Major 
materials include concrete, aggregates, steel, aluminium 
and copper. During 2010, we achieved a 3.4% recycled 
content in the major materials we procured globally. 
This figure increased to 10% in the UK. 
Developing good quality data for tracking the recycled 
content of our major materials will be important in 2011. 
We will continue to focus on our 2012 goals of halving 
waste to landfill per £m revenue against a 2010 baseline 
of 101 tonnes of waste to landfill per £m revenue and 
achieving a minimum of 25% recycled content of major 
materials (by value). 
Materials
Sustainable materials management reduces costs as 
well as environmental impacts. Already, 75% by value 
of the timber we procure directly comes from recognised, 
responsible sources.
We continue to procure timber from recognised 
sustainable sources, including those certified by the 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Programme 
for Endorsement of Forestry Certification (PEFC). 
Our target is 100% from responsible sources by 2012.
For the first time in 2010, we extended our data collection 
to track the sourcing of other major construction materials 
such as aggregates, concrete and steel. Where these 
schemes exist (UK and Europe) some 19% of our major 
materials (excluding timber) were from recognised, 
responsible sources. Our 2012 target is 25% (by value) from 
responsible sources worldwide, where such schemes exist. 
Engaging our supply chain on responsible sourcing will be 
a key element in becoming a more sustainable business.
As we work towards our 2012 targets we will continue 
to develop responsible-sourcing schemes and to 
Hitting the road to zero waste UK
We have committed to send zero waste to landfill by 
2020. Impossible? On our A46 road improvement project 
we are already there. The last of our waste streams 
is now being converted to fuel – appropriately, to fire 
cement kilns used to supply cement to the scheme.
Tonnes/£m revenue
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
0
75
25
50
100
125
150
175
2012 target Manchester, UK
70 Balfour Beatty
The Infras Truc Tur e bus Ine ss
our governance 71
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
Annual report and accounts 2010
Our governance 
Chairman’s introduction 72
Board of Directors 74
Directors’ Report 76
Remuneration Report 89 Balfour Beatty 72
Chairman’s int rodu Cti on
our Governan Ce
“ A good measure of a company 
is the stance it takes on corporate 
governance. We believe in applying 
the highest standards.”
Steve Marshall  
Chairman
Areas of focus in 2010
Adoption of new UK Corporate Governance Code
Induction of two new non-executive Directors
Remuneration review
Areas of focus in 2011
Board composition, evaluation and continuous improvement
Enhanced investor relations programme Annual report and accounts 2010 73
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
Dear Shareholder
Balfour Beatty is committed to applying the very highest standards of 
corporate governance in whichever jurisdiction the Group is operating.
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) published in 
June 2010, has been welcomed by your Board who decided to 
implement all the provisions in 2010 rather than delaying implementation 
until this year. This included a decision to put forward all the Directors 
for annual re-election at our Annual General Meeting in May 2011. 
The Code’s change of tone, signalling the importance of general 
principles guiding Boardroom behaviours, is particularly welcomed, 
as is the continuing validation of the ‘comply or explain’ principle.
Turning to each of the main principles of the Code, I wanted to 
highlight how these were being applied in practice.
Leadership and effectiveness – The formulation of the Group 
strategy, the preparation of the medium-term performance review, 
the approval of the annual budget and health and safety are key areas 
of focus for the Board during each annual meeting cycle. In addition, 
the Board undertakes a pivotal role in setting the values and the ethical 
standards the organisation employs. Further information on these 
values and ethical standards is set out on pages 65 and 66 and is 
also contained in the Company’s 2010 Sustainability Report which is 
being published this year for the first time to coincide with the release 
of this report.
In pursuing the principle that non-executive Directors should 
constructively challenge and help in the development of strategy, 
we have reviewed the way our non-executive Directors engage 
with our operating companies across the Group. For further 
information on this, I refer you to page 79 of this report.
Non-executive directors bring with them a wealth of experience gained 
from a variety of different professional backgrounds. During 2010, we 
further strengthened the Board with the appointments of Iain Ferguson 
and Robert Amen, both of whom bring with them significant 
experience of running complex international businesses, in Robert’s 
case in the US, which is an important market for Balfour Beatty. 
Accountability – The Company’s policies and procedures are 
all geared towards enabling the Board to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and 
prospects. In 2010, we carried out a review of our risk management 
and assurance reporting structure to ensure it properly 
accommodated the creation of the new organisational structure. 
Further details are given on pages 80 and 81.
Remuneration – Our last strategic review of executive remuneration 
was carried out in 2005 and since then, the scale, scope and 
complexity of our business has changed significantly. The acquisition 
of Parsons Brinckerhoff in late 2009 also now gives the Group a 
presence across the whole lifecycle of major infrastructure assets 
on a global basis. Although your Board considers that the 
remuneration policy has operated successfully over the intervening 
years and has helped to drive performance, we now have a very 
different organisation which competes over a range of large, complex 
and international businesses. The Remuneration Committee has 
therefore conducted a full review of the remuneration policy and has 
engaged over the past few months with the Company’s principal 
institutional shareholders. The proposals arising from this review are 
being presented to shareholders at the 2011 AGM. For more details 
on the proposed new policy, please refer to the Remuneration Report 
on pages 90 to 93 and the Notice of AGM.
Relations with shareholders – Engagement with our investors, 
amongst other stakeholders, is critically important and in recognition, 
we revitalised our investor programme in 2010 and this will continue 
to be strengthened during 2011. We appointed a Head of Investor 
Relations during the year, a new role at Group Head Office, which 
we believe will encourage even greater connection with our investors. 
One of the highlights of our investor programme in 2010 was the 
successful investors’ seminar held at the end of November which 
aimed to strengthen investors’ understanding around the Group’s 
focus on infrastructure services. Further information on our investors’ 
programme is given on pages 86 and 87.
We are also taking initiatives to build the level of shareholding 
amongst US investors in recognition that a significant proportion 
of our overall business is conducted in the US, or is driven from 
the US, through Professional Services headquartered in New York.
Steve Marshall 
Chairman
How our Board is structured
Board
Group strategy
Annual budgets and financial reporting
Interim and final dividends
Major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure
Corporate values and ethical standards
Management performance
Risk management and assurance
Audit Committee 
Financial statements
Financial controls
External auditor
Internal audit
Risk management 
and assurance
Remuneration 
Committee
 
Remuneration 
strategy and policies
Remuneration 
packages
Incentive plans
Nomination 
Committee
 
Structure and 
composition of Board
Appointment 
of non-executive 
Directors
Succession 
planning and talent 
management
Business 
Practices 
Committee
Corporate values, 
ethics and Codes 
of Conduct
Health & safety
Sustainability
Whistleblowing
Group Tender  
and Investment 
Committee
Major contract bids
Acquisitions and 
disposals
Capital expenditure
Finance and General 
Purposes 
Committee
Banking facilities and 
other arrangements
Share options
Share buy-backs Balfour Beatty 74
4 Andrew McNaughton
Chief Operating Officer
Age 47. Appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer in 2009. 
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1997, having spent 12 years with the 
Kier Group, and held the position of managing director of Balfour 
Beatty Civil Engineering from 2004 to 2007, when he became Group 
managing director with responsibility for civil engineering in the UK 
and the Group’s interests in the Middle East. He is a chartered civil 
engineer, a Liveryman in the Worshipful Company of Engineers and 
Vice-President of the Institution of Civil Engineers. 
5 Duncan Magrath
Finance Director 
Age 46. Appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 2008. 
He joined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as Deputy Finance Director from 
Exel plc, where he was director of investor relations and financial 
strategy, following a number of senior financial roles in the UK and 
US. He is a chartered accountant.
6 Peter Zinkin 
Planning and Development Director
Age 57. Joined the Group in 1981 and became Planning and 
Development Director in 1991 after a series of senior positions 
in the finance function. He is responsible for the Group’s merger, 
acquisition and divestment activities as well as the development 
of Group strategy. Previously, he worked at the London Business 
School and UMIST. 
Chairman and Executive Directors
1 Steve Marshall
Non-executive Chairman
Age 54. Appointed a Director in 2005 and Chairman in May 2008. 
He is a non-executive director of Halma p.l.c., and a former chairman 
of Delta plc, Torex Retail plc and Queens’ Moat Houses plc. He was 
chief executive of Thorn plc and of Railtrack Group plc, having also 
served as group finance director at each company. His earlier career 
included a wide range of corporate and operational roles at Grand 
Metropolitan plc, Black & Decker, BOC and Burton Group. He is a 
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. 
2 Ian Tyler 
Chief Executive 
Age 50. A Director since 1999, he became Chief Executive in 
January 2005, having been Chief Operating Officer since 2002 
and prior to that, Finance Director. He joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 
from the Hanson Group where he was finance director of ARC Ltd, 
one of its principal subsidiaries. Appointed as a non-executive 
director of Cable & Wireless plc in January 2011. He was formerly 
a non-executive director of VT Group plc. He is president of 
Construction Industry Relief, Assistance and Support for the 
Homeless Ltd, the construction and property industry charity for 
the homeless. He is a chartered accountant. 
3 Anthony Rabin
Deputy Chief Executive
Age 55. A Director since 2002, he became Deputy Chief Executive 
in 2008, having previously been Finance Director. He is responsible 
for the Group’s worldwide infrastructure investments business, 
having previously been managing director of Balfour Beatty Capital. 
Prior to joining the Group in 1995, he was a partner at Coopers & Lybrand 
and before that, a senior assistant director at Morgan Grenfell. He is a 
chartered accountant and a barrister.
board of directors
our governance
1 2 3 4 5 6 Annual report and accounts 2010 75
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
10 Hubertus Krossa
Non-executive Director
Age 63. Appointed a Director in 2008. Until 2008, he was chief 
executive officer of KION Group GmbH, a leading international 
material handling equipment manufacturer. Prior to that, he spent 
seven years on the main board of Linde AG, the worldwide producer 
and supplier of industrial and medical gases. He was previously a 
member of the European management board of Whirlpool Europe 
and was also chairman of its German operating company, and has 
previously held non-executive directorships in the UK for Wassall plc 
and Thorn Lighting Group. He is currently chairman of the supervisory 
boards of Eckelmann AG and Bauknecht Hausgeraete GmbH and 
deputy chairman of United Power Technology AG.
11 Graham Roberts
Non-executive Director
Age 52. Appointed a Director in 2009. He is finance director of 
The British Land Company PLC. Prior to joining British Land in 2002, 
he spent eight years at Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising 
in the real estate and government services sectors. He is a 
chartered accountant.
12 Robert Walvis
Senior Independent Director
Age 64. Appointed a Director in 2001. He was previously with 
the Royal Dutch Shell Group, latterly as chairman of the Global 
Corporate Centre. He is a non-executive director of Associated 
British Ports Holdings Limited and Johnson Matthey plc, and 
chairman of the supervisory board of Allianz Nederland Groep NV. 
Non-executive Directors
7 Robert Amen
Non-executive Director
Age 61. Appointed a Director in 2010. Until 2009, he was chairman 
and chief executive officer of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc 
(IFF). Prior to joining IFF in 2006, Robert spent over 25 years at 
International Paper Company in a succession of roles culminating in 
his appointment as president and member of the board. He was also 
a director of Wyeth, the US pharmaceutical and healthcare company, 
until its acquisition by Pfizer in October 2009. A US national, he currently 
serves as an executive-in-residence at Columbia Business School.
8 Mike Donovan
Non-executive Director
Age 57. Appointed a Director in 2006. He was most recently 
chief operating officer of Marconi plc from 2001 to 2005. Prior to 
that, he was chief executive officer of Marconi Systems and was 
previously responsible for managing major divisions of British 
Aerospace, Vickers and the Rover Group.
9 Iain Ferguson CBE 
Non-executive Director
Age 55. Appointed a Director in 2010. Until 2009, he was chief 
executive of Tate & Lyle PLC. Prior to joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, 
he spent 26 years at Unilever PLC in a succession of roles culminating 
in his appointment as senior vice president, corporate development. 
He is a non-executive director of Greggs plc and Berendsen plc and 
is chairman of Wilton Park, an independent and non-profit making 
Executive Agency of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office. 
He is also lead independent director at the Department for Environment, 
Food and Rural Affairs. He was formerly a non-executive director of 
Sygen International plc.
7 8 9 10 11 12 Balfour Beatty 76
Remuneration
Mr Walvis receives his basic non-executive Director’s fee of 
£52,000 per annum plus a £10,000 per annum supplement covering 
his additional responsibilities as Senior Independent Director and 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee. He receives no other 
financial incentives and his remuneration is not considered excessive 
in the context of directors’ fees paid in FTSE 250 companies nor 
in the context of his overall income. His fees were last reviewed 
in June 2010.
Shareholding
At 31 December 2010, Mr Walvis held 14,285 ordinary shares and 
he also had an interest in a further 938 ordinary shares held by the 
Craven Arms Investment Club, of which he is a member. His interest 
in Balfour Beatty shares is not considered substantial.
Conflicting interest
 As at 1 January 2011, Mr Walvis had disclosed the following interests 
which were approved by the Board at its meeting in January 2011 and 
none of these were thought to conflict with his role as a member of 
the Balfour Beatty Board:
–  Associated British Ports Holdings Limited – non-executive director
– Johnson Matthey plc – non-executive director
–  Allianz Nederland Groep NV – supervisory board chairman
Other
None of the other independence measures listed in the Code, other 
than his term of office, were considered relevant by the Board.
At its Board meeting in March 2011, as part of its annual audit of 
corporate governance, the Board considered the independence of 
the non-executive Directors against the criteria specified in the Code 
and determined that each of them continues to be independent.
The Board
The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, of whom seven, 
including the Chairman, are non-executive. Details of the changes 
during the year can be found under the heading “Board composition” 
on page 77. The Directors believe that the Board continues to include 
an appropriate balance of skills and retains the ability to provide 
effective leadership to the Group.
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company 
and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which 
includes the matters summarised below.
– Determining the Group’s strategic direction
– Approving annual budgets and financial reporting, including the 
annual and half-year results and interim management statements
– Approving interim, and recommending final, dividends
– Approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure
– Ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place 
to achieve objectives and reviewing management performance
– Setting the Company’s values and ethical standards
– Approving policies and systems for risk management 
and assurance
Compliance with the Code
The UK Listing Authority requires listed companies to disclose in 
relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council which is appended to the UK Listing Rules, 
how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied 
with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority relating to the 
provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period. 
The Company has complied with the requirements of the UK Listing 
Authority relating to the provisions of the Combined Code throughout 
the accounting period, other than in respect of:
The effectiveness of the Group’s whistleblowing procedures is kept 
under review by the Business Practices Committee (BPC) and not 
by the Audit Committee. The principal reason for this is that the BPC, 
in particular, focuses on the Company’s business conduct, its ethics 
and values and, ensuring that procedures exist for employees to raise 
concerns in confidence, is an integral element within its overall remit. 
The Audit Committee is kept informed of any allegations of fraud or 
poor financial controls and internal audit are involved in carrying out 
investigations into such claims.
Notwithstanding that the new UK Corporate Governance Code 
does not apply for accounting periods commencing prior to 
29 June 2010, the Board has determined to apply its principles 
immediately. In accordance with the Code, all of the Directors will 
retire at this coming AGM and being eligible, offer themselves for 
re-election or, in the case of Mr Amen, for election as this will be 
the first AGM following his appointment. Mr Ferguson was elected 
at the AGM in 2010 following his appointment on 1 January 2010.
Director’s independence
At its meeting in September, the Board considered the position 
of Robert Walvis, Senior Independent Director, who completed 
nine years of service on the Board in September 2010. As required 
by the Code, the Board specifically considered those factors which 
they believed were relevant in determining whether Mr Walvis should 
continue to be regarded as being independent. The following factors 
were taken into consideration in determining that Mr Walvis would 
continue to be regarded as independent:
Constructive challenge
The Board considered the strength of his engagement and the 
robustness of his challenge and critique around the boardroom table. 
He has participated in an ad hoc group of executive and non-executive 
Directors who have been assessing the development of the 
Company’s strategy and, in his role as Senior Independent Director, 
he has provided an effective sounding board for the Chairman and the 
other Directors who value the insight he brings to a range of topics.
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Walvis has 
also displayed independent leadership in the development of the 
executive remuneration policy over a number of years and in its 
application on a fair and consistent basis. There have been no 
significant concerns raised by shareholders over this period on the 
nature and extent of executive pay-outs and the various incentive 
schemes and relationships have remained positive throughout, 
including the most recent consultation on the remuneration review, 
the proposals for which will be presented to shareholders at the 
2011 AGM.
Our g Overnance
Direct Ors’ r epOrt Annual report and accounts 2010 77
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
Chief Executive
– Strategy development and the stewardship of physical, 
financial and human resources
– Group operational and financial performance
– Executive leadership
– Health, Safety and Environmental performance
– Corporate values and ethics
– Objective setting for the senior management team
– Organisational structure and talent management
– Major capital expenditure prioritisation
– Consideration of acquisitions, disposals and financing
– Stakeholder management
Senior Independent Director
Robert Walvis is the Senior Independent Director, and his principal 
responsibilities are to ensure that the views of the other non-executive 
Directors are properly considered and to provide an additional 
communication channel between the non-executive Directors and 
the shareholders and other stakeholders, as required.
Directors’ interests
No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance 
with the Group during the period under review. The Directors have put 
in place procedures to ensure the Board collectively and the Directors 
individually comply with the disclosure requirements on conflicts of 
interest set out in the Companies Act 2006. At its meeting each 
January, a formal declaration of interests is reviewed by the Board.
The interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company and 
its subsidiary undertakings and their interests under the long-term 
incentive scheme (the Performance Share Plan 2006), the deferred 
bonus plan and share options, are set out in the tables in the 
Remuneration Report commencing on page 89.
There have been no changes in their respective interests since 
31 December 2010.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company grants an indemnity to all of its Directors to the extent 
permitted by law. These indemnity amounts are uncapped in relation 
to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in the 
course of acting as a Director of the Company, or in any office where 
such duties are performed at the request of the Board, or as a result 
of their appointment as Directors.
Board meetings
Procedures for Board meetings remain unchanged from previous years. 
Papers are generally sent out at least three business days in advance 
of the meeting. The papers include a written report from each of the 
Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer, the Finance Director, and 
the Director of Safety, Health and the Environment. At the meetings, 
oral reports are made on issues arising from the written reports and 
both these and other matters of immediate interest or concern are 
discussed by the Board, for example mergers and acquisitions activity.
The Board reviewed its list of reserved matters in 2010 and, most 
recently, at its meeting in March 2011. The terms of reference of the 
Board and the Board Committees are available on request from the 
Company Secretary and are also displayed on the Company’s website 
www.balfourbeatty.com. Descriptions of the specific responsibilities 
which have been delegated to the principal Board committees are 
also provided on pages 80 to 84.
Board composition
The names of the Directors at the year-end are shown on pages 
74 and 75 together with brief biographical details. Full details of 
Directors’ service agreements, emoluments and share interests, 
are shown in the Remuneration Report commencing on page 89.
Iain Ferguson and Robert Amen were appointed as non-executive 
Directors on 1 January 2010 and 10 June 2010 respectively.
Gordon Sage retired from the Board on 31 December 2010.
The following blend of skills is exhibited by the Directors through 
their respective professional backgrounds:
– Strategic development
– Operating performance and delivery
– Mergers and acquisitions
– Business integration
– Financial management and planning
– Experience of international markets
– Health and safety
– Risk management and assurance
– HR management
– Stakeholder engagement
– Ethics, values and culture
Chairman and Chief Executive
The two roles are complementary. The Chairman is responsible 
for managing the business of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive 
actually runs the business. As the senior executive officer of the 
Company, the Chief Executive is responsible to the Chairman and 
Board for directing and prioritising the profitable operation and 
development of the Group. The Chairman and Chief Executive keep 
each other appropriately informed on the other’s current activities.
Specifically, their roles comprise the following principal responsibilities:
Chairman
– Ensuring effective strategic planning is undertaken by 
the executive Directors
– Ensuring corporate governance is properly maintained
– Formally appraising the performance of the Chief Executive 
and reviewing with the Chief Executive his views on the 
performance of the other executive Directors
– Providing leadership to the Board
– Acting as senior ambassador for the Company
– Considering Board balance, composition and succession
– Ensuring the smooth operation of the Board and its Committees
– Providing effective communication between the Board 
and its shareholders
Steve Marshall spends an average of two days per week on 
the business of the Company. The Board considers that his 
other commitments are not of such a nature as to hinder his 
duties as Chairman. Balfour Beatty 78
Our g Overnance – Direct Ors ’ r epOrt
2010 Board and Board Committee meetings
Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board 
meetings and meetings of the Audit, Business Practices, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the 
following table:
Name of Director Board Audit
Business
Practices Nomination Remuneration
R M Amen
(2)
6 (6) 2 (2) 2 (2) 0 (0)
M J Donovan 10 (10) 4 (4) 3 (3) 1 (1)
I G T Ferguson
(3)
9 (10) 3 (3) 1 (1) 4 (4)
G E H Krossa 10 (10) 4 (4) 3 (3) 1 (1) 4 (4)
D J Magrath 10 (10)
S Marshall 10 (10) 2 (3) 1 (1) 4 (4)
A J McNaughton 10 (10)
A L P Rabin 10 (10)
G C Roberts
(4)
9 (10) 3 (4) 1 (2) 0 (1) 1 (1)
G H Sage
(5)
7 (10) 3 (4) 1 (1) 4 (4)
I P Tyler 10 (10) 1 (1)
R J W Walvis 10 (10) 4 (4) 1 (1) 4 (4)
P J L Zinkin 9 (10)
Notes:
(1)  The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director 
could attend either following his appointment during the year or as a result 
of changes to Committee memberships.
(2) Mr Amen appointed on 10 June 2010.
(3) Mr Ferguson appointed on 1 January 2010.
(4)  Mr Roberts joined the Remuneration Committee on 9 November 2010 
on stepping down from the Business Practices Committee.
(5) Mr Sage retired on 31 December 2010.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to illness and prior business 
commitments. In each case, where the Directors have not been able 
to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the 
papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments 
directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chairman, as appropriate.
Board development
Induction
Directors undertake a significant induction programme and receive 
a range of information about the Company when they join the Board. 
This includes considerable background information on Balfour Beatty, 
its Code of Conduct and ethics, processes for dealing in Balfour 
Beatty shares and Board procedures, as well as the minutes of past 
Board and Board Committee meetings. In addition, they also take part 
in a series of one-to-one meetings with other members of the Board 
and senior executives which include briefings on the Company’s 
business strategy, financial procedures, business development, legal 
and other key issues.
Professional development
The Directors’ induction programme is supplemented throughout 
the year by a series of internal and external updates, including visits 
to operating companies to meet local management and visits to 
Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK and overseas.
Normally, such meetings take place for each non-executive Director 
four times each year, although some Directors have not been able 
to attend all the sessions whilst some have been able to participate 
in more meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on 
appropriate governance matters, ensuring good information flow and 
for ensuring that Board procedures are followed. He also provides 
updates on legal matters of relevance to the Group and is available 
to individual Directors for advice on Board procedures.
2010 meeting programme
Four Board meetings in 2010 were held at the Company’s head office, 
whilst six meetings were held elsewhere. Each meeting normally 
lasts four to five hours, but can be longer.
On the evening preceding a Board meeting, the Directors generally 
meet for dinner and the opportunity is taken, on some of these 
occasions, to discuss pre-determined developmental themes, led by 
one of the executive Directors, other senior managers or a specialist 
external speaker. For example, in 2010, the themes included new 
business development, investor relations and board practices. 
The following topics were also addressed by the Board during 2010 
under the themes identified, in addition to the standing agenda topics 
comprising monthly updates from the Chief Executive, the Chief 
Operating Officer and the Finance Director, as well as reports on 
health, safety and environment, risk management and assurance, 
and succession planning.
Finance
– Budget 2010
– Annual and half-year financial reports
– Capital structure and financing
Operational performance
– Business reviews:
– Professional Services
– Construction Services UK, including a major project review
– Support Services, including utilities
– Infrastructure Investments
– Rail
– Shared services and procurement – operational effectiveness
Strategy
– Group strategy – strategic development priorities
– Medium-term performance review
– Organisational design
– Infrastructure Investments
Communications
– Investor relations
– Government affairs
Mergers and acquisitions
– Halsall – Canada
Corporate governance
– Board evaluation including operation and administration
– UK Bribery Act
– UK Corporate Governance Code
– UK Stewardship Code
– Non-executive Director independence Annual report and accounts 2010 79
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
The Board rated highly in its impact on, and contribution to, 
the success of the Company. Three areas of significant strength 
were highlighted:
The work of the Board
Including the strategic focus, the use of targeted visits, the work 
of the Committees and the Board’s approach to remuneration.
Board culture and dynamics 
Including Board size and balance, Board dynamics, the Chairman’s 
leadership and the leadership of the executive management team.
Board structure
Including the structure of the Board’s agenda.
Given the Board’s desire for continuous improvement, there were 
three themes arising from the review which the Board considered 
it wanted to address in order to enhance further its effectiveness 
over the longer term and these themes are:
Business model
The Company has to date benefited from a clear vision and 
direction and an appropriate and enabling infrastructure. However, 
the growth rate and management of an increasingly international 
and complex group and the market environment, present particular 
issues for Directors.
Risk management
Risk management is seen to be an essential operational focus 
throughout the Group and there is a range of priorities regarding key 
risks including market instability, changing regulation and increasing 
competition. These various priorities influence the development of 
strategy and its risk profile, executive targets and corporate culture, 
as well as influencing how the Board allocates its time.
Corporate culture
Although financial and operational stability is important, management 
of the less tangible (and less visible) aspects of the Company is 
vital to its future health and achievement of its strategic objectives. 
The Board’s understanding of the factors which bind people 
together and the stewardship of intangible influences on 
performance management, ethics, HR, retention and succession, 
will help to maximise the benefits associated with the Group’s 
culture and history.
In addition, the Company Secretary conducted a separate series of 
interviews with the Directors in August 2010 on Board procedures and 
administration matters, the conclusions of which were shared with 
the whole Board in September 2010. Key issues discussed included:
– Agenda
– Papers and timing of issue
– Quality and length of papers
– Board dinners
In 2011, the Board is conducting its own internal evaluation, using 
an online structured questionnaire covering the Board and its principal 
Committees. The questionnaires have been supplemented by 
individual interviews with the Directors carried out by the Company 
Secretary, where appropriate, and the findings summarised for 
the Board. The Chairman will also meet with each of the Directors. 
The output from the evaluation process will be reported in the 2011 
Directors’ Report. Key themes emerging from this evaluation process 
reinforce elements of the work already being undertaken by the Board 
arising from the 2010 evaluation.
In 2010, a different approach was taken in relation to the programme 
of visits organised for non-executive Directors. Key themes were 
identified which enabled Directors to gain a better understanding 
of the business, how it operates and its principal strategic issues.
The principal themes which were explored during the visits were:
– Facilities management strategy
– Rail international – strategy for future growth
– Building – what comes after health and education?
– Engineering and maintenance – a business integration review
– Civil engineering – what should the strategic focus be 
after highways?
– Infrastructure investments
– Professional services, including the integration of the UK business
– US market – Professional services review
Eight visits were organised in 2010, including visits to Parsons 
Brinckerhoff in the US and Balfour Beatty Rail International in 
Switzerland. A similar programme is being planned for 2011.
As part of the ongoing “refresher” training provided to non-executive 
Directors, visits are also organised to specific operating companies. 
For example, providing Directors with a thorough understanding of 
the design-build projects lifecycle process, including identifying those 
“drivers” out of which profitable performance can be generated.
Board evaluation
The last time an external evaluation had been carried out was at the 
beginning of 2010 in respect of the 2009 financial year. This was 
conducted by an external consultant, Boardroom Review. This was 
designed to assess the quality of the Board’s decision-making and 
debate, its overall contribution to, and impact on, the long-term health 
and success of the Company and its preparation for future challenges. 
The evaluation was conducted over three months and was completed 
in March 2010. Confidential interviews were undertaken with each 
of the Directors and other members of the senior management 
team as well as observation of Board and Remuneration Committee 
meetings and a review of Board and related papers. Boardroom 
Review’s report summarising the conclusions was discussed at the 
Board in March 2010. The principal conclusions are outlined below: Balfour Beatty 80
Our g Overnance – Direct Ors ’ r epOrt
Graham Roberts is a chartered accountant and is finance director 
of The British Land Company PLC and has been identified by the 
Board as having recent and relevant financial experience. At the Board 
meeting following each meeting of the Committee, the Committee 
chairman provides an oral report on the work of the Committee and 
any significant issues that may have arisen. The minutes of 
Committee meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
At the invitation of the Committee, partners from the external auditor, 
the Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance, the Deputy 
Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly attend each 
meeting. In addition, any independent non-executive Director who is 
not a Committee member has an open invitation to attend meetings.
In 2010, the Committee’s work programme comprised the following 
principal topics in addition to the standing agenda items:
February
– 2009 annual report and accounts and preliminary results 
announcement
– Accounting for the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff
– Pensions
– Key contract valuation and accounting judgements
– Non-audit fees
– Directors’ PPP valuation
– Risk management and assurance
– Commissions
– Dishonest behaviour incidents
– Annual review of internal audit work and findings
– Directors’ expenses
– External audit partner rotation
May
– iXBRL compliance (new HMRC tax filing requirements)
– IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
– External audit: key risks, IFRIC 12, auditor independence, audit fees, 
interim review
– Consideration of fraud (as part of the external audit planning process)
– Internal audit – Parsons Brinckerhoff
– Risk management and assurance (in light of the new risk profile 
of the Group with the growth of Support Services and 
Professional Services)
– Results of the external review of the effectiveness of the internal 
audit function (conducted by a third party) the results of which 
confirmed that the function was fit for purpose
August
– 2010 half-year financial report
November
– Non-audit services review
– Accounting Practices Board ethical standards for auditors 
(published in July 2010)
– The triennial valuation of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund
– External audit scope applied to Group companies
– Internal audit plan – 2011 
– Risk management and assurance review of new Group 
organisational structure (move to divisional structure)
– Annual review of the work of the Committee and its terms 
of reference
Board Committees
Audit Committee
Graham Roberts – chairman
Meetings in 2010: 4
Members
Graham Roberts – chairman
Robert Amen (from 10 June 2010)
Mike Donovan
Hubertus Krossa 
Gordon Sage (retired 31 December 2010)
Robert Walvis 
Responsibilities
Financial statements
Financial controls
External auditor
Internal audit
Risk management and assurance
The terms of reference for the Committee are based on the Guidance 
on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council (formerly 
“Smith Guidance”). The terms of reference were approved by the Board 
in October 2003 and updated most recently in November 2010. The main 
responsibilities of the Audit Committee are summarised below:
– Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group 
and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial 
performance; 
– Review the Group’s internal controls established to identify, 
assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from 
management on the effectiveness of the systems they have 
established and the conclusions of any testing carried out by 
the internal and external auditor; 
– Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function 
including its work programme; 
– Make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment 
of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms 
of engagement of the external auditor; and
– Assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the 
external auditor and to develop and implement policy on the 
engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services. Annual report and accounts 2010 81
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
Throughout 2010, the Committee has continued to review the 
Group’s risk management and internal control systems and 
processes. As a result, the Committee recommended to the Board 
that it could properly conclude that the Group continued to maintain 
sound systems of risk management and internal control and that a 
review of the effectiveness of these systems had been completed.
External auditor independence and effectiveness 
To assess the independence and effectiveness of the external 
auditor, Deloitte LLP, the Committee carries out a formal review 
annually comprising the following elements:
Non-audit work
Compliance with the Group policy is tested each year. At each 
meeting, the Committee also reviews the non-audit work which 
has been carried out by the external auditor and that planned, together 
with the associated fees. The objective set out in the Company’s 
policy is to ensure that the external auditor is not placed in a position 
where their independence is, or might be seen to be, compromised. 
Under no circumstances will any assignment be given to the external 
auditor, when the result is that:
– as part of the statutory audit, they are required to report directly 
on their own non-audit work;
– they make management decisions on behalf of the Group;
– they act as advocates for the Group; or
– the level of non-audit fees is such, relative to audit fees, as to raise 
concerns about their ability to form objective judgements.
The Company’s policy identifies the various types of non-audit 
services and determines the analysis to be undertaken and level 
of authority required before the external auditor can be considered 
to undertake such services. Included within such analysis is 
consideration of the cost and efficiency benefits as well as the 
real or perceived threats to auditor independence.
There is no inconsistency between the Accounting Practices 
Board (APB) standards and the Company’s policy.
The APB published, in 2010, new ethical standards for auditors 
leading to greater disclosure and transparency. The Committee 
considered the changes and concluded that no adjustments were 
required to the existing policy and that there were appropriate 
checks and balances in place.
In 2010, the external auditor was appointed to carry out non-audit 
related work, principally in connection with the post-acquisition 
fiscal restructuring following the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
in October 2009. Other non-audit work carried out by the external 
auditor during 2010 related, in the main, to tax advice/compliance 
in Europe and the US. The Committee considers that the Company 
receives particular benefit from the advice provided by its external 
auditor, given their wide and detailed knowledge of the Group and its 
international operations. The majority of non-audit related work was 
carried out using the services of other major international audit firms.
Annual internal assessment 
A detailed internally prepared assessment of the previous year’s 
external audit process, together with any identified improvement 
recommendations. In carrying out this assessment, each operating 
company within the Group is required to evaluate the performance 
of the assigned external audit team and to compare that performance 
against the previous year.
External auditor’s assessment 
An assessment is also carried out by the external auditor in 
consultation with the operating companies using a structured 
questionnaire. In addition, the Audit Committee participates in 
responding to the questionnaire.
Having completed its review and having received their formal 
statement of independence, the Committee is satisfied that the 
external auditor remains independent of the Company.
The Committee has recommended that the Board proposes to 
shareholders that Deloitte LLP continue as the Company’s external 
auditor and will review the proposed audit fees and terms of 
engagement in May 2011.
External auditor rotation
Audit partners are rotated every five years. The advisory partner 
changed in 2010 and the audit engagement partner will change 
in 2011.
A number of circumstances would lead to consideration being given 
to carrying out an audit tender review. For example:
– in circumstances where the external auditor’s performance had 
been called into question, or where, through the audit partner 
rotation process, no suitable replacement had been identified;
– where value for money considerations had arisen; 
– where there was a real or perceived threat to independence; or
– where conflict of interests had been identified. Balfour Beatty 82
Our g Overnance – Direct Ors ’ r epOrt
Remuneration Committee
Robert Walvis – chairman
Meetings in 2010: 4
Members
Robert Walvis – chairman
Iain Ferguson 
Hubertus Krossa 
Steve Marshall 
Graham Roberts (from 9 November 2010)
Gordon Sage (retired 31 December 2010)
Responsibilities
Remuneration strategy and policies
Remuneration packages
Incentive plans
Information about the workings of the Committee during the financial 
year is set out in the Remuneration Report commencing on page 89.
Nomination Committee
Steve Marshall – Chairman
Meetings in 2010: 1
Members
Steve Marshall – Chairman
Robert Amen (from 10 June 2010)
Mike Donovan 
Iain Ferguson 
Hubertus Krossa 
Graham Roberts 
Gordon Sage (retired on 31 December 2010)
Ian Tyler 
Robert Walvis 
Responsibilities
Structure and composition of Board
Appointment of non-executive Directors
Succession planning and talent management
In 2010, the Committee’s work programme comprised the following 
principal topic:
Recruitment of non-executive Director:
– An external search consultancy was engaged to seek candidates 
to join the Board as a non-executive Director who had current or 
recent experience as a chief executive of a public company and 
who had business experience principally in the US. The Committee 
reviewed candidates as presented by the consultancy and 
Committee members were involved in the interview process 
before making their recommendations to the Board. All members 
of the Board were given the opportunity to meet Robert Amen prior 
to his appointment.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for specific three-year 
terms and it is part of the terms of reference of the Nomination 
Committee to review all appointments of non-executive Directors 
at three-yearly intervals, or as near to that as is practicable and make 
recommendations to the Board accordingly.
The Committee will carry out a review in 2011 of the skills and 
experience requirements for non-executive Directors, including 
developing an approach to diversity, in light of recent proposals 
for increasing the representation of women on company boards. Annual report and accounts 2010 83
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
Business Practices Committee
Mike Donovan – chairman
Meetings in 2010: 3
Members
Mike Donovan – chairman
Robert Amen (from 10 June 2010)
Iain Ferguson 
Hubertus Krossa
Steve Marshall 
Graham Roberts (until 9 November 2010)
Responsibilities
Corporate values, ethics and Code of Conduct
Health & Safety
Sustainability
Whistleblowing
The Committee focuses significant attention on values, the Group’s 
Code of Conduct and the training which will ensure that the Group’s 
business principles are properly embedded throughout the business. 
This focus follows the settlement with the Serious Fraud Office 
in October 2008 and the subsequent appointment of an external 
monitor, further details of which are set out in the separate 2010 
Sustainability Report. In addition, the new UK Bribery Act and the 
actions needed in order to ensure compliance with this Act, was 
a particular area of focus for the Committee in 2010.
At each of its meetings, the Committee receives detailed updates on 
health and safety performance and specifically the current status of 
the Group’s Zero Harm initiative, including statistical data and trends, 
accident reporting, and high potential incidents as well as occupational 
health. The Committee also reviews the output from the independent 
health and safety audit carried out across the Group.
In addition to the standing agenda items, the following principal topics 
were considered at Committee meetings during the year:
March
– Ethics and compliance: In addition to further work on embedding 
the Code of Conduct across the Group, including within Parsons 
Brinckerhoff, the compliance function’s focus has turned to the 
procedures, controls and assurance necessary to ensure 
compliance with the Company’s policies. 
– Whistleblowing cases and their resolution.
– GIACC monitor: The Committee reviewed the work of the external 
monitor, Neill Stansbury of GIACC, covering the period from 
November 2008 to December 2009, the conclusions from which 
were embedded in Mr Stansbury’s annual report to the Serious 
Fraud Office. His report concluded that the Balfour Beatty Code 
of Conduct and the underlying processes were, in his view, 
significantly ahead of market practice.
– Group Minimum Commercial Expectations (GMCEs): These are 
a series of processes designed around best practice commercial 
standards and have been internally developed and adopted 
across the Group, including within a number of joint ventures 
and partnerships. These provided a benchmark against which 
commercial requirements could be measured and set the minimum 
standards which Balfour Beatty would be prepared to operate 
under. It was expected that the GMCEs would lead to enhanced 
standards and improved commercial practices.
– HR Measures: Quantitative data was received relating to employee 
numbers, employee profiles and other measures including age 
distribution, absence levels, graduate “churn” and the output from 
the Group succession planning processes.
– Community engagement: The Group theme is focused around 
the young disadvantaged and details of the community programme 
are included in the separate 2010 Sustainability Report.
July
– Anti-bribery legislation in the UK and US
– Managing government affairs in the US
– Sustainability, including proposals for the 2010 Sustainability Report 
and the roadmaps of each of the operating companies
December
– Review of ethics and compliance and the external monitor’s annual 
report for 2010
The Committee will continue to monitor its terms of reference to 
establish whether it should expand its remit. For example, in 2011, the 
Committee will be specifically carrying out a review of the Company’s 
engagement with its stakeholders and operational excellence. Balfour Beatty 84
Our g Overnance – Direct Ors ’ r epOrt
Finance and General Purposes Committee
Meetings in 2010: Numerous
Members
Ian Tyler – chairman
Duncan Magrath
Andrew McNaughton
Anthony Rabin
Peter Zinkin
Responsibilities
Banking facilities and other arrangements
Share options
Share buy-backs
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence, 
by one of the other executive Directors. Its principal purpose is to 
approve various routine banking and treasury matters, share option 
grants and exercises and other matters relating to share capital. 
A summary of the business conducted at the meetings is provided 
to all the Directors.
Risk management and assurance
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Group’s systems of 
risk management and internal control and reviews their effectiveness. 
The Group’s principal risks and how they are mitigated are summarised 
on pages 55 to 61. The Board continued to assess the effectiveness 
of the risk management processes and internal controls during 2010 
and to the date of this report. Such assessment is based on reports 
made to the Board, the Audit Committee and the Business Practices 
Committee, including:
– the results of internal audit’s reviews of internal financial controls;
– a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had 
been maintained, or, where any significant non-compliance 
or breakdown had occurred with or without loss, the status 
of corrective action; and
– a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent and 
mitigation of significant risks and on the systems of internal controls.
The Group’s systems and controls are designed to ensure that the 
Group’s exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the 
Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. In addition, not all 
the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are treated, 
for these purposes, as part of the Group. Where they are not, 
systems of internal control and risk management are applied as 
agreed between the parties to the venture.
Central to the Group’s systems of internal control are its processes 
and framework for risk management. These accord with the Turnbull 
Guidance on internal controls and were in place throughout the year 
and up to the date of signing this report.
Group Tender and Investment Committee
Ian Tyler – chairman
Meetings in 2010: Numerous
Members
Ian Tyler – chairman
Duncan Magrath 
Andrew McNaughton
Anthony Rabin
Peter Zinkin
Kevin Craven (from 1 January 2011)
Manfred Leger
Brian Osborne
Mike Peasland
George Pierson
Andy Rose (until 28 February 2011)
Robert Van Cleave
Responsibilities
Major contract approvals
Acquisitions and disposals
Capital expenditure
This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence, 
by one of the other executive Directors. Its main purpose is to review 
all major proposed contracts with projected contract values above 
specified levels. The Committee also has authority to approve capital 
expenditure applications and any proposed acquisitions or disposals 
over certain specified limits determined by the Board. For example, 
currently the Committee’s terms of reference require contracts for 
construction or services in the UK of a value exceeding £100m to be 
submitted for review, whilst other limits vary according to geography 
and nature of the contract. In addition, irrespective of the financial 
scale of the contract, the Committee also reviews tenders in 
territories which are classified as “high risk” (above 35) in 
Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index or where 
there is a security risk in that territory. Minutes of Committee 
meetings are made available to all the Directors. Annual report and accounts 2010 85
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
Other disclosures
Business and financial review
The Chairman’s statement on pages 4 and 5, the Chief Executive’s 
strategic review on pages 12 to 23, the Chief Operating Officer’s market 
review on pages 24 to 27, the Operating reviews on pages 28 to 47, 
the Financial review on pages 48 to 51, and Sustainability on pages 
62 to 69 are incorporated by reference into the Directors’ Report.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are shown in the audited financial statements 
presented on pages 103 to 169 and are explained more fully in the 
Chief Executive’s and Chief Operating Officer’s reviews, the 
Operating review and the Financial review. An interim dividend 
payment of 5.05p (net) per ordinary share was approved by the Board 
on 10 August 2010 and a final dividend of 7.65p (net) per ordinary 
share will be recommended at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
giving a total of 12.7p (net) per ordinary share, which compares with 
a total dividend per ordinary share of 12.0p (net) in 2009. Preference 
dividends totalling 10.75p (gross) per preference share were paid in 
2010 (2009: 10.75p (gross) per preference share).
The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan.
Research and development
The Group continues to be committed to investment in research and 
development in all its areas of activity. This covers new products and 
processes and innovation in areas such as information technology 
and asset management systems. A range of development initiatives 
is undertaken throughout the business and these are supported by 
links with selected universities.
The Group innovation forum is one of several fora through which 
the Company is enhancing the sharing of knowledge and the 
encouragement of joint working between the various operating 
companies. Improving the ability to tap into the depth and breadth 
of expertise and capability which exists within the Group, and 
sharing it, is seen as a key enabler and catalyst for innovation, 
as well as serving to identify where the Group can respond better 
to the needs of its various stakeholders.
Details of the Group’s 2010 research and development expenditure 
are given in Note 4.1 on page 118.
Share capital and shareholders
Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2010, 
including the rights attaching to each class of share, are set out in 
Note 27 on pages 151 and 152. During the year to 31 December 
2010 no ordinary or preference shares were repurchased for 
cancellation. 657,138 ordinary shares were issued following the 
exercise of options held under the Company’s savings-related share 
option scheme and 472,928 ordinary shares were issued following 
the exercise of options held under the Company’s executive share 
option schemes.
The Group’s systems of internal control operate through a number 
of different processes, some of which are interlinked. These include:
– the annual review of the strategy and plans of each operating 
company and of the Group as a whole in order to identify the risks 
to the Group’s achievement of its overall objectives and, where 
appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions;
– monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of 
results and forecasts by executive Directors and line management, 
including particular areas of business or project risk. This is used to 
update management’s understanding of the environment in which 
the Group operates and the methods used to mitigate and control 
the risks identified;
– individual tender and project review procedures commencing at 
operating company level and progressing to Board Committee level 
if value, or perceived exposure, breaches certain thresholds;
– regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety and 
environmental matters;
– the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment 
and capital expenditure through the Board’s Committees and the 
Board itself;
– the review of specific material areas of Group-wide risk and the 
formulation and monitoring of risk mitigating actions;
– the formulation and review of properly documented policies and 
procedures, updated to address the changing risks of the business;
– specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, covering the 
financial management of the Group, including arrangements with 
the Group’s bankers and bond providers, controls on foreign 
exchange dealings and management of currency and interest rate 
exposures, insurance, capital expenditure procedures, application 
of accounting policies and financial controls;
– a Group-wide risk management framework which is applied to all 
functions in the Group, whether operational, financial or support. 
Under it, the key risks facing each part of the Group are regularly 
reviewed and assessed, together with the steps taken to avoid 
or mitigate those risks. The results of these reviews are placed 
on risk registers and, where necessary, specific action plans 
are developed;
– reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business 
financial processes and controls and specific reviews in areas 
of perceived high business risk; and
– the Group’s policy in relation to staff being able to raise concerns, 
in confidence, about possible improprieties on matters of financial 
reporting and other issues.
These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as appropriate, 
to all companies joining the Group.
The Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance is responsible 
for ensuring that a comprehensive framework of assurance (including 
internal audit) exists within operating companies and for co-ordinating 
the risk management activities across the Group. No significant 
failings or weaknesses have been identified by the Board in carrying 
out its review of the effectiveness of the risk management and 
internal control systems. Balfour Beatty 86
Our g Overnance – Direct Ors ’ r epOrt
At 31 December 2010, the Directors had authority under 
shareholders’ resolutions approved at the AGM and at the separate 
Class meeting held in May 2010 to purchase through the market 
68,542,443 ordinary shares and 16,775,968 preference shares at 
prices set out in those resolutions. This authority expires at the 
conclusion of the separate Class meeting which will follow the 2011 
AGM or on 1 July 2011 whichever is earlier.
Throughout the year, all the Company’s issued share capital was 
publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so 
as at the date of this report. There are no specific restrictions on 
the size of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are 
both governed by the Articles of Association and the prevailing law. 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration 
Report commencing on page 89. Shares held by the Balfour Beatty 
Employee Share Ownership Trust are not voted.
There is no person who has special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
As at 2 March 2011, the Company had been notified in accordance 
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority of the following interests in its ordinary share capital:
Number of 
ordinary shares 
held
Percentage 
of ordinary 
shares held
Standard Life Investments Limited 54,071,872 7.88
Prudential plc 34,309,232 5.00
BlackRock, Inc 34,307,689 5.00
Legal & General Group plc 26,889,659 3.92
AXA SA 22,003,406 3.21
Auditors
Deloitte LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as auditors to 
the Company and a resolution for their appointment will be proposed 
at the AGM.
Honorary President
Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company, having been 
appointed to this position in May 2003, following his retirement as 
Chairman.
Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good 
relationships with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders 
are kept informed of significant Company developments.
The Company has continued its long-established programme of 
communication with institutional investors and brokers throughout 
2010. A Head of Investor Relations was appointed in 2010 to help 
further enhance the Company’s investor programme and provide 
dedicated resource. Presentations of the half-year and annual 
results were made in accordance with the practice of previous years. 
Approximately 200 meetings have been held at regular intervals 
through the year (2009: approximately 140) with institutional 
shareholders, brokers and analysts including two hosted events. 
One event was held in New York to provide better understanding 
of the strength and depth of capabilities of Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
The second was a more general description of infrastructure 
markets and Balfour Beatty’s competitive positioning and strategy 
and included an update on the evolving strategy for the infrastructure 
investments business.
Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, 
hold meetings with the Company’s principal institutional shareholders 
to discuss the Company’s strategy, financial performance and specific 
major investments. The Chairman has also met with a number of 
these institutional shareholders and the other non-executive Directors 
are invited to do so whenever they wish. The Chief Operating Officer 
and members of senior management met with representatives from 
the UK Shareholders’ Association as well as hosting them on a visit 
to the Blackfriars project in London.
This communications programme will continue and be expanded 
where appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and 
practice. The 2011 investor programme will focus on broadening 
the shareholder base, particularly amongst US investors.
Care is exercised to ensure that any price sensitive information 
is released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with 
UK Listing Authority requirements.
Reports to the Board on meetings or other contact with shareholders 
or their representatives are made by executive Directors on a regular 
basis. The non-executive Directors continue to believe that, through 
their direct and ready access to, and contact with, the Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director and through the regular reports 
to the Board, they are kept fully aware of the views of the larger 
shareholders in the Company and the investment community generally.
The Board also has access to the services of independent external 
corporate and investor relations consultants who provide advice on 
the relationship between the Company and its institutional investors. 
They conducted a series of interviews with key shareholders in 
April and presented the results to the Board in June 2010, the output 
from which has largely been addressed by developing the investor 
programme through 2010 and 2011 and the appointment of a 
dedicated investor relations resource. Annual report and accounts 2010 87
Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
Group policies
The Group’s published policies on health and safety, the environment, 
business conduct and ethics remain in place and are subject to regular 
reviews. The business conduct and ethics policy has been reviewed 
and updated including the introduction of an external ethics helpline 
which is available to all employees and other parties with whom the 
Group works.
Further information on each of these policies and the progress 
which has been made during the year is provided in the separate 
2010 Sustainability Report.
Employment
As the Group operates across a number of business sectors in 
different environments, it has evolved a decentralised management 
structure, with employment policies designed to suit the needs 
of individual businesses. However, each employing company is 
expected to comply with certain key principles in its design and 
practice of employment policy.
These are:
– to provide an open, challenging and participative environment;
– to enable all employees to utilise their talents and skills to the full, 
through appropriate encouragement, training and development;
– to communicate a full understanding of the objectives and 
performance of the Group and the opportunities and challenges 
facing it;
– to provide pay and other benefits which reflect good local practices 
and reward individual and collective performance;
– to ensure that all applicants receive equal treatment regardless 
of age, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, 
religion or belief; and
– to ensure that all employees similarly receive equal treatment 
and specifically in relation to training, development and career 
progression.
Operating companies use a variety of methods to communicate 
key business goals and issues to employees and also consult and 
involve their employees through local publications, briefing groups, 
consultative meetings, training programmes and working groups 
to assist the process of continuous improvement in the way 
business is conducted. Regular publications inform employees of 
major business and technical achievements. Most of the UK-based 
operating companies have either attained or have committed to 
attain the UK Investors in People standard.
Post balance sheet events
Details of post balance sheet events are set out in Note 34 on 
page 159.
Contractual arrangements
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third 
parties in support of its business activities. The disclosure in 
this report of information about any of those third parties is not 
considered necessary for the understanding of the development, 
performance or position of the Group’s business.
The Board regards the Company’s general meetings as an opportunity 
to communicate directly with private investors and actively encourages 
participative dialogue with all the Company’s shareholders. The chairmen 
of the Board Committees attend the AGM each year as well as the 
other Directors and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The website www.balfourbeatty.com is an important source 
of information on the Group, including financial press releases, 
shareholder documentation, annual and half-year results presentations 
and the terms of reference of the principal Board Committees. The 
website is being relaunched in the third quarter of 2011 so that it can 
become an even more effective source of information for investors.
Political donations
At the AGM held on 12 May 2010, shareholders gave authority for 
the Company and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political 
organisations up to a maximum aggregate amount of £25,000 in 
the European Union. This approval is a precautionary measure in 
view of the broad definition of these terms in the Companies Act. 
No such expenditure or donations were made during the year 
and shareholder authority will be sought again at the 2011 AGM. 
In the US and Canada, donations totalling £278,000 were made 
by operating companies during 2010. Most of these donations were 
made by Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc, and these donations are small 
and all were permitted by law. In the main, they relate to support 
given for local campaigns, public bond financing or similar referenda 
to promote investment in infrastructure. Any political contributions 
or donations are tightly controlled and must be approved in advance 
in accordance with the Company’s internal procedures and must 
also strictly adhere to the Company’s policies on probity set out in 
its Code of Conduct. A review of existing practices was undertaken 
during 2010.
Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc sponsors a Political Action Committee 
(PAC). A PAC is an independently administered committee which 
receives voluntary contributions from Parsons Brinckerhoff’s US 
employees and allocates the funds received, whatever they may 
be, to US political candidates and other eligible stakeholders who 
support investment in infrastructure markets generally. Contributions 
are entirely voluntary from employees and are kept completely 
separate from company funds. Decisions taken by the PAC are 
independent of influence by Balfour Beatty. Total PAC contributions 
in 2010 were £128,958.
Corporate responsibility
A full description of our approach to sustainability, including 
information on the Group’s charitable activities, appears on 
pages 62 to 69. For the tenth year, the Company is publishing 
a separate 2010 Sustainability Report including values, ethics, 
safety, social and environmental issues and for the first time this 
is being published to coincide with the publication of this report and 
is displayed on the Company’s website www.balfourbeatty.com Balfour Beatty 88
Our g Overnance – Direct Ors ’ r epOrt
Change of control provisions
The Group’s bank facility agreements contain provisions that, upon 
30-days’ notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise 
its discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of 
control and cancel all commitments under the agreement concerned. 
A number of significant joint venture and contract bond agreements 
include provisions which become exercisable by a counterparty 
upon a change of control of the Company. These include the right 
of a counterparty to request additional security and to terminate 
an agreement.
Some other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal 
course of business, include change of control provisions.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for the Directors 
or employees on a change of control.
Payment of creditors
In the UK, the Company’s policy is to settle the terms of payment 
with suppliers when agreeing the terms for each transaction or series 
of transactions; to seek to ensure that suppliers are aware of the 
terms of payment; and to abide by these terms of payment as and 
when satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services 
in accordance with the agreed terms. At 31 December 2010, the 
year-end creditors’ days of the Company were 27 (2009: 25).
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies and its 
exposure to the following risks – foreign exchange, interest rate, price 
and credit – are described in the financial and treasury risks section 
on pages 59 and 60 and detailed in Note 20 on pages 131 to 137.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union (EU) and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and they 
have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements 
under IFRSs as adopted by the EU. Under company law, the Directors 
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
– properly select and apply accounting policies;
– present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
– provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the Company’s and the Group’s financial 
position and financial performance; and
– make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and for taking reasonable steps for preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
–  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole; and
–  the Operating and Financial reviews, which are incorporated into 
the Directors’ Report, include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
they face.
Statements of Directors as to disclosure of information 
to auditors
Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
– so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
– the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors’ Report
By order of the Board
C D Vaughan 
General Counsel and Company Secretary
2 March 2011
Registered Office: 
130 Wilton Road 
London SW1V 1LQ
Registered in England Number 395826 Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
OUR GOVERNANCE 
REMUNERA TION REPORT 
Annual report and accounts 2010 89
Introductory letter 
Dear Shareholder  
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee’s report on 
Directors’ remuneration for 2010. 
During the year, the Committee carried out a comprehensive review 
of the Company’s remuneration arrangements and is proposing some 
changes to the remuneration policy with effect from 2011.  
Since the last detailed review in 2005, the business has grown 
significantly in terms of revenue and employee numbers, and now 
has a significant international presence across the entire lifecycle of 
major infrastructure assets. Consistent with the changing nature of 
the business, the scope and complexity of senior executives’ roles 
within the Company has also changed.  
While the Committee considers that the remuneration policy operated 
since 2005 has complemented the strategy effectively and rewarded 
executives fairly, the review concluded that a number of evolutionary 
changes should be made. This is to ensure that the policy continues 
to provide a strong link between executives’ and shareholders’ interests 
through focussing on the outputs of the Company’s strategy, namely 
sustainable profit growth and shareholder returns.  
As part of the review, the Committee developed proposals for a new 
Performance Share Plan to replace the existing plan, which has reached 
the end of its five-year life.  
In developing these proposed changes we have consulted with the 
Company’s major institutional shareholders and their representative 
bodies.  
The proposals are set out in this report and the resolutions, both 
to adopt this report and to seek shareholder approval for the new 
Performance Share Plan, will be put to the Annual General Meeting. 
I hope you will support these proposals which the Remuneration 
Committee believes are in the interests of shareholders. 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
 
Robert Walvis 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
  OUR GOVERNANCE – REMUNERATION REPORT 
Balfour Beatty 90 
Introduction 
This report has been prepared in accordance with Section 420 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”) and Schedules 5 and 8 of the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008. The report also meets the relevant requirements of 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how 
the Board has applied the principles relating to Directors’ remuneration 
in the Combined Code. As required by the Act, a resolution to approve 
the report will be proposed at the AGM of the Company. 
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee of the Board (“RemCo”) is primarily 
responsible for determining the remuneration policy and conditions 
of service for executive Directors and the Chairman of the Company. 
It also reviews and monitors the level and structure of remuneration 
for certain senior managers immediately below the level of the Board. 
The terms of reference of the RemCo, which were last reviewed in 
October 2008, can be found on the Company’s website 
www.balfourbeatty.com 
The RemCo has been chaired by Robert Walvis since November 2003. 
Its other members during the year were Hubertus Krossa, Steve 
Marshall, Gordon Sage, Iain Ferguson and, from November 2010, 
Graham Roberts. No member of the RemCo has conflicts of interest 
arising from cross-directorships and no member is involved in the  
day-to-day executive management of the Group. 
During 2010 the Chief Executive, Ian Tyler, and the Human Resources 
director, Paul Raby, were invited to join meetings of the RemCo, when 
appropriate. The role of secretary of the RemCo is fulfilled by the Head 
of Secretariat. No Director has any involvement in any decisions relating 
to his own remuneration. 
The RemCo is responsible for appointing external independent 
consultants to advise on executive remuneration matters. This advice 
and assistance has been provided throughout the year by Hewitt New 
Bridge Street (“HNBS”). The Human Resources director has also 
provided advice to the RemCo. 
Remuneration policy and company strategy  
The RemCo has pursued a consistent remuneration policy over 
a number of years. The 2010 remuneration review examined the 
Company’s strategy closely and re-affirmed the link to the remuneration 
policy, which is summarised below:  
– Remuneration levels must be positioned such that they provide a 
competitive level of remuneration, to enable the recruitment and 
retention of high calibre management. It is vital that we continue 
to be able to attract, retain and motivate those individuals who can 
lead the business so as to achieve its short and long-term goals. 
To meet this objective we need to ensure that remuneration 
levels are appropriately positioned against the external market 
and that compensation packages are seen as fair and reasonable. 
The Committee is, however, aware of the risk of an upward 
ratchet in remuneration levels through over-reliance on comparative 
survey data. 
– The commercial environment is a demanding one and it is critical 
that incentives are in place for executives to be rewarded for 
the achievement of specific and measurable performance goals. 
Where these goals are not met it is also appropriate that this is 
recognised in a sharply reduced level of remuneration received. 
Accordingly, the annual bonus and long-term incentives make up a 
significant part of each executive Director’s compensation package. 
– Incentive arrangements are structured so as to motivate participants 
to deliver high standards of performance, without encouraging 
excessive risk-taking. Managing risk is a critical issue for the 
Company, particularly in relation to the type of work the Group is 
engaged in and the need to ensure that in all of its systems and 
working practices, the highest safety standards are maintained. 
As a result, we take particular care to ensure that the targets 
and objectives which are set do not compromise that goal.  
– In rewarding performance, the emphasis should be on clear and 
verifiable ‘output’ measures, in particular profit measured over 
annual and longer term performance periods. Other performance 
goals including those relating to social, environmental and 
governance responsibilities are assessed through the normal 
management review process. Overall, the RemCo maintains 
its commitment to performance measures which are objective, 
transparent and easy to understand so that they remain motivational 
to participants.  
– EPS and relative TSR remain the most appropriate ‘output’ based 
measures of longer term performance. Executives should be 
motivated and rewarded in relation to the earnings performance 
of the Group. However, it is also appropriate that executives should 
be incentivised to achieve strong stock market performance to align 
their interests with those of shareholders. The continued use of 
EPS and TSR meets both these goals. The share-based elements of 
the package, including share ownership guidelines and the significant 
deferral of bonus in shares, drive performance over the longer term 
and align the interests of senior management with those of 
shareholders,  
– General pay trends in other parts of the Group are taken into account 
when setting the pay of the executive Directors. 
Basic salaries 
The policy is to set basic salaries at levels which are competitive given 
the size and complexity of the Company, as well as the broad business 
sectors in which it operates. To assist in market comparisons HNBS 
provides data and independent advice on remuneration levels in 
companies considered to be comparable in terms of revenue, market 
capitalisation and industry sector. The RemCo aims to position basic 
salaries around mid-market levels, taking into account the performance 
of the Group’s business and individual Directors. 
The basic salaries for the executive Directors are reviewed annually 
on 1 July.  
At the review in 2010, Duncan Magrath’s salary was increased from 
£360,000 to £385,000 and Andrew McNaughton’s salary was increased 
from £385,000 to £410,000. These increases continue the process 
whereby the salaries for the more recent appointments to the Board 
are progressively aligned over time with the other executive Directors 
and the external market. The basic salaries of Ian Tyler, Anthony Rabin 
and Peter Zinkin were increased in line with the normal market 
movement at this level. 
Name of Director 
Salary at  
1 July 2010 
Salary at 
1 July 2009
D J Magrath £385,000 £360,000
A J McNaughton £410,000 £385,000
A L P Rabin £437,000 £425,000
I P Tyler £648,000 £630,000
P J L Zinkin £417,000 £405,000
  Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 91
Annual incentive plan 
Each executive Director participates in an annual incentive plan, under 
which pre-determined financial targets must be achieved before any 
payment is earned. The maximum potential bonus which could have 
been earned by executive Directors for 2010 was 80% of basic salary 
and the performance indicator chosen was profit before tax, exceptional 
items and amortisation of intangible assets (“profit”). A bonus of 40% 
of basic salary would have been earned for the achievement of 
performance in line with target. Two-thirds of any bonus achieved for 
2010 is payable in cash, whilst the remaining one-third is deferred in 
the form of ordinary shares in the Company under the Deferred Bonus 
Plan (the “DBP”). These shares, along with shares awarded in lieu 
of dividends paid during the deferral period, will be released to the 
Directors after three years, providing they are still employed by the 
Company at that time. Bonuses are non-pensionable. The profit for 
the year ended 31 December 2010 resulted in a bonus of 55.7% 
of basic salary for each executive Director. Details are shown in the 
table on pages 94 and 95. 
Following the remuneration review carried out during the year, annual 
maximum bonus potential for executive Directors has been increased 
to 120% of basic salary for 2011. Target bonus continues to be set 
at 50% of the maximum potential with bonus targets continuing to 
be based purely on profit. The level of profit required to earn maximum 
bonus will continue to be a challenging goal without encouraging 
excessive risk-taking. In view of the increase in bonus potential, 
the amount of bonus deferral in the form of shares will increase from 
one-third to one-half of the bonus earned. 
Long-term incentive scheme 
During 2010, the final awards were made under the Performance Share 
Plan approved by shareholders at the 2006 AGM. Award levels were 
135% and 112.5% of salary for the Chief Executive and other executive 
Directors respectively. This was a reduction from the normal policy of 
150% and 125% of salary respectively. 
These awards are subject to two performance conditions, each applying 
to separate halves of the award and each measured over a period of 
three financial years. One half of the award is subject to an EPS growth 
range, requiring growth of RPI + 6% and RPI + 36% for between 25% 
and 100% of this part of the award to vest. The other half of the award 
is subject to a performance condition measuring the Company’s total 
shareholder return compared to a comparator group of similar UK and 
overseas listed businesses. Details of outstanding awards and the 
performance conditions are contained later in this report under the table 
headed “Directors’ long-term incentives: the Performance Share Plan”. 
Following consultation with the Company’s major shareholders and 
representative bodies, shareholder approval will be sought at the 
2011 AGM for a new Performance Share Plan (new PSP) to replace 
the 2006 Performance Share Plan, which will have reached the end 
of its five-year life.  
Under the new PSP, awards will be made to executive Directors 
and other selected operational and functional senior managers. 
To enable total remuneration levels to move closer to mid-market 
levels, award levels for 2011 will be increased to 175% of salary 
for the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the other executive 
Directors. The overall maximum award level of the new PSP is 
unchanged at 200% of salary.  
Performance conditions will be set for each award. For the 2011 
awards, the conditions will continue to be based on EPS and TSR 
performance. 
50% of an award will be linked to an adjusted EPS growth target, 
and will vest as shown in the table below.  
EPS growth over three years Proportion of award vesting 
Less than 15% Zero 
15% 25% 
45% 100% 
Between 15% and 45% 
Between 25% and 100%  
pro-rata 
For prior awards, EPS targets have used UK RPI as a benchmark, with 
a growth range above this benchmark to determine the level of vesting. 
Given the significant proportion of the Group’s earnings that come from 
outside the UK, the link to a UK inflation measure is no longer thought 
appropriate, either as a relevant indicator of performance or as a 
measure that is meaningful to non-UK participants. Consequently, 
for the 2011 awards, the EPS performance link to UK RPI has been 
removed. The proposed range is considered to be appropriately 
stretching, providing a balance between a requirement for outstanding 
performance (particularly at the top end) whilst ensuring that undue  
risk-taking is not encouraged. The EPS target range will be reviewed 
carefully for each award. 
The performance condition attached to the other 50% of an award will 
be linked to the Company’s TSR performance against a comparator 
group. For prior awards, TSR has been measured against a specific list 
of comparator companies drawn from the business sectors in which 
the Company operates. Given the changes to the scale and complexity 
of the Group’s operations it is no longer thought possible to identify a 
sufficient number of equivalent companies. Consequently, for the 2011 
award, TSR performance will be assessed against UK listed companies 
ranked in the FTSE All Share Index between 51 to 150 (excluding 
Investments Trusts) on 31 December 2010. The choice of a FTSE 51 
to 150 comparator group reflects Balfour Beatty’s FTSE ranking and 
the companies within this market cap range are (i) more international 
than the previous group (ii) more relevant from an investor perspective 
(iii) sufficiently numerous to reduce volatility caused by delistings. 
The RemCo believes that outperforming this group will represent 
a significant achievement in the current business climate. 
The TSR performance of all companies will be measured over the 
three-year performance period. This part of an award will vest in part 
if Balfour Beatty’s TSR is equivalent to the company whose TSR 
performance is at the median, with full vesting if Balfour Beatty’s 
TSR is equivalent to, or above, that of the company whose TSR 
performance is at the upper quartile. The scale of vesting is shown 
in the table below: 
Total shareholder return Proportion of award vesting 
Below median Zero 
Median 25% 
Upper quartile 100% 
Between median and upper quartile 
Between 25% and 100%  
pro-rata 
TSR and EPS performance will be independently verified and approved 
by the RemCo. 
The awards vest, subject to the achievement of performance 
conditions, three years after the date of grant, together with an 
additional award of shares in lieu of the value of dividends paid. 
EPS and TSR performance conditions continue to provide a good blend 
of performance metrics, with EPS growth rewarding strong financial 
performance and TSR rewarding stock market out-performance, which 
aligns strongly with shareholder interests.  OUR GOVERNANCE – REMUNERATION REPORT 
Balfour Beatty 92 
Clawback 
In line with best practice, a clawback provision has been incorporated 
into the annual incentive plan (including the deferred element) and the 
proposed new PSP.  
Remuneration and risk 
As part of the remuneration review, the RemCo also considered the 
relationship between remuneration and risk, and remains satisfied 
that the policies operated are appropriate and do not encourage undue 
risk-taking as: 
– total remuneration is appropriately balanced between fixed 
elements (e.g. basic salary and pension contribution) and incentive 
pay. Basic salary levels are targeted at around mid-market levels 
and are reviewed annually. Variable pay does not represent a 
disproportionately high level of overall remuneration; 
– annual bonuses are capped and targeted to ensure that performance 
incentives and rewards are set at an appropriate level; 
– a significant proportion of annual bonus is deferred in shares for three 
years, thereby providing a longer term performance horizon for the 
annual bonus; 
– PSP awards are granted annually, rather than on a one-off basis, 
meaning that no undue emphasis is placed on any one particular 
financial year-end;  
– sliding scale performance targets are used for all performance 
pay, providing incremental awards for additional performance 
delivered; and 
– the Company has introduced clawback provisions within the annual 
incentive plan (including the deferred element) and the proposed 
new PSP. 
Share ownership guidelines 
To further align the interests of senior management with those of 
shareholders, executive Directors and certain other senior managers are 
subject to share ownership guidelines. Executive Directors are required 
to accumulate a holding of ordinary shares in the Company to the value 
of 100% of their basic salary at a reference date, with other senior 
managers at 50% of basic salary. In order to achieve this, those subject 
to the share ownership guidelines, will be expected to retain at least 
half of the shares (after payment of any taxes due) which vest from 
awards made under the PSP and the DBP. 
Share options  
No grants of options have been made under the Executive Share 
Option Scheme (ESOS 2001) since 31 December 2004. The ESOS 
2001 expires in 2011 and it not proposed to renew the scheme.  
The Company operates an HMRC approved savings-related share 
option scheme (SAYE) under which Directors and employees are 
granted an option to purchase ordinary shares in the Company in either 
three or five years’ time. This scheme is open to all employees based 
in the UK and is not subject to performance conditions. Employees 
normally have a period of six months after completion of the savings 
contributions during which to exercise the SAYE options, failing 
which they lapse.  
The SAYE reaches the end of its 10-year life in 2011 and the Company 
will be seeking approval from shareholders for a new SAYE scheme at 
the 2011 AGM. 
Share Incentive Plan  
The Company will also be seeking shareholder approval for an HMRC 
approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP) at the 2011 AGM. This will provide 
a further opportunity for employees to acquire shares in the Company. 
Pensions 
The Company provides pension benefits to UK employees principally 
through the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (the “Fund”), which has both 
defined benefit (“DB”) and defined contribution (“DC”) sections. The 
DB section provides for the build-up of pension benefits based on 
different accrual rates (as determined by job position) and has life cover, 
disability and spouse/dependants pension arrangements.  
A Fund-specific earnings cap has been maintained for those members 
who were previously subject to the HMRC earnings cap. This cap also 
applies to members of the DC section of the Fund. A discretionary cash 
supplement is paid in lieu of pension provision above the earnings cap. 
The Company is not compensating any member of the Fund (or any 
other pension scheme operated by the Company) for any additional 
tax which is payable as a result of changes to government policy.  
The specific pension arrangements for executive Directors are outlined 
in more detail in the Directors’ pensions section on pages 98 and 99. 
The basic salary used for calculating DB benefits has been frozen with 
effect from January 2011.  
Service contracts 
It remains the Company’s policy and practice to include in executive 
Directors’ contracts a 12-months’ rolling notice period from the 
Company and six-months’ notice on the part of the Director. 
This policy will continue. 
Details of the service contracts of the executive Directors are shown 
in the table below. 
Name of Director Date of contract
Notice 
period from 
Company 
(months)
D J Magrath  11 April 2008 12
A J McNaughton 15 December 2008 12
A L P Rabin 28 August 2002 12
I P Tyler 22 December 2004 12
P J L Zinkin 16 January 2004 12
Service contracts of executive Directors do not include provision for 
specific payment in the event of early termination, nor do they provide 
for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of a change 
of control. It is not the RemCo’s intention to introduce such provisions. 
If any existing contract of employment is breached by the Company 
in the event of termination, the Company would be liable to pay, 
as damages, an amount approximating to the net loss of salary and 
contractual benefits for the unexpired notice period. The RemCo would 
seek to ensure that the Director fulfils his obligation to mitigate his 
losses and would also give consideration to phased payments where 
appropriate. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
all Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM. 
External appointments 
The RemCo recognises that benefits can arise from allowing executive 
Directors to take a non-executive directorship elsewhere. With the 
approval of the Board in each case, executive Directors may therefore 
accept one external appointment and retain any related fees. Ian Tyler 
who resigned as a non-executive director of VT Group plc on 9 July 
2010, was appointed as a non-executive director of Cable & Wireless 
Communications plc, effective 1 January 2011. The fees received for 
his role at VT Group are set out in the notes to the Directors’ 
remuneration table on pages 94 and 95.  Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 93
Non-executive Directors 
Non-executive Directors are appointed by the full Board following 
recommendations from the Nomination Committee. The Chairman’s 
remuneration falls within the remit of the RemCo and is approved by 
the Board. The Board determines the terms on which the services 
of other non-executive Directors are provided. All non-executive 
Directors are appointed for a term of three years. In accordance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors submit themselves 
for re-election at the AGM. The non-executive Directors are not eligible 
to join any pension scheme operated by the Company and cannot 
participate in any of the Company’s share option, annual incentive 
or long-term incentive schemes. None of the appointment letters 
for non-executive Directors contain provision for specific payment 
in the event of termination for whatever cause. 
The dates of the letters of appointment or re-appointment of the  
non-executive Directors are shown in the table below. 
Name of Director 
Date of appointment 
or re-appointment
Unexpired 
period at 
December 2010 
(months)
R M Amen  10 June 2010 30
M J Donovan 1 July 2009 18
I G T Ferguson  1 January 2010 24
G E H Krossa 9 September 2008 9
S Marshall 16 May 2008 5
G C Roberts  1 January 2009 12
R J W Walvis 26 September 2010 33
The fees of the non-executive Directors are reviewed from time 
to time with the last review having taken effect from 1 July 2010. 
The annual fee level for the non-executive Directors (excluding the 
Chairman) was increased from £48,000 to £52,000 and for Steve 
Marshall as Chairman from £240,000 to £250,000. The annual fee 
for chairing Board Committees was increased from £8,000 to £10,000. 
In addition, effective from 1 July 2010, an annual fee of £10,000 was 
introduced for the Senior Independent Director (“SID”) in recognition 
of the additional responsibilities of that position. Where the SID is also 
the chairman of a Board Committee, as is the case with Robert Walvis, 
there is no additional fee. For non-executive Directors based outside 
Europe, an additional fee of £2,500 per visit to another country was 
introduced from 1 July 2010. 
During the year, the RemCo was chaired by Robert Walvis, the Audit 
Committee by Graham Roberts and the Business Practices Committee 
by Mike Donovan.  
An annual fee of €34,000 is payable to Hubertus Krossa for his 
chairmanship of the supervisory board of Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH. 
  OUR GOVERNANCE – REMUNERATION REPORT 
Balfour Beatty 94 
Performance graph 
The graph below shows Balfour Beatty’s TSR performance compared to the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) TSR over the five 
financial years ended 31 December 2010.  
Dec-05
Value of hypothetical £100 holding
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Index 
60
20
80
40
0
100
140
120
160
180
Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10
Balfour Beatty plc
 
 
As in previous reports, the RemCo has elected to compare the TSR on the Company’s ordinary shares against the FTSE 250 Index (excluding 
investment trusts) principally because this is a broad index of which the Company is a constituent member. The values indicated in the graph 
show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends from a £100-hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc and in the index, 
at the start of the period and have been calculated using 30 trading-day average values. 
The detailed information about the Directors’ remuneration, set out below and on pages 94 to 99 has been audited by the Company’s 
independent auditors, Deloitte LLP. 
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2010 
Name of Director 
Basic 
salary
£
Fees
£
Pension 
supplement 
£
Benefits 
in kind
£
Annual  
bonus 
£ 
Total 
remuneration 
2010 
£
Total 
remuneration 
2009 
£
R M Amen – 39,000 – – – 39,000 –
M J Donovan – 59,000 – – – 59,000 51,015
I G T Ferguson – 50,000 – – – 50,000 –
G E H Krossa  – 79,310 – – – 79,310 74,786
D J Magrath 372,500 – 49,780 15,538 142,963 580,781 527,004
S Marshall – 245,000 – – – 245,000 240,000
A J McNaughton 397,500 – 39,750 15,538 152,247 605,035 554,724
A L P Rabin 431,000 – 75,209 21,301 162,273 689,783 657,279
G C Roberts – 59,000 – – – 59,000 56,000
G H Sage – 50,000 – – – 50,000 48,000
I P Tyler 639,000 – 75,977 24,393 240,624 979,994 933,896
R J W Walvis – 59,000 – – – 59,000 56,000
P J L Zinkin 411,000 – – 18,181 154,846 584,027 553,566
Former Director –– – – – – 37,333
Total 2,251,000 640,310 240,716 94,951 852,953 4,079,930 3,789,603
  Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 95
Notes: 
(i) Basic salary and fees were those paid in respect of the period of the year during which individuals were Directors. In practice, the basic salary paid to Andrew McNaughton 
has been reduced due to his participation in the Company’s SMART Pensions salary sacrifice arrangement. The £6,180 reduction in 2010 corresponds to his contributions 
to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund, which are now met directly by the Company as part of this arrangement.  
(ii) Ian Tyler, Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton and Anthony Rabin received taxable cash supplements in lieu of pension provision on their salary above the Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund specific earnings cap. 
(iii) The performance target for annual bonus was profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets (“profit”). The profit for the year ended 31 December 
2010 resulted in a bonus of 55.7% of basic salary for each executive Director. Two-thirds of this bonus is payable in cash and these are the amounts shown in the table above. 
The remaining one-third is deferred in the form of ordinary shares in the Company which will be released to the Director on 31 March 2014, providing he is still employed by 
the Company at that time. The number of shares comprising the deferred element will be determined based on the share price at the award date of 31 March 2011.  
(iv) Hubertus Krossa received a fee of €34,000 (included above) for his chairmanship of the supervisory board of Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH. 
(v)  In addition, Ian Tyler received a fee of £27,461 for his services as a non-executive director of VT Group plc. 
(vi) Benefits in kind are calculated in terms of UK taxable values. All executive Directors receive private medical insurance for the Director and his immediate family. Ian Tyler, 
Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin receive a fully expensed car and a fuel card. Duncan Magrath and Andrew McNaughton receive a car allowance of £14,000 p.a.  
(vii) No Director receives any expense allowance.  
(viii) Awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2007 to Ian Tyler, Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton, Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin vested during the year. 
At the date of vesting on 26 March 2010 the closing market price was 293.2p and the total values of the awards which vested, including shares received in lieu of dividends, 
were £292,963, £80,073, £125,129, £167,628 and £167,628 respectively. 
(ix) Awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2007 to Ian Tyler, Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton, Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin vested during the year. 
At the date of vesting on 30 March 2010 the closing market price was 295.7p and the total values of the shares which vested were £89,411, £28,588, £30,655, £61,387 and 
£61,384 respectively. 
(x) Andrew McNaughton exercised executive share options on 11 March 2010. The closing market price on the date of exercise was 282.4p and the value realisable on exercise 
was £61,894. 
(xi) Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin exercised savings-related share options during the year. The closing market price on the dates of exercise were 229.8p and 246.4p respectively 
and the values realisable on exercise were £143 and £226 respectively. 
 
The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of Balfour Beatty plc and its subsidiary undertakings during 
the year are set out below. 
Directors’ interests 
The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of Balfour Beatty plc and its subsidiary undertakings during the year 
are set out below. 
 Number of ordinary shares
Name of Director 
At  
1 January 
2010* 
At
31 December 
2010
R M Amen – 5,000
M J Donovan 7,142 10,000
I G T Ferguson – 25,000
G E H Krossa 7,142 7,142
D J Magrath 62,446 84,258
S Marshall 7,142 7,142
A J McNaughton 45,315 91,253
A L P Rabin 257,468 258,651
G C Roberts 7,142 7,142
G H Sage 7,142 7,142
I P Tyler 315,720 354,096
R J W Walvis 14,285 14,285
P J L Zinkin 262,596 286,359
* or date of appointment, if later. 
Notes: 
(i) All interests at the dates shown are beneficial and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. There were no changes between 31 December 2010 and 
2 March 2011. 
(ii) Peter Zinkin was also interested at 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 in 325 cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each of Balfour Beatty plc. 
(iii) Robert Walvis was also interested at 31 December 2010 in 938 ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc held by the Craven Arms Investment Club, of which he is a member.  OUR GOVERNANCE – REMUNERATION REPORT 
Balfour Beatty 96 
Directors’ long-term incentives: the Performance Share Plan 
 Maximum number of shares subject to award 
Name of Director Date granted
At 
1 January 
2010
Awarded 
during 
the year
Vested 
during 
the year
Lapsed  
during  
the year 
At  
31 December  
2010 Exercisable from
D J Magrath 17 April 2007 49,518 – 24,759 24,759 – March 2010
 15 April 2008 108,646 – – – 108,646 April 2011
 15 April 2009 124,069 – – – 124,069 April 2012
 15 April 2010 – 133,826 – – 133,826 April 2013
A J McNaughton 17 April 2007 77,374 – 38,687 38,687 – March 2010
 15 April 2008 91,070 – – – 91,070 April 2011
 15 April 2009 135,017 – – – 135,017 April 2012
 15 April 2010 – 143,120 – – 143,120 April 2013
A L P Rabin 17 April 2007 103,652 – 51,826 51,826 – March 2010
 15 April 2008 121,428 – – – 121,428 April 2011
 15 April 2009 155,087 – – – 155,087 April 2012
 15 April 2010 – 157,989 – – 157,989 April 2013
I P Tyler 17 April 2007 181,143 – 90,572 90,571 – March 2010
 15 April 2008 222,406 – – – 222,406 April 2011
 15 April 2009 275,874 – – – 275,874 April 2012
 15 April 2010 – 281,036 – – 281,036 April 2013
P J L Zinkin 17 April 2007 103,652 – 51,826 51,826 – March 2010
 15 April 2008 121,428 – – – 121,428 April 2011
 15 April 2009 147,789 – – – 147,789 April 2012
 15 April 2010 – 150,555 – – 150,555 April 2013
Notes: 
(i) All awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be satisfied by 
shares purchased in the market. 
(ii) For the awards in April 2008, April 2009 and April 2010, the performance periods are the three years ending 31 December 2010, 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2012 
respectively. 50% of each award is subject to an EPS growth target. The maximum number of shares subject to this performance condition will only vest if EPS growth exceeds 
the retail prices index (“RPI”) by 45% for the performance period for the April 2008 award, 39% for the April 2009 award and 36% for the April 2010 award. If EPS growth 
exceeds RPI by 15% for the April 2008 award, 9% for the April 2009 award and 6% for the April 2010 award, then 25% of this part of the awards will vest. For growth in EPS 
between these points, vesting will be on a pro-rata basis. No shares will vest from this part of the award if EPS growth exceeds RPI by less than 15%, 9% or 6% as appropriate. 
The other 50% of each award is subject to a total shareholder return (“TSR”) target under which the TSR of the Company is compared to that of a comparator group of similar 
listed companies at the start of the performance period. The maximum number of shares subject to this performance condition will only vest if the Company’s TSR is at the 
upper quartile of the comparator group. If the Company’s TSR is equal to that of the median of the comparator group then 25% of this part of the award will vest. No shares from 
this part of the award will vest if the Company’s TSR is below that of the median of the comparator group. For TSR performance between median and upper quartile, vesting will 
be on a pro-rata basis. There is no provision for re-testing of either of the performance conditions.  
(iii) The average middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company for the three dealing dates before the award dates, which was used for calculating the number of awards 
granted, was 491.583p for the 2007 award, 449.17p for the 2008 award, 354p for the 2009 award and 302.63p for the 2010 award. The closing middle market price of ordinary 
shares on the date of the awards was 490.75p, 450p, 352.25p and 302.8p respectively. 
(iv) The performance period for the awards made in April 2008 was completed on 31 December 2010. The growth in EPS for this period (with adjustments in relation to the rights 
issue for EPS in 2007 and PPP asset disposals and the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff for EPS in 2010) exceeded RPI by 19.75%, exceeding the RPI + 15% required for 
threshold vesting. The Company’s TSR for this period ranked just below the median of the comparator group. The combined effect of these performance measures is that 
18.4% of each participant’s conditional award will vest on 15 April 2011. Each participant will also receive shares in lieu of the dividends which would have been payable on 
the shares which vest. 
(v) The performance period for the awards made in April 2007 was completed on 31 December 2009. The growth in EPS for this period (with adjustments in relation to the rights 
issue for EPS in 2006 and 2009 and for the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff for EPS in 2009) exceeded RPI by more than 45%, the level required for maximum vesting. 
The Company’s TSR for this period ranked just below the median of the comparator group. The combined effect of these performance measures is that 50% of each 
participant’s conditional awards vested on 26 March 2010. This date was brought forward from the original vesting date of 17 April 2010. Ian Tyler, Duncan Magrath, Andrew 
McNaughton, Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin also received 9,347, 2,551, 3,990, 5,346 and 5,346 shares respectively in lieu of the dividends which would have been payable 
on the shares which vested. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares on the vesting date was 293.2p. The monetary values of the PSP award which vested in 2010 
are disclosed in Note (viii) to the Directors’ remuneration table.  
(vi) On 15 April 2010 for all participants in the PSP, a maximum of 2,982,241 conditional shares were awarded which are normally exercisable in April 2013.  Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 97
Directors’ Deferred Bonus Plan awards 
Number of shares awarded
Awarded during the year 
in respect of dividends
Name of Director Date of initial award 
At
1 January 
2010
Awarded 
during 
the year
5 July 
2010
3 December 
2010
Exercised 
during 
the year
Lapsed  
during  
the year 
At 
31 December 
2010 Vesting date
D J Magrath 30 March 2007 9,668 – – – 9,668 – – 30 March 2010
 31 March 2008 14,684 – 448 266 – – 15,398 31 March 2011
 31 March 2009 29,725 – 906 539 – – 31,170 31 March 2012
 31 March 2010 – 19,759 602 358 – – 20,719 31 March 2013
A J McNaughton 30 March 2007 10,367 – – – 10,367 – – 30 March 2010
 31 March 2008 18,809 – 573 341 – – 19,723 31 March 2011
 31 March 2009 26,666 – 813 483 – – 27,962 31 March 2012
 31 March 2010 – 21,131 644 383 – – 22,158 31 March 2013
A L P Rabin 30 March 2007 20,760 – – – 20,760 – – 30 March 2010
 31 March 2008 26,324 – 803 477 – – 27,604 31 March 2011
 31 March 2009 37,157 – 1,133 674 – – 38,964 31 March 2012
 31 March 2010 – 23,326 711 423 – – 24,460 31 March 2013
I P Tyler 30 March 2007 30,237 – – – 30,237 – – 30 March 2010
 31 March 2008 40,181 – 1,226 728 – – 42,135 31 March 2011
 31 March 2009 55,081 – 1,680 999 – – 57,760 31 March 2012
 31 March 2010 – 34,578 1,055 627 – – 36,260 31 March 2013
P J L Zinkin 30 March 2007 20,759 – – – 20,759 – – 30 March 2010
 31 March 2008 26,324 – 803 477 – – 27,604 31 March 2011
 31 March 2009 35,410 – 1,080 642 – – 37,132 31 March 2012
 31 March 2010 – 22,229 678 403 – – 23,310 31 March 2013
Notes: 
(i) All awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be satisfied 
by shares purchased in the market. 
(ii) The awards made in 2008, 2009 and 2010 will vest on 31 March 2011, 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013 respectively, providing the Director is still employed by the 
Company at the vesting date (unless specified leaver conditions are met, in which case early vesting may be permitted).  
(iii) The awards made in 2007 vested on 30 March 2010. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company on the vesting date was 295.7p. The monetary 
values of the Deferred Bonus Plan award which vested in 2010 are disclosed in Note (ix) to the Directors’ remuneration table. 
(iv) The shares awarded on 30 March 2007, 31 March 2008, 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2010 were purchased at average prices of 474.989p, 476.454p, 365.801p and 
300.32p respectively. 
(v) The shares awarded on 5 July 2010 and 3 December 2010 in lieu of dividends were allocated at average prices of 235.963p and 286.881p respectively. 
(vi) On 31 March 2010, for all participants in the Deferred Bonus Plan a maximum of 769,581 conditional shares were awarded which will normally be released on 31 March 2013. 
On 5 July 2010 a further 66,805 conditional shares were awarded in lieu of entitlements to the final 2009 dividend and on 3 December 2010 a further 39,219 conditional 
shares were awarded in lieu of entitlements to the interim 2010 dividend.  OUR GOVERNANCE – REMUNERATION REPORT 
Balfour Beatty 98 
Directors’ Savings-Related Share Option Scheme grants 
Number of options Exercisable
Name of Director Date granted 
At  
1 January 
2010 
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At
31 December 
2010
Exercise 
price From To
D J Magrath 2 May 2007 1,304 – – 1,304 – 338.7p July 2010 December 2010
 7 May 2008 1,073 – – – 1,073 315.2p July 2013 December 2013
 18 May 2009 628  – – – 628 249.0p July 2014 December 2014
 11 May 2010 – 1,291 – – 1,291 236.0p July 2015 December 2015
A L P Rabin 4 May 2005 1,183 – 1,183 – – 217.7p July 2010 December 2010
 3 May 2006 1,114 – – – 1,114 265.6p July 2011 December 2011
 2 May 2007 1,140 – – – 1,140 338.7p July 2012 December 2012
 7 May 2008 368 – – – 368 315.2p July 2011 December 2011
I P Tyler 2 May 2007 947 – – 947 – 338.7p July 2010 December 2010
 7 May 2008 762 – – – 762 315.2p July 2011 December 2011
 18 May 2009 439 – – – 439 249.0p July 2012 December 2012
 11 May 2010 –  676 – – 676 236.0p July 2013 December 2013
P J L Zinkin 4 May 2005 788 – 788 – – 217.7p July 2010 December 2010
 3 May 2006 823 – – – 823 265.6p July 2011 December 2011
 2 May 2007 1,352 – – – 1,352 338.7p July 2012 December 2012
 7 May 2008 804 – – – 804 315.2p July 2013 December 2013
 18 May 2009 366 – – – 366 249.0p July 2012 December 2012
 11 May 2010 – 246 – – 246 236.0p July 2013 December 2013
Notes: 
(i) All options are granted for nil consideration on grant and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. 
(ii) The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 December 2010 was 312.9p. During the year the highest and lowest closing market prices were 317.8p 
and 229.8p respectively. 
(iii) Options granted to Duncan Magrath and Ian Tyler in May 2007, exercisable at 338.7p, lapsed unexercised in December 2010. 
(iv) The monetary values realisable from options exercised are disclosed in Note (xi) to the Directors’ remuneration table. 
Directors’ Executive Share Option Scheme grants 
Number of options Exercisable
Name of Director Date granted 
At  
1 January 
2010 
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At
31 December 
2010
Exercise 
price From To
A J McNaughton 7 June 2001 11,482 – 11,482 – – 174.1p June 2004 June 2011
 17 April 2002 22,964 – 22,964 – – 207.2p April 2005 April 2012
 16 April 2003 17,223  – 17,223 – – 150.6p April 2006 April 2013
 19 April 2004 17,223 – 17,223 – – 227.3p April 2007 April 2014
Notes: 
(i) All options are granted for nil consideration on grant and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. 
(ii) The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 December 2010 was 312.9p. During the year the highest and lowest closing market prices were 317.8p 
and 229.8p respectively. 
(iii) The monetary values realisable from options exercised are disclosed in Note (x) to the Directors’ remuneration table. 
 
Directors’ pensions 
Executive Directors participate in the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund. The scheme provides for a pension at a normal retirement age of 62 for 
pension purposes and each Director pays an annual contribution equal to 5% of contributory salary except where, in the case of Andrew 
McNaughton, the Director participates in SMART Pensions as outlined in Note (ii) to the second table below. The pension for a Director who 
can complete 20 or more years’ pensionable service at normal retirement age is targeted at two-thirds of final pensionable salary, subject 
to HMRC limits. With effect from 6 April 2006, HMRC limits were changed with one of the changes being to no longer use the earnings cap 
when determining the maximum permissible benefits. However, the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund has retained a Fund specific earnings cap 
for pension purposes. The salaries of Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton, Anthony Rabin and Ian Tyler were subject to the Fund specific 
earnings cap for pension purposes and details of the Company’s contributions to additional arrangements for them are noted underneath the 
second table below.   Our governance | Chairman’s introduction | Board of Directors | Directors’ Report | Remuneration Report |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 99
The table below sets out the accrued deferred pension which would be paid annually from the scheme at normal retirement age based on each 
executive Director’s service to 31 December 2010 as well as the additional pension benefit secured in respect of service during the year.  
Movement in accrued deferred 
pension during the year 
Name of Director 
Age at
31 December 
2010
Years
Pensionable
service at
31 December 
2010
Years
Accrued 
deferred 
pension at 
31 December 
2009
£p.a.
Inflation 
(Note i) 
£p.a. 
Increase in 
excess 
of inflation 
£p.a. 
Accrued 
deferred 
pension at
31 December 
2010
£p.a.
Transfer value 
corresponding 
to increase 
in excess 
of inflation at
31 December 
2010 
less Director’s 
contributions 
(Note ii)
£
D J Magrath  46 4 15,605 (219) 4,302 19,688 46,455
A J McNaughton 47 13 33,569 (470) 3,540 36,639 37,039
A L P Rabin (iii) 55 17 66,372 (929) 5,646 71,089 93,965
I P Tyler 50 14 42,615 (597) 4,257 46,275 56,699
P J L Zinkin (iv) 57 29 217,991 (3,052) 11,010 225,949 193,004
Notes: 
(i) The increases in accrued deferred pension during the year due to inflation are negative. This is because inflation is measured using the Retail Prices Index which decreased 
between September 2008 and September 2009 (the period used to determine inflationary increases applying during the year).  
(ii) The transfer value of the increase in accrued deferred pension is the present value of the increase in excess of inflation in the deferred pension and associated benefits during 
the period in accordance with the transfer value regulations, less the Director’s contributions.  
(iii) Anthony Rabin’s pensionable service includes nine years of transferred-in service from previous pension arrangements. 
(iv) On 1 January 2011, Peter Zinkin started to receive his pension benefits from the Defined Benefit section of the Fund, and became a contributing member of the Defined 
Contribution section. The impact of this change will be incorporated in the 2011 Remuneration Report.  
 
The table below sets out the transfer value at 31 December 2010 of each executive Director’s accrued deferred pension at that date as well 
as the movement in that transfer value over the period. The transfer values represent the cash equivalent values that would have been payable 
from the scheme had the Directors left service on the dates shown, and reflect the age of the Director, his period of membership of the scheme 
and his pensionable salary. 
Name of Director 
Age at
31 December 
2010
Years
Pensionable 
service at 
31 December 
2010
Years
Transfer  
value at 
31 December 
2009  
(Note i) 
£ 
Contributions 
made by  
Director  
during the year 
(Note ii) 
£ 
Increase in 
transfer value 
during the year 
less Director’s 
contributions 
(Note iii)
£
Transfer 
value at
31 December 
2010
(Note i)
£
D J Magrath  46 4 178,427 6,411 54,281 239,119
A J McNaughton 47 13 383,802 6,411 51,683 441,896
A L P Rabin (iv) 55 171,060,421 6,411 173,313 1,240,145
I P Tyler 50 14 564,301 6,411 95,782 666,494
P J L Zinkin 57 293,790,597 21,005 483,986 4,295,588
Notes: 
(i) The transfer value is the present value of the accrued deferred pension and associated benefits at the relevant date, calculated using the transfer value basis then in force. 
(ii) Andrew McNaughton has participated in the Company’s SMART Pensions salary sacrifice arrangement since 1 November 2009. Mr McNaughton’s contributions figure includes 
£6,180 paid via this arrangement.  
(iii) The figure is the difference between the transfer value of the accrued benefits at the start and end of the period, less the Director’s contributions during the period.  
(iv) Anthony Rabin’s pensionable service includes nine years of transferred-in service from previous pension arrangements. 
Remuneration Report 
By order of the Board 
 
R J W Walvis  
Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
2 March 2011  Dallas, US
The Infras Truc Tur e bus Ine ss
100 Balfour Beatty
our accoun Ts 101 Annual report and accounts 2010
Our accounts 
Independent auditor’s report 102
Financial statements 103
Notes to the accounts 108
Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |  
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF BALFOUR BEA TTY PLC 
Balfour Beatty 102 
We have audited the financial statements of Balfour Beatty plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Group and 
Company income statements, the Group and Company statements 
of comprehensive income, the Group and Company statements of 
financial position, the Group and Company statements of changes 
in equity, the Group and Company statements of cash flows, and the 
related Notes 1 to 37. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
– the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2010 and of the Group’s profit and the Company’s loss for the 
year then ended; 
– the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
– the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
– the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
– the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or 
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
– the Directors’ statement, contained within the Directors’ Report, 
in relation to going concern;  
– the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review; and 
– certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration. 
 
 
 
Mark Beddy 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom 
2 March 2011 
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
OUR ACCOUNTS – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
GROUP INCOME ST A TEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
Annual report and accounts 2010 103
  2010  2009 
Notes
Before   
exceptional   
items*
£m  
Exceptional   
items*
(Note 8)   
£m  
Total 
£m  
Before      
exceptional      
items*
,1
 
£m     
Exceptional   
items*
(Note 8)   
£m  
Total
1
£m 
    
Revenue including share of joint ventures  
and associates 10,541 – 10,541  10,339    – 10,339 
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 15.2(1,305) – (1,305)  (1,385)    – (1,385) 
Group revenue 2 9,236 – 9,236  8,954    – 8,954 
Cost of sales (8,132) – (8,132)  (8,173)    – (8,173) 
Gross profit 1,104 – 1,104  781    – 781 
Net operating expenses         
– amortisation of intangible assets 13 – (82) (82)  –    (48) (48) 
– other (851) (23) (874)  (582)    63 (519) 
Group operating profit/(loss) 253 (105) 148  199    15 214 
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 15.2 85 (27) 58  81    – 81 
Profit/(loss) from operations 4 338 (132) 206  280    15 295 
Investment income 6 46 – 46  32    – 32 
Finance costs 7 (65) – (65)  (47)    (15) (62) 
Profit/(loss) before taxation 319 (132) 187  265    – 265 
Taxation 9 (83) 39 (44)  (69)    15 (54) 
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders 236 (93) 143  196    15 211 
* and amortisation of intangible assets (Note 13). 
1
 Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
 Notes 
2010
pence
2009
1,2
pence   
Basic earnings per ordinary share 10 21.0 37.1  
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 10 20.9 37.0  
    
Dividends per ordinary share proposed for the year 11 12.7 12.0  
1
  Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
2
  Per share numbers have been restated for the bonus element of the 2009 rights issue (Note 28.2). 
 
GROUP ST A TEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
 
 Notes 
2010
£m
2009
1
£m 
Profit for the year  143 211 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year   
Currency translation differences  43 (77) 
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit obligations  87 (350) 
Fair value revaluations – PPP financial assets  61 (81) 
 – PPP cash flow hedges  (67) 5 
 – other cash flow hedges  (2) (2) 
 – available-for-sale investments in mutual funds 16.1 4 – 
Changes in fair value of net investment hedges  – 18 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income  (25) 120 
Total other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year  101 (367) 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year attributable to equity holders 28.1 244 (156) 
1
  Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37).  OUR ACCOUNTS – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
GROUP ST A TEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
Balfour Beatty 104 
 Notes 
Called-up  
share  
capital 
£m 
Share  
premium 
account 
£m 
Equity 
component of 
preference 
shares
£m
Special 
reserve
£m
Share of  
joint ventures’ 
and associates’ 
reserves
1
 
(Note 15.5)  
£m  
Other 
reserves
(Note 28.1)
£m
Retained  
profits 
£m 
Non-  
controlling 
interests
£m
Total
1
 
£m
At 1 January 2009
1 
 239 54 16 139 226 79 104 4 861 
Total comprehensive  
income/(expense) for  
the year 28.1 – – – – 6 (41) (121) – (156) 
Ordinary dividends 11 – – – – – – (63) – (63) 
Joint ventures’ and  
associates’ dividends 15.1 – – – – (75) – 75 – – 
Issue of ordinary shares 27.1 104 3 – – – 252 – – 359 
Rights issue expenses 28.2 – – – – – – (3) – (3) 
Movements relating to  
share-based payments  – – – – – 1 – – 1 
Transfers  – – – (107) – (3) 110 – – 
At 31 December 2009
1
  343 57 16 32 157 288 102 4 999 
Total comprehensive 
income for the year 28.1 – – – – 53 46 145 – 244 
Ordinary dividends 11 – – – – – – (84) – (84) 
Joint ventures’ and  
associates’ dividends 15.1 – – – – (62) – 62 – –  
Issue of ordinary shares 27.1 – 2 – – – – – – 2  
Recycling of revaluation 
reserves to the income 
statement on disposal 15.5 – – – – (4) – – – (4) 
Acquisition of non-
controlling interest  – – – – – – (1) – (1) 
Movements relating to  
share-based payments  – – – – – – 4 – 4  
Transfers  – – – (2) – – 2 – –  
At 31 December 2010  343 59 16 30 144 334 230 4 1,160  
1
  Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37).  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
COMP ANY INCOME ST A TEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
Annual report and accounts 2010 105
2010  2009
Notes
Before 
exceptional 
items
£m
Exceptional 
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total 
£m  
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£m 
Exceptional 
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 2 31 – 31  189 – 189
Net operating (expense)/income  (23) (8) (31)  (9) 2 (7)
Profit/(loss) from operations 8(8) –  180 2 182
Investment income 6 6– 6  4 – 4
Finance costs 7 (28) – (28)  (36) – (36)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (14) (8) (22)  148 2 150
Taxation 9 71 8  18 (1) 17
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to equity holders (7) (7) (14)  166 1 167
 
 
COMP ANY ST A TEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
 
 Notes 
2010
£m
2009
£m
(Loss)/profit for the year  (14) 167
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year  
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit obligations   5 (16)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 24.3 – 5
Total other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year  5 (11)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year attributable to equity holders 28.2 (9) 156
 
 
COMP ANY ST A TEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
 
 Notes
Called-up 
share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Equity 
component of 
preference 
shares
£m
Special  
reserve 
£m 
Other  
reserves 
(Note 28.2) 
£m 
Retained 
profits
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2009 239 54 16 139 64 276 788
Total comprehensive income for the year 28.2 – – – – – 156 156
Ordinary dividends 11 – – – – – (63) (63)
Issue of ordinary shares 27.1 104 3 – – 252 – 359
Rights issue expenses – – – – – (3) (3)
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – 4 (3) 1
Transfers –––(107) (3) 110–
At 31 December 2009 343 57 16 32 317 473 1,238
Total comprehensive expense for the year 28.2 –– –– – (9) (9)
Ordinary dividends 11 – – – – – (84) (84)
Issue of ordinary shares 27.1 –2 – – – –2
Movements relating to share-based payments –– –– 4 – 4
Transfers –– – (2) – 2–
At 31 December 2010 343 59 16 30 321 382 1,151 OUR ACCOUNTS – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
ST A TEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 
Balfour Beatty 106 
Group  Company
 Notes
2010
£m
2009
1,3
£m   
2008
1
 
£m   
2010
£m
2009
£m
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets – goodwill 12 1,196 1,145  975   – –
 – other 13 251 298  223   – –
Property, plant and equipment 14 320 315  296   – 1
Investments in joint ventures and associates 15 488 451  465   – –
Investments 16 95 83  55   1,742 2,095
PPP financial assets 17 327 260  151   – –
Deferred tax assets 24 163 191  132   2 4
Derivative financial instruments 20 – 1  3   1 1
Trade and other receivables 21 70 98  74   30 31
 2,910 2,842  2,374   1,775 2,132
Current assets      
Inventories 18 89 100  125   – –
Due from customers for contract work 19 591 524  383   – –
Derivative financial instruments  20 4 –  2   6 1
Trade and other receivables 21 1,197 1,329  1,193   1,114 1,057
Current tax assets 4 5  –   14 –
Cash and cash equivalents – PPP subsidiaries 23 18 10  2   – –
 – other 23 566 608  461   – 143
 2,469 2,576  2,166   1,134 1,201
Total assets 5,379 5,418  4,540   2,909 3,333
Current liabilities      
Trade and other payables 22 (2,232) (2,412)  (2,168)   (1,562) (1,898)
Due to customers for contract work 19 (651) (607)  (540)   – –
Derivative financial instruments 20 (2) (1)  (66)   (6) (1)
Current tax liabilities (29) (8)  (23)   – (2)
Borrowings – PPP non-recourse loans 23 (8) (19)  –   – –
 – other 23 (37) (23)  (12)   (55) (53)
 (2,959) (3,070)  (2,809)   (1,623) (1,954)
Non-current liabilities      
Trade and other payables 22 (144) (163)  (152)   (25) (25)
Derivative financial instruments 20 (45) (24)  (40)   (1) (1)
Borrowings – PPP non-recourse loans 23 (280) (239)  (145)   – –
 – other 23 (11) (13)  (9)   – –
Deferred tax liabilities 24 (8) (9)  (10)   – –
Liability component of preference shares 27 (89) (88)  (87)   (89) (88)
Retirement benefit obligations 25 (441) (586)  (261)   (13) (18)
Provisions 26 (242) (227)  (166)   (7) (9)
 (1,260) (1,349)  (870)   (135) (141)
Total liabilities (4,219) (4,419)  (3,679)   (1,758) (2,095)
Net assets 1,160 999  861   1,151 1,238
Equity      
Called-up share capital 27 343 343  239   343 343
Share premium account 28 59 57  54   59 57
Equity component of preference shares 28 16 16  16   16 16
Special reserve 28 30 32  139   30 32
Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves 28 144 157  226   – –
Other reserves 28 334 288  79   321 317
Retained profits 28 230 102  104   382 473
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,156 995  857   1,151 1,238
Non-controlling interests 28 4 4  4   – –
Total equity 1,160 999  861   1,151 1,238
1
 Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
3
 Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
On behalf of the Board 
Steve Marshall   Duncan Magrath 
Director    Director 
2 March 2011  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
ST A TEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 
Annual report and accounts 2010 107
Group  Company
Notes
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m  
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash flows from operating activities    
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 35.1 169 294  (64) 14
Income taxes paid (21) (31)  (6) (14)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 148 263  (70) – 
Cash flows from investing activities    
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 62 75  30 39
Dividends received from subsidiaries – –  1 150
Interest received 19 17  6 5
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 29.1 (44) (300)  – –
Purchase of intangible assets – other (14) (3)  – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (85) (71)  (1) (1)
Purchase of other investments  (13) –  – –
Investments in and loans made to joint ventures and associates (56) (50)  – 1
Investments in subsidiaries – –  – (355)
Investments in PPP financial assets (22) (95)  – –
Settlement of financial derivatives – (57)  – –
Disposal of investments in joint ventures  24 –  – –
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 19  – –
Disposal of other investments 7 16  – –
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (109) (449)  36 (161)
Cash flows from financing activities    
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 2 356  2 356
Purchase of ordinary shares (3) (6)  (3) (6)
Proceeds from new loans 49 121  – –
Proceeds from new finance leases 4 –  – –
Repayment of loans (30) (4)  – –
Repayment of finance leases (5) (3)  – –
Ordinary dividends paid (84) (63)  (84) (63)
Interest paid (31) (19)  (15) (24)
Preference dividends paid (11) (11)  (11) (11)
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (109) 371  (111) 252
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (70) 185  (145) 91
Effects of exchange rate changes 12 (30)  – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 608 453  90 (1)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 35.2 550 608  (55) 90 OUR ACCOUNTS 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 108 
1 Principal accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of accounting 
The annual financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis as discussed on page 51 and in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted for use in the European 
Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation 
and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. The Group has applied all accounting 
standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee and adopted by the European Union relevant to its 
operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on 
1 January 2010. 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention, except as described under Note 1.20. The functional 
and presentational currency of the Company, and the presentational 
currency of the Group, is sterling.  
Changes in accounting policies 
The Group has adopted IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 
in the current year. IFRIC 12 relates to the accounting for the Group’s 
PPP concessions and requires certain assets constructed by one of 
the equity accounted joint ventures that were previously accounted 
for as available-for-sale financial assets to be accounted for as 
intangible assets.  
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting 
Standards (revised 2008); IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction 
of Real Estate; IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign 
Operation; IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners; 
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers; Amendment to IAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged 
Items; IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 – Embedded Derivatives; Amendments 
to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions; 
Improvements to IFRSs (issued April 2009); Improvements to IFRSs 
(issued May 2008); and Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional Exemptions 
for First-time Adopters also came into effect and were adopted in the 
current year but had no effect on the Group financial statements. 
Accounting standards not yet adopted by the Group 
The following accounting standards, interpretations and amendments 
have been released by the IASB but have either not been adopted by 
the European Union or are not yet effective in the European Union: 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments; IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (revised 
2009); Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; 
Improvements to IFRSs (issued May 2010); IFRIC 19 Extinguishing 
Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments; Amendments to IFRIC 14 
Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement; Amendments to 
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation: Classification of Rights 
Issues; and Amendment to IFRS 1: Limited Exemption from 
Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters. Except for 
IFRS 9 none of these standards, interpretations or amendments is 
expected to have an effect on the accounting policies or disclosures 
in the Group financial statements. 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is expected to replace IAS 39 Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement from 2013, subject to 
EU adoption. IFRS 9 in issue as at 2 March 2011 only concerns the 
classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. 
New requirements for the derecognition of financial instruments, 
impairment and hedge accounting are expected to be added to IFRS 9 
in 2011. The requirements of IFRS 9 in issue as at 2 March 2011 would 
result in the Group’s PPP financial assets being reclassified from 
“available-for-sale”, which is a category that will no longer exist under 
the new standard, to a debt instrument measured either at amortised 
cost or at fair value through profit or loss. As a result, movements in the 
fair value of PPP financial assets would no longer be recognised in other  
comprehensive income. Retrospective application of this requirement 
would result in the closing balance of fair value movements recognised 
in PPP financial asset reserves being transferred to retained earnings. 
The effect within the Group’s reserves would be a transfer of £19m 
from PPP financial asset reserves to retained earnings. The effect 
within the share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves would be a 
transfer of £79m from PPP financial asset reserves to retained earnings. 
1.2 Restatement of comparative information 
In accordance with IAS 8, the comparative information presented 
in these financial statements has been restated for the adoption of 
IFRIC 12 as described above.  
The statement of financial position as at 31 December 2009 has 
also been restated for the amendments to the acquisition accounting 
in relation to Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. as disclosed in Note 29. 
New information in respect of certain contractual positions as at 
the acquisition date of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. has been considered 
by management resulting in changes to the fair value of net assets 
recognised in respect of the acquisition from those fair values disclosed 
in the 2009 annual report.  
The effect in respect of IFRIC 12 on the opening statement of financial 
position as at 1 January 2009 and in respect of IFRIC 12 and the 
restatement of the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff on the statement of financial position as at 31 December 
2009 has been presented in Note 37.  
1.3 Basis of consolidation 
The Group financial statements include the results of the Company 
and its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the results of 
joint ventures and associates, drawn up to 31 December each year. 
a) Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control, being the 
power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The results of 
subsidiaries acquired or sold in the year are consolidated from the 
effective date of acquisition and to the effective date of disposal. 
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. On acquisition, the assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their 
fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the fair value of 
the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets 
acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of 
acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired 
(discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the 
period of acquisition. The interest of non-controlling shareholders is 
stated at the non-controlling shareholders’ proportion of the fair value 
of the assets and liabilities recognised. 
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where necessary 
to ensure consistency with those used by the Group. All intra-group 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on 
consolidation. 
b) Joint ventures and associates 
Joint ventures are those entities over which the Group exercises joint 
control through a contractual arrangement. Associates are entities 
over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, 
but does not control or exercise joint control, through participation in 
the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.  
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are 
incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of 
accounting except when classified as held for sale. The equity return 
from the military housing joint ventures of Balfour Beatty Communities 
is contractually limited to a maximum pre-agreed level of return, beyond 
which Balfour Beatty Communities does not share in any further return.   Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 109
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
1.3 Basis of consolidation continued 
b) Joint ventures and associates continued 
Any excess of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s 
share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate or 
joint venture entity at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. 
Any deficiency of the fair value of the cost of acquisition below the 
Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint 
venture or associate at the date of acquisition (discount on acquisition) 
is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.  
Investments in joint ventures and associates are initially carried in 
the statement of financial position at cost (including goodwill arising 
on acquisition) and adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the 
Group’s share of net assets of the joint venture or associate, less 
any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of joint 
ventures and associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those 
joint ventures and associates are only recognised to the extent that 
the Group is contractually liable for, or has a constructive obligation 
to meet, the obligations of the joint ventures and associates. 
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with joint ventures and 
associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the 
relevant joint venture or associate. 
c) Jointly controlled operations 
The Group’s share of the results, assets and liabilities of contracts 
carried out in conjunction with another party are included under each 
relevant heading in the income statement and statement of financial 
position.  
1.4 Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of 
exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of 
exchange at the reporting date. Significant exchange rates used in 
the preparation of these financial statements are shown in Note 1.29. 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, 
the results of foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint venture entities 
are translated at average rates of exchange for the year, unless the 
exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which 
case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used. Assets 
and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the 
reporting date. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the 
acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the rates of exchange at the reporting 
date. Currency translation differences arising are transferred to the 
Group’s foreign currency translation reserve. These currency translation 
differences are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the 
underlying investment.  
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the 
Group enters into forward exchange contracts. See Note 1.20(b) for 
details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such derivative 
financial instruments.  
1.5 Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 
or receivable for goods and services provided, net of trade discounts, 
value added and similar sales-based taxes, after eliminating revenue 
within the Group. Revenue is recognised as follows: 
– revenue from construction and service activities represents the value 
of work carried out during the year, including amounts not invoiced; 
– revenue from manufacturing activities is recognised when title has 
passed; 
– interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount; and 
– dividend income is recognised when the equity holder’s right 
to receive payment is established.  
1.6 Segmental reporting 
The Group considers its Board of Directors to be the chief operating 
decision-maker and therefore the segmental disclosures provided in 
Note 3 are aligned with the monthly reports provided to the Board 
of Directors. The Group’s reporting segments are based on the types 
of services provided. Operating segments with similar economic 
characteristics have been aggregated into four reportable segments. 
A description of each reportable operating segment is provided in 
Note 3. Further information on the business activities of each reportable 
operating segment is set out on pages 28 to 47. 
Working capital is the statement of financial position measure reported 
to the chief operating decision-maker. The profitability measure used 
to assess the performance of the Group is profit from operations before 
exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets.  
Segment results represent the contribution of the different segments 
after attributable corporate overheads. Transactions between segments 
are conducted at arm’s-length market prices. Segment assets and 
liabilities comprise those assets and liabilities directly attributable to the 
segments. Corporate assets and liabilities include cash balances, bank 
borrowings, tax balances and dividends payable. 
Major customers are defined as customers contributing more than 
10% of the Group’s external revenue. 
1.7 Construction and service contracts 
When the outcome of individual contracts can be estimated reliably, 
contract revenue and contract costs are recognised as revenue and 
expenses respectively by reference to the stage of completion at the 
reporting date. The stage of completion is measured by the proportion 
of the value of work done to the total value of work under the contract. 
Full provision is made for all known or expected losses on individual 
contracts once such losses are foreseen. Revenue in respect of 
variations to contracts, claims and incentive payments is recognised 
when it is probable it will be agreed by the client. Profit for the year 
includes the benefit of claims settled on contracts completed in 
previous years. 
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until it is virtually certain 
that a contract will be awarded, from which time further pre-contract 
costs are recognised as an asset and charged as an expense over the 
period of the contract. Amounts recovered in respect of pre-contract 
costs that have been written-off are deferred and amortised over the 
life of the contract. 
1.8 Profit from operations 
Profit from operations is stated after the Group’s share of the post-tax 
results of equity accounted joint venture entities and associates, but 
before investment income and finance costs. 
1.9 Finance costs  
Finance costs of debt, including premiums payable on settlement and 
direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement on an accruals 
basis over the term of the instrument, using the effective interest 
method.   NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 110 
1 Principal accounting policies continued  
1.10 Research and development  
Research expenditure is written-off in the period in which it is incurred. 
Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group are 
recognised only if all the following conditions are met: 
– an asset is created that can be identified; 
– it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic 
benefits; and  
– the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably. 
1.11 Exceptional items 
Material and non-recurring items of income and expense are disclosed 
in the income statement as “Exceptional items”. Examples of items 
which may give rise to disclosure as “Exceptional items” include: gains 
or losses on the disposal of businesses, investments and property, 
plant and equipment, unless this is part of a programme of realising 
value from the disposal of similar businesses or investments; costs of 
restructuring and reorganisation of existing businesses; acquisition 
expenses of newly acquired businesses; costs of integrating newly 
acquired businesses; premium paid on the repurchase of preference 
shares; litigation and regulatory settlements; asset impairments; 
pension scheme settlements and curtailments; and other material  
non-recurring pension movements.  
1.12 Taxation 
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax, calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the reporting date. Current tax and deferred tax are charged or credited 
to the income statement, except when they relate to items charged 
or credited directly to equity, in which case the relevant tax is also 
dealt with in equity. Current tax is based on the profit for the year. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax on such 
assets and liabilities is not recognised if the temporary difference arises 
from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition 
(other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in 
a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting 
profit. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets 
is reviewed at each reporting date. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can 
be controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
1.13 Intangible assets 
a) Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of consideration over 
the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, arising 
on the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses, joint ventures 
and associates. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries and other 
businesses is included in non-current assets. Goodwill on acquisitions 
of joint ventures and associates is included in investments in joint 
ventures and associates.  
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and is carried at cost 
less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is included when 
determining the profit or loss on subsequent disposal of the business 
to which it relates. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS 
(1 January 2004) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment. Goodwill written-off or negative 
goodwill credited to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not 
been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent 
profit or loss on disposal.  
b) Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. The cost of other intangible assets 
is amortised over their expected useful lives, which range from one to 
10 years, except for customer contracts and relationships in respect of 
Parsons Brinckerhoff, Barnhart and Balfour Beatty Communities, which 
are amortised on a basis matching the return earned over the life of the 
underlying contracts, which have a duration of up to 50 years.  
1.14 Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes 
expenditure associated with bringing the asset to its operating location 
and condition. Certain land and buildings were revalued under UK 
GAAP. On transition to IFRS, the Group has elected to use the revalued 
amount as deemed cost.  
Except for land and assets in the course of construction, the costs 
of property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their expected 
useful lives, on a straight-line basis at rates of 2.5% for buildings or over 
the term of the lease and on a straight-line basis at rates of 4% to 33% 
for plant and equipment. 
1.15 Leasing 
Leases which transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee are classified as finance leases. All other 
leases are classified as operating leases. 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the 
Group at their fair value, or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, determined at the inception of the lease, 
and depreciation is provided accordingly. The liability to the lessor is 
included in the statement of financial position as a finance lease 
obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges 
and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant 
effective rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits received 
and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also 
spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
1.16 Impairment of assets 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions and other assets that have an indefinite 
useful life and are not subject to amortisation are reviewed at least 
annually for impairment. Other intangible assets and property, plant 
and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever there is any 
indication that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.  
If the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying amount, 
an impairment loss is recognised.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 111
1 Principal accounting policies continued  
1.16 Impairment of assets continued 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. Value in use is assessed by discounting the estimated 
future cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. For this 
purpose assets, including goodwill, are grouped into cash-generating 
units representing the level at which they are monitored by the Board 
of Directors for internal management purposes. Goodwill impairment 
losses are not reversed in subsequent periods. Reversals of other 
impairment losses are recognised in income when they arise. 
1.17 Investments 
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where 
a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms 
require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by 
the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including 
transaction costs. 
From 1 January 2005, investments are classified as either available-for-
sale or held to maturity. Available-for-sale investments are measured 
at subsequent reporting dates at fair value. Gains and losses arising 
from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are 
recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of 
or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain 
or loss is included in the net profit or loss for the period. Held to 
maturity investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates 
at amortised cost. 
1.18 Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets and groups of assets to be disposed of are 
classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered 
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. Held 
for sale assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount and 
fair value less costs to sell. 
1.19 Inventories 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.  
Where appropriate, cost includes a proportion of manufacturing 
overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their present location 
and condition and is determined using the first-in first-out method. 
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all 
estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution. 
1.20 Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s 
statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
a) Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares 
The Company’s cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares 
are a compound instrument, consisting of a liability component and 
an equity component. The fair value of the liability component was 
estimated using the prevailing market interest rate at the date of issue 
for a similar non-convertible instrument. The difference between the 
proceeds of issue of the preference shares and the fair value assigned 
to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert 
the liability into the Company’s ordinary shares, is included in equity. 
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by 
applying the market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt 
prevailing at the date of issue to the liability component of the 
instrument. The difference between this amount and the dividend 
paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability component and 
is included in finance charges, together with the dividend payable.  
b) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage interest 
rate risk and to hedge exposures to fluctuations in foreign currencies 
and commodity prices in accordance with its risk management policy. 
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative 
purposes. A description of the Group’s objectives, policies and 
strategies with regard to derivatives and other financial instruments 
is set out in Note 20 and in the Financial review on page 51. 
Derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of financial position 
at fair value on the date the derivative transaction is entered into and 
are subsequently remeasured at their fair values.  
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify 
as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement together 
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are 
attributable to the hedged risk.  
Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of derivatives that are 
designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity. 
Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges 
are recognised in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in 
equity are transferred to the income statement when the underlying 
transaction occurs or, if the transaction results in a non-financial asset 
or liability, are included in the initial cost of that asset or liability. 
Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of derivatives that 
are designated and qualify as hedges of net investments in foreign 
operations are recognised in equity. Changes in the fair value of the 
ineffective portion of net investment hedges are recognised in the 
income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred 
to the income statement upon disposal of the foreign operation. 
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement 
as they arise. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until 
the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity 
is transferred to the income statement for the period. 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives and recorded on the 
statement of financial position at fair value when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract. 
Changes in the fair value of those embedded derivatives recognised 
in the statement of financial position are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise. 
c) PPP concession companies 
Assets constructed by PPP concession companies are classified 
principally as available-for-sale financial assets. 
In the construction phase, income is recognised by applying an 
attributable profit margin on the construction costs representing the 
fair value of construction services. In the operational phase, income 
is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash received over 
the life of the project to service costs by means of a deemed constant 
rate of return on those costs. The residual element of projected cash is 
allocated to the financial asset, using the effective interest rate method 
giving rise to interest income. Due to the nature of the contractual 
arrangements the projected cashflows can be estimated with a high 
degree of certainty.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 112 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
1.20 Financial instruments 
c) PPP concession companies continued 
In the construction phase the fair value of the Group’s PPP financial 
assets is determined by applying an attributable profit margin that 
represents the fair value of construction services performed. In the 
operational phase fair value is determined by discounting the future 
cash flows allocated to the financial asset using assumptions in respect 
of the discount rates which are based on long-term gilt rates adjusted 
for the risk levels associated with the assets. The subsequent 
movements in the fair value are taken to equity. Amounts accumulated 
in equity are transferred to the income statement upon disposal of 
the operation. 
1.21 Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost as reduced by allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts.  
1.22 Trade payables 
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal 
value. Advance payments on contracts are included in trade payables 
and relates to advances received on contracts which are in progress. 
1.23 Bank borrowings 
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including 
premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, 
are charged to income on an accruals basis using the effective interest 
method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the 
extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
1.24 Retirement benefit costs 
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined benefit 
and defined contribution retirement benefit schemes the majority of 
which are of the defined benefit type and are funded. Defined benefit 
contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after 
taking actuarial advice.  
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing 
benefits recognised in the income statement and the defined benefit 
obligations are determined at the reporting date by independent 
actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. The liability 
recognised in the statement of financial position comprises the 
present value of the defined benefit pension obligation, determined 
by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the market 
yield on a high-quality corporate bond, less the fair value of the plan 
assets. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period 
in which they occur outside the income statement in the statement 
of comprehensive income. 
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged 
to the income statement as they fall due. 
1.25 Provisions  
Provisions for environmental restoration, legal claims, onerous leases 
and other onerous commitments are recognised at the best estimate 
of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability. Provisions 
are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount 
of the obligation can be estimated reliably. 
1.26 Financial liabilities and equity instruments 
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to 
the substance of the contractual arrangements. An equity instrument 
is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the 
Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued 
by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct 
issue costs. 
1.27 Share-based payments 
Employee services received in exchange for the grant of share 
options, performance share plan awards and deferred bonus plan 
awards since 7 November 2002 are charged in the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the fair values 
of the options or awards at the date of grant and the numbers expected 
to become exercisable. The credits in respect of the amounts charged 
are included within separate reserves in equity until such time as 
the options or awards are exercised, when the proceeds received 
in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share 
premium or the shares held by the employee trust are transferred 
to employees in respect of performance share plan awards and 
deferred bonus plan awards.  
1.28 Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS 
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
amounts recognised for assets and liabilities at the reporting date and 
the amounts of revenue and expense incurred during the reporting 
period. Actual outcomes may therefore differ from these estimates 
and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions that have the most 
significant effect on the carrying value of assets and liabilities of the 
Group within the next financial year are discussed below and in the 
Financial review. 
a) Revenue and margin recognition 
The Group’s revenue recognition and margin recognition policies, 
which are set out in Notes 1.5 and 1.7, are central to how the Group 
values the work it has carried out in each financial year. These policies 
require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of long-term professional 
services, construction services and support services contracts, which 
require assessments and judgements to be made on recovery of  
pre-contract costs, changes in work scopes, contract programmes, 
maintenance liabilities and changes in costs.  
b) Recoverable value of recognised receivables 
The Group has recognised trade receivables with a carrying value 
of £893m. The recoverability of trade receivables is regularly reviewed 
and specific provisions are recognised for balances considered to 
be irrecoverable. The irrecoverable amounts are estimated based 
on reviewing the available economic information specific to each 
receivable. 
c) Impairment of goodwill 
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of 
the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has 
been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an estimate to be 
made of the timing and amount of future cash flows expected to arise 
from the cash-generating unit and the application of a suitable discount 
rate in order to calculate the present value. The discount rates used 
are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted 
to reflect the specific economic environment of the relevant cash-
generating unit. The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2010 
was £1,196m. 
d) Available-for-sale financial assets  
Assets constructed by the Group’s PPP subsidiary, joint venture 
and associate companies are classified as “available-for-sale financial 
assets” and at 31 December 2010 had a value of £2,448m. The fair 
value of these financial assets is measured at each reporting date 
by discounting the future value of the cash flows allocated to the 
financial asset. A range of discount rates, varying from 5.8% to 8.8%, 
is used which reflects the prevailing risk-free interest rates and the 
different risk profiles of the various concessions. A £61m gain was 
taken to equity in 2010 as a result of movements in the fair value 
of these financial assets.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 113
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
1.28 Key sources of estimation uncertainty continued 
e) PPP derivative financial instruments 
The Group’s PPP subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies 
use derivative financial instruments, principally swaps, to manage 
the interest rate and inflation rate risks to which the concessions are 
exposed by their long-term contractual agreements. These derivatives 
are initially recognised as assets and liabilities at their fair value and 
subsequently remeasured at each reporting date at their fair value. 
The fair value of derivatives constantly changes in response to prevailing 
market conditions. At 31 December 2010, a cumulative fair value 
loss of £221m had arisen on these financial instruments and a loss 
of £67m was taken to equity in 2010. 
f) Impairment of investments in joint ventures and associates 
Investments in joint ventures and associates are reviewed for 
impairment at the reporting date. Determining whether an investment 
balance is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
joint venture or associate. The value in use calculation requires an 
estimate to be made of the timing and amount of future cash flows 
expected to arise from the joint venture or associate and the application 
of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. 
The discount rates used are based on the Group’s weighted average 
cost of capital adjusted to reflect the specific economic environment 
of the joint venture or associate. 
g) Retirement benefit obligations 
Details of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are set out 
in Note 25, including a table showing the sensitivity of the pension 
scheme obligations and the prospective 2011 charge to the income 
statement to different actuarial assumptions. At 31 December 2010, 
the defined benefit liability recognised on the Group’s statement of 
financial position was £441m (2009: £586m). Effects of changes in 
the actuarial assumptions underlying the benefit obligation, discount 
rates and the differences between expected and actual returns 
on the schemes’ assets are classified as actuarial gains and losses. 
During 2010 the Group recognised net actuarial gains of £87m in 
equity (2009: £350m loss), including its share of the actuarial gains 
and losses arising in joint ventures and associates. 
h) Taxation 
The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions and judgement 
is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. 
The Group provides for future liabilities in respect of uncertain tax 
positions where additional tax may become payable in future periods 
and such provisions are based on management’s assessment of 
exposures. 
As set out in Note 1.12 above, deferred tax is accounted for on 
temporary differences using the liability method, with deferred tax 
liabilities generally being provided for in full and deferred tax assets 
being recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be 
utilised. Note 24.2 details the unused tax losses for which deferred tax 
assets have not been recognised and the undistributed reserves of 
subsidiaries, joint venture entities and associates for which deferred tax 
liabilities have not been provided, together with the judgements which 
the Group has made at 31 December 2010 in respect of these matters. 
These judgements may change in the future and they will be reviewed 
at each reporting date. 
1.29 Exchange rates 
The following key exchange rates were applied in the preparation of 
these financial statements: 
Average rates 
£1 buys 2010 2009 Change
US$ 1.55 1.56 (0.6)%
EUR 1.16 1.12 3.6%
Closing rates 
£1 buys 2010 2009 Change
US$ 1.56 1.62 (3.7)%
EUR 1.16 1.13 2.7%
2 Revenue 
 
Group 
2010 
£m 
Group
2009
£m
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
Revenue from the provision  
of services 9,148 8,797 – –
Revenue from  
manufacturing activities 87 139 – –
Proceeds from sale  
of development land 1 18 – –
Dividends from subsidiaries – – 1 150
Dividends from joint ventures  
and associates – – 30 39
Total revenue 9,236 8,954 31 189
Investment income (Note 6) 46 32 6 4
Total revenue and  
investment income 9,282 8,986 37 193 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 114 
3 Segment analysis  
The reportable segments of the Group are: 
– Professional Services: the provision of project management, architectural, design or other technical services performed by the Group as 
a consultant. 
– Construction Services: activities resulting in the physical construction of an asset. 
– Support Services: activities which support existing assets or functions such as facilities management, asset maintenance and refurbishments. 
– Infrastructure Investments: acquisition, operation and disposal of infrastructure assets such as PPP concessions, airports and power stations. 
3.1 Total Group 
Professional 
Services
2010
£m
Construction 
Services
2010
£m
Support 
Services
2010
£m
Infrastructure 
Investments 
2010 
£m 
Corporate 
activities
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Performance by activity:  
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 1,613 6,743 1,434 750 110,541
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (4) (616) (131) (554) – (1,305)
Group revenue 1,609 6,127 1,303 196 1 9,236
Group operating profit/(loss) 84 181 46 (23) (35) 253
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 1 31 5 48 – 85
Profit/(loss) from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 85 212 51 25 (35) 338
Exceptional items (25) (6) (12) (7) – (50)
Amortisation of intangible assets (50) (18) (1) (13) – (82)
Profit/(loss) from operations 10 188 38 5 (35) 206
Investment income  46
Finance costs  (65)
Profit before taxation  187
  
Assets and liabilities  
Due from customers for contract work  148 389 54 – – 591
Due to customers for contract work (187) (453) (11) – – (651)
Inventories 15037 – 189
Trade and other receivables – current 275 720 136 45 21 1,197
Trade and other payables – current (244) (1,640) (234) (48) (66) (2,232)
Provisions (30) (148) (44) (1) (19) (242)
Working capital (37) (1,082) (62) (4) (63) (1,248)
  
Total assets 842 2,412 396 934 795 5,379
Total liabilities (579) (2,519) (363) (171) (587) (4,219)
Net assets/(liabilities) 263 (107) 33 763 208 1,160
  
Other information  
Capital expenditure 13 52 17 1 2 85
Gain on sale of investments in joint ventures ––– 20 – 20
Impairment of Barking Power Station ––– 27 – 27
Depreciation 11 48 12 2 1 74
 
Performance by geographic destination: 
United 
Kingdom
2010
£m
United  
States 
2010 
£m 
Rest of 
world
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Group revenue 4,991 3,072 1,173 9,236
  
Non-current assets excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets 1,023 806 427 2,256
Major customers 
Included in Group revenue are revenues of £2,811m (2009: £2,832m) from the UK Government and £1,940m (2009: £1,605m) from the 
US Government, which are considered to be the Group’s two largest customers. These revenues are included in the results across all four 
reported segments.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 115
3 Segment analysis continued 
3.1 Total Group continued 
Professional 
Services 
2009
3
£m 
Construction 
Services
2009
£m
Support  
Services 
2009 
£m 
Infrastructure  
Investments  
2009
1
 
£m  
Corporate 
activities
2009
£m
Total   
2009
1,3
£m   
Performance by activity:    
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 558 7,491 1,443 829  18 10,339  
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (5) (673) (140) (567)  – (1,385)  
Group revenue 553 6,818 1,303 262  18 8,954  
Group operating profit/(loss) 13 183 50 (12)  (35) 199  
Share of results of joint ventures and associates – 24 5 52  – 81  
Profit/(loss) from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 13 207 55 40  (35) 280  
Exceptional items (23) (16) 3 (1)  100 63  
Amortisation of intangible assets (8) (20) (2) (18)  – (48)  
(Loss)/profit from operations (18) 171 56 21  65 295  
Investment income    32  
Finance costs    (62)  
Profit before taxation    265  
    
Assets and liabilities    
Due from customers for contract work  133 339 52 –  – 524  
Due to customers for contract work (134) (457) (16) –  – (607)  
Inventories 10 42 48 –  – 100  
Trade and other receivables – current 281 860 127 47  14 1,329  
Trade and other payables – current (325) (1,748) (238) (42)  (59) (2,412)  
Provisions (27)(143)(38) –  (19) (227)  
Working capital (62) (1,107) (65) 5  (64) (1,293)  
    
Total assets
1,3
 843 2,498 380 855  842 5,418  
Total liabilities
3 
(594) (2,765) (400) (111)  (549) (4,419)  
Net assets/(liabilities) 249 (267) (20) 744  293 999  
    
Other information    
Capital expenditure 2 55 10 3  1 71  
Impairment of inventory, property, plant and equipment – 4 – –  – 4  
Depreciation 2 50 13 2  2 69  
1
 Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
3
 Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
 
Performance by geographic destination: 
United     
Kingdom    
2009
1,3
 
£m    
United   
States  
2009
3
 
£m  
Rest of 
world 
2009
3
£m 
Total   
2009
1,3
£m   
Group revenue 5,364   2,837  753 8,954  
   
Non-current assets excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets 1,008   833  369 2,210  
1
 Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
3
 Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37).  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 116 
3 Segment analysis continued 
3.2 Infrastructure Investments (Balfour Beatty Capital and Balfour Beatty Communities) 
Group
2010
£m
Share of joint 
ventures and 
associates
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Group 
2009 
£m 
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Revenue  
PPP UK**
 
 
– joint ventures and associates (Note 15.2) – 473 473 – 472 472 
– subsidiaries (Note 3.3) 68 – 68 125 – 125 
PPP US  
– joint ventures and associates (Note 15.2) –11 – – – 
– subsidiaries  121 – 121 131 – 131 
Infrastructure  
– joint ventures and associates (Note 15.2) –8080 – 95 95 
– subsidiaries 7– 7 6 – 6 
 196 554 750 262 567 829 
** Plus Singapore.  
 
Group
2010
£m
Share of joint 
ventures and 
associates
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Group 
2009 
£m 
Share of joint 
ventures and 
associates 
2009
1
£m 
Total  
2009
1
 
£m  
Profit from operations – before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangible assets
4
   
PPP UK**   
– joint ventures and associates (Note 15.2) –3030 – 29 29 
– subsidiaries (Note 3.3) 1– 1 1 – 1 
PPP US   
– joint ventures and associates (Note 15.2) –66 – 4 4 
– subsidiaries 14 – 14 20 – 20 
Infrastructure    
– joint ventures and associates (Note 15.2) –1212 – 19 19 
– subsidiaries (4) – (4) (3) – (3) 
 11 48 59 18 52 70 
Bidding costs and overheads (34) – (34) (30) – (30) 
 (23) 48 25 (12) 52 40 
** Plus Singapore. 
1
 Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
4
 Includes the Group’s share of profit after taxation of joint ventures and associates (excluding exceptional items).  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 117
3 Segment analysis continued 
3.2 Infrastructure Investments (Balfour Beatty Capital and Balfour Beatty Communities) continued 
Group
2010
£m
Share of joint 
ventures and 
associates
2010
£m
Total 
2010 
£m 
Group 
2009 
£m 
Share of joint 
ventures and 
associates 
2009
1
£m 
Total 
2009
1
£m 
Net assets    
PPP UK**    
– joint ventures and associates (Note 15.2 and 15.3) – 274 274 – 235 235 
– subsidiaries (Note 3.3) 278 – 278 238 – 238 
PPP US    
– joint ventures and associates (Note 15.2)  – 45 45 – 46 46 
– subsidiaries 163 – 163 163 – 163 
Infrastructure     
– joint ventures and associates (Note 15.2) – 62 62 – 87 87 
– subsidiaries 6– 6 9 – 9 
 447 381 828 410 368 778 
Infrastructure investments central functions (65) – (65) (34) – (34) 
Total infrastructure investments net assets 382 381 763 376 368 744 
Net borrowings in relation to PPP subsidiaries (270) – (270) (248) – (248) 
 112 381 493 128 368 496 
** Plus Singapore.  
1
  Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
3.3 PPP concession subsidiaries  
The Group has a 100% interest in six UK PPP concessions through its shareholdings in Connect Roads Sunderland Holdings Ltd, Connect Roads 
South Tyneside Holdings Ltd, Connect Roads Derby Holdings Ltd, Transform Schools (Knowsley) Holdings Ltd, Connect CNDR Holdings Ltd and 
Connect Roads Coventry Holdings Ltd. The performance of the wholly-owned PPP concessions and their statements of financial position are 
summarised below: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Income statement 
Group revenue 68 125
Profit from operations 1 1
Investment income 19 14
Finance costs (20) (13)
Profit before taxation – 2
Taxation – (1)
Profit for the year – 1
Cash flow 
Profit from operations 1 1
Decrease in working capital 4 2
Income taxes paid – –
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5 3
Net cash outflow from investing activities (22) (94)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (5) (14)
Net cash outflow (22) (105)
Net borrowings at beginning of year (248) (143)
Net borrowings at end of year (270) (248)
Statement of financial position 
PPP financial assets (Note 17) 327 260
Derivative financial instruments (44) (24)
Other net current (liabilities)/assets (5) 2
 278 238
Cash and cash equivalents 18 10
Non-recourse term loans (288) (258)
Net assets/(liabilities) 8 (10) NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 118 
4 Profit/(loss) from operations 
4.1 Profit/(loss) from operations is stated after charging/(crediting): 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Research and development costs 4 4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 74 69
Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill 82 48
Impairment of trade receivables 9 3
Impairment of inventory – 2
Impairment of property, plant and equipment – 2
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2) (4)
Cost of inventory recognised as an expense 156 161
Exchange (gains)/losses (1) 1
Auditor’s remuneration 7 10
Hire charges for plant and equipment 94 83
Other operating lease rentals 120 75
4.2 Analysis of auditor’s remuneration: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Services as auditors to the Company  0.8 0.7
Auditing financial statements of subsidiaries 4.3 3.4
 5.1 4.1
Amounts for statutory and regulatory filings 0.4 1.5
Audit and other assurance fees 5.5 5.6
Other fees: 
Taxation 1.2 1.8
Due diligence and acquisition related services – 2.6
Other 0.6 0.3
Total fees in relation to audit and other services 7.3 10.3
5 Employee costs 
5.1 Group 
Employee costs during the year amounted to: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Wages and salaries 2,064 1,616
Redundancy 33 16
Social security costs 195 160
Pension costs (Note 25.2) 105 71
Share-based payments (Note 30) 8 7
  2,405 1,870
The average number of Group employees (including executive Directors) was: 
 
2010 
Number
2009 
Number
Professional Services 13,642 3,644
Construction Services 21,096 22,241
Support Services 14,214 14,945
Infrastructure Investments 1,359 1,327
Corporate 213 140
  50,524 42,297
At 31 December 2010, the total number of Group employees was 50,042 (2009: 51,543).  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 119
5 Employee costs continued 
5.2 Company 
The average number of employees of Balfour Beatty plc was 156 (2009: 131). Total employee costs of Balfour Beatty plc were £27m 
(2009: £26m). Total employee costs comprise wages and salaries £19m (2009: £19m), social security costs £2m (2009: £2m), pension costs 
£3m (2009: £2m) and share-based payments £3m (2009: £3m). 
6 Investment income 
Group 
2010 
£m 
Group 
2009 
£m 
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
PPP subordinated debt interest receivable 19 9 2 2
PPP interest on financial assets 19 14 – –
Income arising from derivatives designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations – 1 – –
Interest receivable from subsidiaries – – 3 1
Other interest receivable and similar income 8 8 1 1
 46 32 6 4
7 Finance costs 
Group 
2010 
£m 
Group 
2009 
£m 
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
Preference shares  – finance cost 12 12 12 12
PPP non-recourse  – bank loans and overdrafts 20 13 – –
Net finance cost on pension scheme assets and liabilities (Note 25.2) 21 15 1 –
Interest payable to subsidiaries – – 10 22
Other interest payable  – bank loans and overdrafts 7 5 1 1
 – commitment fees 4 1 4 1
 – other loans 1 1 – –
 65 47 28 36
Exceptional items  – foreign exchange options – 15 – –
 65 62 28 36
A preference dividend of 5.375p gross (4.8375p net) per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share of 1p was paid in respect of the 
six months ended 30 June 2010 on 1 July 2010 to holders of these shares on the register on 28 May 2010. A preference dividend of 5.375p 
gross (4.8375p net) per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share was paid in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2010 
on 1 January 2011 to holders of these shares on the register on 26 November 2010. 
8 Exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets 
Group 
2010 
£m 
Group 
2009 
£m 
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
8.1 (Charged against)/credited to profit from operations   
Net operating expenses – gain on sale of investments in joint ventures 20 – – –
 – cost of implementing UK shared service centre (12) – – –
 – post-acquisition integration, reorganisation  
  and other costs (29) (12) (8) (2)
 – acquisition related expenses (2) (16) – –
 – reduction in pension past service liabilities – 100 – 4
 – Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) fine – (5) – –
 – impairment charges in respect of railways facilities and inventory – (4) – –
 (23) 63 (8) 2
Share of joint ventures and associates – impairment of Barking Power Station (27) – – –
 (50) 63 (8) 2
8.2 Charged against finance costs   
 – foreign exchange options – (15) – –
8.3 (Charged against)/credited to profit before taxation (50) 48 (8) 2
 – tax on items above 12 (18) 1 (1)
 – release of deferred tax on unremitted foreign earnings – 16 – –
Exceptional items (charged against)/credited to profit for the year (38) 46 (7) 1
Amortisation of intangible assets (82) (48) – –
Tax thereon 27 17 – –
(Charged against)/credited to profit for the year (93) 15 (7) 1 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 120 
8 Exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets continued 
8.1 During the period the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Aberdeen Environmental Services (Holdings) Ltd and a 23.9% interest in Consort 
Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Holdings Ltd. The Group retains a 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Holdings 
Ltd following the transaction. The aggregate consideration received was £24m. The disposals resulted in a total gain of £20m being realised, 
comprising £16m in respect of gains on disposal of the investments in the joint ventures and £4m in respect of revaluation reserves recycled 
to the income statement. 
In 2010, the implementation of the UK shared service centre in Newcastle-upon-Tyne led to incremental costs of £12m (2009: £nil) being incurred 
prior to it becoming operational.  
Post-acquisition integration, reorganisation and other costs of £29m (2009: £12m) have been incurred: £23m (2009: £8m) relating to Parsons 
Brinckerhoff, £8m (2009: £2m) of which was borne by the Company; £3m (2009: £nil) relating to various Rok contracts acquired; £2m (2009: £3m) 
relating to Schreck-Mieves; £1m (2009: £nil) relating to SpawMaxwell; £nil (2009: £2m) relating to Dean & Dyball; £nil (2009: £1m) relating to 
Balfour Beatty Communities (formerly GMH Military Housing); £nil (2009: £1m) relating to Douglas E Barnhart; and £nil (2009: £3m gain) 
recognised in relation to the relocation of certain Rail UK businesses. 
In 2010, costs of £2m directly attributable to the acquisition of Halsall were incurred. In 2009, costs of £15m and £1m were directly attributable 
to the acquisitions of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. and Dooley Construction Limited Partnership respectively. 
A post-tax impairment charge of £27m (2009: £nil) was incurred in respect of writing down the value of the assets held by Barking Power Ltd. 
The Group has a 25.5% effective interest in Barking Power Ltd. The impairment has arisen following a detailed assessment of the future earnings 
of the power station in view of bilateral contracts with power purchasers and gas suppliers which ended in September 2010. The future cash 
flows in the impairment model are dependent on future power, gas and carbon prices and exchange rates, all of which are volatile and are based 
on forecasts provided by an external consultant. The other principal sensitivity in the impairment model relates to the discount rate applied. Given 
the nature of the business and the return an investor would expect from a company with a similar risk profile, a pre-tax discount rate of 11% was 
applied to the forecast cash flows generated over the remaining 15-year useful life of the power station.  
8.2 Due to volatile currency markets, the Group entered into a number of foreign exchange option contracts in 2009 at a cost of £15m to limit 
the cash outflow for the planned settlement of the Group’s foreign exchange contracts in respect of net investment hedging. 
8.3 The exceptional items (charged against)/ credited to Group operating profit have given rise to a tax credit of £12m (2009: £18m charge). 
As a result of the Finance Act 2009, future dividend income from outside the UK is exempt from UK corporation tax which led to the release 
of £10m of deferred tax in the UK in 2009. In addition, in 2009 there was a release of £6m of US deferred tax in relation to unremitted earnings 
where future additional US tax will no longer be incurred. 
9 Taxation 
9.1 Taxation charge 
Group 
Before   
exceptional   
items*
£m  
Exceptional   
items*
(Note 8)   
£m  
Total
2010
£m
Group 
2009 
£m 
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
UK current tax  
– corporation tax for the year at 28% (2009: 28%) 11 (7) 4 7 (13) (7)
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 3– 3 (8) 3 (10)
 14 (7) 7 (1) (10) (17)
Foreign current tax  
– foreign tax on profits for the year 52 (18) 34 16 – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods  3– 3 (2) – –
55 (18) 37 14 – –
Total current tax 69 (25) 44 13 (10) (17)
Deferred tax  
– UK 16 (2) 14 28 2 – 
– foreign tax 13 (12) 1 8 – –
– rate change 1– 1 – – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods (16) – (16) 5 – –
Total deferred tax 14 (14) – 41 2 –
  
Total tax charge/(credit) 83 (39) 44 54 (8) (17)
*  and amortisation of intangible assets. 
The Group tax charge above excludes amounts for joint ventures and associates (See Note 15.2), except where tax is levied at the Group level.  
In addition to the Group tax charge above is £25m of tax charged (2009: £120m credited) directly to equity, comprising a deferred tax charge of 
£28m (2009: £94m credit), and a credit in respect of joint ventures and associates of £3m (2009: £26m credit). 
In addition to the Company tax credit is £nil of deferred tax credited directly to equity (2009: £5m credited). 
The weighted average applicable tax rate is 35% (2009: 33%) based on profit before taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible 
assets, excluding the results of joint ventures and associates.   Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 121
9 Taxation continued 
9.2 Taxation reconciliation 
 
Group  
2010  
£m 
Group  
2009  
£m 
Company 
2010 
£m
Company 
2009 
£m
Profit/(loss) before taxation  187 265 (22) 150
Less: share of results of joint ventures and associates (58) (81) – –
Profit/(loss) before taxation 129 184 (22) 150
Add/(less): exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets charged/(credited) 
excluding share of joint ventures and associates 105 – 8 (2)
Profit/(loss) before taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets 
and the results of joint ventures and associates 234 184 (14) 148
Tax on profit/(loss) before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%) 66 52 (4) 41
Effects of:   
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  11 7 – 1
Dividend income not taxable – – (9) (53)
Tax on share of joint ventures’ and associates’ profits levied at Group level 3 2 – –
Preference shares finance cost not deductible 3 3 3 3
Losses not available for offset 3 – – –
Higher tax rates on foreign earnings 9 11 – –
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (10) (5) 3 (10)
Recognition of losses not previously recognised (3) (1) – –
Statutory rate change 1 – – –
Total tax charge/(credit) on profit/(loss)* 83 69 (7) (18)
(Less)/add: tax (credit)/charge on exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets (39) (15) (1) 1
Total tax charge/(credit) on profit/(loss) after exceptional items and amortisation of 
intangible assets 44 54 (8) (17)
* Before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets. 
10 Earnings per ordinary share 
Basic  
2010  
£m 
Diluted  
2010  
£m 
Basic  
2009
1
  
£m  
Diluted  
2009
1
  
£m  
Earnings 143 143 211 211 
Exceptional items – net of tax credit of £12m (2009: £2m charge) 38 38 (46) (46) 
Amortisation of intangible assets – net of tax credit of £27m (2009: £17m) 55 55 31 31 
Adjusted earnings 236 236 196 196  
 
Basic  
2010 
m 
Diluted  
2010  
m 
Basic   
2009
2
 
m  
 
Diluted   
2009
2
  
m  
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 682 683 571 572 
 
Basic  
2010  
Pence 
Diluted  
2010  
Pence 
Basic   
2009
1,2
 
Pence   
Diluted   
2009
1,2
 
Pence   
Earnings per ordinary share 21.0 20.9 37.1  37.0  
Exceptional items 5.6 5.6 (8.0)  (7.9)  
Amortisation of intangible assets 8.1 8.1 5.3  5.3  
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 34.7 34.6 34.4  34.4  
1
  Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
2
  Per share numbers have been restated for the bonus element of the 2009 rights issue (Note 28.2). 
The calculation of basic earnings is based on profit for the period attributable to equity holders. The calculation of the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares was affected by the issue of 205,502,237 ordinary shares on 22 October 2009. It has been adjusted for the conversion of 
share options in the calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share. No adjustment has been made in respect of the potential conversion of 
the cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares, the effect of which would have been antidilutive throughout each period. Adjusted 
earnings per ordinary share, before post-tax exceptional items and post-tax amortisation of intangible assets, has been disclosed to give a clearer 
understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance. 
The per share information has been restated for the bonus element of the 2009 rights issue described in Note 28.2. The adjustment factor has 
been calculated by dividing the share price immediately before the shares were quoted ex-rights (316.0p) with the theoretical ex-rights price 
(275.2p), giving an adjustment factor of 1.14826.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 122 
11 Dividends on ordinary shares 
Per share 
2010 
Pence
Amount  
2010  
£m 
Per share   
2009   
Pence
2
 
Amount 
2009 
£m
Proposed dividends for the year: 
  
 
Interim – current year 5.05 35 4.79 26
Final – current year 7.65 52 7.20 49
 12.70 87 11.99 75
Recognised dividends for the year:   
Final – prior year 49  37
Interim – current year 35  26
 84  63
2
  Per share numbers have been restated for the bonus element of the 2009 rights issue (Note 28.2). 
The interim 2010 dividend was paid on 3 December 2010. Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2011, the final 2010 
dividend will be paid on 5 July 2011 to holders of ordinary shares on the register on 26 April 2011 by direct credit or, where no mandate has been 
given, by cheque posted on 4 July 2011 payable on 5 July 2011. These shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 20 April 2011. 
12 Intangible assets – goodwill 
 
Cost
3
   
£m   
Accumulated 
impairment 
losses 
£m
Carrying  
amount
3
 
£m  
At 1 January 2009 1,024  (49) 975 
Currency translation differences (55)  5 (50) 
Businesses acquired 220  – 220 
At 31 December 2009 1,189  (44) 1,145 
Currency translation differences 21  (2) 19 
Businesses acquired (Note 29) 32  – 32 
At 31 December 2010 1,242  (46) 1,196 
3
  Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
The carrying amounts of goodwill by segment are as follows: 
 
United  
Kingdom  
2010  
£m 
United 
States
2010 
£m
Rest of
world
2010 
£m
Total 
2010 
£m
United  
Kingdom  
2009
3
 
£m  
United    
States   
2009
3
  
£m   
Rest of  
world  
2009
3
 
£m  
Total   
2009
3
 
£m  
Professional Services
3
 15 144 75 234 15 138  50 203 
Construction Services 327 326 166 819 319 313  169 801 
Support Services 96 – – 96 96 –  – 96 
Infrastructure Investments 4 43 – 47 4 41  – 45 
Group 442 513 241 1,196 434 492  219 1,145 
3
  Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value in use. Cash flow forecasts have been based on the expected workload of each cash-
generating unit (CGU) giving consideration to the current level of confirmed orders and anticipated orders. Cash flow forecasts for the next three 
years are based on the Group’s 2011 budget and medium-term performance review. The other key inputs in assessing each CGU are its revenue 
growth rate and discount rate. The revenue growth rate has been applied to cash flows after three years into perpetuity and reflects published 
GDP growth rates for the economic environment of each CGU. The cash flows assume a residual value based on a multiple of earnings before 
interest and tax.  
The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate in the range of 11.0%–11.7% (2009: 10.6%–12.8%). The discount rates are 
revised annually applying updated market inputs to the capital asset pricing model. 
2010 2009
United 
Kingdom 
United 
States 
Rest of
World
United 
 Kingdom  
United 
States 
Rest of
World
Inflation rate 2.9% 2.5% 2.0% 1.9% 1.8% 1.0%
GDP growth rate 1.3% 1.7% 1.0% 0.8% 1.5% 0.3%
Nominal long-term revenue growth rate applied 4.2% 4.2% 3.0% 2.7% 3.3% 1.3%
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 123
12 Intangible assets – goodwill continued 
Sensitivities 
The Group’s impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used. The major assumptions that result in significant sensitivities 
are the discount rate and the revenue growth rate.  
Except as noted below, a reasonably possible change in a single assumption will not give rise to impairment in any of the Group’s CGUs. 
Balfour Beatty Communities’ goodwill is £43m and the key assumption is the discount rate of 11.0%, at which the fair value of the CGU exceeds 
the carrying value by £15m or 7%. The fair value is equal to the carrying value at a discount rate of 11.5%. Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering’s 
goodwill is £12m and the key assumption is the revenue growth rate of 4.2%, at which the fair value of the CGU exceeds the carrying value by 
£8m or 18%. The fair value is equal to the carrying value at a revenue growth rate of 3.0%. 
13 Intangible assets – other 
Customer 
contracts 
£m
Customer 
relationships  
£m 
Brand   
names  
£m 
Software 
£m 
Total 
£m
Cost    
At 1 January 2009 210 44 12 – 266
Currency translation differences (20) (3) –  – (23)
Additions –– – 3 3
Businesses acquired 26 73 37 3 139
At 31 December 2009 216 114 49 6 385
Currency translation differences 8 5 1 – 14
Additions – – – 14* 14
Businesses acquired (Note 29.1) 35 1 – 9
At 31 December 2010 227 124 51 20 422
Accumulated amortisation   
At 1 January 2009 (32) (7) (4) – (43)
Currency translation differences 3 1 – – 4
Charge for the year (32) (11) (4) (1) (48)
At 31 December 2009 (61) (17) (8) (1) (87)
Currency translation differences (2) – – – (2)
Charge for the year (34) (34) (12) (2) (82)
At 31 December 2010 (97) (51) (20) (3) (171)
Carrying amount   
At 31 December 2010 130 73 31 17 251
At 31 December 2009 155 97 41 5 298
* Includes internally generated software of £11m. 
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, which are one to four years for customer contracts, 
three to 10 years for customer relationships, three to seven years for software, and up to five years for brand names, except for customer 
contracts and relationships relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff, Barnhart and Balfour Beatty Communities which are amortised on a basis 
matching the returns earned over the life of the underlying contracts and relationships. These contracts have a duration of up to eight years 
for customer contracts and relationships relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff and Barnhart and up to 50 years for customer contracts relating to 
Balfour Beatty Communities.  
  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 124 
14 Property, plant and equipment 
14.1 Movements 
Group Company
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Assets in  
course of 
construction  
£m 
Total 
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Cost or valuation  
At 1 January 2009 99 526 – 625 3
Currency translation differences (3) (15) – (18) –
Additions 662 3 71 1
Disposals (1) (51) – (52) –
Businesses acquired 21 19 – 40 –
At 31 December 2009 122 541 3 666 4
Currency translation differences 24 – 6 –
Additions 10 74 1 85 1
Disposals (3) (41) – (44) (4)
Transfers 1 – (1) – (1)
Businesses acquired (Note 29.1) –2 – 2 –
At 31 December 2010 132 580 3 715 –
Accumulated depreciation  
At 1 January 2009 (20) (309) – (329) (2)
Currency translation differences 1 11 – 12 –
Charge for the year (6) (63) – (69) (1)
Impairment (2) – – (2) –
Disposals –37 – 37 –
At 31 December 2009 (27) (324) – (351) (3)
Currency translation differences –(2) – (2) –
Charge for the year (10) (64) – (74) –
Disposals –32 – 32 3
At 31 December 2010 (37) (358) – (395) –
Carrying amount  
At 31 December 2010 95 222 3 320 –
At 31 December 2009 95 217 3 315 1
The carrying amount of the Group’s land and buildings and property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was £12m (2009: £11m). 
The Company has no land and buildings and no property, plant and equipment held under finance leases. 
14.2 Analysis of carrying amount of land and buildings 
 
Group 
2010 
£m
Group 
2009 
£m
Freehold 58 65
Long leasehold – over 50 years unexpired 4 4
Short leasehold 33 26
 95 95
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 125
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates 
15.1 Movements 
 
Net assets
1
  
£m  
Loans  
£m 
Provisions 
£m
Total
1
 
£m 
At 1 January 2009
1 
409 171 (115) 465
Currency translation differences (10) – – (10)
Income recognised 81 – – 81
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets (80) – – (80)
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash flow hedges (11) – – (11)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 26 – – 26
Dividends (75) – – (75)
Additions 4 – – 4
Loans advanced – 59 – 59
Loans repaid – (13) – (13)
Provisions utilised – (15) 15 –
Businesses acquired 5 – – 5
At 31 December 2009
1
 349 202 (100) 451
Currency translation differences 5 – – 5
Income recognised 58 – – 58
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets 36 – – 36
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash flow hedges (47) – – (47)
Fair value revaluation of other cash flow hedges (3) – – (3)
Actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations 1 – – 1
Tax on items taken directly to equity 3 – – 3
Dividends (62) – – (62)
Additions 3 – – 3
Disposals (5) (5) – (10)
Loans advanced – 55 – 55
Loans repaid – (2) – (2)
Provisions utilised – (9) 9 –
At 31 December 2010 338 241 (91) 488
1
 Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
Principal joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 36. The original cost of the Group’s investments in joint ventures and associates 
was £177m (2009: £174m). The Group’s share of borrowings of joint ventures and associates is shown in Note 15.2. The amount which was 
supported by the Group and the Company was £2m (2009: £10m), relating to the Group’s share of guaranteed borrowings. The borrowings of 
Barking Power Ltd, Regional & City Airports (Exeter) Ltd and the PPP joint venture and associate entities are repayable over periods extending up 
to 2037. As disclosed in Note 31, the Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding of joint ventures and associates in PPP 
projects and military housing concessions. Further, in respect of a number of these investments the Group has committed not to dispose of its 
equity interest until construction has been completed. As is customary in such projects, dividend payments and other distributions are restricted 
until certain banking covenants are met.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 126 
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 
15.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates 
  Infrastructure Investments
 
Professional 
Services 
2010  
£m 
Construction 
Services 
2010
£m
Support 
Services
2010
£m
UK PPP     
2010** 
£m     
US PPP  
2010
5
 
£m  
Infrastructure 
2010  
£m 
Total 
2010 
£m
Total 
2010 
£m
Revenue 4 616 131 473   1 80 554 1,305
Operating profit* 1 35 6 11   6 19 36 78
Investment income – – – 159   – – 159 159
Finance costs – – – (128)   – (3) (131) (131)
Profit before taxation* 1 35 6 42   6 16 64 106
Taxation – (4) (1) (12)   – (4) (16) (21)
Profit after taxation* 1 31 5 30   6 12 48 85
Exceptional items – – – –   – (27) (27) (27)
Profit after taxation 1 31 5 30   6 (15) 21 58
Non-current assets     
Intangible assets  – goodwill – 31 – –   – 24 24 55
  – PPP concession assets – – – 21   – – 21 21
  – other – – – 1   – – 1 1
Property, plant and equipment – 36 2 –   – 68 68 106
PPP financial assets – – – 2,121   – – 2,121 2,121
Military housing projects  – – – –   45 – 45 45
Other non-current assets – 4 – 30   – 2 32 36
Current assets       
Cash and cash equivalents 4 176 5 196   – 19 215 400
Other current assets 9 364 28 90   – 19 109 510
Total assets 13 611 35 2,459   45 132 2,636 3,295
Current liabilities     
Borrowings – (38) – (69)   – (4) (73) (111)
Other current liabilities (9) (296) (25) (134)   – (28) (162) (492)
Non-current liabilities       
Borrowings – (3) – (1,743)   – (38) (1,781) (1,784)
Other non-current liabilities (3) (178) – (239)   – –  (239) (420)
Total liabilities (12) (515) (25) (2,185)   – (70) (2,255) (2,807)
Net assets 1 96 10 274   45 62 381 488
** Plus Singapore. 
* Before exceptional items (Note 8). 
5
 The Group’s investment in military housing projects is recognised at the initial equity investment plus the value of the Group’s accrued preferred return from the 
underlying projects.  
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted which has not been provided for in the accounts of the joint ventures and associates amounted  
to £4m (2009: £2m). The military housing joint ventures and associates have total non-recourse net borrowings of £1,603m (2009: £1,330m).  
Note 36(e) details the Group’s military housing projects.   Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 127
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 
15.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates continued 
 Infrastructure Investments
 
Professional 
Services
2009 
£m
Construction 
Services 
2009
£m
Support 
Services
2009
£m
UK PPP** 
 
2009
1
     
£m      
US PPP   
2009
5
   
£m   
Infrastructure 
2009  
£m 
Total  
2009
1
 
£m   
Total   
2009
1
  
£m  
Revenue 5 673 140 472   –  95 567 1,385
Operating profit – 25 7 7   4  28 39 71
Investment income – – – 139   –  – 139 139
Finance costs – – – (103)   –  (3) (106) (106)
Profit before taxation – 25 7 43   4  25 72 104
Taxation – (1) (2) (14)   –  (6) (20) (23)
Profit after taxation – 24 5 29   4  19 52 81
Non-current assets        
Intangible assets – goodwill – 29 – –   –  24 24 53
 – PPP concession assets – – – 23   –  – 23 23
 – other – – – 3   –  – 3 3
Property, plant and equipment – 33 1 –   –  104 104 138
PPP financial assets – – – 1,887   –  – 1,887 1,887
Military housing projects  – – – –   45  – 45 45
Other non-current assets – 9 – 52   –  2 54 63
Current assets        
Cash and cash equivalents 8 137 7 141   –  15 156 308
Other current assets 13 323 25 96   1  17 114 475
Total assets 21 531 33 2,202   46  162 2,410 2,995
Current liabilities        
Borrowings – (22) – (41)   –  (7) (48) (70)
Other current liabilities (15) (275) (23) (94)   –  (19) (113) (426)
Non-current liabilities        
Borrowings – (3) – (1,627)   –  (23) (1,650) (1,653)
Other non-current liabilities (6) (158) – (205)   –  (26) (231) (395)
Total liabilities (21) (458) (23) (1,967)   –  (75) (2,042) (2,544)
Net assets – 73 10 235   46  87 368 451
** Plus Singapore. 
1
 Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
5
  The Group’s investment in military housing projects is recognised at the initial equity investment plus the value of the Group’s accrued preferred return from the 
underlying projects.  
15.3 PPP investments 
The Group’s investment in PPP and military housing joint ventures and associates comprises: 
 
Net 
investment 
2010 
£m
Reserves
2010
£m
Total  
2010  
£m 
Net    
investment   
2009
1
   
£m   
Reserves   
2009
1
  
£m  
Total  
2009
1
 
£m  
Roads 87 13 100 65  38 103 
Hospitals 88 45 133 79  12 91 
Schools 39 (3) 36 33  (3) 30 
Other concessions 235 3  8 11 
PPP UK** 216 58 274 180  55 235 
PPP US (military housing) 48 (3) 45 44  2 46 
PPP investments 264 55 319 224  57 281
** Plus Singapore. 
1
 Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37).  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 128 
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 
15.4 Cash flow from/(to) joint ventures and associates 
 
UK PPP**   
2010       
£m      
US PPP 
2010  
£m 
Infrastructure 
2010  
£m 
Other 
2010 
£m
Total 
2010 
£m
UK PPP** 
2009      
£m     
US PPP
2009 
£m
Infrastructure 
2009  
£m 
Other 
2009 
£m
Total 
2009 
£m
Cash flows from  
investing activities       
Dividends from joint  
ventures and associates 27    9 9 17 62 28   3 19 25 75
Subordinated debt  
interest received 9    – – – 9 10   – – – 10
Investment in and loans  
made to joint ventures  
and associates (54)    – – (2) (56) (50)   (1) – 1 (50)
Acquisitions of joint  
ventures and associates –    – – – – (3)   – – (2) (5)
Total investments in  
joint ventures and  
associates  (54)    – – (2) (56) (53)   (1) – (1) (55)
Disposal of joint ventures 24    – – – 24 –   – – – –
Net cash flow from/(to)  
joint ventures and 
associates 6    9 9 15 39 (15)   2 19 24 30
** Plus Singapore. 
Investments in joint ventures and associates comprise: 
 
UK PPP**  
2010      
£m     
US PPP 
2010  
£m 
Infrastructure 
2010  
£m 
Other 
2010 
£m
Total 
2010 
£m
UK PPP**  
2009      
£m      
US PPP  
2009   
£m  
Infrastructure 
2009  
£m 
Other 
2009 
£m
Total 
2009 
£m
Investments in:      
– equity –   – – (3) (3) (2)   (1) – (2) (5)
– subordinated debt (55)   – – – (55) (62)   – – – (62)
– subordinated debt 
repaid 1   – – – 1 11   – – – 11
– other loans –   – – 1 1 –   – – 1 1
Total investments in 
joint ventures and 
associates (54)   – – (2) (56) (53)   (1) – (1) (55)
** Plus Singapore.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 129
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 
15.5 Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves 
Accumulated  
profit/(loss)
1
  
£m  
Hedging  
reserve  
£m 
PPP   
financial   
 assets
1
  
£m   
Currency 
translation 
reserve 
£m
Total
1
 
£m  
Balance at 1 January 2009
1 
156 (80) 126  24 226 
Currency translation differences – – –  (10) (10) 
Income recognised 81 – –  – 81 
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets – – (80)  – (80) 
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash flow hedges – (11) –  – (11) 
Tax on items taken directly to equity – 4 22  – 26 
Dividends paid (75) – –  – (75) 
Balance at 31 December 2009
1
 162 (87) 68  14157 
Currency translation differences – – –  5 5 
Income recognised 58 – –  – 58 
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets – – 36  – 36 
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash flow hedges – (47) –  – (47) 
Fair value revaluation of other cash flow hedges – (3) –  – (3) 
Actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations 1 – –  – 1 
Tax on items taken directly to equity – 13 (10)  – 3 
Dividends paid (62) – –  – (62) 
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal – 11 (15)  – (4) 
Balance at 31 December 2010 159 (113) 79  19 144 
1
  Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
 
16 Investments 
16.1 Group 
 
Held to 
 maturity 
 bonds  
£m 
Available-for-sale 
investments in 
mutual funds 
£m
Total 
£m
Balance at 31 December 2009 42 41 83
Currency translation differences – 3 3
Fair value movements – 4 4
Additions 7 5 12
Disposals (3) (4) (7)
Balance at 31 December 2010 46 49 95
The held to maturity bonds are held by Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, the Group’s captive insurance company, and comprise fixed rate bonds 
or treasury stock with an average yield to maturity of 2.25% (2009: 2.46%) and weighted average life of 2.7 years (2009: 2.4 years). The fair value 
of the bonds is £45m (2009: £41m), determined by the market price of the bonds at the reporting date. The maximum exposure to credit risk at 
31 December 2010 is the carrying amount. These bonds have been pledged as security for letters of credit issued in respect of Delphian 
Insurance Company Ltd.  
The available-for-sale investments in mutual funds comprise holdings in a number of funds in respect of the deferred compensation obligations 
of the Group as disclosed in Note 25. Investments are made based on employees’ investment elections. The fair value of the available-for-sale 
investments is £49m (2009: £41m), determined by the market price of each fund at the reporting date.  
16.2 Company 
 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Investment in subsidiaries 1,871 2,224
Investment in joint ventures and associates 14 14
Provisions (143) (143)
 1,742 2,095
  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 130 
17 PPP financial assets 
Schools  
£m 
Roads 
£m
Total 
£m
Balance at 1 January 2009 102 49 151
Income recognised in the income statement  
– Construction contract margin 1 – 1
– Interest income  9 5 14
Gains/(losses) recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  
– Fair value movements 1 (2) (1)
Other movements  
– Cash expenditure 62 42 104
– Cash received – (9) (9)
Balance at 31 December 2009 175 85 260
Income recognised in the income statement  
– Construction contract margin – 1 1
– Interest income  11 8 19
Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  
– Fair value movements 13 12 25
Other movements  
– Cash expenditure 7 50 57
– Cash received (16) (19) (35)
Balance at 31 December 2010 190 137 327
Assets constructed by PPP subsidiary concession companies are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. The maximum exposure to credit 
risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the PPP financial assets. PPP financial assets are denominated in sterling. There were no disposals or 
impairment provisions in 2010 or 2009. 
18 Inventories 
 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Unbilled work in progress 27 44
Raw materials and consumables 45 40
Manufacturing work in progress 5 7
Finished goods and goods for resale 6 5
Development and housing land and work in progress 6 4
 89 100
19 Construction contracts 
 
2010 
£m
2009
3
 
£m  
Contracts in progress at reporting date: 
Due from customers for contract work 591 524 
Due to customers for contract work (651) (607) 
 (60) (83) 
3
  Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all contracts in progress that had not reached practical 
completion at the reporting date was £18,839m (2009: £17,332m).  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 131
20 Financial instruments 
Accounting policies 
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis 
on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset and financial liability are set out in Note 1. 
Capital risk management 
The Group and Company manage their capital to ensure their ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital structure to 
reduce the cost of capital. The capital structure of the Group and Company comprises: equity attributable to equity holders of Balfour Beatty plc, 
comprising issued ordinary share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 27 and 28; preference shares as disclosed in 
Note 27; and cash and cash equivalents and borrowings as disclosed in Note 23. 
The Group and Company maintain or adjust their capital structure through the payment of dividends to equity holders, issue of new shares 
and buy-back of existing shares, and issuing new borrowings or repaying existing borrowings. The Group’s and Company’s policy is to carry 
no significant net debt, other than the non-recourse borrowings of companies engaged in PPP projects and infrastructure investments. 
The Group’s and Company’s overall capital risk management strategy remains unchanged from 2009. 
20.1 Group 
Categories of financial instruments 
Group 
Loans and 
receivables 
at amortised 
cost, cash 
and cash 
equivalents
2010
£m
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised  
cost 
2010 
£m 
Available- 
for-sale 
financial 
assets
2010
£m
Held to 
maturity
financial
assets
2010
£m
Derivatives
2010
£m
Loans and  
receivables  
at amortised  
cost, cash  
and cash  
equivalents  
2009
3
 
£m  
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised  
cost 
2009 
£m 
Available-  
for-sale  
financial  
assets 
2009 
£m 
Held to 
maturity
financial
assets
2009
£m
Derivatives
2009
£m
Financial assets     
Fixed rate corporate 
bonds and gilts –– – 46– – – – 42 –
Mutual funds –– 49–– – – 41 – –
PPP financial assets –– 327–– – – 260 – –
Cash and cash 
equivalents 584 – – – – 618 – – – –
Trade and other 
receivables 1,179 – – – – 1,341 – – – –
Derivatives –– –– 4 – – – – 1
Total 1,763 – 376 46 4 1,959 – 301 42 1
Financial liabilities     
Liability component  
of preference shares – (89) – – – – (88) – – –
Trade and other 
payables – (2,139) – – – – (2,299) – – –
Unsecured borrowings – (36) – – – – (23) – – –
Secured borrowings – (12) – – – – (13) – – –
PPP non-recourse  
term loans – (288) – – – – (258) – – –
Derivatives –– –– (47) – – – – (25)
Total – (2,564) – – (47) – (2,681) – – (25)
Net 1,763 (2,564) 376 46 (43) 1,959 (2,681) 301 42 (24)
3
  Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37).  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 132 
20 Financial instruments continued 
20.1 Group continued 
Derivatives 
 Financial assets  Financial liabilities Financial assets  Financial liabilities
 
Current 
2010 
£m 
Non-
current
2010
£m
Total 
2010 
£m  
Current
2010
£m
Non-
current
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Current
2009
£m
Non-
current
2009
£m
Total 
2009 
£m  
Current 
2009 
£m 
Non-
current
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Foreign currency 
contracts:       
At fair value through 
profit and loss – held  
for trading 2 – 2  (2) – (2) – – –  (1) – (1)
Designated as  
cash flow hedges  2 – 2  – (1) (1) –1 1  – – –
Interest rate swaps:       
Designated as  
cash flow hedges  – – –  – (44) (44) – – –  – (24) (24)
 4 – 4  (2) (45) (47) – 1 1  (1) (24) (25)
Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity 
The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities. The table has been drawn up based 
on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial liabilities including interest that will accrue to those liabilities except where the Group 
is entitled to and intends to repay the liability before its maturity. The discount column represents the possible future cash flows included in the 
maturity analysis, such as future interest, that have not been included in the carrying value of the financial liability. 
The maturity profile of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 
 
PPP 
non-recourse 
project 
finance
2010
£m
Other 
borrowings
2010
£m
Other 
financial 
liabilities
2010
£m
Total  
non-derivative 
financial 
liabilities 
2010 
£m 
Total 
discount
2010
£m
Carrying 
value
2010
£m
Due on demand or within one year (12) (38) (2,024) (2,074) 13 (2,061)
Due within one to two years (23) (3) (47) (73) 18 (55)
Due within two to five years (49) (1) (58) (108) 58 (50)
Due after more than five years (490) (6) (231) (727) 329 (398)
 (574) (48) (2,360) (2,982) 418 (2,564)
Discount 286 – 132 418 
Carrying value (288) (48) (2,228) (2,564) 
 
 
PPP 
non-recourse 
project 
finance
2009
£m
Other 
borrowings
2009
£m
Other 
financial
liabilities
2009
£m
Total  
non-derivative 
financial  
liabilities 
2009 
£m 
Total 
discount
2009
£m
Carrying 
value
2009
£m
Due on demand or within one year (20) (23) (2,170) (2,213) 12 (2,201)
Due within one to two years (11) (1) (65) (77) 15 (62)
Due within two to five years (54) (6) (53) (113) 56 (57)
Due after more than five years (424) (6) (246) (676) 315 (361)
 (509) (36) (2,534) (3,079) 398 (2,681)
Discount 251–147398 
Carrying value (258) (36) (2,387) (2,681) 
Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity 
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its derivative financial liabilities. The table has been drawn up based on the 
undiscounted net cash inflows/(outflows) on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis (interest rate swaps) and undiscounted gross 
inflows/(outflows) for those derivatives that require gross settlement (foreign exchange contracts). When the amount payable or receivable is not 
fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates, using the yield curves existing at the reporting date.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 133
20 Financial instruments continued 
20.1 Group continued 
The maturity profile of the Group’s derivative financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 
Payable
2010
£m
Receivable
2010
£m
Net payable 
2010 
£m 
Payable 
2009 
£m 
Receivable
2009
£m
Net payable
2009
£m
Due on demand or within one year (81) 68 (13) (61) 54 (7)
Due within one to two years (13) 3 (10) (13) 5 (8)
Due within two to five years (23) 2 (21) (18) 1 (17)
Due after more than five years (24) – (24) (24) – (24)
Total (141) 73 (68) (116) 60 (56)
Financial risk factors 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s financial risk management 
strategy seeks to minimise the potential adverse effect of these risks on the Group’s financial performance. 
Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board. Group Treasury liaises with the Group’s 
operating companies to identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks. The Board provides written principles for overall financial risk management, as 
well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments 
and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies and exposure limits is monitored through 
the Group’s internal audit and risk management procedures. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. 
The Group does not trade in financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes. 
(a) Market risk 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. 
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and commodity price 
risk, including: 
– forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities transacted in a currency that is not the functional 
currency of the operating company; 
– forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign currency risk associated with the Group’s investments in foreign subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures;  
– commodity forward contracts to manage the commodity price risk associated with the Group’s operational requirements for certain 
commodities, such as fuel; and 
– interest rate swaps to mitigate the cash flow variability associated with variable interest rates on borrowings in PPP concessions. 
There has been no material change to the Group’s exposure to market risks and there has been no change in how the Group manages those risks 
from 2009. 
(i) Foreign currency risk management 
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from exposure to various currencies, primarily to US dollars, 
Euros, Australian dollars, Hong Kong dollars and United Arab Emirate dirhams. Foreign exchange risk arises from future trading transactions, 
assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. 
Group policy requires operating companies to manage their transactional foreign exchange risk against their functional currency. Group 
Treasury enters into forward contracts on behalf of operating companies to cover 100% of foreign exchange risk above pre-set materiality 
levels determined by the Finance Director whenever a current or future foreign currency exposure is identified with sufficient reliability. 
Hedge accounting is applied to these transactions above a predetermined materiality level. 
Details of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the reporting date in respect of foreign currency transactional exposures are set 
out on page 132.  
As at 31 December 2010, the notional principal amounts of foreign exchange contracts in respect of foreign currency transactions where 
hedge accounting is not applied was £310m (2009: £72m). The period during which the cash flows are expected to occur is up to three years. 
This will affect the income statement throughout the same periods. 
The Group has designated forward exchange contracts against highly probable capital expenditure and inventory sales which are expected to 
occur in up to three years with a notional principal amount of £23m (2009: £23m) as cash flow hedges. Fair value gains of £2m (2009: £2m gains) 
have been taken to hedging reserves within equity in relation to these contracts. The cumulative amounts deferred in the hedging reserves 
relating to cash flow hedges at year end is £2m (2009: £nil).  
The Group’s investments in foreign operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk which has previously been managed by matching 
significant net assets denominated in currencies other than sterling principally using forward foreign exchange contracts.  
The hedging policy is reviewed periodically. During 2009 management amended the policy to reduce the level of net assets hedged taking 
account of the potential cash effect of the hedging programme against the potential effect of movements in currencies on the Group’s net assets. 
At 31 December 2010 no foreign currency denominated net assets were hedged (2009: £nil).   NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 134 
20 Financial instruments continued  
20.1 Group continued 
(i) Foreign currency risk management continued 
No significant amounts in relation to hedge ineffectiveness have been charged to the income statement in relation to any foreign exchange cash 
flow hedges. No gain (2009: £1m) was recognised in investment income in relation to the forward point fair value movements on net investment 
hedge contracts.  
(ii) Interest rate risk management 
Interest rate risk arises in the Group’s PPP concessions which borrow funds at both floating and fixed interest rates and hold available-for-sale 
financial assets. 
Floating rate borrowings expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Group policy is to swap floating rate interest to fixed rate, using interest 
rate swaps, to hedge the cash flow variability of the interest. 
Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on 
agreed notional principal amounts. The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows 
using the applicable period-end yield curve. The net effect of a movement in interest rates on income would therefore be immaterial. 
During 2010 and 2009, the Group’s PPP subsidiaries’ borrowings at variable rates of interest were denominated in sterling. 
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding PPP subsidiaries’ interest rate swaps outstanding at 31 December 2010 were £297m (2009: 
£269m) with maturities that match the maturity of the underlying borrowings ranging from one year to 27 years. At 31 December 2010, the fixed 
interest rates range from 4.5% to 5.1% (2009: 4.5% to 5.1%) and the principal floating rates are LIBOR. 
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which financial instruments are held would lead to a £6m (2009: £12m) 
increase/decrease in amounts taken directly by the Group to equity in relation to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on the available-for-sale 
financial assets and cash flow hedges of its PPP subsidiaries. 
Interest rate risk also arises on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and non-PPP borrowings. A 50 basis point increase/decrease 
in the interest rate of each currency in which these financial instruments are held would lead to a £3m (2009: £2m) increase/decrease in the 
Group’s net investment income. 
(iii) Commodity price risk management 
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its normal operations. During 2009 the Group entered into a number of commodity hedge 
contracts to manage some of the Group’s exposure to the price of fuel. The value of fuel covered by those hedges amounted to £2m (2009: £3m). 
These commodity hedge contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges against highly probable future fuel purchases forecast to occur 
over the next two years. At 31 December 2010 the fuel hedge contracts had a fair value of £nil (2009: £nil) and no significant gains or losses have 
been recognised in respect of these contracts in the current or prior periods either in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the 
effective portion of the hedge or the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness. 
(iv) Price risk management 
The Group’s principal price risk exposure arises in its PPP concessions. At the commencement of the concession an element of the unitary 
payment by the client is indexed to offset the effect of inflation on the concession’s costs. To the extent that inflation differs from the index used, 
the Group is exposed to a price risk. 
(b) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in financial loss. Credit risk arises from cash and cash 
equivalents, derivative financial instruments and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. 
The Group has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of potential customers before entering into transactions.  
For cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments the Group has a policy of depositing funds only with independently rated 
counterparties with a minimum long-term credit rating of A. At 31 December 2010 £37m (2009: £27m) did not meet this criterion due to the 
operational and relationship difficulties in transferring certain balances. No losses are anticipated from non-performance of these counterparties. 
The credit rating of a financial institution will determine the amount and duration for which funds may be deposited under individual risk limits set 
by the Board for the Group and subsidiary companies. Management monitors the utilisation of these credit limits regularly.  
For trade and other receivables credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable using independent ratings where 
available or by assessment of the customer’s credit quality based on its financial position, past experience and other factors. The Group’s most 
significant customers are public or quasi-public sector entities which generally have high credit ratings or are of a high credit quality due to the 
nature of the customer. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of the above at 31 December is the carrying value of financial assets recorded in the financial 
statements, net of any allowance for losses. 
(c) Liquidity risk 
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash balances and banking facilities, continuously monitoring forecast and actual  
cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are set out 
in Note 23.1. The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities is set out above.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 135
20 Financial instruments continued 
20.1 Group continued 
Fair value estimation 
The Group holds a number of financial instruments on the statement of financial position at their fair values. The following hierarchy classifies each 
class of financial asset or liability depending on the valuation technique applied in determining its fair value. 
Level 1: The fair value is calculated based on quoted prices traded in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Group holds available-for-
sale investments in mutual funds which are traded in active markets and valued based on the closing market price at 31 December.  
Level 2: The fair value is based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
or indirectly. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows utilising applicable year end 
yield curves. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and 
yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.  
Level 3: The fair value is based on unobservable inputs. The fair value of the Group’s PPP financial assets is determined in the construction phase 
by applying an attributable profit margin that reflects the fair value of construction services performed. In the operational phase it is determined by 
discounting the future cash flows allocated to the financial asset at a discount rate which is based on long-term gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels 
associated with the assets. The subsequent movement in the fair value is taken to equity. 
There have been no transfers between these categories in the current or preceding year. 
Financial instruments measured at fair value 
 Fair value measurement 2010 Fair value measurement 2009
 
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Level 1 
£m 
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Available-for-sale mutual fund financial assets 49 – – 49 41 – – 41
Available-for-sale PPP financial assets – – 327 327 – – 260 260
Financial assets – foreign currency contracts –4 –4 – 1 – 1
Total assets measured at fair value 49 4 327 380 41 1 260 302
Financial liabilities – foreign currency contracts –(3) –(3) – (1) – (1)
Financial liabilities – interest rate swaps – (44) – (44) – (24) – (24)
Total liabilities measured at fair value – (47) – (47) – (25) – (25)
In respect of the Level 3 PPP financial assets, a change in the discount rate would have a significant effect on the value of the asset and a 50 basis 
points increase/decrease, which represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in the risk adjusted discount rate, 
would lead to a £14m (2009: £6m) change in the fair value of the assets. The movement would be taken through equity. Refer to Note 17 for a 
reconciliation of the movement of the opening balance to the closing balance. 
The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables and payables approximates their fair values due to their short-term 
nature. The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current 
market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 136 
20 Financial instruments continued 
20.2 Company 
Categories of financial instruments 
Company 
Loans and 
receivables  
at amortised 
cost, cash  
and cash 
equivalents 
2010 
£m 
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised  
cost 
2010 
£m 
Available- 
for-sale 
financial  
assets 
2010 
£m 
Held to 
maturity 
financial 
assets
2010
£m
Derivatives
2010
£m
Loans and 
receivables 
at amortised 
cost, cash 
and cash 
equivalents
2009
£m
Financial 
liabilities at 
amortised 
cost
2009
£m
Available- 
for-sale  
financial  
assets 
2009 
£m 
Held to 
maturity 
financial 
assets
2009
£m
Derivatives
2009
£m
Financial assets     
Cash and cash 
equivalents – – – – – 143 –– ––
Trade and 
other receivables 1,141 – – – – 1,084 – – – –
Derivatives – – – – 7 –– – – 2
Total 1,141 – – – 7 1,227 – – – 2
Financial liabilities     
Liability component 
of preference shares – (89) – – – – (88) – – –
Trade and 
other payables – (1,571) – – – – (1,906) – – –
Unsecured borrowings – (55) – – – – (53) – – –
Derivatives – – – – (7) –– – – (2)
Total – (1,715) – – (7) – (2,047) – – (2)
Net 1,141 (1,715) – – – 1,227 (2,047) – – –
Derivatives 
 Financial assets  Financial liabilities Financial assets  Financial liabilities
 
Current 
2010 
£m 
Non-
current 
2010 
£m 
Total 
2010 
£m  
Current
2010
£m
Non-
current
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Current
2009
£m
Non- 
current
2009
£m
Total 
2009 
£m  
Current 
2009 
£m 
Non- 
current
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
At fair value through  
profit and loss  
– held for trading 6 1 7
 
 (6) (1) (7) 1 1 2  (1) (1) (2)
The Company is responsible for executing all of the Group’s external derivative contracts, except for those in relation to PPP concessions. 
The Company’s external contracts are perfectly matched with derivative contracts issued by the Company to the Group’s operating companies. 
The Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value are the foreign currency contracts shown in the table above. The fair 
value of these foreign currency contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from 
quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts. 
Based on the fair value estimation hierarchy mentioned above, the Company derivatives are classified as Level 2.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 137
20 Financial instruments continued 
20.2 Company continued 
Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity 
The maturity profile of the Company’s non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 
 
Borrowings
2010
£m
Other  
financial 
liabilities 
2010 
£m 
Total  
non-derivative 
financial 
liabilities 
2010 
£m 
Total 
discount
2010
£m
Carrying 
value
2010
£m
Due on demand or within one year (55) (1,558) (1,613) 13 (1,600)
Due within one to two years – (11) (11) 11 –
Due within two to five years – (33) (33) 33 –
Due after more than five years – (186) (186) 71 (115)
 (55) (1,788) (1,843) 128 (1,715)
Discount – 128 128 
Carrying value (55) (1,660) (1,715) 
 
 
Borrowings
2009
£m
Other  
financial  
liabilities 
2009 
£m 
Total  
non-derivative 
financial  
liabilities 
2009 
£m 
Total 
discount
2009
£m
Carrying 
value
2009
£m
Due on demand or within one year (53) (1,894) (1,947) 14 (1,933)
Due within one to two years – (11) (11) 11 –
Due within two to five years – (32) (32) 32 –
Due after more than five years – (197) (197) 83 (114)
 (53) (2,134) (2,187) 140 (2,047)
Discount – 140 140 
Carrying value (53) (1,994) (2,047) 
Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity 
The maturity profile of the Company’s derivative financial liabilities, which comprise foreign exchange contracts, at 31 December was as follows: 
Payable 
2010 
£m 
Receivable 
2010 
£m 
Payable
2009
£m
Receivable
2009
£m
Due on demand or within one year (169) 163 (81) 80
Due within one to two years (3) 3 (17) 16
Due within two to five years (3) 2 ––
Total (175) 168 (98) 96
Financial risk factors 
(a) Market risk 
(i) Foreign currency risk management 
For the Company, there would be no material effect of any strengthening/weakening in US dollars, Euros, Australian dollars, Hong Kong dollars 
or United Arab Emirate dirhams exchange rates against sterling because the Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts with the 
Group’s operating companies that offset its external forward foreign exchange contracts. 
(ii) Interest rate risk management 
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which financial instruments are held would lead to a £3m (2009: £4m) 
decrease/increase in the Company’s investment income. This is mainly attributable to the Company’s exposure to interest rates on its cash and 
cash equivalents and term deposits and amounts due to and from its subsidiaries. There would be no effect on amounts taken directly by the 
Company to equity. 
(b) Credit risk 
The additional credit risk that the Company bears is in respect to trade receivables and payables due from/to subsidiaries. There were no amounts 
past due at the reporting date. The maximum exposure is the carrying value of the financial assets recorded in the financial statements.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 138 
21 Trade and other receivables 
Group
2010
£m
Group   
2009
3
  
£m   
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
Current  
Trade receivables 928 997  5 6
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (48) (41)  – –
 880 956  5 6
Due from subsidiaries – –  1,106 1,048
Due from joint ventures and associates 25 19  – –
Due from jointly controlled operations 4 1  – –
Contract retentions 176 208  – –
Accrued income 25 60  – –
Prepayments 87 85  3 3
 1,197 1,329  1,114 1,057
Non-current  
Trade receivables 13 16  – –
Due from joint ventures and associates 1 1  30 30
Contract retentions 39 64  – –
Prepayments 1 1  – 1
Due on acquisitions 16 16  – –
 70 98  30 31
Total trade and other receivables 1,267 1,427  1,144 1,088
Comprising:  
Financial assets 1,179 1,341  1,141 1,084
Non-financial assets – prepayments 88 86  3 4
 1,267 1,427  1,144 1,088
3
  Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
Based on prior experience and an assessment of the current economic environment, management believes there is no further credit risk provision 
required in respect of trade receivables. 
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current trade and other receivables approximate their fair values. The fair value of non-current 
trade and other receivables amounts to £68m (2009: £83m) and has been determined by discounting future cash flows using yield curves and 
exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. 
It is Group policy that a forward foreign exchange contract is entered into as soon as a trade receivable, above a pre-set materiality level, is 
identified in a currency other than the operating company’s functional currency. 
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 
 
Group
2010
£m
Group
2009
£m
Balance at 1 January (41) (17)
Currency translation differences (1) –
Credited/(charged) to the income statement 
– additional provisions (15) (8)
– unused amounts reversed 6 5
Acquisitions of businesses – (23)
Used during the year 3 2
Balance at 31 December (48) (41)
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 139
21 Trade and other receivables continued 
The provision for impairment of trade receivables is based on a review of the financial circumstances of individual customers. The ageing of the 
impaired receivables is as follows: 
 
Group
2010
£m
Group
2009
£m
Up to three months 3 1
Three to six months 1 1
Six to nine months 2 2
Nine to 12 months 6 10
More than 12 months 36 27
 48 41
At 31 December 2010, trade receivables of £155m (2009: £155m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of individual 
customers for which there is no reason to believe that their debt is not recoverable. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 
 
Group
2010
£m
Group
2009
£m
Up to three months 95 77
Three to six months 26 33
Six to nine months 14 20
Nine to 12 months 12 15
More than 12 months 8 10
 155 155
The Company had no provision for impairment of trade receivables and no trade receivables that were past due but not impaired in either year. 
22 Trade and other payables 
Group 
2010 
£m 
Group 
2009 
£m 
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
Current   
Trade and other payables 992 1,137 8 9
Accruals 1,010 1,013 15 13
Deferred income 35 33 1 1
Advance payments on contracts* 68 103 – –
VAT, payroll taxes and social security 98 99 15 16
Due to subsidiaries – – 1,518 1,854
Due to joint ventures and associates 17 16 – –
Dividends on preference shares 5 5 5 5
Due on acquisitions 7 6 – –
 2,232 2,412 1,562 1,898
 
Non-current   
Trade and other payables 70 79 – –
Accruals 18 28 – –
Deferred income 7 10 – –
Advance payments on contracts 2 – – –
Due to joint ventures and associates 25 25 25 25
Due on acquisitions 22 21 – –
 144 163 25 25
Total trade and other payables 2,376 2,575 1,587 1,923
Comprising:   
Financial liabilities 2,139 2,299 1,571 1,906
Non-financial liabilities:   
– accruals not at amortised cost 97 134 – –
– deferred income 42 43 1 1
– VAT, payroll taxes and social security 98 99 15 16
 2,376 2,575 1,587 1,923
* Includes £66m (2009: £100m) advances on construction contracts.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 140 
22 Trade and other payables continued 
The maturity profile of the Group’s non-current trade and other payables at 31 December was: 
 
Trade  
and other 
payables 
2010 
£m 
Due on 
acquisitions 
2010 
£m 
Accruals 
2010 
£m 
Deferred 
income
2010
£m
Due to 
joint 
ventures 
and 
associates
2010
£m
Advance
payments 
on
contracts
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Trade 
and other 
payables
2009
£m
Due on 
acquisitions
2009
£m
Accruals 
2009 
£m 
Deferred 
income 
2009 
£m 
Due to joint 
ventures 
and 
associates
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Due within one to 
two years 23 3 8 1 – 2 37 42 3 19 3 – 67
Due within two to 
five years 9 7 4 4 – – 24 10 6 5 5 – 26
Due after more than  
five years 38 12 6 2 25 – 83 27 12 4 2 25 70
 70 22 18 7 25 2 144 79 21 28 10 25 163
Fair values 50 22 16 6 13 2 109 62 20 27 8 13 130
The fair value of non-current trade and other payables has been determined by using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting 
date and discounting future cash flows at interest rates prevailing at the reporting date. 
It is Group policy that a forward foreign exchange contract is entered into as soon as a trade or other payable, above a pre-set materiality level, 
is identified in a currency other than the operating company’s functional currency. Amounts due to joint ventures and associates, accruals and 
deferred income are denominated in sterling.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 141
23 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 
23.1 Group 
Current
2010
£m
Non-current
2010
£m
Total 
2010 
£m 
Current 
2009 
£m 
Non-current
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost:   
– bank overdrafts (34) – (34) (10) – (10)
– other loans – (2) (2) (10) (3) (13)
Secured borrowings at amortised cost:   
– finance leases (3) (9) (12) (3) (10) (13)
  (37) (11) (48) (23) (13) (36)
Cash and deposits at amortised cost 518 – 518 464 – 464
Term deposits at amortised cost 48 – 48 144 – 144
Non-PPP cash and cash equivalents 566 – 566 608 – 608
  529 (11) 518 585 (13) 572
PPP non-recourse term loans at amortised cost:   
– sterling floating rate term loan (2008–2027) (1) (22) (23) (1) (23) (24)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2011–2030) (3) (22) (25) – (19) (19)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2012–2031) – (19) (19) – (13) (13)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2010–2034) (4) (158) (162) (18) (156) (174)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2016–2035) – (3) (3) – – –
– sterling floating rate term loan (2012–2037) – (56) (56) – (28) (28)
 (8) (280) (288) (19) (239) (258)
PPP cash and cash equivalents 18 – 18 10 – 10
 10 (280) (270) (9) (239) (248)
Net cash/(borrowings) 539 (291) 248 576 (252) 324
The PPP project finance sterling debt obligations arise under non-recourse facilities in the concession companies Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd, 
Connect Roads South Tyneside Ltd, Connect Roads Derby Ltd, Transform Schools (Knowsley) Ltd, Connect CNDR Ltd and Connect Roads 
Coventry Ltd. The borrowings are secured by fixed and floating charges over each concession company’s right, title and interest in certain assets 
and/or revenues and over each concession company’s shares held by their immediate parent companies.  
A significant part of the PPP non-recourse project finance floating rate term loans has been swapped into fixed rate debt by the use of interest 
rate swaps. 
Restricted cash included in cash and cash equivalents amounts to £8m (2009: £14m) held by Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, the Group’s 
captive insurance company which is subject to Isle of Man insurance solvency regulations and £18m (2009: £10m) relating to amounts held 
by certain PPP concession subsidiaries. 
Cash, deposits and term deposits include the Group’s share of amounts held by jointly controlled operations of £221m (2009: £212m). 
The Group’s undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent were satisfied at 31 December were: 
PPP 
non-recourse 
project 
finance
2010
£m
Other 
borrowings
2010
£m
Total 
2010 
£m 
PPP  
non-recourse 
project  
finance 
2009 
£m 
Other 
borrowings
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Expiring in one year or less 33 165 198 – 145 145
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 18 197 215 9 35 44
Expiring in more than two years 38 246 284 79 381 460
 89 608 697 88 561 649
  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 142 
23 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings continued 
23.1 Group continued 
The maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December is as follows: 
 
PPP  
non-recourse 
project  
finance 
2010 
£m 
Finance
leases
2010
£m
Other 
borrowings
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
PPP 
non-recourse 
project 
finance
2009
£m
Finance 
leases 
2009 
£m 
Other 
borrowings
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Due on demand or within one year (8) (3) (34) (45) (19) (3) (20) (42)
Due within one to two years (17) (3) – (20) (8) (1) – (9)
Due within two to five years (24) (1) – (25) (31) (6) – (37)
Due after more than five years (239) (5) (2) (246) (200) (3) (3) (206)
 (288) (12) (36) (336) (258) (13) (23) (294)
The table below compares the book values and the fair values of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December: 
Book value
2010
£m
Fair value 
2010 
£m 
Book value
2009
£m
Fair value
2009
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost:  
– bank overdrafts (34) (34) (10) (10)
– other loans (2) (2) (13) (13)
Secured borrowings at amortised cost:  
– finance leases (12) (12) (13) (13)
  (48) (48) (36) (36)
PPP non-recourse term loan at amortised cost:  
– sterling floating rate term loan (2008–2027) (23) (23) (24) (24)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2011–2030) (25) (25) (19) (19)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2012–2031) (19) (19) (13) (13)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2010–2034) (162) (162) (174) (174)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2016–2035) (3) (3) ––
– sterling floating rate term loan (2012–2037) (56) (56) (28) (28)
  (288) (288) (258) (258)
Borrowings (336) (336) (294) (294)
The fair values have been determined by using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date and discounting future cash flows 
at interest rates prevailing at the reporting date. 
23.2 Company 
Current
2010
£m
Non-current
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Current 
2009 
£m 
Non-current
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost: 
 
 
– bank overdrafts (55) – (55) (53) – (53)
 (55) – (55) (53) – (53)
Term deposits ––– 143 – 143
(Net borrowings)/net cash (55) – (55) 90 – 90
The unsecured borrowings are sterling denominated, variable rate instruments and repayable on demand.   Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 143
24 Deferred tax 
24.1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends 
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. The net deferred tax position at 31 December was: 
Group 
2010 
£m 
Group   
2009
3
  
£m   
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
Deferred tax assets 163 191  2 4
Deferred tax liabilities (8) (9)  – –
  155 182  2 4
3
  Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
The movement for the year in the net deferred tax position was as follows: 
 
Group
3
 
£m  
Company
£m
At 1 January 2009 122 (1)
Currency translation differences (3) –
Charged to income statement (41) – 
Credited to equity 94 5
Businesses acquired 10 –
At 31 December 2009
3 
182 4
Currency translation differences 2 –
Charged to income statement
6 
– (2)
Charged to equity
6
 (28) –
Businesses acquired (1) – 
At 31 December 2010 155 2
3
  Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
6 
Group includes £1m charged to the income statement and £3m charged to equity in relation to the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate. 
24.2 Group 
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised and the movements thereon during the year: 
 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Unrelieved 
trading losses
£m
Share-
based 
payments
£m
Provisions 
£m 
Fair value   
adjustments
3
  
£m   
Derivatives
£m
Total
3
 
£m  
Deferred tax assets   
At 1 January 2009 – 67 46 4 13 19  – 149 
Currency translation differences – – (2) – (1) –  – (3) 
Reclassifications/transfers 58(27)–28 (10)  1014 
Credited/(charged) to income statement  5 (36) (14) (2) (1) (9)  – (57) 
Credited/(charged) to equity – 98 – 1 – –  (5) 94 
Businesses acquired 4 29 – – 1 –  – 34 
At 31 December 2009
3
 141663340 –  5231 
Currency translation differences ––– – 3 –  – 3 
Reclassifications/transfers (1) – 12 – (3) –  – 8 
(Charged)/credited to income statement
6
 – (17) (1) – 7 –  – (11) 
(Charged)/credited to equity
6
 – (29) – 2 – –  (1) (28) 
Businesses acquired – – – – (1) –  – (1) 
At 31 December 2010 13 120 14 5 46 –  4 202 
3
  Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
6 
Group includes £1m charged to the income statement and £3m charged to equity in relation to the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate. 
  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 144 
24 Deferred tax continued 
24.2 Group continued 
 
Revaluation 
of properties
£m
Goodwill
£m
Undistributed 
earnings of joint 
ventures and 
associates
£m
Preference 
shares
£m
Fair value 
adjustments 
£m 
Loss 
of IBAs
£m
Total
£m
Deferred tax liabilities  
At 1 January 2009 (1) (9) (10) (7) – – (27)
Reclassifications/transfers ––––(11) (3)(14)
Credited to income statement – – 10 – 6 – 16
Businesses acquired – – – – (24) – (24)
At 31 December 2009 (1) (9) – (7) (29) (3) (49)
Currency translation differences –– –– (1) – (1)
Reclassifications/transfers –– –– (8) – (8)
(Charged)/credited to income statement – (1) – – 12 – 11
At 31 December 2010 (1) (10) – (7) (26) (3) (47)
   
Total net deferred tax asset  155
The Finance (No. 2) Act 2010 was substantively enacted on 21 July 2010 implementing a reduction to the main UK corporation tax rate from 28% 
to 27% effective from 1 April 2011. The effect of the reduction in the UK tax rate reduced the Group’s net deferred tax asset by £4m with £1m 
being charged to the income statement and £3m being charged to equity.  
It was also announced, although not enacted, that there will be a 1% reduction in the main corporation tax rate in each of the three subsequent 
years to bring the rate down to 24% from 1 April 2014. Should the future UK corporation tax rate reductions be enacted, based on the latest 
forecasts, this will give rise to a further reduction in the Group’s net deferred tax asset of £12m by 2014 with £2m being charged to the income 
statement and £10m being charged to reserves.  
At the reporting date, the Group had unused tax losses that arose over a number of years of approximately £240m (2009: £260m) which are 
available for offset against future profits. £31m (2009: £50m) will expire 20 years after the year in which they arose, using losses incurred in earlier 
years before those incurred in later years, with the first expiry in 2025. The remaining losses may be carried forward indefinitely. 
At the reporting date, the undistributed reserves of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £850m 
(2009: £500m) and for joint ventures and associates was £95m (2009: £50m). No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences 
because no temporary difference arises. 
24.3 Company 
The following represents the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Company and the movements thereon: 
Deferred tax 
liability
Deferred tax 
assets
Preference 
shares
£m
Share-
based 
payments
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Provisions 
£m 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£m 
Total
£m
Net deferred 
tax assets/
(liability)
£m
At 1 January 2009 (7) 2 2 2 – 6 (1)
(Charged)/credited to income statement – – (2) 1 1 – –
Credited to equity – – 5 – – 5 5
At 31 December 2009 (7) 2 5 3 1 11 4
Charged to income statement – – (1) – (1) (2) (2)
Credited/(charged) to equity –1 (1) – – – –
At 31 December 2010 (7) 3 3 3 – 9 2
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 145
25 Retirement benefit obligations 
25.1 Group 
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes. Defined benefit schemes provide 
benefits based on employees’ pensionable service and their pensionable salary. Defined contribution schemes are those where the Group’s 
obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme and the scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks.  
The majority of the Group’s defined benefit schemes are funded. Defined benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, 
after taking actuarial advice.  
The Group’s main scheme is the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (“BBPF”), which includes defined benefit and defined contribution sections. 
The defined benefit section is closed to new members with the exception of certain employees transferring under certain agreed arrangements.  
During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Group offered certain deferred members of the BBPF enhanced benefits to leave the BBPF and 
transfer to a freestanding defined contribution scheme. 1,641 deferred members took up the option of the enhanced benefits, resulting in a £42m 
reduction in assets, a £50m reduction in liabilities and a settlement gain of £8m. A net gain of £2m was recognised after payments of £6m of 
enhancements and other expenses. 
A formal funding valuation of the BBPF was carried out as at 31 March 2010. As a result of the funding valuation the Group has agreed to an 
additional one-off deficit funding payment of £40m, paid in December 2010, and to increase the amount of ongoing deficit payments to the BBPF 
to £48m per annum, increasing each year by CPI (capped at 5%) plus 50% of any increase in the Company’s dividend in excess of capped CPI.  
During 2009 the Group implemented measures to limit the increase in pensionable pay of certain groups of in-service defined benefit members, 
giving rise to a reduction in past service liabilities of £100m, which was classified as an exceptional item in the income statement in the 2009 
annual report. On 31 May 2009 the Mansell plc Pension Scheme and the Hall & Tawse Retirement Benefit Plan (“Mansell schemes”) merged 
with the BBPF. 
The investment strategy of the BBPF is to hold assets of appropriate liquidity and marketability to generate income and capital growth to meet, 
together with any contributions from the Group, the cost of current and future benefits. The BBPF invests in equities in anticipation that, over the 
longer term, they will grow in value faster than the liabilities. The majority of the BBPF equities are in the form of pooled funds. The BBPF invests 
in fixed and index-linked bonds and inflation swaps in order to match the duration and inflation exposure of a portion of the liabilities. The BBPF 
invests in corporate fixed-interest bonds in anticipation that, over the longer term, they will outperform equivalent government bonds. A portion of 
the corporate bonds is overlaid with inflation swaps in order to create a better match between the assets and the inflation-linked characteristics of 
the liabilities. The performance of equities and bonds is measured against market indices. The BBPF invests in three funds of hedge funds in order 
to improve diversification. The performance of the fund of hedge fund managers is measured against three month LIBOR. 
Certain Group employees are members of the Balfour Beatty Shared Cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme (“Railways Pension 
Scheme”), which is closed to new members with the exception of certain employees transferring under certain agreed arrangements. The 
economic interest of the Group in this shared cost scheme is approximately 60% of the scheme’s assets and liabilities, based on the relevant 
provisions of the trust deed and rules and trustee guidelines regarding future surplus apportionments and deficit financing. Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Ltd operates a defined benefit scheme, which is closed to new members (“Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme”). The Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme 
has a legal charge over a Group leasehold property with a book value of £4m (2009: £4m).  
With the exception of the Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme, active members continue to accrue benefits for future service. Other schemes comprise 
funded and unfunded post-retirement benefit obligations in Europe and North America, the majority of which are closed to new entrants, and deferred 
compensation schemes in the US, where an element of employees’ compensation is deferred and invested in available-for-sale assets as disclosed in 
Note 16.1 for the ultimate benefit of the employees in a trust, the assets of which are available to Group creditors in the event of insolvency.  
On 30 November 2010 the UK Government published the Occupational Pensions (Revaluation) Order 2010 which, with effect from 1 January 
2011, changed the basis of UK general statutory pension indexation from the retail price index (RPI) to the consumer price index (CPI). The 
benefits of certain members of the Group’s schemes are defined by reference to the statutory measure of inflation rather than being specifically 
linked by the scheme rules to RPI. The consequent change in assumptions gave rise to a £52m (2009: £nil) actuarial reduction in liabilities which is 
credited to equity in the statement of comprehensive income. 
The membership of the principal schemes is as follows: 
 
Balfour Beatty  
Pension Fund 
2010  
Railways 
Pension Scheme
2010
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff Scheme
2010 
Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund
2009 
Railways  
Pension Scheme 
2009  
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff Scheme
2009
 
Number of 
members 
Defined 
benefit 
obligations 
£m  
Number of 
members 
Defined 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Number of 
members
Defined 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Number of 
members
Defined 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Number of 
members 
Defined 
benefit 
obligations 
£m  
Number of 
members
Defined 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Defined benefit        
– active members 4,494 579  314 48 – – 4,958 747 397 47  – –
– deferred  
   pensioners 11,198 543  1,550 47 1,075 85 14,589 637 1,561 52  1,115 87
– pensioners,  
   widow(er)s  
   and dependants 20,685 1,223  1,387 80 1,149 91 18,671 941 1,318 78  1,108 79
Defined 
contribution 7,985 –  – – 1,781 – 7,449 – – –  1,902 –
Total 44,362 2,345  3,251 175 4,005 176 45,667 2,325 3,276 177  4,125 166 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 146 
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
25.1 Group continued 
IAS 19 governs the accounting for defined benefit schemes in the Group’s financial statements. Obligations are calculated using the projected unit 
credit method and discounted to a net present value using the market yield on a high quality corporate bond. Pension expense relating to current 
service cost is charged to contracts or overheads based on the function of scheme members and is included in cost of sales and net operating 
expenses. The net finance cost arising from the expected return on plan assets and the interest on scheme obligations is included in finance 
charges. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in full in the statement of comprehensive income. The IAS 19 accounting valuation is set out in 
25.2 below. 
A different calculation is used for the regular valuations undertaken by the scheme trustees to determine the future company contribution level 
necessary so that over time the scheme assets will meet the scheme liabilities. The principal difference between the two methods is that under 
the funding basis the liabilities are discounted using a rate of return reflecting the composition of the assets in the scheme, rather than the rate of 
return on a high quality corporate bond as required by IAS 19 for the financial statements. Details of the latest formal funding basis valuations are 
set out in 25.3 below. 
The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Group’s financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets 
of the Group. The Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme has an interest in a property under an operating lease that is occupied under an operating 
sublease by a Group company which pays an annual rental of £0.2m (2009: £0.2m).  
25.2 IAS 19 accounting valuation 
The principal actuarial assumptions for the IAS 19 accounting valuations of the Group’s principal schemes are as follows: 
Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund
2010
%
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme
2010
%
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme
2010
%
Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund 
2009 
% 
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme
2009
%
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme
2009
%
Discount rate on obligations 5.45 5.45 5.45 5.65 5.65 5.65
Expected return on plan assets 6.10 7.10 6.45 5.93 7.30 6.75
Inflation rate: – RPI 3.40 3.40 3.40 3.50 3.50 3.50
 – CPI 2.90 2.90 2.90 – – –
Future increases in pensionable salary:   
– certain members of the BBPF whose increase in pensionable  
   pay is limited ––– – – –
– other members 4.90 4.90 4.90 5.00 5.00 –
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (or such other rate as 
is guaranteed) 3.30 2.90 3.00 3.50 3.50 3.50
      
The BBPF actuary undertakes regular mortality investigations based on the experience exhibited by pensioners of the BBPF and due to the size of 
the membership of the BBPF (44,362 members at 31 December 2010) is able to make comparisons of this experience with the mortality rates set 
out in the various published mortality tables. The actuary is also able to monitor changes in the exhibited mortality over time. This research is taken 
into account in the Group’s mortality assumptions across its various defined benefit schemes.  
The mortality tables adopted for the 2010 IAS 19 valuations are the SAPS tables with a multiplier of 94% and an improvement rate of 1.5% pa 
from 2003 to 2010, plus future improvements from 2010 in line with the CMI core projection model applicable to each member‘s year of birth with 
a long-term rate of 1.5% pa. The mortality tables adopted for the 2009 IAS 19 valuation are the 1992 series calendar year 2007 tables, with future 
improvements applicable to each member’s year of birth under the medium cohort effect from 2007. 
2010 
Average life expectancy  
at 65 years of age 
Years 
2009
Average life expectancy 
at 65 years of age
Years
 Male Female Male Female
Members in receipt of a pension 21.8 24.5 20.4 23.4 
Members not yet in receipt of a pension (current age 50) 23.7 26.4 21.4 24.3 
The composition of the members of the Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme is different to the other schemes and allowance has been made for 
approximately three further years of life expectancy for members of this scheme compared to members of the other schemes.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 147
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
25.2 IAS 19 accounting valuation continued 
BBPF defined contribution employer contributions paid and charged to the income statement have been separately identified in the table below 
and the defined contribution section assets and liabilities amounting to £124m (2009: £87m) have been excluded from the tables on pages 148 
to 150. Defined contribution charges for other schemes include contributions to multi-employer pension schemes. 
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 
 
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund 
2010 
£m 
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme 
2010 
£m 
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme
2010
£m
Other 
schemes
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund
2009
£m
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme
2009
£m
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme 
2009 
£m 
Mansell 
schemes 
2009 
£m 
Other 
schemes
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Current service cost (42) (3) (1) (7) (53) (27) (2) – (1) (2) (32)
Defined contribution charge (30) – (5) (17) (52) (22) – (2) – (15) (39)
Included in employee costs 
(Note 5) 
(72) 
 
(3) 
 
(6) (24) (105) (49) (2) (2) 
 
(1) 
 
(17) (71)
Expected return on plan assets  112 9 8 1 130 101 8 1 5 1 116
Interest cost (128) (9) (9) (5) (151) (114) (8) (2) (5) (2) (131)
Net finance cost (Note 7) (16) – (1) (4) (21) (13) – (1) – (1) (15)
Total charged to profit before 
exceptional items (88) (3) (7) (28) (126) (62) (2) (3) (1) (18) (86)
Exceptional reduction in pension 
past service liabilities (Note 8) – – – – – 100 – – – – 100
Total (charged)/credited to income 
statement (88) (3) (7) (28) (126) 38 (2) (3) (1) (18) 14
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 
 
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund 
2010 
£m 
Railways 
Pension  
Scheme 
2010 
£m 
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme
2010
£m
Other 
schemes
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund
2009
£m
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme
2009
£m
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme 
2009 
£m 
Mansell  
schemes 
2009 
£m 
Other 
schemes
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
Actuarial (losses)/gains on pension 
scheme obligations (26) 7 (9) (5) (33) (449) (35)
 
5 
 
(5) (3) (487)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on pension 
scheme assets 106 6 7 – 119 135 9
 
1 
 
(9) 1 137
Total actuarial gains/(losses) 
recognised in the statement 
of comprehensive income 
(Note 28.1) 80 13 (2) (5) 86 (314) (26) 6  (14)  (2) (350)
Cumulative (losses)/gains 
recognised in reserves (310) (20) 4 (6) (332) (390) (33) 6 –  (1) (418)
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of £249m (2009: £253m). 
  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 148 
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued  
25.2 IAS 19 accounting valuation continued 
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows: 
 
Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund 
2010 
£m 
Railways 
Pension  
Scheme 
2010 
£m 
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme 
2010 
£m 
Other   
schemes
^
2010  
£m  
Total
2010
£m
Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund
2009
£m
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme
2009
£m
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme 
2009 
£m 
Other   
schemes
^
2009  
£m  
Total
2009
£m
Present value  
of obligations (2,345) (175) (176) (89) (2,785) (2,325) (177) (166) (89) (2,757)
Fair value of plan assets 2,072 145 125 2 2,344 1,911 134 113 13 2,171
Liability in the 
statement of  
financial position (273) (30) (51) (87) (441) (414) (43)
 
(53) (76) (586)
Available-for-sale mutual 
funds
^
 (Note 16.1) – – – 49 49 – – – 41 41
^
  Available-for-sale investments in mutual funds of £49m (2009: £41m) are held by the Group to satisfy the Group’s deferred compensation obligations. 
The defined benefit obligation comprises £87m (2009: £76m) arising from wholly unfunded plans and £2,698m (2009: £2,681m) arising from plans 
that are wholly or partly funded. 
The movement in the present value of obligations is as follows: 
 
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund 
2010 
£m 
Railways 
Pension  
Scheme 
2010 
£m 
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme
2010
£m
Other 
schemes
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund
2009
£m
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme
2009
£m
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme 
2009 
£m 
Mansell  
schemes 
2009 
£m 
Other 
schemes
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
At 1 January (2,325) (177) (166) (89) (2,757) (1,733) (138) – (188) (43) (2,102)
Currency translation  – – – (3) (3) – – – – 1 1
Mansell scheme transfer – – – – – (196) – – 196 – –
Other transfers – – – – – – – – – (20) (20)
Service cost (42) (3) (1) (7) (53) (27) (2) – (1) (2) (32)
Exceptional past service gain – – – – – 100 – – – – 100
Interest cost (128) (9) (9) (5) (151) (114) (8) (2) (5) (2) (131)
Actuarial gains from rebasing 
certain pension obligations to CPI 35 13 4 – 52 – – – – – –
Other actuarial (losses)/gains (61) (6) (13) (5) (85) (449) (35) 5 (5) (3) (487)
Total actuarial (losses)/gains  (26) 7 (9) (5) (33) (449) (35) 5 (5) (3) (487)
Contributions from members (1) – – – (1) (9) – –  (1) – (10)
Benefits paid 127 7 9 6 149 103 6 2 4 6 121
Businesses acquired – – – – – – – (171) – (26) (197)
Settlements 50 – – 14 64 – – – – – –
At 31 December (2,345) (175) (176) (89) (2,785)(2,325) (177) (166) – (89)(2,757)
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 149
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued  
25.2 IAS 19 accounting valuation continued 
The movement in the fair value of plan assets is as follows: 
 
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund 
2010 
£m 
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme 
2010 
£m 
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme
2010
£m
Other 
schemes
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Balfour 
Beatty 
Pension 
Fund
2009
£m
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme
2009
£m
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme 
2009 
£m 
Mansell 
schemes 
2009 
£m 
Other 
schemes
2009
£m
Total
2009
£m
At 1 January 1,911 134 113 13 2,171 1,540 120 – 170 11 1,841
Currency translation  – – – 1 1 – – (1) – 1 –
Mansell scheme transfer – – – – – 167 – – (167) – –
Expected return on plan assets 112 9 8 1 130 101 8 1 5 1 116
Actuarial gains/(losses) 106 6 7 – 119 135 9 1 (9) 1 137
Contributions from employer – 
regular funding 38 2 – – 40 31 2 – 1 – 34
Contributions from employer – 
ongoing deficit funding 33 1 6 1 41 31 1 – 3 – 35
Contributions from employer – 
one-off deficit funding 40 – – – 40 ––
 
– 
 
– – –
Contributions from members 1 – – – 1 9– – 1 – 10
Benefits paid (127) (7) (9) – (143) (103) (6) (2) (4) (1) (116)
Businesses acquired – – – – – – – 114 – – 114
Settlements (42) – – (14) (56) – – – – – –
At 31 December 2,072 145 125 2 2,3441,911 134 113 – 132,171
The fair value and expected rates of return on the assets held by the schemes at 31 December are as follows: 
 
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund Railways Pension Scheme Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme  Other schemes
 
Expected rate 
of return 
2010 
% 
Value
2010
£m
Expected rate 
of return
2010
%
Value
2010
£m
Expected rate 
of return 
2010 
% 
Value 
2010 
£m  
Expected rate 
of return
2010
%
Value
2010
£m
Equities 8.20 723 8.20 98 8.20 70  – –
Bonds     
– index linked gilts 4.20 282 4.00 15 – –  – –
– fixed rate gilts – – 4.00 7 4.00 37  – –
– corporate and other bonds 5.10 873 5.20 12 5.20 10  – –
Funds of hedge funds 6.30 84 – – – –  – –
Property – – 6.10 13 – –  – –
Cash and other net assets 3.90 110 3.90 – 3.90 8  3.90 2
Rate of return/total 6.10 2,072 7.10 145 6.45 125  3.90 2
 
 Balfour Beatty Pension Fund Railways Pension Scheme Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme  Other schemes
 
Expected rate  
of return 
2009 
% 
Value
2009
£m
Expected rate 
of return
2009
%
Value
2009
£m
Expected rate  
of return 
2009 
% 
Value 
2009 
£m  
Expected rate 
of return
2009
%
Value
2009
£m
Equities 8.30 6588.30908.30 65  ––
Bonds     
– index linked gilts 4.50 259 4.30 13 4.30 19  – –
– fixed rate gilts 4.30 11 – – 4.30 4  – –
– corporate and other bonds 4.60 834 5.30 18 5.30 18  4.00 13
Funds of hedge funds 6.60 78 – – – –  – –
Property – – 6.40 13 – –  – –
Cash and other net assets 4.40 71 – – 4.40 7  – –
Rate of return/total 5.93 1,911 7.30 134 6.75 113  4.00 13
  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 150 
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
25.2 IAS 19 accounting valuation continued 
The expected rates of return on scheme assets were determined as the average of the expected returns on the assets held by the scheme 
on 31 December. 
The rates of return for each class were determined as follows: 
– equities: the long-term rates of return on equities, funds of hedge funds and property are derived from current risk free rates of return with 
the addition of an appropriate future risk premium from an analysis of historic returns, current market conditions and forward looking views 
from market participants; 
– bonds: the rate has been set to reflect the yields available on the gilts and corporate bond holdings held at 31 December; 
– cash and other net assets: this class principally comprises inflation rate swaps and cash holdings and the rate adopted reflects current  
short-term returns on cash deposits. 
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the principal defined benefit schemes during 2011 are as follows: 
Balfour Beatty 
Pension 
Fund
2011
£m
Railways 
Pension  
Scheme 
2011 
£m 
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Regular funding 38 2 – 40
Ongoing deficit funding 50 1 6 57
Total 88 3 6 97
The sensitivity of the Group’s pension obligations and of the prospective 2011 charge to the Group’s income statement to different actuarial 
assumptions is as follows: 
 
Percentage 
points/years %
Increase/
(decrease) in 
obligations
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) in 
service cost
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) in 
finance cost 
£m 
Increase/ 
(decrease) in 
investment 
return
£m
Increase/ 
(decrease) in 
total pension 
cost
£m
Increase in discount rate 0.5% (7.8) (210) (5) 1 – (4)
Increase in inflation rate 0.5% 6.6 178 4 10 – 14
Increase in salary above inflation 0.5% 0.3 8 – – – –
Increase in return on assets 0.5% – – – – 12 12
Increase in life expectancy 1 year 3.3 88 1 5 – 6
The sensitivities relating to the discount rate, life expectancy, inflation rate and expected return on assets in respect of the pension cost elements 
in the income statement are shown for information only. The amounts that will be included in the 2011 income statement are derived from the 
market conditions at 1 January 2011 and subsequent changes in market conditions or life expectancy will have no effect on the 2011 income 
statement and will be reflected as actuarial adjustments in the statement of comprehensive income.  
Year end historical information for the Group’s post-retirement benefit schemes is as follows: 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Defined benefit obligation at end of year (2,785) (2,757) (2,102) (2,444) (2,375)
Fair value of assets at end of year 2,344 2,171 1,841 2,158 2,087
Funded status at end of year (441) (586) (261) (286) (288)
Experience adjustment for liabilities (98) (9) (17) (56) (52)
Experience adjustment for assets 119 137 (432) (21) 21
25.3 Funding valuations 
The latest formal funding valuations are detailed below.  
Balfour Beatty 
Pension  
Fund 
£m 
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme
£m
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme
£m
Date of last formal funding valuation 31/3/2010 31/12/2007 31/8/2008
Scheme surplus/(deficit)  
Market value of assets 2,070 158 119
Present value of scheme liabilities (2,445) (156) (169)
(Deficit)/surplus in defined benefit scheme (375) 2 (50)
Funding level 84.6% 101.3% 70.6% Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 151
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
25.4 Company 
Certain employees of the Company are members of the BBPF. Assets, liabilities, income and expenditure relating to this fund are allocated to 
Group companies participating in the scheme in proportion to pensionable payroll for the year. The Company’s share of the net IAS 19 deficit was 
£13m (2009: £18m). 
26 Provisions 
 
Group Company
 
Employee 
provisions
£m
Contract  
provisions
3
 
£m  
Other  
provisions 
£m 
Total
3
£m 
Other 
provisions
£m
At 1 January 2009
 
34 62  70 166 11
Currency translation differences – (1)  (2) (3) –
Transfer to other Group companies – –  – – (2)
Charged to the income statement    
– additional provisions 9 65  34 108 3
– unused amounts reversed (2) (8)  (10) (20) (2)
Utilised during the year (5) (13)  (32) (50) (1)
Business acquired – 18  8 26 –
At 31 December 2009
3 
36 123  68 227 9
Currency translation differences – 3  1 4 –
Charged to the income statement    
– additional provisions 5 55  28 88 1
– unused amounts reversed (2) (23)  (16) (41) (3)
Utilised during the year (10) (13)  (13) (36) –
At 31 December 2010 29 145  68 242 7
3
 Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37).  
 
Group Group  Company Company
 
Employee 
provisions 
2010 
£m 
Contract 
provisions 
2010 
£m 
Other 
provisions
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Employee 
provisions
2009
£m
Contract  
 provisions  
2009
3
 
£m  
Other 
provisions 
2009 
£m 
Total   
2009
3
  
£m    
Other 
provisions
2010
£m
Other 
provisions
2009
£m
Due within one year 11 94 30 135 8 59 29 96   1 1
Due within one to two years 8 24 18 50 11 36 17 64   – 1
Due within two to five years 7 22 16 45 14 24 16 54   5 3
Due after more than 
five years 3 5 4 12 3 4 6 13   1 4
 29 145 68 242 36 123 68 227   7 9
3
  Restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
Employee provisions comprise obligations to employees other than retirement benefit obligations. Contract provisions relate to provisions 
on contracts, including fault and warranty provisions, and other provisions principally comprise environmental provisions, legal claims and costs 
and onerous lease and other commitments. 
Provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress. 
27 Share capital 
27.1 Ordinary shares of 50p each 
Authorised  Issued
Million £m  Million £m
At 1 January 2009 696 348  478 239
Shares authorised/issued 300 150  207 104
At 31 December 2009 996 498  685 343
Shares issued – –  1 –
At 31 December 2010 996 498  686 343
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid. Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income, but each share carries the right to one vote at general 
meetings of the Company.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 152 
27 Share capital continued 
27.1 Ordinary shares of 50p each continued 
Ordinary shares issued during the year credited as fully paid: 
Ordinary 
shares
2010
Number
Consideration 
2010 
£m 
Ordinary  
shares 
2009 
Number 
Consideration
2009
£m
Rights issue (Note 28.2) –– 205,502,237 355
Savings-related share options exercised 657,138 1 1,337,199 3
Executive share options exercised 472,928 1 433,694 1
 1,130,066 2 207,273,130 359
At 31 December 2010 there were 9,014,115 share options outstanding under the savings-related share option scheme (SAYE) which were 
granted between 2005 and 2010 (2009: 8,901,502 granted between 2004 and 2009). The weighted average exercise price is 269.9p (2009: 
287.0p). On 11 May 2010, options were granted over 3,073,128 ordinary shares under the SAYE, at 236p per share, and these are normally 
exercisable in the periods from July 2013 to December 2013 and from July 2015 to December 2015 depending upon the length of savings 
contract chosen by the participant. 
At 31 December 2010 there were 1,258,736 share options outstanding under the executive share options scheme (ESOS) which were granted 
between 2001 and 2004 (2009: 1,757,558 granted between 2000 and 2004). These options are normally exercisable between three and 10 years 
after the grant date. Performance conditions have been met for all outstanding options under the ESOS. The weighted average exercise price is 
200.6p (2009: 194.9p). No options have been granted under the ESOS since 2004. 
27.2 Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each 
Authorised  Issued
Million £m  Million £m
At 31 December 2009 and 2010 177 2  112 –
All issued preference shares are fully paid. During the current and prior year, no preference shares were repurchased for cancellation by the Company. 
Holders of preference shares are entitled to a preferential dividend equivalent to a gross payment of 10.75p per preference share per annum, 
payable half-yearly. Any preference shares still outstanding are redeemable on 1 July 2020 at £1 each, together with any arrears or accruals of 
dividend, unless the holder exercises any option granted by the Company to extend the redemption date. The maximum redemption value of all 
of the issued and outstanding preference shares, excluding any arrears or accruals of dividend, was £112m at 31 December 2010 (2009: £112m). 
At the option of the holder, preference shares are convertible on the first day of the next calendar month following receipt of the conversion 
notice into new Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares effectively on the basis of 24.69136 ordinary shares for every 100 preference shares, subject 
to adjustment in certain circumstances. The Company is entitled to convert all outstanding preference shares into ordinary shares if there are 
fewer than 44,281,239 preference shares in issue or if the average of the closing mid-market price for a Balfour Beatty plc ordinary share during 
a 30 day period exceeds 810p, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. 
The preference shares carry no voting rights at a general meeting of the Company, except where the dividend is six months or more in arrears, 
or where the business of the meeting includes a resolution which directly affects the rights and privileges attached to the preference shares or 
a resolution for the winding-up of the Company. On a winding-up of the Company, holders are entitled to receive the sum of £1 per preference 
share, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, in priority to any payment on any other class of shares. 
The preference shares are a compound instrument, comprising an equity and a liability component. The fair value of the liability component at the 
date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 13.5% for a similar non-convertible 
instrument. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and the fair value assigned to the liability component, 
representing the value of the equity conversion component, is included in equity holders’ equity, net of deferred tax. 
The liability component recognised in the statement of financial position is calculated as follows: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Redemption value of shares in issue at 1 January 112 112
Equity component (16) (16)
Deferred tax and interest element (8) (9)
Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 88 87
Interest accretion 1 1
Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 89 88
The fair value of the liability component of the preference shares at 31 December 2010 amounted to £147m (2009: £153m). The fair value is 
determined by using the market price of the preference shares at the reporting date.  
Interest expense on the preference shares is calculated using the effective interest method.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 153
28 Movements in equity 
28.1 Group 
Other reserves 
 
Called-up 
share  
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
account 
£m 
Equity 
component 
of 
preference 
shares
£m
Special 
reserve
£m
Share of 
joint 
ventures’ 
and 
associates’ 
reserves
1
£m 
Hedging 
reserves
£m
PPP 
financial 
assets
£m
Currency 
translation 
reserve
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Retained 
profits
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total
1
£m 
At 1 January 2009
1 
239 54 16 139 226 (26) 1 85 – 19 104 4 861 
Profit for the year – – –– 81 –––– – 130– 211 
Currency translation differences – – – – (10) – – (67) –  – – – (77) 
Actuarial losses on retirement 
benefit obligations – – – – – –––– – (350) – (350) 
Fair value revaluations      
 – PPP financial assets – – – – (80) – (1) – – – – – (81) 
 – PPP cash flow hedges – – – – (11) 16 – – – – – – 5 
 – other cash flow hedges – – – – – (2) – – – – – – (2) 
Changes in fair value of net 
investment hedges – – – – – – – 18 – – – – 18 
Tax on items taken directly 
to equity – – – – 26 (5) – – – – 99 – 120 
Total comprehensive income/ 
(expense) for the year – – – – 6 9 (1) (49) –  – (121) –(156) 
Ordinary dividends – – –– – –––– – (63) – (63) 
Joint ventures’ and associates’ 
dividends – – – – (75) –––– – 75– – 
Issue of ordinary shares 104 3 – – – – – – 252 – – – 359 
Rights issue expenses – – –– – –––– – (3) – (3) 
Movements relating to  
share-based payments – – –– – –––– 1 –– 1 
Transfers – – – (107) – – – – (3) – 110 – – 
At 31 December 2009
1 
343 57 16 32 157 (17) – 36 249 20 102 4 999 
Profit for the year – – –– 58 –––– – 85– 143 
Currency translation differences – – – – 5 – – 38 – – – – 43 
Actuarial gains on retirement 
benefit obligations – – –– 1 –––– – 86– 87 
Fair value revaluations       
 – PPP financial assets – – – – 36 – 25 – – – – – 61 
 – PPP cash flow hedges – – – – (47) (20) – – – – – – (67) 
 – other cash flow hedges – – – – (3) 1 – – – – – – (2) 
 – available-for-sale investments  
   in mutual funds – – –– – –––– 4 –– 4 
Tax on items taken directly 
to equity – – – – 3 5 (6) – – (1) (26) – (25) 
Total comprehensive income/ 
(expense) for the year – – – – 53 (14) 19 38 – 3 145 – 244 
Ordinary dividends – – –– – –––– – (84) – (84) 
Joint ventures’ and 
associates’ dividends – – –– (62) –––– – 62– – 
Issue of ordinary shares – 2 –– – –––– – –– 2 
Recycling of revaluation 
reserves to the income 
statement on disposal – – –– (4) –––– – –– (4) 
Acquisition of non-controlling 
interest – – –– – –––– – (1) – (1) 
Movements relating to  
share-based payments – – –– – –––– – 4– 4 
Transfers – – – (2) – –––– – 2– – 
At 31 December 2010 343 59 16 30 144 (31) 19 74 249 23 230 41,160 
1
  Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37).  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 154 
28 Movements in equity continued 
28.2 Company 
Other reserves 
 
Called-up  
share  
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Equity 
component of 
preference 
shares
£m
Special 
reserve
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Other 
£m 
Retained 
profits
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2009 239 54 16 139 – 64 276 788
Profit for the year – – – – – – 167 167
Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations – – – – – – (16) (16)
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – – 5 5
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – – 156 156
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – (63) (63)
Issue of ordinary shares 104 3 – – 252 – – 359
Rights issue expenses – – – – – – (3) (3)
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – – 4 (3) 1
Transfers – ––(107)(3)– 110–
At 31 December 2009 343 57 16 32 249 68 473 1,238
Loss for the year – – – – – – (14) (14)
Actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations – – – – – – 5 5
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year – –– ––– (9) (9)
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – (84) (84)
Issue of ordinary shares – 2– ––– – 2
Movements relating to share-based payments – –– –– 4 – 4
Transfers – – – (2) – – 2 –
At 31 December 2010 343 59 16 30 249 72 382 1,151
The retained profits of Balfour Beatty plc are wholly distributable. By special resolution on 13 May 2004, confirmed by the court on 16 June 2004, 
the share premium account was reduced by £181m and the £4m capital redemption reserve was cancelled, effective on 25 June 2004, and a 
special reserve of £185m was created. This reserve becomes distributable to the extent of future increases in share capital and share premium 
account, of which £2m occurred in 2010 (2009: £107m). 
On 17 September 2009 the Company announced a fully underwritten 3 for 7 rights issue at a subscription price of 180p per new ordinary share to 
substantially finance the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. The rights issue and acquisition were approved by the holders of the Company’s 
ordinary shares at a general meeting on 7 October 2009 and the rights issue closed on 22 October 2009. 205,502,237 new ordinary shares were 
issued, raising £352m after issue costs and expenses of £18m. The rights issue utilised a cash box structure and therefore qualified for merger 
relief under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 so that the premium arising was not required to be credited to the Company’s share 
premium account.  
The cash box entity, Bentworth No. 2 Ltd (Bentworth 2), issued redeemable preference shares in consideration for the receipt of the cash 
proceeds net of issue costs arising from the rights issue. The Company’s new ordinary shares were issued as consideration for the transfer to 
it of the shares in Bentworth 2 which it did not already own. As a result, the issue qualified for merger relief under Section 612 of the Companies 
Act 2006 so that the £252m excess of the value of the acquired shares in Bentworth 2 over the nominal value of the ordinary shares issued by 
the Company was credited to the Company’s merger reserve, which was subsequently charged with £3m of rights issue expenses. The rights 
issue was directly associated with the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. and therefore the merger reserve is not available for distribution to 
equity holders. 
28.3 The retained profits in the Group and the retained profit of the Company are stated net of investments in Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares 
acquired by the Group’s employee discretionary trust, the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust, to satisfy awards under the Balfour 
Beatty performance share plan and the Balfour Beatty deferred bonus plan. In 2010, 0.9m (2009: 0.8m) shares were purchased at a cost of £2.6m 
(2009: £3.0m) and in 2009 the Trust subscribed £2.7m for 1.5m new shares under the rights issue. The market value of the 3.7m (2009: 4.2m) 
shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2010 was £11.6m (2009: £10.8m). The carrying value of these shares is £12.4m (2009: £14.3m). 
Following confirmation of the performance criteria at the end of the performance period in the case of the performance share plan, and at the end 
of the vesting period in the case of the deferred bonus plan, the appropriate number of shares will be unconditionally transferred to participants. 
In 2010, 0.9m shares were transferred to participants in relation to the April 2007 awards under the performance share plan (2009: 1.4m shares 
for the April 2006 awards), and 0.5m shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the deferred bonus plan. The trustees 
have waived the rights to dividends on shares held by the Trust. Other reserves in the Group and the Company include £6.4m relating to unvested 
performance share plan awards (2009: £6.4m), £5.2m relating to unvested share options (2009: £5.9m), and £4.3m relating to unvested deferred 
bonus plan awards (2009: £3.8m).  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 155
29 Acquisitions and disposals  
29.1 Current year acquisitions 
Note Acquisition date Subsidiary 
Percentage 
acquired
Cash
 consideration
£m
Contingent 
consideration
£m
Fair value of net 
 assets acquired 
£m 
Goodwill arising
 on acquisition
£m 
Costs (ii)
£m
29.1.1 
 
 
29 January 2010 
 
 
Multibuild Hotels and Leisure Ltd 
and Multibuild Interiors Ltd 
(“Multibuild”) 100% 2 – 1 1 –
29.1.2 27 August 2010 Traction Power Group (i) 3– 1 2–
29.1.3 13 October 2010 Ethos56 Ltd (“Halsall”) (i) 100% 33 – 10 23 2
29.1.4 19 November 2010 Various Rok contracts (i) 5 – (1) 6 –
   43 – 11 32 2
(i) As at 31 December 2010 the fair values of acquired assets, liabilities and goodwill for these contracts and businesses have been determined on a provisional basis, pending 
finalisation of the post-acquisition review of the fair value of the acquired net assets. 
(ii) Costs directly attributable to each acquisition have been expensed within exceptional items, refer Note 8. 
29.1.1 Multibuild is based in Stockport UK and specialises in the construction and fit-out of hotel and leisure facilities. The acquisition extends the 
Group’s capabilities in the construction and fit-out of hotels and other leisure facilities, including cinemas and casinos, and will give Balfour Beatty 
access to the wider fit-out market.  
29.1.2 Traction Power Group is based in Goldsboro, North Carolina and is a manufacturer of power systems and components for the mass transit 
industry and extends Balfour Beatty’s capabilities in this market. 
29.1.3 Halsall is a Canadian professional services firm with particular strengths in sustainable design and engineering services to the building 
market and structural engineering services to the transportation market. Halsall will extend Parsons Brinckerhoff’s expertise and access to the 
Canadian market. 
29.1.4 Certain operations of Rok’s business in affordable housing and general construction were acquired by the Group. £5m consideration was 
paid for contracts transferred in the current year with a balance of £2m to be paid if further contracts transfer. The acquired operations and 381 
employees extend the Group’s capabilities in the affordable new build housing market.  
The following summary presents the Group as if the businesses acquired had been acquired on 1 January 2010. The amounts include the 
results of the acquired businesses, depreciation and amortisation of the acquired fixed assets and intangible assets recognised on acquisition. 
The amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The results of acquired companies and contracts for the period before 
acquisition have not been adjusted to reflect Balfour Beatty accounting policies nor to reflect the fair value adjustments made on acquisition. 
The information is provided for illustrative purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it 
necessarily indicative of the future results of the combined companies and contracts. 
 
Total*
£m  
Group revenue 9,319 
Profit for the year 145 
* Total Group figures had the acquisitions occurred on 1 January 2010. 
 
The businesses acquired during the year contributed £23m to Group revenue and £0.1m to profit for the year in the current year.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 156 
29 Acquisitions and disposals continued  
29.1 Current year acquisitions continued 
 
Recognised amounts 
of identifiable assets 
acquired and 
liabilities assumed
£m
Net assets acquired: 
Intangible assets – customer contracts 3
Intangible assets – customer relationships 5
Intangible assets – brand names 1
Property, plant and equipment 2
Deferred taxation (1)
Current tax (1)
Working capital –
Cash and cash equivalents 2
Identifiable net assets 11
Goodwill 32
Total consideration 43
 
Satisfied by: 
Cash consideration 43
Contingent consideration –
Total consideration transferred 43
 
 
Net cash flow 
on acquisitions
£m
Cash consideration 43
Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired (2)
Net cash outflow on acquisitions completed in 2010 41
Deferred consideration paid during 2010 in respect of acquisitions completed in earlier years 3
Net cash outflow on acquisitions 44
29.2 Contingent consideration arrangements  
Contingent consideration (payable)/recoverable 
SpawMaxwell 
£m 
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff Inc.
£m
Total
£m
As disclosed in the Annual report and accounts 2009 (3) 7 4
Changes in the evaluation of contractual positions after review of the acquisition date position – 9 9
Fair value of contingent consideration recognised as at 31 December 2010 (3) 16 13
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangements is estimated by applying the provisions of the purchase agreement to management’s 
assessment of possible outcomes and discounting the expected contract costs and insurance claim proceeds to their present value. The 
maximum amount that the Group could be required to make or receive under the terms of the contingent consideration arrangements is between 
£11m payable and £16m receivable in respect of Parsons Brinckerhoff and £3m payable in respect of SpawMaxwell. 
29.3 Prior year acquisitions 
The fair values of acquired assets and liabilities, including goodwill, previously disclosed as provisional for SpawMaxwell Company LLC and 
Strata Construction Ltd have been finalised in the current year with no material changes to the fair values disclosed in the Annual report and 
accounts 2009.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 157
29 Acquisitions and disposals continued 
29.3 Prior year acquisitions continued 
The fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities disclosed as provisional in the Annual Report and Accounts 2009 in respect of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff Inc. have been finalised during the year. The following adjustments have been made: 
 
Fair values 
previously 
disclosed 
£m 
Adjustments 
made
£m
Fair value 
of assets 
acquired 
£m
Net assets acquired:  
Working capital 4 (26) (22)
Provisions (19) (5) (24)
Deferred tax 2 8 10
Other 216 – 216
Identifiable net assets 203 (23) 180
Goodwill 172 14 186
Net assets 375 (9) 366
Contingent consideration recoverable 7 9 16
The movements in the fair value of goodwill, net assets acquired and the contingent consideration arrangements were primarily as a result of the 
assessment of contract positions, including those covered by the contingent consideration arrangement, changing as a result of new information 
becoming available concerning the position at the acquisition date.  
29.4 Current year disposals 
During the period the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Aberdeen Environmental Services (Holdings) Ltd and a 23.9% interest in Consort 
Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Holdings Ltd. The Group retains a 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Holdings 
Ltd following the transaction. The aggregate consideration received was £24m. The disposals resulted in a total gain of £20m being realised, 
comprising £16m in respect of gains on disposal of the investments in the joint ventures and £4m in respect of revaluation reserves recycled 
to the income statement. 
30 Share-based payments 
The Company operates four equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the savings-related share option scheme (SAYE), 
the executive share option scheme (ESOS), the performance share plan (PSP) and the deferred bonus plan (DBP). The Group recognised total 
expenses related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions since 7 November 2002 of £8.3m in 2010 (2009: £6.8m). Refer to the 
Remuneration report for details of the various schemes and to Note 27.1 for details of SAYE options granted during the year. 
30.1 Movements in share options 
 SAYE options ESOS options
 
 
2010 
Number 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
2010
Pence
2009
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
2009
Pence
2010
Number
Weighted 
average  
exercise  
price 
2010 
Pence 
2009
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
2009
Pence
Outstanding at 1 January 8,901,502 287.0 8,850,122 288.7 1,244,920 198.9 1,400,501 198.9
Granted during the year 3,073,128 236.0 2,883,694 249.0 –– ––
Forfeited during the year (1,212,810) 282.0 (1,254,662) 292.8 (15,425) 196.3 (17,223) 227.3
Exercised during the year  (657,138) 217.7 (1,523,234) 224.2 (289,789) 190.2 (138,358) 195.5
Expired during the year (1,090,567) 332.2 (54,418) 168.6 –– ––
Outstanding at 31 December 9,014,115 269.9 8,901,502 287.0 939,706 201.6 1,244,920 198.9
Exercisable at 31 December 105,633 300.8 106,695 228.6 939,706 201.6 1,244,920 198.9
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those SAYE options exercised during the year was 251.9p (2009: 272.3p) and the 
weighted average remaining contractual life of SAYE options outstanding at 31 December 2010 is 2.7 years (2009: 2.6 years).  
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those ESOS options exercised during the year was 284.5p (2009: 286.1p) and the 
weighted average remaining contractual life of ESOS options outstanding at 31 December is 3.0 years (2009: 3.9 years). 
The principal assumptions used by the consultants in the stochastic model for the SAYE options granted in 2010, including expected volatility 
determined from the historic weekly share price movements over the three year period immediately preceding the invitation date, were: 
Invitation date 
Exercise 
price
Pence
Closing share 
price before 
invitation date
Pence
Expected 
dividend 
yield
%
Expected 
volatility of 
shares 
% 
Expected term 
of options 
Years 
Risk-free 
interest rate
%
Calculated 
fair value 
of an option
Pence
9 April 2010 – three years savings contract 236.0 292.2 4.35 33.4 3.25 1.91 70.4
9 April 2010 – five years savings contract 236.0 292.2 4.35 33.4 5.25 2.76 78.3 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 158 
30 Share-based payments continued 
30.2 Movements in share plans 
PSP conditional awards  DBP conditional awards
2010 
Number 
2009  
Number   
2010 
Number 
2009 
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 6,863,134 5,997,490  1,933,946 1,488,052
Granted during the year 2,982,241 2,999,265  769,581 887,240
Awards in lieu of dividends – –  106,024 82,360
Forfeited during the year (105,633) (70,391)  (47,321) (30,132)
Exercised during the year (784,170) (1,436,028)  (514,278) (493,574)
Expired during the year (784,154) (627,202)  – –
Outstanding at 31 December 8,171,418 6,863,134  2,247,952 1,933,946
Exercisable at 31 December – –  – –
The weighted share price at the date of exercise for those PSP awards exercised during the year was 293.2p (2009 weighted average: 283.4p) 
and the weighted average remaining contractual life of those PSP awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 is 1.4 years (2009: 1.5 years).  
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those DBP awards exercised during the year was 290.4p (2009: 285.6p) and the 
weighted average remaining contractual life of DBP awards outstanding at 31 December 2010 is 1.3 years (2009: 1.5 years). 
The principal assumptions, including expected volatility determined from the historic weekly share price movements over the three year period 
immediately preceding the award date, used by the consultants in the stochastic model for the 50% of the PSP awards in 2010 subject to market 
conditions, were: 
Award date 
Closing share 
price before 
award date
Pence
Expected 
volatility of 
shares
%
Expected term 
of awards 
Years 
Risk-free 
interest rate
%
Calculated 
fair value 
of an award
Pence
15 April 2010 303.1 33.4 3.0 1.79 174.9
For the 50% of the PSP awards in 2010 subject to non-market conditions and for the DBP awards in 2010, the fair value of the awards is the 
closing share price before award date. 
31 Commitments 
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for which has not been provided for in the accounts amounted to £31m (2009: £29m) in the Group 
and £nil (2009: £nil) in the Company. 
The Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding and subordinated debt of joint ventures and associates in PPP projects 
amounting to £70m (2009: £104m), £21m (2009: £30m) in respect of PPP subsidiaries and £24m (2009: £23m) in respect of Balfour Beatty 
Communities’ military housing concessions. The future cash flow profile of the Group’s share of further equity funding and subordinated debt 
is shown in Note 36(g). 
The Group leases land and buildings, equipment and other various assets under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have 
varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The lease expenditure charged to the income statement is disclosed in Note 4.1. 
Future operating lease expenditure commitments comprise: 
Land and 
buildings
2010
£m
Other 
2010 
£m 
Land and 
buildings
2009
£m
Other
2009
£m
Group  
Due within one year 73 38 72 30
Due between one and five years 181 57 179 47
Due after more than five years 49 – 55 1
  303 95 306 78
Company  
Due within one year 4– 3–
Due between one and five years 10 – 13 –
Due after more than five years –– 1–
  14 – 17 –
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 159
31 Commitments continued 
Future committed operating lease income comprise: 
 
Land and 
buildings
2010
£m
Land and 
buildings
2009
£m
Group 
Due within one year 3 3
Due between one and five years 9 10
Due after more than five years – 1
  12 14
Company 
Due within one year 3 3
Due between one and five years 9 10
 12 13
32 Contingent liabilities 
The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into counter-indemnities 
in respect of bonds relating to the Group’s own contracts and given guarantees in respect of the Group’s share of certain contractual obligations of 
joint ventures and associates and certain retirement benefit obligations of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and Parsons Brinckerhoff Ltd’s pension 
scheme. Where the Company enters into such agreements, it considers them to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. 
Guarantees are treated as contingent liabilities until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make payment under 
the guarantee.  
An associate is a member of a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan where there is insufficient information on which to base a reliable 
estimate of any potential defined benefit obligation and accordingly the associate is accounting for the plan as a defined contribution plan. Under 
certain circumstances it is possible that additional contributions may be made to fund the deficit attributable to the associate, however no reliable 
estimate can be made of whether and to what extent a liability may crystallise. 
As stated in Note 26, provision has been made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress. 
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based 
on that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed, or that a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be made. 
33 Related party transactions 
Joint ventures and associates 
The Group has contracted with, provided services to, and received management fees from, certain joint ventures and associates amounting to 
£972m (2009: £939m). These transactions occurred in the normal course of business at market rates and terms. In addition, the Group procured 
equipment and labour on behalf of certain joint ventures and associates which were recharged at cost with no mark-up. The amounts due to or 
from joint ventures and associates at 31 December are disclosed within trade and other receivables and trade and other payables in Notes 21 and 
22 respectively. 
Pension schemes 
The Group recharged the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund with the costs of administration and advisers’ fees borne by the Group amounting to £5.2m 
in 2010 (2009: £5.0m). 
Key personnel 
The remuneration of key personnel of Balfour Beatty plc was: 
 
2010
£m
2009
£m
Short-term benefits 3.440 4.586
Post-employment benefits 0.427 0.235
Share-based payments 2.033 1.852
 5.900 6.673
Key personnel comprise the executive Directors who are directly responsible for the Group’s activities and nil (2009: three) managing directors 
who were responsible for certain operations, engineering and safety matters. The remuneration included above is that paid in respect of the period 
of the year during which the individuals were Directors. Further details of Directors’ emoluments, post-employment benefits and interests are set 
out in the Remuneration report on pages 89 to 99. 
34 Post balance sheet events 
On 2 March 2011 the Directors resolved to dispose of the Group’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd (“Barking”), subject to receiving 
a satisfactory offer. Barking’s carrying value is expected to be recovered principally through a sale transaction within one year rather than through 
continuing use and accordingly, from 2 March 2011, the Group’s interest in Barking will be classified as held for sale.  
  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 160 
35 Notes to the statements of cash flows 
Group
2010
£m
Group  
2009
1
 
£m  
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
35.1 Cash generated from operations comprises:   
Profit from operations  206 295  – 182
Exceptional reduction in pension past service liabilities – (100)  – (4)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (58) (81)  – –
Dividends received – –  (31) (189)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 74 69  – 1
Amortisation of other intangible assets 82 48  – –
Pension deficit payments – ongoing regular deficit funding (41) (35)  (1) (1)
 – one-off deficit funding (40) –  – –
Movements relating to share-based payments 8 7  5 4
Profit on disposal of investments in joint ventures (20) –  – –
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2) (4)  – –
Impairment of inventory – 2  – –
Impairment of property, plant and equipment – 2  – –
Other non-cash items (8) 1  – –
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 201 204  (27) (7)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital (32) 90  (37) 21
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 169 294  (64) 14
1
 Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 (Notes 1.2 and 37). 
Group
2010
£m
Group 
2009 
£m 
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
35.2 Cash and cash equivalents comprise:  
Cash and deposits 518 464 – –
Term deposits 48 144 – 143
PPP cash balances 18 10 – –
Bank overdrafts (34) (10) (55) (53)
 550 608 (55) 90
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities 
of less than three months and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of financial 
position. 
Group
2010
£m
Group 
2009 
£m 
Company
2010
£m
Company
2009
£m
35.3 Analysis of movement in net cash: 
 
 
 
Opening net cash 324 297 90 (1)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (70) 185 (145) 91
Acquisitions – borrowings at date of acquisition – (14) – –
Proceeds from new loans (49) (121) – –
Proceeds from new finance leases (4) – – –
Repayment of loans 30 4 – –
Repayment of finance leases 5 3 – –
Currency translation differences 12 (30) – –
Closing net cash 248 324 (55) 90
35.4 Borrowings 
During the year to 31 December 2010 the significant movements in borrowings were an increase of £49m (2009: £116m increase) in  
non-recourse borrowings funding the development of financial assets in PPP subsidiaries, the inclusion of £nil (2009: £14m) of borrowings 
in acquired companies and repayment of £30m (2009: £4m) of loans. 
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 161
36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates  
Country of 
incorporation or 
registration
(a) Principal subsidiaries 
Professional, Construction and Support services 
Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc US
Balfour Beatty Construction Northern Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Construction Scottish & Southern Ltd Scotland
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services Ltd  Scotland
Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc US
Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH Germany
Balfour Beatty Rail Inc US
Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Rail SpA Italy
Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions Ltd 
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace Ltd 
Halsall Associates Ltd  Canada
Heery International Inc US
Mansell plc 
Parsons Brinckerhoff (Asia) Ltd Hong Kong
Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. US
Parsons Brinckerhoff International Pte Ltd Singapore
Parsons Brinckerhoff Ltd 
PB Americas Inc US
PB Australia Pty Ltd Australia
Infrastructure Investments 
PPP (refer Note 36 (d) and (e)) 
Balfour Beatty Capital Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Capital Group Inc US
Balfour Beatty Communities LLC US
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investments Ltd* 
Other 
Balfour Beatty LLC US
Balfour Beatty Group Inc US
Balfour Beatty Investment Holdings Ltd* 
Delphian Insurance Company Ltd* Isle of Man
 
 
 
Country of 
incorporation or 
registration
Ownership 
interest
%
(b) Principal joint ventures and associates 
Professional, Construction and Support services 
BK Gulf LLC Dubai 49.0
Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC Dubai 49.0
Gammon China Ltd Hong Kong 50.0
Monteray Ltd  24.5
Romec Ltd  49.0
Refer to Note 36 (d), (e) and (f) for details of the Group’s Infrastructure 
Investments companies. 
(c) Principal jointly controlled operations 
The Group carries out a number of its larger construction contracts 
in joint arrangement with other contractors so as to share resources 
and risk. The principal joint construction projects in progress are shown 
below: 
South-East England Roads  60.0
South-West England Roads  73.0
M25 DBFO 50.0
M25 Maintenance 52.5
M74 Motorway Scotland 25.0
Scotland Transerv Scotland 70.0
Gotthard Base Tunnel Switzerland 25.0
Dallas Convention Center Hotel US 80.0
New Campus East at Fort Belvoir  US 50.0
Walter Reed Army Medical Center  US 40.0
Notes: 
(i) Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose results did not, in the opinion of the 
Directors, materially affect the results or net assets of the Group are not shown. 
(ii) * Indicates held directly by Balfour Beatty plc. 
(iii)  Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the equity capital is owned and companies are 
registered in England and Wales. The principal operations of each company are 
conducted in its country of incorporation. 
  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
 
Balfour Beatty 162 
36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(d) Balfour Beatty Capital PPP concessions 
Roads 
Summary: Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 10 road and street lighting projects under Balfour Beatty’s Connect brand: 
to construct new roads; to upgrade and maintain existing roads; and to replace and maintain street lighting. 
Project descriptions: The road projects comprise the design, construction, operation, maintenance and associated financing of the following 
roads: the M1-A1 link road; A30 Honiton to Exeter and A35 Tolpuddle to Puddletown bypass; A50 Stoke-Derby; M77 Fenwick to Malletsheugh 
and the Glasgow Southern Orbital; the M25 Junction 16 to Junction 23, Junction 27 to Junction 30 and A1(M) Hatfield Tunnel and maintenance 
of the entire M25; and the Carlisle Northern Development Route (CNDR). The road concessions typically run for 30 years and reached financial 
close at various dates between March 1996 and July 2009. The street lighting projects are for the replacement, maintenance and associated 
financing over a 25-year period of the street lighting and highway signs in Sunderland, South Tyneside, Derby and Coventry. All construction is 
new build rather than refurbishment except for the work undertaken on the M25 and A1(M) Hatfield Tunnel. 
Contractual arrangements: The principal contract in the roads concessions is the project agreement with the governmental highway authority 
setting out the obligations for the construction, operation and maintenance of the roads including lifecycle replacement by Connect for the life 
of the concession to specified standards. In the case of M1-A1, A30/A35 and A50 the inflation indexed payment is related to traffic volumes. 
In the case of M77/GSO and CNDR, the inflation indexed payment is partly based on availability and partly on traffic volumes, and is subject 
to any performance related deductions. In the case of M25, the inflation indexed payment is wholly based on availability and is subject to any 
performance related deductions. Construction of the roads was subcontracted to construction joint ventures in which Balfour Beatty had a 
50% interest or, in the case of the M77/GSO and CNDR, 100% to Balfour Beatty subsidiaries. On the street lighting projects, payment is by a 
periodic inflation indexed availability payment subject to performance deductions and the replacement and maintenance obligations have been 
subcontracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. There are no provisions to reprice the contracts and all assets transfer to the client at the end of 
the concessions. 
   Equity and subordinated debt
Concession company (i) Project 
Total debt
and equity
funding
£m Shareholding Financial close Duration years
Construction 
completion 
Invested to 
31 December 
2010 
£m
Committed 
post
31 December 
2010  
£m
Connect M1-A1 Ltd M1-A1 30km road 290 50% March 1996 30 1999 14 –
Connect A50 Ltd (ii) A50 57km road 42 85% May 1996 30 1998 6–
Connect A30/A35 Ltd (ii) A30/A35 102km road 127 85% July 1996 30 2000 21 –
Connect M77/GSO plc (ii) M77/GSO 25km road 167 85% May 2003 32 2005 15 –
Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd Street lighting 
apparatus 
in Sunderland 
27 100% August 2003 25 2008 3–
Connect Roads South  
Tyneside Ltd 
Street lighting 
apparatus in  
South Tyneside 
28 100% December 
2005
25 2010 –2
Connect Roads Derby Ltd Street lighting 
apparatus in Derby 
36 100% April 2007 25 2012 –2
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd M25 J16 – J23,  
J27 – J30 and A1(M) 
Hatfield Tunnel 
1,309 40% May 2009 30 2012 44 36
Connect CNDR Ltd Carlisle Northern 
Development Route 
176 100% July 2009 30 2012 –11
Connect Roads Coventry Ltd Street lighting 
apparatus in Coventry 
56 100% August 2010 25 2015 –6
         103 57
Notes: 
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conducted in England and Wales, except Connect M77/GSO plc which conducts its principal 
operations in Scotland. 
(ii) Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial 
and operating policies of this company, the Directors are of the opinion that, as at the reporting date, the Group did not control this company and it has been accounted for as a 
joint venture. 
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 163
36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(d) Balfour Beatty Capital PPP concessions continued 
Hospitals 
Summary: Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in nine hospital projects, of which eight are under Balfour Beatty’s Consort 
Healthcare brand, comprising the building of hospital accommodation and the provision of certain non-medical facilities management services over 
the concession period. 
Project descriptions: The projects comprise: University Hospital of North Durham; Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; Royal Blackburn Hospital; University 
College London Hospital; University Hospital Birmingham; Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospitals in mid-Yorkshire; Hope Hospital Salford; Tameside 
General Hospital; and Victoria Hospital in Kirkcaldy, Fife. Construction is new build rather than refurbishment.  
Contractual arrangements: The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the NHS Trust. An inflation 
indexed payment is primarily based upon availability of the hospital subject to any performance related deductions. Construction of the hospitals 
has been subcontracted to construction joint ventures in which Balfour Beatty subsidiaries participated 100% (University Hospital of North 
Durham, Royal Blackburn Hospital, University Hospital Birmingham, Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospitals, Hope Hospital Salford, Tameside 
General Hospital and Victoria Hospital Kirkcaldy), 85% (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary), and 50% (University College London Hospital). In the case 
of Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, University Hospital of North Durham, Royal Blackburn Hospital, University Hospital Birmingham, Pinderfields 
and Pontefract Hospitals, Hope Hospital Salford, Tameside General Hospital and Victoria Hospital Kirkcaldy, facilities management has been 
subcontracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. The payments for the facilities management services are repriced every five years. All assets 
transfer to the client at the end of the concession, with the exception of Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, where the client has the option to terminate 
the arrangement for the provision of the hospital and services in 2028. 
   Equity and subordinated debt
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt
and equity
funding
£m Shareholding Financial close Duration years 
Construction 
completion 
Invested to 
31 December 
2010 
£m
Committed 
post
31 December 
2010  
£m
Consort Healthcare (Durham) Ltd Teaching hospital 90 50% March 1998 30 2001 7–
Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh 
Royal Infirmary) Ltd (ii) 
Teaching hospital 
and medical school
220 50% August 1998 30 2003 40 –
Health Management (UCLH) Ltd University College 
London teaching 
hospital
282 33.3% July 2000 40 2008 9–
Consort Healthcare  
(Blackburn) Ltd 
General hospital 116 50% July 2003 38 2006 6–
Consort Healthcare  
(Birmingham) Ltd 
Teaching hospital and 
mental health hospital
553 40% June 2006 40 2011 23 –
Consort Healthcare  
(Mid Yorkshire) Ltd 
Pinderfields and 
Pontefract general 
hospitals
311 50% June 2007 35 2010 15 –
Consort Healthcare (Salford) Ltd Teaching hospital 
and medical school
136 50% September 
2007
35 2012 10 –
Consort Healthcare  
(Tameside) Ltd 
General hospital 77 50% September 
2007
34 2011 6–
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd General hospital 170 50% April 2009 30 2011 63
        122 3
Notes: 
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conducted in England and Wales, except Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Ltd 
and Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd which are registered in Scotland and conduct their principal operations in Scotland. 
(ii) During the year the Group sold a 23.9% interest in Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Ltd. Refer to Notes 8 and 29 for further details.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 164 
36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(d) Balfour Beatty Capital PPP concessions continued 
Schools 
Summary: Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 13 schools projects principally under Balfour Beatty’s Transform Schools brand 
to design, build or refurbish schools and to provide certain non-educational services over the concession period. 
Project descriptions: The projects comprise: 98 schools in the city of Stoke-on-Trent; 15 schools in Rotherham; 21 schools in North Lanarkshire; 
six new schools, two post-16 learning centres and two leisure centres in Bassetlaw, Nottinghamshire; 12 schools in Birmingham; 16 schools in 
the first two phases in Newcastle; seven learning centres in Knowsley; a total of six schools over two phases in Islington; a total of six schools 
over two phases in Southwark; 15 schools in Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton; one school in Derby; one school in Ealing and one school in 
Oldham. Construction in North Lanarkshire, Bassetlaw, Newcastle, Knowsley, Blackburn & Darwen, Ealing, Derby, Oldham and Southwark is all 
new build. On Stoke, construction comprises £16m of new build and £63m of refurbishment; on Rotherham, £78m of new build and £21m of 
refurbishment; on Birmingham, £69m of new build and £5m of refurbishment; and on Islington, £93m of new build and £6m of refurbishment. 
Contractual arrangements: The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the local authority that 
provides for an inflation indexed availability based payment subject to any performance related deductions. For projects other than Aura Newcastle 
Ltd, construction is subcontracted to construction joint ventures of Balfour Beatty subsidiaries and the facilities management services are 
subcontracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. Construction and facilities management services on Aura Newcastle are carried out by subsidiaries 
of other shareholders. The payments for the facilities management services are repriced every five years. All assets transfer to the client at the 
end of the concession.  
   Equity and subordinated debt
Concession company (i) Project 
Total debt
and equity
funding
£m Shareholding Financial close Duration years
Construction 
completion 
Invested to 
31 December 
2010
£m
Committed 
post
31 December 
2010
£m
Transform Schools (Stoke) Ltd Grouped 
schools project  
in Stoke-on-Trent 
84 50% October 2000 25 2005 5–
Transform Schools  
(Rotherham) Ltd 
Grouped 
schools project  
in Rotherham 
113 50% June 2003 31 2006 5–
Transform Schools  
(North Lanarkshire) Ltd 
Grouped 
schools project  
in North Lanarkshire 
140 50% June 2005 32 2008 9–
Transform Schools  
(Bassetlaw) Ltd 
Grouped 
schools project  
in Bassetlaw, Notts 
127 50% July 2005 27 2007 7–
Transform Schools 
(Birmingham) Ltd 
Grouped 
schools project  
in Birmingham 
89 50% March 2006 33 2009 4–
Aura Newcastle Ltd BSF project in 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne 
47 20% July 2007 25 2012 4–
Transform Schools  
(Knowsley) Ltd 
BSF project in 
Knowsley 
163 100% December 
2007
27 2010 15 –
Transform Islington Ltd (ii) BSF project in Islington 77 80% July 2008 26 2013 32
4 Futures Ltd (ii) BSF project in 
Southwark 
70 80% May 2009 26 2014 –6
Blackburn with  
Darwen and Bolton Ltd (ii) 
BSF project in 
Blackburn 
85 80% January 2010 25 2011 
 
–6
Derby City BSF Ltd (ii) BSF project in Derby 39 80% December 
2010
25 2012 –3
Future Ealing Ltd (ii) BSF project in Ealing 36 80% December 
2010
25 2012 –3
Oldham BSF Ltd (ii) BSF project in Oldham 40 90% December 
2010
25 2012 –3
         52 23
Notes: 
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conducted in England and Wales, except Transform Schools (North Lanarkshire) Ltd which 
conducts its principal operations in Scotland. 
(ii) Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial 
and operating policies of this company, the Directors are of the opinion that, as at the reporting date, the Group did not control this company and it has been accounted for as 
a joint venture.  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 165
36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(d) Balfour Beatty Capital PPP concessions continued 
Other concessions 
Summary: Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in a number of other concessions.  
Project descriptions: The Powerlink project comprises two companies: EDF Energy Powerlink Ltd (EDFEPL), which operates the London 
Underground high voltage power system under a 30-year contract and was responsible for procuring various new power assets, and Power Asset 
Development Company Ltd (PADCO), which constructed the new build power assets and is leasing them to EDFEPL. Pevensey Coastal Defence 
Ltd (PCDL) has a 25-year contract with the Environment Agency which requires PCDL to maintain sea defences consisting of a shingle bank that 
extends 9 km between Eastbourne and Bexhill-on-Sea in East Sussex. Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd has a contract to design, build and finance 
the new Institute of Technical Education (“ITE”) College West in Singapore and provide long-term facilities management services for the 
remainder of the 27-year project. 
Contractual arrangements: For the Powerlink project the principal project agreement is the power services contract between EDFEPL and 
London Underground Ltd that provides for an inflation indexed availability payment subject to any performance deductions. EDFEPL operates 
and maintains the power network using its own staff and is leasing the new power assets from PADCO, which subcontracted construction 
to a construction joint venture in which a Balfour Beatty subsidiary had a 40% interest. There are no provisions to reprice contracts and all assets 
transfer to the client at the end of the concession. PCDL’s principal contract is the flood defence services agreement with the Environment 
Agency that provides for an inflation indexed payment subject to any performance related deductions. For the Singapore project, the principal 
agreement is the project agreement with the ITE of Singapore that provides for an inflation indexed availability based payment subject to any 
performance deductions. Construction is subcontracted to Gammon Pte Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gammon China Ltd in which the 
Group has a 50% interest. The facilities management services under the ITE agreement are provided by a third party. 
   Equity and subordinated debt
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt
and equity
funding
£m
Shareholding Financial close Duration years 
Construction 
completion 
Invested to 
31 December 
2010
£m
Committed 
post
31 December 
2010
£m
EDF Energy Powerlink Ltd (ii)/ 
Power Asset Development 
Company Ltd 
London Underground 
power system
184 10%/25% August 1998 30 2006 4–
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd Flood defences 3 25% July 2000 25 n/a 1–
Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd Technical education 
college
100 50% August 2008 27 2010 –8
         5 8
Notes: 
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conducted in England and Wales, except Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd which is registered 
in Singapore and conducts its principal operations in Singapore. 
(ii) The Group exercises significant influence through its participation in the management of EDF Energy Powerlink Ltd and therefore accounts for its interest as an associate.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 166 
36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(e) Balfour Beatty Communities PPP concessions 
Military housing 
Summary: Balfour Beatty through its subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities LLC is a manager, developer, and investor in a number of US military 
privatisation projects associated with a total of 43 military bases that provide speciality housing to US military personnel and their families. 
Project descriptions: The projects comprise 11 military family housing privatisation projects with the United States Department of the Army 
(Army), covering 16 Army bases; four projects with the United States Department of the Air Force (Air Force), covering nine Air Force bases and 
two projects with the United States Department of the Navy (Navy), covering 18 Navy bases. In addition, there is one unaccompanied personnel 
housing (UPH) project at Fort Stewart, located in Hinesville, Georgia. These projects in operation cover 43 domestic bases located in 20 states and 
Washington, DC and Balfour Beatty Communities expects them to contain approximately 33,000 end-state housing units once full development, 
construction and renovation have been completed. The first phase of the project, known as the initial development period, covers the period of 
initial construction or renovation of military housing on a base, typically lasting three to eight years. For each project, Balfour Beatty Communities 
creates a special purpose entity to serve as the owner of the project, which is typically either a limited liability company or general partnership. 
With respect to Army and Navy projects, the government becomes a member or partner of the project entity (Project LLC); and, whereas the 
Air Force is not a named partner or member in Balfour Beatty Communities’ Project LLCs, it contributes a commitment to provide a government 
direct loan to the Project LLC and has similar rights to share in distributions and cash flows of the Project LLC.  
Contractual arrangements: On each project, the Project LLC enters into a ground lease with the government, which provides the Project LLC 
with a leasehold interest in the land and title to the improvements on the land for a period of 50 years. Each of these military housing privatisation 
projects includes agreements covering the management, renovation, and development of existing housing units, as well as the development, 
construction, renovation and management of new units during the term of the project, which, in the case of the Army, potentially could extend 
for up to an additional 25 years. The 50 year duration of each project calls for continuous renovation, rehabilitation, demolition and reconstruction 
of housing units. At the end of the ground lease term the Project LLC’s leasehold interest terminates and all project improvements on the land 
generally transfer to the US Government. 
Preferred returns: The projects will typically receive, to the extent that adequate funds are available, an annual, minimum preferred rate of return. 
On most existing projects, this annual minimum preferred rate of return ranges from 9% to 12% of Balfour Beatty Communities’ initial equity 
contribution to the project. During the initial development period, the project is precluded from distributing funds to pay the minimum preferred 
rate of return. The unpaid amounts generally will accrue and accumulate, and can be used to fund renovation and construction costs, if necessary. 
If the accumulated funds are not needed to fund renovation and construction costs, at the end of the initial development period they are 
distributed to pay accrued preferred returns to Balfour Beatty Communities and the US Government in accordance with the terms of the project 
agreements. 
Split of remaining operating cash flows: Subsequent to the initial development period, any operating cash flow remaining after the annual 
minimum preferred rate of return is paid is shared between Balfour Beatty Communities and the reinvestment account held by the project for 
the benefit of the US Government. On most of the existing projects, the total amount that Balfour Beatty Communities is entitled to receive 
(inclusive of the preferred return) is generally capped at an annual modified rate of return, or cash-on-cash return, on its initial equity contribution 
to the project. Historically, these caps have ranged between approximately 9% to 18% depending on the particular project and the type of 
return (annual modified rates of return or cash-on-cash). However, in some of the more recent projects, there are either no annual caps or 
lower projected annual rates of return. The total capped return generally will include the annual minimum preferred return discussed above. 
The reinvestment account is an account established for the benefit of the military, but funds may be withdrawn for construction, development 
and renovation costs during the remaining life of a privatisation project upon approval by the applicable military branch. 
Return of equity: Generally, at the end of a project term, any monies remaining in the reinvestment account are distributed to Balfour Beatty 
Communities and the Army, Navy or Air Force, as applicable, in a predetermined order of priority. Typically these distributions will have the effect 
of providing the parties with sufficient funds to provide a minimum annual return over the life of the project and a complete return of the initial 
capital contribution. After payment of the minimum annual return and the return of a party’s initial contribution, all remaining funds will typically 
be distributed to the Army, Navy or Air Force, as applicable. 
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 167
36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(e) Balfour Beatty Communities PPP concessions continued 
 Military housing continued 
   Equity and subordinated debt
Military privatisation project (i) Project
Total project
funding
£m Financial close Duration years 
Construction 
completion 
Invested to 
31 December
2010
£m
Committed 
post
31 December 
2010
£m
Fort Carson Army base 113 November 2003 46 2004 3–
Fort Stewart/Hunter Airfield Two army bases 232 November 2003 50 2011 –6
Fort Hamilton Army base 35 June 2004 50 2009 1–
Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center/Fort Detrick 
Two army bases 57 July 2004 50 2008 4–
Navy Northeast Region Seven navy bases 318 November 2004 50 2010 6–
Fort Eustis/Fort Story Two army bases 110 March 2005 50 2011 –2
Fort Bliss/White Sands  
Missile Range 
Two army bases 275 July 2005 50 2011 –4
Fort Gordon Army base 70 May 2006 50 2012 –3
Carlisle/Picatinny Two army bases 54 July 2006 50 2011 –2
Fort Carson expansion Phase I 83 November 2006 43 2010 ––
AETC Group 1 Four Air Force bases 191 February 2007 50 2012 5–
Navy Southeast Region Eleven Navy bases 441 November 2007 50 2013 4–
Vandenberg Air Force base 102 November 2007 50 2012 4–
Fort Stewart UPH 20 January 2008 50 2010 1–
Fort Leonard Wood Army base 129 Acquired June 2008 47 2014 –3
AMC West Three Air Force bases 263 July 2008 50 2015 9–
West Point Army base 134 August 2008 50 2016 –2
Fort Jackson Army base 111 October 2008 50 2013 –2
Lackland Air Force base 90 Acquired December 
2008
50 2013 ––
Fort Bliss expansion 31 December 2009 46 2011 ––
Fort Carson expansion Phase II 63 April 2010 39 2013 ––
Fort Eustis expansion 5 July 2010 45 2011 ––
   37 24
Notes: 
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US. 
(ii) The share of results of the military housing joint ventures of Balfour Beatty Communities is limited to a pre-agreed preferred return on funds invested.  
Student accommodation 
   Equity and subordinated debt
Student accommodation project (i) Project
Total project
funding
£m Financial close Duration years 
Construction 
completion 
Invested to 
31 December
2010
£m
Committed 
post
31 December 
2010
£m
Florida Atlantic University Student housing 63 March 2010 30 2011 2–
      2–
Notes: 
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US. 
 
Equity and subordinated debt
 
Invested to 
31 December
2010
£m
Committed 
post
31 December
2010
£m
PPP concessions listed above 321 115
Preferred bidder –36
Investment in Balfour Beatty Communities 110 –
 431 151 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 
Balfour Beatty 168 
36 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(f) Non-PPP infrastructure investments 
Summary: Balfour Beatty is an investor in and a promoter and developer of non-PPP infrastructure investments. 
Project descriptions: Balfour Beatty is a 50% shareholder in Thames Power Ltd, which owns 51% of the equity in Barking Power Ltd, the 
company which owns and operates Barking Power Station, a combined cycle 1,000MW capacity gas-fired facility in East London. Exeter and 
Devon Airport Ltd owns and operates Exeter International Airport. Blackpool Airport Ltd owns and operates Blackpool International Airport. 
  Equity and subordinated debt
Company (i) Project
Total debt and 
equity funding Shareholding Financial close 
Invested to 
31 December 
2010
£m
Committed 
post
31 December 
2010
£m
Barking Power Ltd (ii),(iii) Gas fired power station in East London £661m 25.5% March 1992 ––
Exeter and Devon Airport Ltd Exeter International Airport £60m 60% January 2007 18 –
Blackpool Airport Ltd (ii) Blackpool International Airport £14m 95% May 2008 14 –
  32 –
Notes: 
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conducted in England and Wales. 
(ii) Shareholdings quoted are economic interests. 
(iii)  The Group’s investment in Barking Power Ltd was impaired during the current year. Refer to Note 8. 
(g) Total committed equity and debt funding 
The future cash flow profile of committed equity and debt funding for the PPP concession companies listed above is: 
Concessions 
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013 
£m 
2014 
onwards
£m
Total
£m
Roads 37 13 1 6 57
Hospitals 3–– – 3
Schools 583 7 23
Other 8–– – 8
Military housing 1552 2 24
Total  68 26 6 15 115
  Our accounts | Auditor’s report | Financial statements | Notes to the accounts |
 
Annual report and accounts 2010 169
37 The Group statements of financial position have been restated as follows: 
January 
2009 
previously
disclosed
£m
IFRIC 12
(Note 1.2)
£m
January 
2009 
restated
£m
December  
2009  
previously 
disclosed 
£m 
IFRIC 12 
(Note 1.2) 
£m 
Changes to the 
PB acquisition 
statement of 
financial position
(Notes 1.2 & 29)
£m
December 
2009 
restated
£m
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets – goodwill 975 – 975 1,131 – 14 1,145
 – other 223 – 223 298 – – 298
Property, plant and equipment 296 – 296 315 – – 315
Investments in joint ventures and associates 469 (4) 465 458 (7) – 451
Investments 55 – 55 83 – – 83
PPP financial assets 151 – 151 260 – – 260
Deferred tax assets 132 – 132 183 – 8 191
Derivative financial instruments 3 – 3 1 – – 1
Trade and other receivables 74 – 74 89 – 9 98
 2,378 (4) 2,374 2,818 (7) 31 2,842
Current assets   
Inventories 125 – 125 100 – – 100
Due from customers for contract work 383 – 383 524 – – 524
Derivative financial instruments  2 – 2 – – – –
Trade and other receivables 1,193 – 1,193 1,329 – – 1,329
Current tax assets – – – 5 – – 5
Cash and cash equivalents – PPP subsidiaries 2 – 2 10 – – 10
 – other 461 – 461 608 – – 608
 2,166 – 2,166 2,576 – – 2,576
Total assets 4,544 (4) 4,540 5,394 (7) 31 5,418
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables (2,168) – (2,168) (2,412) – – (2,412)
Due to customers for contract work (540) – (540) (581) – (26) (607)
Derivative financial instruments (66) – (66) (1) – – (1)
Current tax liabilities (23) – (23) (8) – – (8)
Borrowings – PPP non-recourse loans – – – (19) – – (19)
 – other (12) – (12) (23) – – (23)
 (2,809) – (2,809) (3,044) – (26) (3,070)
Non-current liabilities   
Trade and other payables (152) – (152) (163) – – (163)
Derivative financial instruments (40)–(40)(24) – –(24)
Borrowings – PPP non-recourse loans (145) – (145) (239) – – (239)
 – other (9) – (9) (13) – – (13)
Deferred tax liabilities (10) – (10) (9) – – (9)
Liability component of preference shares (87) – (87) (88) – – (88)
Retirement benefit obligations (261) – (261) (586) – – (586)
Provisions (166)–(166)(222) – (5)(227)
 (870) – (870) (1,344) – (5) (1,349)
Total liabilities (3,679) – (3,679) (4,388) – (31) (4,419)
Net assets 865 (4) 861 1,006 (7) – 999
Equity   
Called-up share capital 239 – 239 343 – – 343
Share premium account 54 – 54 57 – – 57
Equity component of preference shares 16 – 16 16 – – 16
Special reserve 139 – 139 32 – – 32
Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves 230 (4) 226 164 (7) – 157
Other reserves 79 – 79 288 – – 288
Retained profits/(accumulated losses) 104 – 104 102 – – 102
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 861 (4) 857 1,002 (7) – 995
Non-controlling interests 4 – 4 4 – – 4
Total equity 865 (4) 861 1,006 (7) – 999  
GROUP FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 
Balfour Beatty 170 
IFRS 
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008 
£m 
2007
£m
2006
£m
Income  
Revenue (including share of joint ventures and associates) 10,541 10,339 9,486 7,488 5,506 
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (1,305) (1,385) (1,225) (1,022) (1,019)
Group revenue from continuing operations 9,236 8,954 8,261 6,466 4,487
Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangible assets 338 280 227 177 114
Net investment income/(finance costs) before exceptional items (19) (15) 19 23 21
Profit before taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets 319 265 246 200 135
Exceptional items (50) 48 48 (35) (26)
Amortisation of intangible assets (82) (48) (27) (9) (1)
Profit from continuing operations before taxation 187 265 267 156 108
Taxation on profit from continuing operations (44) (54) (74) 12 (34)
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations after taxation – – – (18) 16
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders 143 211 193 150 90
   
Capital employed    
Equity holders’ funds 1,156 995 857 493 396 
Liability component of preference shares 89 88 87 87 90 
Net cash (248) (324) (297) (313) (284)
  997 759 647 267 202 
 
 
2010
Pence
2009
Pence
2008 
Pence 
2007
Pence
2006
Pence
Statistics  
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share* 34.7 34.4 34.2 30.3 23.5
Basic earnings per ordinary share 21.0 37.1 36.9 30.4 18.1
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 20.9 37.0 36.7 30.1 18.0
Proposed dividends per ordinary share 12.70 11.99 11.15 10.02 7.93
Profit from continuing operations before net investment income/(finance costs), 
exceptional items and amortisation as a percentage of revenue (including share 
of joint ventures and associates) 3.2% 2.7% 2.4% 2.4% 2.1%
Notes: 
The comparative figures for the years 2006 to 2009 have been restated for the adoption of IFRIC 12 as described in Notes 1.2. and 37. 
The comparative figures in the 2009 statement of financial position have been restated for the amendments to the acquisition statement of financial position of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Inc. as disclosed in Notes 1.2, 29 and 37. 
The comparative figures for earnings per ordinary share and dividends per ordinary share have been restated for the bonus element of the October 2009 rights issue. The adjustment 
factor has been calculated by dividing the share price immediately before the shares were quoted ex-rights (316.0p) with the theoretical ex-rights price (275.2p), giving an adjustment 
factor 1.14826. 
The comparative figures for the years 2006 to 2007 have been re-presented from previously published accounts for the re-classification of the net amount of the expected return on 
pension assets and pension liability interest costs out of net operating expenses to investment income as disclosed in the Directors’ report and accounts 2008.  
* Adjusted earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets, and including the pre-exceptional results of discontinued operations, have been 
disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance. 
 
  Annual report and accounts 2010 171
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
2011
20 April Ex-dividend date for final 2010 ordinary dividend 
26 April Final 2010 ordinary dividend record date
12 May Annual General Meeting
25 May Ex-dividend date for July 2011 preference dividend 
27 May July 2011 preference dividend record date
5 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms  
(see below)
1 July Preference dividend payable
5 July* Final 2010 ordinary dividend payable
17 August* Announcement of 2011 half-year results
9 December* Interim 2011 ordinary dividend payable
*Provisional dates.
Registrars 
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests 
to receive corporate documents by email should, in the first instance, 
be directed to the Company’s Registrars and clearly state the 
shareholder’s registered address and, if available, the full shareholder 
reference number. Please write to:
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from the UK (calls cost 
10p per minute plus network extras) and +44 20 8639 3399 from 
outside the UK (Monday to Friday 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, UK time). 
Alternatively, you can email at: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
They can help you to: check your shareholding; register a change 
of address or name; obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax 
voucher; record the death of a shareholder.
Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan 
Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society 
account through the Bankers Automated Clearing System (BACS). 
The Registrars can provide a dividend mandate form. 
A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) is offered which allows holders 
of ordinary shares to reinvest their cash dividends in the Company’s 
shares through a specially arranged share dealing service. Full details 
of the DRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, are 
available at www.balfourbeatty-shares.com
International payment service 
Shareholders outside the UK may elect to receive dividends paid 
direct into their overseas bank account, or by currency draft, instead 
of by way of a cheque drawn in sterling. For further information, 
contact the Company’s Registrars on +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside 
the UK) or 0871 664 0385 from the UK (calls cost 10p per minute plus 
network extras). Lines are open Monday to Friday 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, 
UK time. Alternatively, you can log on to www.capitashareportal.com 
and click on the link for International Payment Service.
Shareholder information on the internet and electronic 
communications
Our website (www.balfourbeatty.com) provides a range of 
information about the Company, its people and businesses and 
its policies on corporate governance and corporate responsibility. 
The share price can also be found there.
In conjunction with Capita Registrars, you can create a Share Portal 
account, through which you will be able to access the full range of 
online shareholder services, including the ability to: view your holdings 
and indicative share price and valuation; view movements on your 
holdings and your dividend payment history; register a dividend 
mandate to have your dividends paid directly into your bank account; 
change your registered address; sign-up to receive e-communications 
or access the online proxy voting facility; download and print 
shareholder forms.
The Share Portal is easy to use. Please visit  
www.balfourbeatty-shares.com. Alternatively, you can email: 
shareportal@capita.co.uk
Gifting shares to your family or to charity 
To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please 
ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form. Alternatively, 
if you only have a small number of shares whose value makes it 
uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to 
the share donation charity ShareGift (registered charity no. 1052686), 
whose work Balfour Beatty supports. Any shares that you donate to 
ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when possible, and the proceeds 
will be donated to a wide range of other UK charities. Since ShareGift 
was launched, over £14m has been given to more than 1,700 charities. 
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the Registrars. 
For more information visit www.ShareGift.org
Share dealing services
Capita Share Dealing Services (a trading name of Capita IRG 
Trustees Limited) provide a telephone and online share dealing service 
for UK and EEA resident shareholders. To use this service, telephone: 
0871 664 0364 from the UK (calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
extras) and +44 20 3367 2686 from outside the UK (Monday to Friday 
8.00 am to 4.30 pm, UK time). Alternatively, you can log on to  
www.capitadeal.com
For UK shareholders, an execution-only postal share-dealing service is 
available from NatWest Stockbrokers. Contact: NatWest Stockbrokers 
Limited, Premier Place, 2½ Devonshire Square, London EC2M 4BA, 
Telephone: 0808 208 4433, Typetalk 18001 0808 208 4433, 
Email: contactces@rbs.co.uk. The service is available Monday to 
Friday, 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, UK time. NatWest Stockbrokers Limited 
is a joint venture between The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and 
Toronto-Dominion Bank.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited and NatWest Stockbrokers Limited are 
each authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. 
London Stock Exchange Codes
The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List (SEDOL) codes are: 
Ordinary shares: 0096162. Preference shares: 0097820.
The London Stock Exchange “ticker” codes are:  
Ordinary shares: BBY. Preference shares: BBYB.
Capital gains tax (CGT) 
For CGT purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour 
Beatty plc’s ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p per share. 
This has been adjusted for the 1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, the 
2 for 11 rights issue in September 1996 and the 3 for 7 rights issue in 
October 2009 and assumes that all rights have been taken up.
Enquiries
Enquiries can be made to: Corporate Communications Department 
at the address shown below or by email to info@balfourbeatty.com
Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 130 Wilton Road, London 
SW1V 1LQ Registered in England Number 395826 London, UK Forward-looking statements
This document may include certain forward-looking 
statements, beliefs or opinions, including statements 
with respect to Balfour Beatty plc’s business, 
financial condition and results of operations. 
These forward-looking statements can be identified 
by the use of forward-looking terminology, including 
the terms “believes”, “estimates”, “plans”, 
“anticipates”, “targets”, “aims”, “continues”, 
“expects”, “intends”, “hopes”, “may”, “will”, 
“would”, “could” or “should” or, in each case, their 
negative or other various or comparable terminology. 
These statements reflect the Balfour Beatty plc 
Directors’ beliefs and expectations and involve risk 
and uncertainty because they relate to events and 
depend on circumstances that may or may not occur 
in the future. A number of factors could cause actual 
results and developments to differ materially from 
those expressed or implied by the forward-looking 
statements, including, without limitation: developments 
in the global economy; changes in UK and US 
government policies, spending and procurement 
methodologies; and failure in Balfour Beatty’s health, 
safety or environmental policies.
No representation is made that any of these 
statements or forecasts will come to pass or that 
any forecast results will be achieved. Forward-looking 
statements speak only as at the date of this document 
and Balfour Beatty plc and its advisers expressly 
disclaim any obligations or undertaking to release 
any update of, or revisions to, any forward-looking 
statements in this document. No statement in the 
document is intended to be, or intended to be 
construed as, a profit forecast or to be interpreted to 
mean that earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share for the 
current or future financial years will necessarily match 
or exceed the historical earnings per Balfour Beatty plc 
share. As a result, you are cautioned not to place any 
undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com 
Printed in England by Pureprint
This report is printed on Cocoon which is 
FSC
®
 certified and contains 100% recycled waste. 
This report was printed by an FSC and ISO 
14001 certified printer using vegetable oil and 
soya-based inks.
FSC – Forest Stewardship Council. This ensures 
that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree 
in the well-managed forest through to the finished 
document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 – A pattern of control for an environmental 
management system against which an organisation 
can be accredited by a third party. Print or online? 
It’s quick and easy online… 
it’s more environmentally-friendly online… 
it’s more cost-effective online. 
Why not try online? 
Why not view our online Annual Report at:  
annualreport10.balfourbeatty.com
Balfour Beatty plc 
130 Wilton Road 
London SW1V 1LQ
Telephone: 44 (0) 20 7216 6800 
Facsimile: 44 (0) 20 7216 6950 
www.balfourbeatty.com
Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark 
of Balfour Beatty plc
