 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual Report 2014/15 Connecting Communities… Transforming Lives
A Year of  
Transformation  
and Growth 
Annual Report 201 4/1 5
Connecting Communities…  
Transforming Lives We are a full service communications 
provider operating across 18 countries* 
in the Caribbean and Latin America.
We provide our customers with best -in-class 
mobile and mobile data, superfast broadband, 
video content and fixed voice services at home, 
at work and in the community. 
Our offering: 
Our world-class networks  
help our over six million 
customers to talk, text and 
enjoy using data-enabled 
applications such as maps, 
games and videos.
* Retail markets 
 
Within this report: pages 2 to 41 are a Strategic report; 
pages 48 to 58 are a Directors’ report; and pages 68 to 
88 are a Directors’ remuneration report (in each case 
together with the information incorporated by reference 
into such reports). Each report has been prepared in 
accordance with and in reliance upon English company law. 
In particular, the liabilities of the Directors, in connection 
with each report, shall be subject to the limitations 
and restrictions provided by such law. Definitions 
of non-GAAP measures are provided on page 93. Performance highlights 201 4/15
Inside this report
Overview
2-3 Our business in brief
4-5 Chairman’s review
Strategic review
8-17 Chief Executive Officer’s 
strategic review
11 Our strategic imperatives
13 Our market opportunities
16-17 Group KPIs
17 Our performance
18-21 Principal risks and uncertainties
22-27 Group financial performance 
review 
28-29 LIME performance review
30-31 Panama performance review
32-33 The Bahamas performance 
review
34-35 Seychelles performance review
36-41 Corporate responsibility and 
sustainability
Governance
44-47 Board of Directors
48-58 Directors’ and corporate 
governance report
59 Independent Directors’ report
60-65 Audit Committee report
66-67 Nomination Committee report
68-88 Directors’ remuneration report
89 Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
Financial review and financial statements 
92-99 Primary financial statements and 
narrative
100-102 Basis of preparation
103-113 Results for the year
114-131 Operating assets and liabilities
132-142 Capital structure and financing
143-158 Other
159-161 Independent auditor’s report
162-168 Company financial statements
Shareholder information
Our shareholders can get useful information 
on pages 169 to 171 or online at 
www.cwc.com
View our Annual Report online at: 
www.cwc.com
Revenue 
 US $1 . 8bn
2% Like-for-like improvement 
from 2013/1 4
The income from sales of our products 
and services.
Adjusted earnings per share*
 US4.7 c
114% Increase from 201 3/1 4
The amount we earned in net profit for 
each share in our Company .
*Refer to page 95
EBITDA 
 US$585m
7% Improvement 
from 2013/1 4
A measure of trading profit provides 
a guide to our ongoing performance.
Capital expenditure
 US$ 4 4 2m
76% Increase  
from 2013/1 4
Our spending on plant, equipment, 
software and property for our business.
Operating cash flow
 US $ 14 3m
(52%) Fall from 201 3/1 4 
The amount of cash we generated to 
fund our ongoing operations.
Full year dividend
 US 4c
0% Change 
The return to be paid out annually to 
shareholders per share they hold.
Annual Report 2014/15 01 Our business in brief
We are a full service communications 
provider operating across 18 countries* 
in the Caribbean and Latin America. 
Our business in brief
We are the leading telecommunications 
operator in most of the markets we serve. 
Through increased investment in our 
networks, we are delivering best-in-class 
services in mobile, broadband, fixed 
voice, video services to consumers, and 
connectivity and Managed Services to 
businesses and governments. We are 
a strong economic contributor to the 
countries in which we operate. As a major 
infrastructure provider, we have an 
extensive sub-sea cable network, which 
spans more than 42,000 kilometres – 
the largest in the region. We partner 
with governments, provide employment 
opportunities and support the economies 
and communities through our corporate 
social responsibility programmes. Our 
main markets are Panama, The Bahamas, 
Seychelles and 15 Caribbean markets, 
including Jamaica, Barbados, Cayman Islands 
and Trinidad and Tobago. 
We are geographically focused in the 
Caribbean and Latin America with our new 
operational hub in Miami. Our Company is 
headquartered in London and is listed on the 
London Stock Exchange.
Read more about Columbus on page 9
               Mobile
TV/Video
Fixed line 
                 Broadband
Delivering world class  
Business-to-Business and  
Business-to-Government  
services in our markets
Read more about our Business-to-Business services on pages 13 to 15
Transforming our business 
through the acquisition of 
Columbus International Inc.
Our brands
Panama
The Bahamas
Seychelles 
Caribbean 
* Retail Markets
02 Cable & Wireless Communications Read more about our business regions on pages 28 to 35
Mobile 
We are the leader in 
10 out of 16 mobile 
markets in which 
we operate. Through our newly 
upgraded network infrastructure 
we enable customers to enjoy 
leading, ‘always on’ mobile and 
mobile data services to make 
calls, send and or receive 
messages, and access the 
Internet. We have 3.8 million 
mobile customers. 
Broadband 
Our high-speed 
broadband service 
is a leader in 16 out 
of 18 broadband markets that 
we serve. We are delivering 
superfast fixed broadband to 
homes, workplaces and public 
spaces. We will continue to 
increase broadband speed and 
reliability to our 658,000 
broadband customers. 
Fixed voice 
We are the leading 
landline service 
provider in 17 out 
of 18 markets. Our mobile and 
fixed line convergence capability 
gives us a strategic advantage, 
enabling us to provide customers 
with the best network quality 
experience. We have 1.1 million 
fixed line customers.
Video 
We are the leader 
in 7 out of 10 video 
markets in which we 
operate. With the acquisition of 
Columbus, we plan to begin 
offering video in several more 
countries, by utilising our 
extensive networks and 
customer service systems. 
We now have 460,000 video 
customers. 
Our services
Business solutions
We have established a 
successful Business Solutions 
stand-alone unit focused on 
delivering a broad range of 
services for our business and 
government customers, from 
installing telecoms and IT 
systems to managing services 
on their behalf. In a number of 
markets we also store data 
securely for our customers.
Using telecoms services we 
help governments to improve 
efficiency and lower the cost 
of delivering public services 
in areas such as healthcare, 
emergency services calling 
platforms, CCTV surveillance 
and online education. There 
are opportunities to expand 
our work and replicate it in 
other markets.
Wholesale solutions
We own the most extensive 
sub-sea and terrestrial fibre 
optic cable network across the 
Caribbean and Latin America 
region, enabling us to serve our 
own customers as well as selling 
to other telecommunications 
operators.
Annual Report 2014/15 03 “ Cable & Wireless Communications is 
evolving into a more efficient, focused 
Group, putting customers at the heart 
of our business, served by a more robust 
network infrastructure.”
 
Chairman’ s review
This has been a transformational year for 
Cable & Wireless Communications (CWC). 
It was a year in which we completed the 
refocus of our operation on the Caribbean and 
Latin America; we successfully established a 
new operational hub in Miami and welcomed 
a new management team led by Phil Bentley, 
our Chief Executive Officer. We launched 
Project Marlin, our three-year plan to invest 
more than US$1 billion in our networks to 
improve customer service, and at the end 
of the year we completed the US$3 billion 
acquisition of Columbus International Inc. a 
transaction that has accelerated the execution 
of our strategy by dramatically expanding our 
scale and reach.
Our new approach has begun to show positive 
results with early signs of a return to top line 
revenue growth after a number of years of 
decline in the region. We are evolving into 
a more efficient, focused Group, putting 
customers at the heart of our business, served 
by a more robust network infrastructure. We 
are executing against our vision – to grow 
customer relationships and lifetime value by 
delivering unparalleled customer experience, 
where our customers define ‘excellence’ – 
and we have been increasing our investment 
in the business to support this strategy. The 
fundamental way we have reshaped the 
business in recent years has left us with a 
financial position and operating platform that 
we believe give us an excellent foundation for 
future growth. CWC is becoming a stronger 
Company – better equipped to serve our 
customers with better products and services, 
accelerating the new strategy we outlined to 
you last year. 
Since taking up office a little over 1 2 months 
ago, our Chief Executive Officer, Phil Bentley, 
and his team have built upon the establishment 
of the operational hub in Miami through 
introducing a far greater level of operational 
rigour. The management team has 
demonstrated its commitment to deliver 
growth in revenue, maintain cost discipline 
and improve our returns on capital, as well 
as beginning to transform the service our 
customers will receive. 
The benefits of our increased investments 
along with geographical focus have resulted 
in improved network performance to support 
mobile data growth and improved Net 
Promoter Scores (NPS), with like-for-like 
revenues increasing by 2%, reversing the 
trend experienced in recent years. Each of 
our business units contributed positively.
In addition to financial targets, our senior 
management had well-defined personal 
objectives concentrated on reshaping the 
business and creating a platform for future 
growth. Moving from our old operating model 
of a financial holding company, to one of 
operational focus through the provision of 
greater direction from the Miami operational 
hub has streamlined the division of 
responsibilities to allow markets to largely 
focus on serving their customers, whilst 
ensuring operational policies are implemented 
in a consistent way.
We continue to operate in a fiercely 
competitive environment and we still face 
challenges from the difficult economies in 
several Caribbean markets, intense mobile 
competition in Panama, and imminent 
liberalisation of the mobile market in 
The Bahamas. 
An essential part of the plan is the substantial 
increase in the level of investment in the 
business over the next two years. This 
investment is necessary to help us to compete 
better and achieve our growth agenda. Our 
capital expenditure as a proportion of revenue 
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
Chairman
04 Cable & Wireless Communications was higher this year, but the business has 
already begun to see the benefit of the 
investment through improved revenues. 
As we continue to accelerate investment in 
the business, the Company intends to maintain 
the dividend as a core element of shareholder 
returns and is recommending a dividend of 
US4 cents for the 2014/15 year. 
Board changes
Following the acquisition of Columbus, we have 
three new major shareholders, each of whom 
has proposed a Director to the Board. I am 
delighted to welcome three highly committed 
Non-executive Directors who bring with them 
both telecoms experience and extensive 
personal networks. John Risley is a Canadian 
entrepreneur who co-founded Columbus. 
Entities ultimately controlled by him own 
approximately 20% of the enlarged CWC. 
Thad York represents the private office of 
John Malone, who has ultimate control of 
an entity that owns 1 3%. John Malone is a 
well-respected figure in the worldwide cable 
industry. Brendan Paddick owns 3%. He was a 
co-founder of Columbus and as its Executive 
Chairman, led its progress from the start.
Perley McBride was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer in June 2014 replacing Tim Pennington. 
Perley brings a wealth of experience to the 
business having spent most of his career 
working for both fixed and mobile telecom 
operators as well as technology businesses.
Following the completion of the acquisition 
of Columbus, we have reduced the number 
of Executive Directors to two and with the 
transition to Miami completed, Nick Cooper, 
who has remained UK based, has now stepped 
down from the Board. Nick has served with 
distinction for nine years. He has been a 
Director since demerger and has played 
a leading role in establishing CWC as an 
independent business and in establishing Miami 
as the new operational hub.
I also welcome Barbara Thoralfsson as an 
independent Non-executive Director who 
brings valuable industry knowledge, both from 
her time as CEO of NetCom ASA in Norway and 
in her ongoing relationship with Telenor ASA.
As the former Columbus shareholders who 
received CWC shares are required to vote at 
all shareholder meetings in line with the 
recommendation of the Board for an initial 
period (subject to certain limited exceptions), 
under the Listing Rules and the City Code, the 
Directors are subject to additional restrictions, 
including on their ability to trade shares, as 
described in more detail in the Directors’ and 
corporate governance report on pages 55 
and 56.
Our approach
Our infrastructure and services play an integral 
role in the communities we serve. We always 
seek to take an active part in our community, 
through supporting local causes, and being an 
employer of choice. Together with our new 
team members from Columbus we will 
redouble these efforts since we are aware of 
our social responsibilities and the role we play 
as a corporate citizen. We aim to maintain the 
highest standards of ethics and good 
governance and monitor this closely through 
a series of both internal and external controls. 
We have set out more information on our 
approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 
and Sustainability on pages 38 to 41 of 
this report.
The Board has approved this Annual Report 
and Accounts as being a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of CWC’s position 
and prospects.
This has been one of the most important 
chapters in CWC’s long history. It has been 
supported by all our team members with 
their hard work, dedication, energy and 
professionalism. 
I am confident they will ensure that we 
continue to deliver a great service to our 
customers and meaningful benefits in the 
communities in which we operate. I would like 
to express my thanks to them for everything 
they have done and the foundations they have 
now laid to make the combined Group even 
more successful. 
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
Chairman
 
Our mission: 
Connecting Communities...
Transforming Lives
Annual Report 2014/15 05 Strategic Review
Find out how we are delivering 
our strategy through increased 
investment
8- 1 7  Chief Executive Officer’s 
strategic review
1 1  Our strategic imperatives
1 3  Our market opportunities
16-17 Group KPIs
1 7  Our performance
18-21 Principal risks and uncertainties
22-27  Group financial performance review 
28-29 LIME performance review
30-31 Panama performance review
32-33 The Bahamas performance review
34-35 Seychelles performance review
36-41  Corporate responsibility and 
sustainability
Our year of transformation and 
growth was marked by several 
major investments. We embarked 
on Project Marlin, a US$1 billion 
investment-led strategy to upgrade 
our networks across the region. 
In Panama, we made an important 
acquisition, acquiring Sonitel, an 
IT integration company, in a bid to 
strengthen our Business-to-Business 
operations. In November 2014, 
we announced the US$3 billion 
acquisition of Columbus 
International Inc. which was 
completed on 31 March 2015
06 Cable & Wireless Communications We provide seamless 
mobile, broadband, video 
and voice services with our 
next generation network.
Annual Report 2014/15 07 Chief Executive Officer’ s strategic review
“ In a year of transformation  
we are forming a ‘new’ Company, 
with a new leadership and a new 
culture, putting our customers  
at the heart of our business.”
Phil Bentley,  
Chief Executive Officer
A Year of Transformation 
and Growth
2014 was a year of transformation and 
growth and marked the beginning of a new 
chapter for Cable & Wireless Communications 
(CWC). We began the year operating out 
of our new operational hub in Miami, and 
ended it with the acquisition of Columbus 
International Inc.
We continue to build on our new vision and 
strategy for the business backed by our 
US$1 billion ‘Project Marlin’ investment 
programme. We began to execute a 
performance improvement plan to seize 
the opportunities we have identified in 
our industry and the markets we serve. 
We completed the sale of our Monaco 
Telecom business for US$445 million on 
20 May 2014, and through the purchase 
of Sonitel in Panama for US$41 million, added 
our first acquisition in support of our new 
Business Solutions division. Most importantly, 
at the midway point of our fiscal year, we 
announced our intention to acquire Columbus 
for US$3 billion.
I’m pleased to report that the required legal 
and regulatory approvals were met and the 
transaction closed on 31 March 2015. This 
is a transaction that transforms CWC and 
is one that will accelerate the delivery of 
our strategy across the region. Columbus 
is an outstanding business. With our 
complementary fixed line and mobile 
networks; our focus on providing the best 
customer service; and bringing together 
the skills and capabilities of our team 
members, we will be well-placed to better 
serve our customers and improve the 
Information and Communications Technology 
(ICT) infrastructure of the communities in 
which we operate.
We expect the operating synergies to be 
significant; together, the ‘new’ Company 
creates the opportunity to invest more, 
grow faster and provide an improved 
customer experience and most importantly, 
a development opportunity for our people 
that neither Company could have achieved 
on its own. 
The transaction will accelerate both our 
mobile leadership and our fixed mobile 
convergence strategies, enabling customers, 
for example, to have seamless access to 
high-quality video content as they move 
between devices and locations. The 
downloading of video content onto mobile 
phones will continue apace. In fixed line, the 
significant improvements in our networks 
along with Columbus’s broadband capabilities 
will deliver outstanding online experience, 
faster speeds and wider coverage. In video, 
the transaction brings richer content and 
better set-top box capabilities.
In terms of Business-to-Business (B2B), 
and Business-to-Government (B2G), the 
acquisition complements CWC’s larger 
footprint bringing additional national and 
international connectivity capabilities to 
better serve multinational customers, as well 
as opening up Latin America growth markets. 
These capabilities are well aligned with our 
new Business Solutions division focus. 
To ensure competition remains as robust 
as ever, we agreed to dispose of our 49% 
shareholding in Telecommunications Services 
of Trinidad and Tobago (TSTT), as well as 
certain overlapping fibre-to-the-home assets 
in Barbados.
Our strategy
 9 Our strategy for growth 
13 Our market opportunities
18 Principal risks and uncertainties
Our performance
16 Group KPIs 
22 Group financial  
performance review 
28 Regional performance reviews
Inside the strategic review 
08 Cable & Wireless Communications Aside from the corporate activity we have 
undertaken, it was pleasing to see revenue 
growth for the first time since demerger with 
further improvements in EBITDA profit, 
underpinned by successful delivery of our 
cost reduction programme.
In short, we have made good progress in 
executing our strategy and we are beginning 
to realise the full potential of our business. 
CWC is becoming a stronger Company – 
a genuine quad play operator, with strong 
market shares in the geographically-focused 
and attractive Caribbean and Latin America 
markets, backed up with significant sub-sea 
and terrestrial fibre optic networks.
I remain confident about our prospects and 
our capabilities to capture these opportunities 
to the benefit of customers, team members 
and shareholders alike.
About Columbus International Inc. 
“This is a transaction that transforms CWC, and is 
one that will accelerate the delivery of our strategy 
across the region.”
The acquisition of Columbus
Since its inception in 2004, Columbus has 
built upon its roots as a cable TV operator to a 
world-class telecommunications company 
that employs more than 3,200 team 
members, serving more than 725,000 
service subscribers in over 42 ‘on-net’ 
countries throughout the Caribbean and Latin 
America region. Marketed through its ‘Flow’ 
brand, Columbus is a leading provider of cable 
and broadband enabled services focused on 
servicing retail customers in eight countries in 
the Caribbean. As a leading provider of triple 
play services in each of its markets, ‘Flow’ 
focuses on providing its customers with 
innovative video and broadband enabled 
services that are on par or better than those 
offered in most major metropolitan centres 
throughout the world. 
Through its Columbus Business Solutions 
(CBS) brand, Columbus offers a 
comprehensive range of information and 
communications technology solutions 
including a full suite of cloud-based services 
for Small and Medium Sized Businesses 
(SMB), large enterprise and government 
clients. CBS also offers a full suite of 
commercial grade triple play services and 
value-added telecommunications and IT 
services to SMBs. Operating under the 
Columbus Networks (CN) brand, Columbus 
owns and or operates the most advanced 
multi-ring configured, sub-sea fibre optic 
cable network connecting every major 
country and territory in the Caribbean, 
Central America and northern South America. 
With the acquisition of Columbus, we have 
taken a major step towards accelerating 
growth in our Company by adding a rapidly 
growing retail triple play service provider, the 
leading sub-sea wholesale network provider 
in the region and a complementary B2B 
and B2G IT solutions company. With its 
geographically diverse operations and its next 
generation network platform built upon the 
latest technology by a highly experienced and 
entrepreneurial management team, Columbus 
propels CWC into the retail quad play business 
(advanced video, broadband Internet, IP 
telephony and data rich mobile) and adds 
meaningful scale and reach to our B2B and 
B2G businesses. We welcome the Columbus 
team members to the CWC family – we are 
better together.
Vision and Strategy
While our vision remains the same – we seek 
to deliver long-term and sustainable growth 
for shareholders through growing the lifetime 
value of our customer relationships – with the 
acquisition of Columbus we have refined our 
strategy to reflect our enhanced market 
positions and capabilities. Last year, we 
introduced four strategic objectives, which 
we have now renamed as ‘our operational 
goals’ and have added a fifth – Make the 
Company a ‘Great Place to Work’. We set out 
in the following pages how we will measure 
progress against each strategy as well as the 
risks to achievement.
To grow customer 
relationships and 
lifetime value by 
delivering unparalleled 
customer experience, 
where customers define 
‘excellence.’
We seek to deliver long-
term and sustainable 
growth for shareholders 
through growing the 
lifetime value of our 
customer relationships 
– with the acquisition of 
Columbus we have 
refined our strategy to 
reflect our enhanced 
market positions and 
capabilities.
Our Vision Our Objective 
Annual Report 2014/15 09 “The acquisition 
of Columbus accelerates 
our strategy.”
Our strategic plan continues to include the 
four strategic imperatives from 2013/14, and 
we have augmented them with an additional 
two, following the acquisition of Columbus:
 • Drive to mobile leadership
 • Fixed-mobile convergence
 • Video and content leadership
 • Grow our B2B and B2G business
 • Build a leading wholesale network
 • Make the integration a success
We set out in the following pages how we will 
measure progress against each strategy as 
measured by five operations goals, as well as 
the risks to achievement.
Investment
We anticipate that our capital 
expenditure, as a proportion of revenue, 
will be higher than the historical average 
in the coming financial year 
Investment
Consistent with our vision and strategy, 
2014/15 saw an uplift in our capital 
expenditure from US$251 million to 
US$442 million, as we delivered the first 
year of Project Marlin. The main areas of 
investment focused on: 
 • Mobile networks – We launched LTE in four 
markets and HSPA+ in all markets. Our total 
number of HSPA+ sites grew by 110%. Our 
mobile networks showed improvement 
across all parameters with eight networks 
judged as ‘best-in-class’ based on 
international benchmarks. We have more 
work to do in terms of mobile network 
performance in our larger scale markets.
 • Fixed networks – We rolled out over one 
thousand kilometres of terrestrial fibre 
optic cables across all our markets and 
passed c. 114,000 homes. Traffic on our 
fixed networks grew 31% as we drove our 
fixed-mobile convergence strategy to most 
efficiently deliver data to customers. We 
saw our ‘production cost’ of data fall 38% 
measured by ‘cost per gigabit carried’ as 
we improved our delivery efficiency.
Phil Bentley,  
Chief Executive 
Officer 
continued
Chief Executive Officer’ s strategic review continued
Our business model 
is based on providing 
customers with 
communications, 
information and 
entertainment services, 
at a price which delivers 
value to them, while 
enabling our Company 
to make a fair return 
for our shareholders.
1. Grow top 
line revenue
2. Maintain cost  
efficiency and 
EBITDA growth
3. Make the 
Company 
‘A Great Place 
To Work’
4. Deliver unparalleled customer experience
5. Increase returns on capital
Our Business Model  Our Operational Goals 
10 Cable & Wireless Communications We anticipate that our capital expenditure, 
as a proportion of revenue, will be higher 
than the historical average in the coming 
financial year, as we deliver year two of 
Project Marlin and commence the first year 
of our integration with Columbus. This 
year’s financial performance bears out our 
underlying belief that increased investment 
and improved service will generate future 
revenue and earnings growth.
From triple play to quad play
Columbus, through its Flow brand – the leading 
provider of triple play services in each of its 
markets – propels CWC into the retail quad play 
business. 
Measuring success
We set out last year a series of goals by which 
our performance would be judged. In a year 
of transformation, we have made progress in 
these goals:
1. Grow top line revenue – Revenue grew 2% 
like-for-like at the Group level and delivered 
the first year-on-year growth since demerger.
2. Maintain cost efficiency and EBITDA 
growth – Our operating costs fell US$15 
million or 2% year-on-year while EBITDA 
grew by 7%. Our operating costs to revenue 
ratio fell by two percentage points to 41%, 
although this remains above our long-term 
ambition for the Company. The 
transformation of our systems and processes 
is a priority to drive further efficiencies.
3. Make the Company a ‘Great Place to Work’ 
– Our employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS), 
as surveyed by the ‘Great Place to Work’ 
Institute, had a baseline of 15%. Over 
2,520 team members participated. We will 
be prioritising investment in our people as 
part of creating our new culture.
4. Deliver unparalleled customer service 
– We saw customer loyalty as measured by 
Net Promoter Score (NPS) grow by six points 
over the year. NPS also grew across every 
product segment as our investments and 
focus began to improve customer experience. 
5. Increase returns on capital – With the 
ongoing progress being made on Project 
Marlin and following the acquisition of 
Columbus, we would expect to see increased 
returns on capital.
Executive leadership changes
On 23 June 2014 Perley McBride joined 
CWC as Chief Financial Officer (CFO). 
Previously Perley served as CFO at Leap 
Wireless International from December 2012 
through to May 2014. He has hit the road 
running and is already making a strong 
contribution to the business. 
On 31 December 2014 Jorge Nicolau 
stood down as CEO of our Panama business 
having worked for Cable & Wireless Panama 
for over 15 years. Jorge made an enormous 
contribution to our business having 
successfully retained and grown market share 
despite the entrance of two additional mobile 
competitors. He retired with our thanks and 
best wishes. He was succeeded by Agustin de 
la Guardia who was appointed on 1 January 
2015. Agustin joined us from Motta 
International SA where he was Commercial 
Executive Vice President of the commercial, 
wholesale, distribution and retail operations 
of the Motta Group. He is passionate about 
our customers and our people and is already 
making an impact.
In a year of transformation, with the 
acquisition of Columbus, we are forming 
a new Company, with a new leadership and 
a new culture, putting our customers at the 
heart of our business. John Reid, President of 
our Caribbean Consumer Business, joins from 
Columbus to lead our retail businesses. John 
has over 26 years of telecoms experience 
and has been with Columbus for more than 
ten years. He brings significant industry 
knowledge and a strong TV expertise to 
the business.
Delivery of our goals is 
built upon six strategic 
imperatives.
 
 For more information on our strategic 
imperatives see pages 14-15
Drive to  
mobile  
leadership 
Fixed-mobile 
convergence
Video and  
content  
leadership
Grow our  
B2B and B2G 
business
Build a leading 
wholesale 
network
Make the  
integration a  
success
Our Strategic Imperatives  
Annual Report 2014/15 11 Chief Executive Officer’ s strategic review continued
Phil Bentley,  
Chief Executive 
Officer 
continued
John Maduri, President of our Business 
Solutions Division (ex Rogers Wireless, Telus) 
joins from Columbus to lead our B2B/B2G 
businesses in the Caribbean and Latin America 
– a key area of growth for us.
As a result of these appointments, Martin 
Roos and Laurie Bowen left the business on 
31 March 2015. Both Martin and Laurie have 
been instrumental in helping set CWC on its 
transformational journey and our success this 
year. They leave with my sincere thanks and 
best wishes.
Further additions to our Executive Team 
include: Paul Scott, President Networks and 
Wholesale, and Michele English, Executive 
Vice President (EVP) Human Resources and 
Integration; the Executive Team is completed 
by Carlo Alloni, EVP and Group Chief Technical 
Information Officer (CTIO); Belinda Bradberry, 
Group General Counsel; Niall Merry, Senior 
Vice President (SVP) Commercial; Chris 
Dehring, SVP Government Relations and 
Regulatory Affairs; Agustin de la Guardia, 
SVP and CEO Panama and Leon Williams, 
SVP and CEO Bahamas Telecommunications 
Company (BTC).
Finally, I would like to join our Chairman by 
thanking Nick Cooper for his tremendous 
contribution to our business. Nick was 
instrumental in the formation of CWC as a 
standalone entity, the smooth transition of 
our operational hub to Miami, and business 
transformation to the Caribbean and Latin 
America focused operation. Nick has served 
with distinction and we wish him well with 
the next phase of his career.
I have now visited all the markets which 
we operate in and have met the vast 
majority of our team members, who are 
without exception, energetic, warm and 
committed individuals. 
Our business has undergone an enormous 
amount of change over the past year. And 
yet, despite this, our team members have 
demonstrated the highest level of 
commitment to our customers and to the 
Company, and for that I say a heartfelt ‘thank 
you’ on behalf of all our shareholders. Our 
success is a function of all their hard work.
Phil Bentley
Chief Executive Officer
Consistent with our 
vision and strategy, 
2014/15 saw an uplift in 
our capital expenditure 
from US$251 million to 
US$442 million, as we 
delivered the first year 
of Project Marlin.
US$442 million invested in Project Marlin
 + 1 6 5 %  
Data traffic increased by 165%  
across all LIME markets in 2014.
 + 1 00% 
Our mobile networks in all 1 3 LIME markets  
upgraded to deliver HSPA+ service.
 + 5 3 %
Eight out of 15 HSPA+ networks were judged ‘best-in-class’  
performance based on network KPIs.
Our investment plan 
 
 For more information on Investment see 
pages 10-11
12 Cable & Wireless Communications Trinidad & Tobago
USA
Bahamas
Turks & Calcos
Dominican Republic
Puerto Rico
St. Thomas
Tortola
St. Martin
Anguilla
Antigua
Montserrat
Guadeloupe
Dominica
Martinique
St. Lucia
Barbados
Grenada
to Forteleza, Brazil
Suriname
Guyana
French Gulana
St. Vincent
Bonarie
Curacao
Venezuela
St. Croix
St. Kitts & Nevis
Aruba
Haiti
Jamaica
Cayman Islands
Mexico
Belize
Honduras
Guatemala
El Salvador
Nicaragua
Costa Rica
Panama
Colombia
Ecuador
to New York
Bermuda
Subsea ﬁbre network
OŠ-Net carrier networks
Terrestrial ﬁbre routes
Branching units
USA FTN
We began to execute 
a performance 
improvement plan and 
deliver our strategy to 
seize the opportunities 
we have identified in our 
industry and the 
markets we serve.
Our market opportunities 
4. Business-to-Business (B2B)
Latin America’s B2B telecoms 
market represents a sizable growth 
opportunity. We have opportunities 
to extend our relationships with 
existing customers as well as 
increasing our current market 
penetration. The acquisitions of 
Columbus and Sonitel provide 
greater opportunities to capture 
this growth based on our expanded 
scale and capabilities.
5. Wholesale and Carrier
The new business is uniquely placed 
to serve the large, growing and 
increasingly complex needs of carrier 
operators and large multinational 
corporations requiring wholesale 
access to international bandwidth 
within the Caribbean and Latin 
America region. 
6. Synergies and efficiencies
The acquisition of Columbus presents 
the opportunity to capture synergies 
arising as a result of capital and 
operational overlaps and improve 
efficiency by simplifying our processes 
and upgrading our systems. 
1. Strong market positions 
With the acquisition of Columbus we 
are the leading telecommunications 
provider in 10 out of 16 mobile 
markets, 16 out of 18 broadband 
markets, 17 out of 18 markets where 
we provide fixed line services and 7 
out of the 10 markets where we offer 
video. Our ambition is to be the leader 
in every service, in every market.
3. Fixed-mobile convergence
Our ownership of mobile and fixed 
networks, meshed with the 
Company’s backhaul and international 
connectivity capabilities, is a strategic 
advantage which can enable us to 
provide customers with the best 
network quality experience.
2. Growing demand for data
Global demand for data products 
continues to grow. Data usage 
– whether fixed or mobile – is lower 
in our markets than in developed 
countries but is forecast to rise 
significantly. We have a good 
opportunity to increase data 
penetration, usage by customers and 
monetisation in the markets which 
we serve through improved services, 
better packages and new applications.
Annual Report 2014/15 13 Chief Executive Officer’ s strategic review continued
1. Drive to mobile 
leadership
Mobile devices are becoming ever 
more important to enriching 
customers’ digital experience. We want 
to attain leadership in this important 
service in every market. We will 
prioritise investments in data services 
and excel in the areas our customers 
most value. We will strive to provide 
the best network performance in each 
market and be transparent in our 
pricing, while also delivering the latest 
smartphones and an improved 
customer experience in store, on the 
phone and online. We will encourage 
data uptake by enabling our customers 
to freely access Over-The-Top (OTT) 
services and by supporting ‘Net 
Neutrality’, meaning they will be free 
to use unhindered any Internet-based 
service so long as it is legal.
2. Fixed-mobile  
convergence
Our customers want seamless access 
to high-quality communications 
services as they move between 
devices and locations. That can only 
be achieved by delivering services 
over both fixed and mobile networks. 
We have a strategic advantage as our 
competitors generally only operate 
either mobile or fixed networks. The 
acquisition of Columbus will allow us 
to accelerate the shift to a single 
Internet Protocol standard, improving 
our services, particularly fixed line and 
broadband, and delivering our 
customers the ‘always on’ services 
they desire. Programming viewing 
at home via the mobile phone and 
downloading video content onto 
mobile devices will be enabled by the 
acquisition of Columbus, as will the 
replacement of older copper 
networks with modern optical fibres.
3. Video and 
content leadership 
Video content is at the heart of 
customers’ entertainment and home 
communications needs. Both the 
type of content – linear, non-linear, 
streamed, exclusive – and its delivery 
– traditional TV, mobile/tablet, online 
– are changing with consumers 
viewing habits. With the acquisition 
of Columbus, we are now a major 
video player with market leadership 
in seven markets today. We will invest 
to expand our footprint as well as 
developing the content and formats 
our customers value to increase 
customer relevance and loyalty. We will 
continue to innovate in our set-top 
boxes, encouraging more ‘video on 
demand’ and cloud storage uptake.
  
For more information on risk  
see pages 18-21
  
For more information on risk  
see pages 18-21
  
For more information on risk  
see pages 18-21
Our six strategic imperatives in detail 
Goals
Our goal is to grow mobile revenue  
by providing the best customer 
experience and becoming the first 
choice for data services. 
 
How we measure success
We will use the Net Promoter Score to 
measure whether we are the mobile 
leader as judged by our customers. 
Success will also be measured through 
growth in mobile data penetration in 
our markets and usage by customers 
on our networks. 
 
Associated risks
 • Risk from competitor activity
 • Risk of service disruption
 • Technology risk 
 • Key supplier risk
Goals
We want to provide the best value voice 
and data propositions in our markets, 
leveraging our unique network assets 
to deliver an unparalleled and seamless 
experience regardless of content, 
device or location.
How we measure success
Improving our services will encourage 
customers to buy more from us. 
Converging our networks will also 
reduce the cost per unit of delivering 
data services to our customers. 
 
 
 
Associated risks
 • Risk of service disruption 
 • Regulatory risk 
 • Key synergies risk 
 • Technology risk 
 • Key supplier risk 
Goals
We want to lead our markets in the 
delivery of the unique and compelling 
content that our customers value, 
whether TV/video, or apps, wherever 
our customers are and in the form 
they demand.
How we measure success
We will measure progress in our 
share of the video market and in 
the numbers of our customers 
downloading content onto their 
mobile devices. 
 
 
 
Associated risks
 • Risk from competitor activity
 • Technology risk
14 Cable & Wireless Communications 4. Grow B2B and  
B2G business
B2B is a fast growing segment in the 
telecoms world. Customers are looking 
to telecoms and increasingly IT products 
to transform their operations and 
improve delivery to their own customers. 
In government, there are significant 
opportunities to transform delivery of 
public services through technology in 
areas such as health and education. The 
acquisitions of Columbus and Sonitel have 
broadened both the range of solutions 
we offer – moving ‘up the stack’ to more 
IT -based services – as well as the number 
of markets we serve. In B2B and B2G we 
have a significantly greater footprint in 
Latin America markets with presence in 
eight Latin America markets and two 
Spanish-speaking Caribbean markets. This 
increased geographic exposure enables 
us to take advantage of the opportunities 
presented in these fast -growing markets. 
Our strategy is to manage B2B and B2G as 
a single business with customer -centric 
solutions for target segments, offering 
reliable, and cost -effective services of 
both core connectivity, as well as, 
increasingly, Managed Services.
5. Build a leading  
wholesale network 
Backhaul fibre-optic networks, both 
sub-sea and terrestrial, are the core 
means of transferring ever larger 
amounts of data traffic as customers’ 
usage grows. Regardless of the point 
of origin – mobile, broadband, B2B or 
B2G usage – backhaul networks 
ultimately carry all traffic to their 
destinations, which are increasingly 
international as the Internet breaks 
down geographic barriers. Our 
geographically extensive network – 
touching 42 countries throughout 
our region – provides us with a 
competitive advantage in the delivery 
of data services for our consumer, 
business and government customers. 
It also enables us to serve the needs 
of the region’s large wholesale and 
enterprise customers who need 
access to large amounts of quality 
bandwidth throughout the region.
6. Make the  
integration a 
success
The integration of CWC and Columbus 
offers an opportunity to fundamentally 
address our cost base by improving 
our efficiency throughout the 
organisation. We will create a new 
business representing ‘best-in-class’ 
working practices, processes, 
technology and assets across all 
geographies to improve business 
performance. We will drive further 
success by creating a new culture 
and values for the Company 
to motivate and engage our team 
members to create a high 
performance team culture.
  
For more information on risk  
see pages 18-21
  
For more information on risk  
see pages 18-21
  
For more information on risk  
see pages 18-21
Our six strategic imperatives in detail 
Goals
We want to drive growth from B2B 
and B2G services by managing our 
customers’ complex networks and 
applications so that they can focus 
on serving their customers. 
How we measure success
By increasing our in-house capabilities 
and expertise, we will increase the 
recurring revenue and upselling 
opportunity from our customers. We 
will use the Net Promoter Score to 
measure customer satisfaction. 
 
 
Associated risks
 • Risk from competitor activity 
 • Risk to business development
Goals
We want to create the region’s leading 
integrated wholesale networks to provide 
the lowest cost and best experience to 
our existing B2B and B2G markets as 
well as to serve large international 
wholesale and enterprise customers.
How we measure success
Through integrated network and service 
capabilities, we will improve the 
experience to customers as measured by 
the Net Promoter Score. We will target 
increased sales and data volume uptake 
by our customers, as well as ensuring 
our geographical reach (measured by 
kilometres of fibre laid), better serves 
the needs of our regional customers.
Associated risks
 • Risk from competitor activity 
 • Technology risk
Goals
We want to build a ‘new’ company, 
successfully integrating CWC and 
Columbus, creating a new 
performance culture, delivering 
synergies and a new operating model 
to the benefit of the whole Group.
How we measure success
We will undertake regular surveys 
of our employees to understand the 
success of our initiatives to create a 
new culture. Ultimate success will be 
seen in the delivery of synergies from 
the acquisition of Columbus and a 
reduction in our joint operating costs. 
 
Associated risk
 • Risk from business integration
Annual Report 2014/15 15 Chief Executive Officer’ s strategic review continued
We have a series  
of measurable goals –  
against which we  
expect to be judged
We assess and monitor our Group’s 
performance against a wide range 
of measures and indicators. Our Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) help 
our Board and Executive Team to 
measure performance against our 
strategic priorities and business plans.
In line with our strategic approach 
from the current year 2014/15 we 
have set down five key measures of 
our performance.
Top line revenue  
growth
 
Measured by:  
Group revenue
This reflects our ability to deliver 
sustainable long-term growth, 
aiming to encourage innovation and 
investment to gain a greater ‘share 
of wallet’ from our customers.
Business  
effectiveness
 
Measured by:  
EBITDA
A measure of how we are improving 
our business operating effectiveness, 
focusing on tight cost control 
and capturing the value of our 
revenue growth.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Our services
Measurement of the percentage 
growth or decline of the revenue 
we received from the key services 
we provide.
Mobile 
3%
Broadband & Video
2%
Fixed voice
(4%)
Managed Services & 0ther
20%
 
1
2
3
4
5
Measurement of our services  
as a percentage of total revenue 
1. Mobile 53%
2. Fixed voice 20%
3. Managed Services 15%
4. Broadband & Video 1 1%
5. Wholesale Solutions 1%
16 Cable & Wireless Communications How we performed in 201 4/15
Customer  
service
 
Measured by:  
Net Promoter Score (NPS)
We will track customer service 
and advocacy through regular NPS 
surveys. Improving NPS delivery 
is a strong indicator of increasing 
the lifetime value of our 
customer relationships.
Team member 
engagement
Measured by:  
‘Great Place to Work’  
survey (eNPS)
We will track engagement and 
motivation of our workforce, and the 
ability of our leadership to inspire and 
motivate our teams. Engaged team 
members provide a more engaged 
service to our customers.
Return on capital 
employed
Measured by: Economic Profit (net 
operating profit after tax minus 
a charge for capital employed)
This measure will indicate whether 
we are creating value in excess of our 
cost of capital and ensures that our 
capital investment programme is 
focused on delivering sustainable and 
profitable growth.
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Financial performance
Measurement of key financial 
performance metrics and 
% change against last year.
Revenue
2014/15US$1,753m
2013/14US$1,689m
US$1.8bn
4%
 
(2% like-for -like)
Operating expenditure
2014/15US$710m
2013/14US$725m
US$710m
2%
Capital expenditure
2014/15US$442m
2013/14 US$251m
US$442m
(76%)
EBITDA
2014/15US$585m
2013/14US$546m
US$585m
7%
Operating cash flow
2014/15 US$143m
2013/14US$295m
US$143m
52%
Adjusted earnings per share
US4.7c 114%
Dividend
US4c 0%
Non-GAAP measures are reconciled on page 93
For more information on Group Financial Performance see pages 22 to 27
Annual Report 2014/15 17 Principal risks and uncertainties
We set out a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group and how they are 
managed. These risks have the potential to 
impact our business, its reputation, cash flow, 
profits and/or assets. However, there may be 
other risks that are currently unknown or 
regarded as not material. 
We update the Group risk register on a rolling 
12-month basis. Actions to manage and 
monitor risks are considered on a quarterly 
basis by the Group’s Executive Team. 
Our refresh of the Group risk register has 
resulted in some changes from the risks 
disclosed last year. We have summarised 
these changes herein.
Investors should consider the changes in risk, 
the risks reported, and other information 
provided in this Annual Report.
New risks
The acquisition of Columbus and integration 
have introduced new regulatory risks, risks 
around integration of team members, risks 
related to integration of business activities, 
and other risks around integration costs 
and synergies.
Risks removed
The refresh of our risk register resulted in 
the removal of risks related to business 
change, joint ventures and associates and 
investment risk.
We previously reported business risk related 
to our revised operating model and transition 
to the Miami operational hub to better exploit 
available opportunities and realise synergies. 
At 31 March 2015, the transition to the 
Miami operational hub was complete and the 
integration between the Group and Columbus 
was under way.
Our risk related to joint ventures and 
associates has been removed as a result 
of the acquisition of Columbus. Based on 
conditions attached to the regulatory 
approval from the Telecommunications 
Authority of Trinidad and Tobago, we have 
reclassified our 49% shareholding in TSTT to 
be held for sale. Additionally, the joint venture 
with Columbus (a 27.5% economic interest) 
has been unwound as a result of the 
acquisition.
Finally, we have removed our previously 
reported investment risk as we have 
completed the acquisition of Columbus and 
completed the disposals of Macau, Monaco 
& Islands sub-group.
Principal risks and 
uncertainties
We recognise that there are risks in 
operating our businesses, influenced 
by both internal and external factors, 
some of which are outside our control. 
The Group has a risk management 
framework which our business units 
and corporate functions utilise to 
ensure risks are understood and 
mitigated as appropriate.
Key:  Risk trend increasing  Risk trend stable  Risk trend decreasing
18 Cable & Wireless Communications Risk and impact
Trend
Strategy impacted Mitigation
Acquisition and integration 
of Columbus 
The acquisition of Columbus raises two key risks:
Regulatory Risk – While completion of the acquisition 
was not conditional upon obtaining regulatory approvals 
in jurisdictions outside of Barbados, Jamaica, Trinidad and 
Tobago and the USA, there are a number of jurisdictions 
in respect of which regulatory notifications and/or 
approvals are required. The relevant authorities in these 
jurisdictions may impose conditions or decline to give 
approval or may seek to otherwise intervene in the 
acquisition. This might result in delays, financial penalties, 
suspension or removal of the relevant operating licence, 
or the imposition of unfavourable conditions in respect 
of these jurisdictions. Additionally, competitors, 
customers and other third parties may seek to intervene, 
potentially exacerbating any difficulties in the clearance 
process. It is also possible that following closing of the 
acquisition, the combined group may be subject to more 
intensive regulatory scrutiny which may adversely impact 
the business.
Moreover, it is possible that we will not realise a 
maximised value from our divestiture of TSTT due to 
the forced nature of the sale (which is a condition to 
the approval from the Telecommunications Authority 
of Trinidad and Tobago). We also risk creating a new 
competitor in Trinidad and Tobago.
Make the integration 
a success
Fixed-mobile 
convergence
Grow our B2B and 
B2G business
Video and content 
leadership
Build leading 
wholesale network
 • We have worked carefully with local counsel in each 
market to ensure that the applicable laws and licence 
conditions are complied with
 • We have consulted with relevant local stakeholders 
to address their concerns, including by offering 
commercially sound consumer protection measures 
where appropriate
Integration and Synergy Risk – The integration 
process may be complex and difficult to complete and 
will raise risks relating to colleague retention, integrating 
employee groups, and disruption or failures of networks 
and services, among others. Additionally, integration may 
take longer than is expected, difficulties relating to 
integration may arise, or we may not achieve anticipated 
cost reductions and efficiencies which may affect the 
profitability of the combined business.
 • We have established an Integration Management 
Office (IMO) and appointed a Cable & Wireless 
Executive Team member to lead the integration 
project
 • The IMO is overseen by an Integration Steering 
Committee and Governing Board
 • Under the oversight of the IMO, we have created 
several integration teams including Organisation & 
Operating Model, Human Resources, Procurement 
and Supply Chain, Network Operations and 
Technology, Customer Support and Finance. Each of 
the integration teams are led by senior management, 
who are responsible for ensuring the achievement 
of predefined objectives
 • We have implemented retention plans to ensure 
continuity of key team members 
 • We have ongoing programmes of communications 
and events to keep team members abreast of our 
integration plans
Annual Report 2014/15 19 Risk and impact
Trend
Strategy impacted Mitigation
Service disruption
Our networks form part of a country’s critical national 
infrastructure, and therefore, we are relied upon on 
a daily basis to deliver a high quality, resilient service. 
Disruption to our network and IT systems from events 
such as hurricanes and other natural disasters, fire, 
security breaches or human error could damage our 
reputation and also result in a loss of customers or 
financial claims.
Drive to mobile 
leadership
Fixed-mobile 
convergence
 • We have increased our capital investment under 
Project Marlin, our three-year plan to invest in our 
networks and improve the reliability and resilience 
of our networks 
 • We completed our acquisition of Columbus, which 
has accelerated the execution of our strategy and 
will support our ability to deliver greater network 
resilience and capacity to improve the overall 
customer experience
 • All our businesses have business continuity policies 
and major incident management plans in place which 
we continue to review to ensure that they remain up 
to date
 • We also have insurance coverage where 
commercially suitable to do so in order to mitigate 
the effects of these risks
Competitive activity
We continue to operate in a fiercely competitive 
environment. Competitor activity and new market 
entrants could, through a combination of aggressive 
pricing and promotional activity, reduce our market share 
and margins. Our mobile monopoly in The Bahamas has 
expired, as such some loss of market share and increased 
price pressure is inevitable. The strength of our ability 
to provide triple and quad play offerings are being 
challenged by our competitors’ attempts to expand their 
capability in our markets. Failure by the combined Group 
to compete effectively could have a significant adverse 
effect on revenues, profitability and cash flow.
Drive to mobile 
leadership
Grow our B2B and 
B2G business
Video and content 
leadership
Build leading 
wholesale network
 • We are increasing our capital investment to improve 
customer experience
 • Our commercial capability is being strengthened 
through our Miami operational hub
 • We have been preparing for the liberalisation of the 
Bahamian mobile market since we acquired BTC to 
ensure we are well placed to compete 
 • We engineer our customer propositions based on 
our strengths relative to competitors – in particular 
our ability to deliver triple and quad play in many 
markets
Regulatory risk
We need to comply with a large range of regulations and 
licence terms which govern our operations across the 
multiple legal jurisdictions in which we operate. In 
particular we are reliant on Governments and Regulators 
for access, on mutually beneficial terms, to spectrum 
both for existing and for next generation mobile services. 
We are also impacted by key regulatory decisions relating 
to pricing such as the determination of termination rates. 
Failure to comply with regulations or adverse regulatory 
decisions could impact the value of our investments, 
result in fines or restrict the ability to operate or provide 
new services to our customers.
Fixed-mobile 
convergence
Grow our B2B and 
B2G business
Build leading 
wholesale network
 • We actively liaise with regulators to encourage 
a positive working relationship based upon open 
dialogue
 • We continuously monitor developments in the 
regulatory environment for all our businesses 
 • Regular reports are made to the Executive Team 
on regulatory risks
 • We employ local team members who are 
experienced in local laws and regulations
 • In connection with securing regulatory approval for 
the acquisition of Columbus, we agreed to dispose 
our 49% stake in TSTT
Business development
The development of mobile data, pay TV and our B2B/
B2G capabilities together with other sources of revenue 
growth fail to perform as anticipated. This could result in 
the Group failing to mobilise into new business lines in 
sufficient time to offset the structural decline in 
traditional voice revenues experienced across the 
telecoms industry. Failure to achieve profitable revenue 
growth will lead to a reduction in future profitability and 
cash flow. 
Grow our B2B and 
B2G business
Video and content 
leadership
 • Our commercial capability is being strengthened 
through our Miami operational hub and the 
acquisition of Columbus provides us with new 
opportunities to develop innovative products that 
appeal to our combined customer base
 • We ensure focused attention on marketing and 
product development activities and are increasing 
our work to cross share initiatives 
 • We focus closely on the pricing of new services to 
ensure the Group achieves the required return
Economic conditions
The challenging economic environment in some of our 
major territories and the importance of overseas tourism 
to the economies of some countries could continue to 
suppress government and consumer spending impacting 
our profitability and cash flow.
 • We continue to monitor key economic indicators 
(which have improved over the past year) and remain 
prepared to take action to address any indicators of 
deteriorating economic conditions in our markets
 • We continuously seek to improve efficiency and 
reduce costs in order to best meet customer price 
expectations 
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
20 Cable & Wireless Communications Risk and impact
Trend
Strategy impacted Mitigation
Political risk
A change in the political environment could lead to 
changes in law, government policy or attitudes towards 
foreign investment. This could have an adverse impact 
on our business operations, investment decisions 
and profitability.
 • We have a unique position in key markets such as 
Panama and The Bahamas in that local Governments 
are significant investors in our businesses
 • We monitor political developments in both existing 
and potential markets closely 
 • We actively liaise with governments and opposition 
parties to encourage a positive working relationship 
with open communication at senior levels
 • We aim to contribute positively to the social and 
economic development of the communities where 
we operate
Network and data security
We carry and store large volumes of confidential personal 
and corporate data. Unauthorised access to sensitive 
data by third parties or employees could have an adverse 
effect on the Group’s business, its reputation and expose 
the business to litigation.
 • The Group has information security procedures 
and controls in place which are regularly reviewed
 • Remedial action plans are implemented where 
necessary
 • We conduct third party data security reviews as 
required
Technology
New technology developments may render our existing 
products, services and supporting infrastructure 
obsolete or non-competitive. As a result this may require 
the Group to increase its rate and level of investment in 
new technologies which affect cash flow and profit. 
Concerns are occasionally expressed that mobile phones 
and transmitters may pose long-term health risks which, 
if proven, may result in the Group being exposed to 
litigation.
Drive to mobile 
leadership
Fixed-mobile 
convergence
Video and content 
leadership
 • New technology developments are under constant 
review and new technologies are introduced when 
appropriate
 • We continue to keep abreast of the latest research 
on the potential health risks of mobile phones and 
transmitters
Key supplier risk
The Group is reliant on a relatively small number of key 
suppliers. A number of key operational functions are 
outsourced to third parties. There is a risk that such 
contracts fail to deliver the required operational 
improvements and/or financial savings exposing us to 
financial or reputational risk. Business continuity could be 
impacted in the event that one of our key suppliers fail.
Drive to mobile 
leadership
Fixed-mobile 
convergence
Video and content 
leadership
 • We conduct due diligence procedures on suppliers 
to ensure they meet our requirements 
 • We have comprehensive contracts in place with 
suppliers to define the services supplied and the 
standards expected
 • Governance processes are in place to review the 
performance of our suppliers 
Health and safety
The Group operates equipment across many 
geographically dispersed network and cell sites in the 
countries in which we operate. We are currently 
rationalising and decommissioning certain of our sites 
and equipment as part of our network upgrades and 
integration projects. Due to the age of the sites and 
equipment, there is an inherent risk in this project that 
may cause harm to our employees, contractors and 
members of the public.
In the absence of proper operational and access 
safeguards, this equipment could cause harm or even 
death to our employees, contractors and members of 
the public. We could also suffer consequential criminal 
prosecutions, fines and reputational damage.
 • Periodic reporting to the Executive Team and the 
Board on health and safety standards across the 
Group and any incidents experienced
 • Incident reports performed for significant health and 
safety events
 • Increased focus on managing health and safety risks, 
particularly in the Caribbean
 • Investment to upgrade our network in the 
Caribbean, retire legacy equipment and rationalise 
property locations
 • Maintenance of insurance cover for employer’s 
liability
Annual Report 2014/15 21 Group financial performance review
“ I am pleased with the Group’s  
financial performance in what has  
been a transformational year for CWC.  
We have achieved growth in both revenue 
and profitability as we begin to see the 
benefits of accelerated investments  
made through Project Marlin.”
R. Perley McBride, Chief Financial Officer
Group revenue in the 2014/15 financial year 
grew by US$64 million or 4% (US$39 million 
or 2% excluding Sonitel and adjusting for 
currency movements). This represents the 
Group’s best revenue growth in five years. 
We saw growth across our Mobile, B2B/B2G 
and video lines of business, as well as some 
encouraging signs for our Fixed Voice business 
as we refreshed tariffs and introduced 
innovative products to make the category 
more relevant for our customers. Broadband 
performance was disappointing with 1% 
growth but we are optimistic that the 
acquisition of Columbus will address the 
challenges we face, in particular in terms 
of faster network speeds.
Mobile network improvements through 
Project Marlin investments in HSPA+ and LTE 
have contributed to mobile data growth of 
US$48 million. Traffic on our mobile networks 
grew 39% in the year and across our Group 
and 44% of our customers now have a 
smartphone. With the launch of a number 
of value added services we also began to 
broaden our mobile data offering beyond pure 
connectivity and we added some 560,000 
new data plans (1.6 million in total).
We continue to exercise cost discipline in 
all areas of the business and the initiative to 
cost out programme to reduce our run-rate 
operating costs by US$100 million by the end 
of 2014/15 was achieved with c. 800 team 
members exiting the business over the two 
years in addition to our exiting non-core 
property assets, and investing to reduce 
power consumption. As we integrate our 
business with Columbus’ we will look to drive 
further process efficiencies. 
In the second half, we generated EBITDA of 
US$308 million which was up 11% on first half 
and 10% on the second half of the prior year 
(profitability is typically weighted towards the 
second half). This performance represents 
growing momentum across our business 
which we aim to continue. 
Panama
Our Panama business maintained its mobile 
market share of greater than 50% and 
delivered a 4% rise in revenue driven by 
mobile data and subscriber growth 
outstripping lower ARPU. EBITDA was up 
1% on a reported basis, but declined by 1% 
adjusting for the acquisition of Sonitel as 
operating costs increased by 5% due to higher 
marketing spend as we launched improved 
broadband services and a revamped video 
offering, while there was also an increase in 
the minimum wage of up to 15%.
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL
 
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9
 “We keep connected with our customers 
while travelling. We can make and receive 
calls from anywhere in the world using 
a laptop, computer, tablet or smartphone. 
Our Softphone calls are billed at the 
local rate so our roaming charges are 
greatly reduced.”
Fitzroy Thomas, Keisha Ryman and Dwight 
Chang, Red River Ltd. 
B2B customer – Jamaica
22 Cable & Wireless Communications Acquisition of Columbus International Inc.
The acquisition of Columbus was completed 
on 31 March 2015. Below we present a 
summary income statement of the combined 
Group for the year ended 31 March 2015.
US$m
CWC 
(consolidated) Columbus
2
Consolidated 
Combined 
Group
CWC
(proportionate)
Proportionate
Combined Group
Revenue 1,753 598 2,351 1,194 1,792
EBITDA
1
585 255 840 373 628
Capex (442) (191) (633) N/A N/A
1 EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, net other operating and 
non-operating income and expense. 
2 Columbus summary income statement amounts are derived from the 31 December 2014 audited consolidated 
financial statements. 
Caribbean
In the Caribbean, our Jamaica business 
continued to attract new mobile subscribers 
(up to 107 ,000 or 15%) and gain market 
share, leading to 19% revenue growth 
(30% at constant currency). Our investments 
in networks and our ‘Upgrade Caribbean’ 
programme led to a 10% increase in LIME 
mobile revenue with HSPA+ speeds now 
provided across the region, albeit with 
challenges in broadband, due to delays in 
fibre rollout. Total reported revenue grew 
3% year over year. 
The Bahamas
In The Bahamas, revenue performance 
declined 2% as we prepared BTC for the 
advent of mobile competition by reducing 
prices and updating roaming agreements, 
whilst also being impacted by the introduction 
of VAT. We continue to anticipate that a new 
mobile operator will enter the Bahamian 
market before the end of this calendar 
year, which will further adversely impact 
performance in 2015/16. Our agreement to 
transfer 2% of our shares in BTC to the newly 
formed charitable BTC Foundation during 
the year, cemented our partnership with the 
Government of The Bahamas and will ensure 
investment in good causes for the benefit 
of The Bahamian people. 
Seychelles 
Following a strategic review and discussions 
with the Government, the Seychelles business 
has returned to continuing operations as we 
have no plans to divest the asset in the near 
term. We therefore no longer consider the 
business to be held for sale.
Strategy
While our vision remains the same – we seek 
to deliver long-term and sustainable growth 
for shareholders through growing the lifetime 
value of our customer relationships – with the 
acquisition of Columbus we have refined our 
strategy to reflect our enhanced market 
positions and capabilities. Our strategy is 
expected to deliver in the three years to 
31 March 2018:
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL
 
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9
 “In our business we can't miss a beat. Our 
fibre-based solution delivers exceptional 
performance and reliability for mission-
critical applications. This service enables 
us to exploit the full potential of global data 
transfer in real time.” 
Ian McNaughton, Barita Investments Ltd.
B2B customer – Jamaica
Group revenue
Group revenue of US$1.8 billion 
up 4% reflecting strategic progress
Group EBITDA
Group EBITDA of US$585 million  
up 7%; EBITDA margin increased 
by 1ppt to 33%
Cost reduction
US$100 million cost reduction 
plan completed, c. 800 FTE 
reductions over two years
Project Marlin
US$442 million Project Marlin 
capex investments have improved 
network performance
Acquisition of Columbus
Acquisition of Columbus completed 
on 31 March 2015; integration 
under way
Earnings per share
Significant growth in adjusted 
earnings per share to US4.7 cents 
driven by US$55 million lower 
interest cost
Final dividend
Recommended final dividend  
per share of US2.67 cents;  
full year dividend per share of  
US4 cents (2013/14 US4 cents)
Highlights
Annual Report 2014/15 23 Group financial performance review continued
R. Perley McBride  
Chief Financial 
Officer continued
 • Annual mid to high single digit revenue 
growth and significant EBITDA growth;
 • Run-rate operating cost synergies of 
US$85 million and total capex synergies 
of US$145 million;
 • EPS accretion from 2016/17; dilutive in 
2015/16; and
 • Following completion of Project Marlin, 
capital intensity is expected to fall to 
c. 14% of revenue in the year ending 
31 March 2018.
Outlook
Overall economic growth prospects in our 
markets remain generally positive with some 
variability on a country-by-country basis. 
Latin America countries such as Panama and 
Colombia have relatively robust forecast GDP 
growth rates of 6% and 4% respectively while 
in our Caribbean markets there are lower 
growth rates as the region continues to 
experience a more modest pace of recovery 
following the previous economic downturn.
Although we face increasingly competitive 
conditions within some markets, for example 
with the introduction of mobile competition 
in The Bahamas later this year, we expect to 
continue making good progress in growing 
our revenue and reducing our operating 
cost base. In addition, we expect to benefit 
from revenue, operating cost and capital 
expenditure synergies following our 
acquisition of Columbus. With increasing 
traffic over our networks, improved service 
reliability, positive NPS momentum and a 
more diversified set of products and services 
to offer our customers, the decisions we have 
made to invest in our infrastructure and our 
people position us well to capitalise on 
positive growth trends in our industry.
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL
 “With the many services we offer to our 
customers, we wanted a reliable and 
affordable solution for our calling needs. 
Keeping in touch via LIME’s Closed User 
Group is a cost effective way of 
communicating by mobile, so with LIME 
there’s one less thing to worry about.” 
Rita Hilton, Carita Jamaica Ltd.
B2B customers – Jamaica
 
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9
24 Cable & Wireless Communications Analysis of Group results
Full year 
ended 
31 March 
2015
US$m 
Restated*
Full year 
ended 
31 March 
2014
US$m 
% 
change
Revenue 1,753 1,689 4
2
Gross margin 1,295 1,271 2
Operating costs (710) (725) 2
EBITDA
1
585 546 7
Depreciation and amortisation (256) (235) (9)
Net other operating (expense)/income (20) (15) (33)
Joint ventures and associates 12 5 nm
Total operating profit before exceptional items 321 301 7
Exceptional expense (231) (241) 4
Total operating profit 90 60 50
Finance income 26 6 nm
Finance expense (84) (139) 40
Exceptional finance expense (37) (25) (48)
Gain on sale of businesses 4 – nm
Loss before tax (1) (98) nm
Income tax (32) (32) nm
Net loss from continuing operations (33) (130) nm
Net profit before exceptional items 202 117 73
Net profit from discontinued operations 8 76 (89)
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 346 1,005 (66)
Profit for the year 321 951 (66)
Net profit attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company 253 859 (71)
Non-controlling interests 68 92 (26)
EPS (3.8)c (8.4)c 55
Adjusted EPS
4
4.7c 2.2c nm
EBITDA
1
585 546 7
Cash capital expenditure (442) (251) (76)
Operating cash flow
3
143 295 (52)
Customers (000s)
5
Mobile 3,820 3,550 8
Fixed 1,061 1,073 (1)
Broadband 653 379 72
TV 438 66 nm
Total customers 5,972 5,068 18
* The results have been restated for the classification of Monaco in discontinued operations and for Seychelles within continuing operations.
1 EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, net other operating and non-operating income/expense and exceptional items. A reconciliation 
of this non-GAAP measure to total operating profit is provided on page 93.
2 Like-for-like revenue, excluding the impact of Sonitel and currency movements, up 2%.
3 Operating cash flow is defined as EBITDA less cash capital expenditure. 
4 Adjusted EPS is before exceptional items, gains/(losses) on disposals, amortisation of acquired intangibles, foreign exchange gains/(losses) on financing activities and transaction 
costs. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to ordinary EPS is provided on page 93.
5 Year ended 31 March 2015 customer numbers include Columbus customers but not the associated Columbus annual results.
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in the year was US$442 million, 76% higher than last year, representing 25% of revenue as we accelerate investment 
following commencement of Project Marlin.
Mobile investments, 41% of the total balance sheet capital expenditure, accounted for the majority of expenditure as we continue to upgrade 
our network in all regions. The next largest investment areas was in fixed networks, 29% of the total, where fibre upgrades, 2,300km roll out 
and c. 114,000 additional homes passed, provided our customers with a leading high-speed broadband experience. We also made capital 
investments to increase our range of Managed Services solutions, launching with our Disaster Recovery as a service product recently 
recognised in the Gartner Magic Quadrant and being recognised by Avaya as their Central America and the Caribbean Mid-Market Partner 
of the Year. 
Group financial performance summary
Annual Report 2014/15 25 Group cash flow – based on our management accounts
Full year 
ended 
31 March 
2015
US$m 
Restated*
Full year 
ended 
31 March 
2014
US$m 
EBITDA
1
585 546
Cash capital expenditure (442) (251)
Operating cash flow before exceptional items 143 295
Movement in working capital and other provisions (14) 5
Net investment income
2
4 10
Underlying free cash flow 133 310
Fixed charges
Income taxes paid (52) (54)
Interest paid (82) (122)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (86) (72)
Underlying equity free cash flow (87) 62
Dividends paid to shareholders (104) (100)
Net cash flow before one-off items and exceptional items (191) (38)
Pensions, non-recurring items and exceptionals
Cash exceptionals (58) (130)
Pension payment (52) –
Proceeds on issue of shares 176 –
Acquisitions and disposals (431) 1,297
Premium for US$500 million secured bond redeemed February 2014 – (19)
Panama and Jamaica concession renewals and spectrum purchases (14) (114)
Cash flow from discontinued operations
3
– 55
Net cash flow after one-off items and exceptional items (570) 1,051
Net cash within assets disposed 41 (165)
Net proceeds/(repayments) from borrowings 724 (976)
Net cash flow 195 (90)
* The results have been restated for the classification of Monaco in discontinued operations and for Seychelles within continuing operations.
1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, net other operating and non-operating income/(expense) and exceptional items. 
2 Includes dividends received from joint ventures of US$nil in 2014/15 (US$4 million in 2013/14). 
3 Monaco Telecom dividend paid to minority interest of US$30 million in 2013/14 has been reallocated to dividends paid to non-controlling interests, but for IFRS purposes 
is included in acquisitions and disposals. 
4 The Group cash flow is derived from management accounts and presentation and classification of items differs from the statement of cash flows on page 98. 
Cash flow
The Group generated operating cash flow before exceptional items of US$143 million for the year ended 31 March 2015, 52% lower than the 
prior year as capital expenditure accelerated under Project Marlin. There was a US$14 million working capital outflow during the year with 
improvement in Panama Government receivables during the second half. Net investment income primarily comprised of interest on cash 
balances with US$nil dividends received from our TSTT equity investment (US$2 million in 2013/14).
Fixed charges
We paid US$52 million relating to income tax in the year, US$2 million lower than the prior year primarily due to changes in the taxation rate in 
Panama and lower tax payments in LIME. Interest paid on our external borrowings at US$82 million was US$40 million lower than the prior year 
driven by the redemption of the US$500 million 8.625% secured bonds due 2017 , in February 2014. We paid dividends to non-controlling 
interests of US$86 million in the period, which was US$14 million higher than the prior year due to timing of dividends from Panama.
Underlying equity free cash flow of US$(87) million was US$149 million lower than the prior year.
Non-recurring items and exceptionals
The net cash outflow included US$58 million for exceptional items related to restructuring programmes primarily in LIME and the Centre as we 
established our Miami operational hub. Acquisitions and disposals for the period include the US$708 million cash consideration and fees related 
to the acquisition of Columbus, and a payment of US$39 million for the acquisition of Grupo Sonitel, offset by proceeds of US$445 million for 
the sale of Monaco Telecom less cash deconsolidated upon the disposal and US$16.5 million from the sale of our minority shareholding in 
Solomon Telekom. We also made a US$14 million payment related to our licence extension and additional spectrum agreement in Jamaica.
Group financial performance summary continued
26 Cable & Wireless Communications Pensions
We made a US$52 million cash contribution to the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund in the period and do not anticipate any further top-up 
payments until H1 2015/16 per the existing agreement with the Trustees of the fund. 
For further information on our defined benefit pension scheme including the outcome of our actuarial funding valuation please see note 3.10.
Equity issuance
On 6 November 2014, the Company issued an additional 252,812,284 new shares (9.99% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares 
immediately prior to the issuance). The net proceeds of US$176 million were used to finance part of the cash consideration for the acquisition 
of Columbus.
Debt
As part of the acquisition of Columbus, we raised financing comprised of US$390 million secured and US$300 million unsecured term loans 
maturing on 31 March 2017. Additionally, we replaced our US$487 million revolving credit facility with a new US$570 million revolving credit 
facility (RCF) that matures in five years from the acquisition of Columbus closing date.
Consolidated net debt as at 31 March 2015 was US$2,366 million with proportionate net debt of US$2,263 million representing 3.6x 
proportionate EBITDA, combined with the Columbus business for the year ended 31 March 2015. Our target leverage for the Group is 2.5x to 
3.0x proportionate net debt to proportionate EBITDA.
Following the acquisition of Columbus, the debt profile of the Group has changed significantly due to the new financing of US$690 million and 
assumed existing Columbus debt of US$1,250 million. Management are focused on ensuring the Group maintains appropriate compliance with 
covenants included within the relevant financing agreements, reviewing key ratios relating to leverage and gearing and monitoring operational 
cash flows. 
Transactions
Disposal of Monaco Telecom
On 20 May 2014, the Company completed the disposal of Compagnie Monegasque de Communication SAM (CMC), which was the holding 
company for the Company’s 55% stake in Monaco Telecom S.A.M. (Monaco Telecom). At completion, the Company received consideration of 
€321,788,000 (US$445 million) on a cash and debt free basis. In addition, the Company received €6.2 million (US$8.6 million) relating to the 
estimated cash, debt and working capital at completion.
Reduction in holding of The Bahamas Telecommunications Company
On 24 July 2014, the Company completed the transfer of 2% of its 51% holding in BTC to The BTC Foundation, a charitable trust dedicated to 
investing in projects for the benefit of Bahamians. The 2% shareholding is not entitled to any voting rights and therefore the Company has 
retained majority voting rights in BTC as well as remaining the largest overall shareholder. The Company will maintain management and Board 
control of the business.
Acquisition of Grupo Sonitel
On 12 September 2014, Cable & Wireless Panama completed the acquisition of Grupo Sonitel for US$36 million plus contingent consideration 
of up to an additional US$5 million. Grupo Sonitel operates SSA Sistemas, a provider of end-to-end managed IT solutions and telecoms services 
to business and government customers in Panama, as well as in El Salvador, Nicaragua and Peru; and Sonset, a provider of IT solutions and 
services to Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) customers in Panama. Logistica, an IT hardware reseller and a small number of other non-core 
Grupo Sonitel companies, were not included as part of the transaction.
Disposal of Solomon Telekom
On 24 October 2014, the Company completed the divesture of its 32.577% shareholding in Solomon Telekom Company Limited (Soltel) to the 
Solomon Islands National Provident Fund Board for total cash proceeds of approximately US$16.5 million. 
Acquisition of Columbus International Inc.
On 31 March 2015, the Company completed the purchase of 100% of the equity of Columbus International Inc., a leading privately-owned 
fibre-based telecommunications and technology services provider operating in the Caribbean, Central America and the Andean region, 
for a consideration comprising US$708 million in cash and 1,558 million CWC shares.
Annual Report 2014/15 27 Performance review LIME
LIME
Operational review
Last year we started work on a turnaround 
plan for LIME. This year saw the plan start to 
deliver. Revenue growth returned and EBITDA 
margin moved from 25% to 34%. The 
improvement was driven by significant 
network improvements, stronger customer 
experience, a fresh new approach to 
marketing and cost reduction initiatives.
LIME made significant investments in mobile 
and fixed networks. In mobile, LIME launched 
HSPA+ in seven of our 13 markets and 
completed HSPA+ capacity upgrades in all 
islands. We also successfully launched LIME’s 
second LTE network in Antigua and Barbuda. 
For our fixed networks, we accelerated our 
transition to fibre. Island-wide fibre and VDSL 
deployments were completed in Barbados 
and Cayman, enabling 100MB speeds and an 
improved IPTV experience. Extensive fibre 
upgrades were delivered in Turks and Caicos, 
The British Virgin Islands and Anguilla giving 
customers a six-fold increase in speed. 
The new networks, combined with other 
operations and maintenance improvements, 
resulted in a c. 95% reduction in network 
downtime due to major faults. 
Our mobile networks in all 13 LIME markets 
upgraded to deliver HSPA+ service.
“ LIME has seen a significant turnaround 
in the past year , with growing revenues 
and lower operating costs. This is the 
result of major investments, process 
efficiency, improved network 
performance and new innovative 
products. We have executed the 
turnaround plan articulated last 
year which has improved customer 
experience and strengthened LIME’s 
market position.”
Martin Roos, CEO, LIME Caribbean
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL
B2B customer
 “Global Connect has improved our critical 
application’s performances as well as our 
ability to monitor our WAN infrastructure. 
Our outage time has been minimal and 
service performance is excellent. Rubis has 
been using the solution for over three years 
and it has reduced support time in terms of 
man hours required to resolve issues which 
result in reduced support cost for our 
company.”
Mark A (Peter) Bentham, Information 
Technology Manager at Rubis Eastern 
Caribbean SRL 
 
 
Read more about our strategy on pages 7 -9
Based on the investments and improved 
customer experience, we launched a region 
wide marketing campaign under the theme 
‘Upgrade Caribbean’. This included a complete 
upgrade of the visual identity bringing 
consistency throughout the islands. We also 
launched a new website, new store, look and 
feel, new livery and new high-quality imagery, 
all managed through a new highly advanced 
digital asset management system. 
The campaign resulted in LIME receiving an 
unprecedented 16 ADDY awards at the 
annual industry awards run by the American 
Advertising Federation. We also increased our 
social media engagement and achieved top 
rankings in customer engagement surveys. 
28 Cable & Wireless Communications We started a more systematic method by 
measuring customer sentiment this year, 
introducing Net Promotor Score (NPS) 
measurements, to track the likelihood of 
customers recommending LIME. The NPS 
results over the year showed improvement 
across all markets except Dominica, Grenada 
and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, either 
closing the gap, or surpassing our 
competitors’ results. Jamaica showed 
exceptionally strong NPS scores, evidence of 
the positive change in our market position and 
our Jamaican turnaround.
Improved network performance and customer 
experience won us 1 30,000 more mobile customers.
With improved network performance and 
customer experience we won an extra 
130,000 mobile customers during the year 
by focusing on driving affordable, high-value 
smartphone sales, alongside new data plans 
tailored to customers’ needs. HSPA+ 
smartphones now represent 73% of handset 
sales and smartphone penetration among our 
customers has almost doubled. To further 
drive data growth, we launched a self-service 
application that is also a sales channel for 
mobile data and roaming plans. These 
initiatives have substantially increased our 
mobile data revenue and underpinned a data 
average revenue per user (ARPU) increase of 
16%. We slowed down the decline in fixed 
telephony revenue by introducing new value 
propositions for international and local traffic. 
Customers are retaining their fixed line; the 
decline of our fixed customer base was flat 
year over year. 
Our strategic focus on business and 
enterprise segments began to show results. 
We protected our market position, winning 
back customers and securing significant new 
contracts. The year also saw a return to 
corporate acquisitions after a four-year break, 
with the acquisition of a wireless broadband 
operator in Jamaica and a mobile operator in 
Turks and Caicos Islands. 
CWC’s proportionate ownership of LIME 
EBITDA is 89% for the year ended 
31 March 2015.
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIALS
MyLIME Self Service App:
 “Great app! This app has made it easy for 
me to keep track of everything and buy 
plans. I am loving it. Way to go LIME!” – 
Shadina Williams, LIME Customer on 
Google Play reviews.
 “As soon as I opened the app I loved that it 
showed my balance and that I can top up 
through the app. It also works fast. 
Awesome.” – Jey Blessed, LIME Customer 
on Google Play reviews.
 “Great app. Love the app. User interface is 
simple and shows me exactly what I need 
to see. Also much easier to top up and 
activate data plans.” – Jason Cayenne, 
LIME Customer on Google Play reviews.
 
Read more about our strategy on pages 7 -9
LIME
Financial review 
Year 
ended
31 Mar 
2015 
Year 
ended
31 Mar 
2014 
% 
change
Subscribers (000s)
Mobile
1
1,328 1,198 11%
Broadband 224 218 3%
TV 27 24 14%
Fixed 578 580 0%
ARPU (US$)
2
Mobile 19.5 20.7 -6%
Broadband 35.7 37.4 -5%
TV 23.9 24.7 -3%
Fixed 28.4 29.6 -4%
Revenue (US$m) 709 691 3%
LFL revenue 709 677 5%
EBITDA (US$) 238 170 40%
Proportionate 
EBITDA 211 150 41%
Margin % 34% 25% 9ppt
1 Active subscribers are defined as those having 
performed a revenue-generating activity in the 
previous 60 days. Historic subscriber numbers have 
been restated to exclude subscribers with credit 
balances but no activity in the proceeding 60 days. 
2 ARPU is the average revenue per user in a month, 
excluding equipment sales.
40% growth in EBITDA
1 1% growth in mobile subscribers 
Annual Report 2014/15 29 Panama
Operational review
Our Cable and Wireless Panama business 
(CWP) had another solid year of revenue 
growth, as demand for our mobile data 
services grew rapidly and we made good 
progress with our broadband and TV services. 
We increased our focus on the B2B segment 
with the acquisition of Sonitel, one of the 
leading IT integration companies which 
perfectly complements our Telco solutions 
and provides a new portfolio of opportunities 
in that very important segment of the 
market. Additionally, Sonitel has operations 
in Peru, El Salvador and Nicaragua, expanding 
our geographical footprint in the Latin 
America region.
In order to maintain our leadership position in 
the mobile market and the pace of innovation, 
we recently launched our LTE mobile network 
– the first for Panama. This cutting edge 
technology will improve data experience for 
all our customers.
We also introduced the innovative Prepaid 
Satellite TV which has been generating very 
good results, allowing CWP national reach and 
flexibility without the need to build a network.
CWPanama launched ‘MovilCash’, a mobile money 
service.
Performance review Panama
“ We increased our focus on the B2B 
segment with the acquisition of Sonitel, 
one of the leading IT integration companies 
which perfectly complements our Telco 
solutions and provides a new portfolio 
of opportunities in that very important 
segment of the market.”
Agustin de la Guardia, CEO, Panama
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL
In May 2014, we launched a mobile 
money service, ‘MovilCash’, and we have 
also complemented this with strategic 
partnerships with the Metro systems 
nationwide, allowing them the facility to 
accept payments using this service. 
We also continued our strong support of 
community projects, including our tenth 
annual National Oratory Contest, a public 
speaking competition targeting thousands 
of high school students.
We were recognised by the ‘Great Place To 
Work’ Institute for maintaining a high level of 
engagement among our team members and 
for having a dynamic and productive culture.
 “We were looking for a reliable 
communications provider capable of 
helping us to satisfy our operating and 
customers’ needs. Cable & Wireless 
Panama’s reputation, along with their 
comprehensive proposal, gave us the 
sophisticated product offering which met 
our expectations. After consultation with 
our executive and technical teams, there 
was no doubt that we were making the 
right decision. We are confident that 
our guests will have access to the best 
communications network and technology 
while staying with us.”
Kathya Vega, Corporate General Manager 
of VC Hotels Group; owner of the new 
Ramada Panama Centro, Panama City.
 
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9
30 Cable & Wireless Communications Revenue at US$636 million was US$60 million 
higher than the prior year, with US$44 million 
of this growth in the Managed Services 
segment due to the acquisition of Sonitel in 
September 2014.
Mobile revenue at US$351 million was up 
4% against prior year with subscribers up 
by 126,000, driven by prepaid activations, 
including data plans as we launched new 
products such as day passes and cap 
boosters. Data revenue was up 25% against 
the prior year, more than offsetting an 8% 
decline in voice revenue. Data penetration 
of our customer base increased by 13 
percentage points in the year to 52% as a 
greater variety of data plans stimulated both 
prepaid and postpaid usage. Mobile ARPU 
was lower than prior year, due to lower rates 
as a result of competitive pressures, lower 
roaming traffic and voice substitution.
Broadband revenue grew US$2 million against 
the prior year, as subscribers were up 1% and 
ARPU higher at US$29.2. TV revenue was 
US$3 million, 16% better than prior year, 
primarily due to a 30% increase in subscribers. 
During the year, we also launched a prepaid, 
Direct To Home (DTH) TV product, which 
enabled us to access customers in more 
remote areas of the country.
Fixed voice revenue of US$106 million was 
6% below the prior year as competitive 
pressure led to a reduction in national traffic 
as substitution to mobile continued. Our triple 
play offering reduced the impact of this 
substitution with 82% of our customers 
taking more than one fixed service from us.
Managed Services and other revenue 
grew 5% excluding the impact of Sonitel. 
As is common in the first year of a new 
government, there were delays in the 
awarding of contracts but we expect this 
to change during the next fiscal year.
Gross margin at US$413 million was up 5% 
on the prior year and 65% as a percentage 
of revenue.
Operating costs were up 11% against the 
prior year. This was primarily due to the 
inclusion of Sonitel’s cost base; increased 
advertising spend as we launched improved 
broadband services, and revamped our TV 
offering; executed brand unification within our 
consumer businesses; increased marketing 
spend and increased the minimum wage of up 
to 15%, due to restructuring costs. However, 
we implemented programmes focused on 
increasing productivity which partially offset 
these factors. 
The resulting EBITDA of US$241 million was 
1% better than the prior year on a reported 
basis with a margin of 38% as a percentage 
of revenue.
CWC’s proportionate ownership of Panama 
EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2015 
was 49%.
Panama
Financial review
Year 
ended
31 Mar 
2015 
Year 
ended
31 Mar 
2014 
% 
change
Subscribers (000s)
Mobile
1
2,087 1,961 6%
Broadband 132 131 1%
TV 56 43 30%
Fixed 366 372 -1%
ARPU (US$)
2
Mobile 13.9 14.7 -5%
Broadband 29.2 28.8 2%
TV 33.7 33.6 0%
Fixed 24.1 25.2 -4%
Revenue (US$m) 636 576 10%
LFL revenue 592 576 3%
EBITDA (US$m) 241 239 1%
Proportionate 
EBITDA 118 117 1%
Margin % 38% 41% -3ppt
1 Active subscribers are defined as those having 
performed a revenue-generating activity in the 
previous 60 days (FY 2014/2015 restated).
2 ARPUs for 2014 restated for reclassified business 
revenue for Managed Services to broadband and 
fixed line.
30% growth in TV subscribers
10% growth in revenue
Annual Report 2014/15 31 Preparation for mobile competition 
adversely impacted our revenue and EBITDA 
performance. Revenue was down 2% 
year-over-year while EBITDA declined by 5% 
driven mainly by decrease in prepaid cellular 
revenue as the business introduced a more 
competitive pricing strategy which impacted 
Average Revenue Per User (ARPU). However, 
the prepaid cellular revenue decrease was 
offset, in part, by increases in fixed voice.
Fixed line revenue was up by 9% year-over-
year, despite the international downward 
trend. The introduction of Home Phone Plus, 
an improved value proposition for fixed line 
customers, offered local calling to the Family 
Islands with package bundles that provided 
the lowest rates for international calls to the 
United States and Canada. Supported by 
a winning retention strategy, we had minimal 
churn and maintained market share of 81% 
amidst fierce competition.
Broadband performance was flat year-over-
year. Our direct marketing approach and 
a new value proposition assisted in growing 
the subscriber base by 12%. Continued 
improvement in this area will be a key focus 
for the business in the new fiscal year and 
we will continue to invest in upgrading our 
network to facilitate faster data speeds.
Under our successful ‘Upgrade Bahamas’ 
programme, we have invested US$29 million 
in LTE. Our 107 new LTE sites have resulted in 
increased data penetration and improved 
customer satisfaction. The ‘Upgrade Bahamas’ 
programme also included the revitalisation of 
the BTC brand, general improvements to our 
network, greater emphasis on customer 
service, the rebranding of our retail stores, 
vehicles and offices. We have also added 
22 new franchise retail stores to meet our 
growing customer needs, underpinning our 
strategy of placing our customers at the heart 
The Bahamas
Operational review
Performance review The Bahamas
“ This year we delivered a total of  
107 new LTE sites to increase mobile 
coverage throughout the islands and 
offer better speeds to help grow 
mobile data penetration.”
Leon Williams, CEO, BTC Bahamas
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL
B2B customer
 “Global Connect has so far been the fastest, 
most stable, reliable and easiest of all 
installations. We have been using the 
solution for more than three years and 
have seen immediate results in the speed 
of connection. The difference between our 
operations before Global Connect and 
after is like night and day. There is an 
instant smile on our customers’ faces as 
they experience how quickly applications 
are loaded now. The solution has even 
generated a cost reduction on our 
monthly bills.” 
Clayton Rolle, IT Manager Infrastructure 
at the Department of Information 
Technology, Government of The Bahamas
of what we do, and expanding our retail 
footprint to 59 service locations.
BTC is also preparing a quad play offering with 
the introduction of TV to drive new revenue 
streams. We began beta testing in Bimini last 
December and in Long Island, Cat Island, 
Inagua and Andros in February and March 
2015, respectively. We had positive consumer 
response from all the islands. IPTV will be 
a key product in BTC’s future customer 
retention and growth strategies.
Additionally, we continue to innovate with 
the launch of the ‘MyBTC’ application and 
other self-service products such as, ‘six 
ways to pay’, to satisfy consumer demand 
and convenience. 
 
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9
32 Cable & Wireless Communications Our direct marketing approach grew the 
broadband subscriber base by 9% and attracted 
key investments in Managed Services. 
Community development is also big on our 
agenda, and for over 20 years, we have 
actively supported the advancement of 
Bahamians through the development of 
several nation-building initiatives. This year 
we invested over US$2 million in support of 
culture, education, health, youth, sports and 
humanitarian efforts. Major national events 
such as the IAAF World Relays and the first 
Bahamas Junkanoo Carnival are under the title 
banner of BTC. 
Social media continues to play a vital role in 
our strategy and just over one-third of the 
country’s population or 101,000 fans – the 
largest in The Bahamas – are a part of our 
social media network.
This has been a good year for BTC, but we 
have much more work to do. We will continue 
to make improvements in our network to 
meet the needs of our customers and prepare 
for increased competition.
CWC’s proportionate ownership of BTC’s 
EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2015 
was 49%.
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL
B2B customer
The Myers Group of Companies, a fast food 
and fine dining restaurants group based 
in The Bahamas, saw immediate changes 
to their operations once they started 
using Global Connect. “We saw changes 
instantly; the internet service stayed up, 
we had faster speed connection, there is no 
congestion and no need to be troubled 
when the power goes out, feeling that the 
service will drop – those days are gone. Our 
entire day-to-day process has improved. 
In the past, each store had its own network 
with internet and this was neither efficient 
nor productive. Now, we have our own 
private internet network that is not shared 
with the entire neighbourhood. All I can 
say is WOW!” 
George K. Sands,  
IT Manager for The Myers Group. 
The Bahamas
Financial review
Year 
ended
31 Mar 
2015 
Year 
ended
31 Mar 
2014 
% 
change
Subscribers (000s)
Mobile
1
318 308 3%
Broadband 25 23 9%
Fixed 99 103 -4%
ARPU (US$)
2
Mobile 61.3 66.1 -7%
Broadband 51.3 64.3 -20%
Fixed 40.2 34.7 16%
Revenue (US$m) 348 354 -2%
LFL revenue 348 354 -2%
EBITDA (US$m) 122 128 -5%
Proportionate 
EBITDA 60 65 -8%
Margin % 35% 36% -1ppt
1 Active subscribers are defined as those having 
performed at revenue-generating activity in the 
previous 60 days. Historic subscriber numbers have 
been restated to exclude subscribers with credit 
balances but no activity in the proceeding 60 days.
2 ARPU is the average revenue per user per month, 
excluding equipment sales.
9% growth in broadband subscribers
16% growth in fixed voice ARPU
 
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9
Annual Report 2014/15 33 Performance review S eychelles
Seychelles
Operational review
Seychelles remains part of our continuing 
operations and performed well during the 
financial year. We are expanding and 
enhancing our network capacity and reliability 
to provide faster data services. We are 
making a positive impact every day by being 
one of the most valued and respected 
organisations in our community. 
Over the period, the Seychelles Rupee 
devalued by 10%, however, we recorded 
our tenth consecutive year of top line growth 
at constant currency. We consolidated our 
position as the leader in mobile, broadband, 
internet and fixed voice.
We were awarded an IPTV licence and will 
launch services at the end of the first half 
of calendar year 2015. Our goal is to be the 
market leader in the provision of media and 
entertainment services within three years of 
our launch of the IPTV service. Today, about 
50% of our business contribution comes from 
roaming and international voice interconnects. 
The emergence of our IPTV service will help 
to reduce our reliance on this declining 
revenue stream. 
With the growing demand for data and video 
service on fixed and mobile platforms, we 
invested to expand capacity in our fixed and 
mobile networks. We also invested in security 
and back-up platforms to keep our networks, 
data and customers’ data safe.
We introduced self-service tools such as 
‘Cable Kiosk’, freestanding machines with 
touch screens that enable customers to buy 
consumer products and services and to settle 
their bills at their convenience. Our online 
web payment service was also launched with 
a local bank this year.
Our services are used exclusively by more 
than 95% of the resorts and hotels in 
Seychelles. We strengthened our position 
“ We recorded our tenth consecutive 
year of top line growth. We consolidated 
our position as the leader in mobile, 
broadband, internet and fixed voice.”
Charles Hammond, CEO, Seychelles
 “Fregate Island Private is one of the most 
luxurious private islands in the world, 
delivering extraordinary service to our 
exceptional clients. We needed to align our 
business with the most reliable network 
and best partner available for world-class 
support in our unique remote location. 
This is why we utilise Cable & Wireless 
Seychelles exclusively.”
Wayne Kafcsak, Managing Director, 
Fregate Island Private, Seychelles.
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL
by upselling on internet services and winning 
the contracts of two new hotels this year. 
We introduced hosting services and 
developed our national and international 
managed lease line services.
Our commitment to our community remains 
as strong as ever. We signed an extension to 
an existing Memorandum Of Understanding 
(MOU) to provide free broadband services 
to all Government schools in Seychelles. This 
programme is now in its tenth year.
Mobile data services revenue was up 7% on 
the prior year at constant currency with the 
launch of our LTE network with limited sites.
 
Read more about our strategy on pages 7-9
34 Cable & Wireless Communications Seychelles
Financial review
Revenue at US$52 million was 2% down on 
prior year as the Seychelles Rupee declined 
by 10% against the US Dollar. At constant 
currency revenue would have increased 
by 8%.
At constant currency, mobile revenue at 
US$29 million increased by 4% on prior year 
(a decline of 6% at prevailing exchange rates) 
as demand for mobile data usage increased, 
it was offset by a drop in mobile voice activity. 
We experienced 7% growth in mobile 
data revenue. The growth in data usage is 
expected to continue as our customer value 
propositions become more attractive in the 
coming year and our LTE network extends to 
cover over 50% of subscribers. Total number 
of subscribers increased by 4%. 
Broadband revenue increased by 10% the 
prior year to US$11 million, driven mainly by 
the business customers. At constant currency, 
broadband would have risen by 22%. The 
Broadband ARPU improved by 3% (12% at 
constant rates) reflecting successful upselling 
of higher bandwidth capacities. We have now 
established the business as the number one 
choice for Managed Services and 
Government customers in the country.
Fixed voice showed a larger decline at 11% 
(flat at constant currency) on prior year. 
Average incoming voice termination rates 
were lower than in the prior year as a larger 
proportion of voice calls continue to migrate 
towards the Internet.
Managed Services and other revenue grew 
by 33% to US$4 million as the company 
entered the hosting and international MPLS 
businesses.
Gross margin was maintained at 84.6% but 
fell by US$2 million to US$44 million resulted 
from the weaker Seychelles Rupee.
Operating costs decreased by 4% to 
US$25 million. At constant currency, 
operating costs would have increased by 
4% mainly because the company recorded 
significant foreign currency revaluation 
gains in prior year of US$1 million. 
EBITDA decreased 5% to US$19 million 
(12% or US$2 million more at constant 
currency). The EBITDA margin decreased by 
1 percentage point to 36.5% when compared 
to prior year.
CWC’s ownership of Cable and Wireless 
Seychelles EBITDA for the entire financial year 
was 100%.
8% like-for-like revenue growth
4% increase mobile subscribers
Year 
ended
31 Mar 
2015 
Year 
ended
31 Mar 
2014 
% 
change
Subscribers (000s)
Mobile
1
87 83 4%
Broadband 7 7 0%
Fixed 17 17 0%
ARPU (US$)
2
Mobile 28.5 30.9 -8%
Broadband 130.2 126.6 3%
Fixed 36.4 43.5 -16%
Revenue (US$m) 52 53 -2%
LFL revenue 52 48 8%
EBITDA (US$m) 19 20 -5%
Proportionate 
EBITDA 19 20 -5%
Margin % 37% 38% -1ppt
1 Active subscribers are defined as those having performed 
a revenue-generating activity in the previous 60 days.
2 ARPU is average revenue per user per month, excluding 
equipment sales. 
Annual Report 2014/15 35 Corporate responsibility and sustainability
36 Cable & Wireless Communications We set standards of good 
governance – operating in 
ethical and responsible ways. 
Through our corporate social 
responsibility programmes we 
positively impact the lives of the 
people we serve, with particular 
emphasis on making a difference 
through education, community 
development, sports, culture, 
health, among other areas 
of focus.
Annual Report 2014/15 37 Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued
Connecting Communities...
Transforming Lives in Action
From community fish fries, carnivals in 
city centres, free broadband in schools, 
telemedics in hospitals, CCTV in capitals, 
to providing school supplies for tomorrow’s 
leaders, our corporate social responsibility 
footprint spans every market we serve – 
Connecting Communities...Transforming 
Lives. Our brands are interwoven into the 
fabric of the regions we operate and our 
team members are local ambassadors who 
volunteer their time on and off the job, making 
us part of the tapestry of our markets.
Our year-long initiatives culminated at 
Christmas, which is big in the Caribbean, 
and it provided us with an ideal opportunity 
to touch many lives. In Anguilla, we partnered 
with the Tourist Board to supply Christmas 
baskets chock-full of ingredients for 
wholesome Christmas breakfast and dinner 
for over 50 families. The children were 
delighted to receive special gifts from the 
LIME team members.
Antigua shared a Christmas Gift with 
unsuspecting ‘unsung’ heroes representing 
a wide cross section of the community 
including teachers, nurses, and religious 
leaders. 
In Barbados, some 57 kids from several 
Children’s Homes experienced the most 
wonderful time of the year shopping with 
team members to purchase basic personal 
items such as shoes, clothing and not 
surprisingly – toys.
‘Kids from one to 92’ enjoyed the season, 
courtesy of the Cayman Islands Motorcycle 
Association, in partnership with LIME Cayman. 
We hosted a Toy Drive for the kids and feted 
over 100 senior citizens.
Our team members coordinated and served 
meals at a special treat for 100 elderly and 
disadvantaged persons in St. Patrick, Grenada.
In Jamaica, over 600 homeless persons were 
fed and provided with medical care, as the 
LIME Foundation teamed up with the Council 
for Voluntary Social Services. 
LIME St. Kitts & Nevis partnered once again 
with Feed the Poor Ministries to provide over 
100 persons with a three-course lunch 
prepared by an acclaimed local chef.
Our team members in St Lucia hosted two 
Christmas luncheons where they fed and 
entertained over 100 persons. 
For the 15th consecutive year, team 
members in St. Vincent and the Grenadines 
hand delivered care packages to needy 
recipients across the island, touching 
several communities.
Turks and Caicos held a senior citizens’ gala, 
an event that is always highly anticipated on 
the island. While all these activities reflected 
our charitable acts during the special season 
of giving, we were active throughout the year 
making an impact on our communities.
In the British Virgin Islands, our LIME SMART 
programme, which focuses on education, 
culture and performing arts, adopted the 
Enis Scatliffe Primary School and joined the 
1000 Book Club to promote reading. We 
also support health care as our LIME 4 LIFE 
health and wellness initiative includes major 
partnerships with the BVI Cancer Society and 
the BVI AIDS Foundation. 
LIME’s generosity extends to state homes 
for the homeless and persons with disabilities 
in Dominica. We also adopted the Roseau 
Primary School and supported Operation 
Youth Quake, a programme targeting 
marginalised youth.
We are proud of our efforts to:
reduce our carbon footprint
maintain good supply chain labour 
standards
observe world class standards  
of human and labour rights
promote ethical behaviour
counter bribery 
contribute to the social and economic 
sustainability of the markets we serve
Recognised for solid governance  
and social responsibility...
For our efforts in meeting globally recognised 
standards of good corporate responsibility in all its 
facets, we were named a continuing member of the 
FTSE4GOOD Index for the 14th consecutive year, 
since its inception in 2001. We have consistently 
satisfied their stringent criteria which objectively 
evaluates the corporate social responsibility of  
globally competitive businesses.
38 Cable & Wireless Communications In Jamaica the work of the LIME Foundation 
is well recognised. From their popular annual 
6K Run which raises funds for a variety of 
charities, LINK’s – community internet access 
points – across several parishes, scholarships, 
bursaries for needy children, Web Design 
Summer Camps, environmental projects, 
and Internet in schools, to the funding of over 
18 schools to participate in the Penn Relays 
in Washington DC, we impact lives and make 
dreams come true. For the past five years we 
have staged the region’s biggest ‘Back-to-
School’ initiative in Jamaica dubbed, LIME 
Skool Aid. This US$2 million event touches 
the lives of over 30,000 persons annually.
The Human Entrepreneurship and Assistive 
Resource Technologies (HEART) project 
– a multi-faceted, revolutionary ICT project 
designed to positively impact the lives of 
thousands of Antiguans and Barbudans-is 
making a significant difference. Still in Antigua, 
we have for more than 29 years, maintained 
our long standing sponsorship of the LIME 
Caribbean Secondary Examination Council 
(CSEC/CXC) Awards.
LIME partnered with the Federal Government 
of St. Kitts & Nevis and the Eastern Caribbean 
Telecommunications Authority (ECTEL) to 
establish GoSKN EDUNET, an e-learning 
facility across eight public high schools, all 
powered by LIME’s technology. 
In all these markets we help to close the 
digital divide and support education through 
our free Internet in schools programme.
In The Bahamas, BTC continue to support 
Bahamian communities, youth, sports and 
culture. We are the US$1 million title sponsor 
of Bahamas Junkanoo Carnival and also 
sponsor of the IAAF/BTC World Relays 
Bahamas and the Future Leaders Conference. 
We also support the annual Health and 
Wellness Forum among other community 
development projects.
We are also supporting Bahamians through 
the BTC Foundation which is a charitable 
trust, established in 2014. Its 2% shareholding 
was transferred from Cable and Wireless 
Communications (CWC). As a non-voting 
shareholder, the Foundation will receive 
2% of BTC’s dividend payments. The BTC 
Foundation, which is administered by a 
trustee nominated by The Bahamian 
Government, will use the dividend payments 
to further charitable purposes in The Bahamas 
for the benefit of Bahamians.
Cable and Wireless Panama (CWP) is listed 
among Panama’s top three ‘Most Admired 
Companies’ and a ‘Great Place to Work’. 
We are recognised as proud supporters of 
community development contributing 
significantly to society through corporate 
giving, sponsorships, and employee volunteer 
initiatives. We contribute to programmes that 
are consistent with our values and help to 
improve education, narrow the digital divide, 
provide equal access to telecommunications; 
as well as promote sports, health, local culture 
and environment. 
Each year we stage the National Oratory 
Contest, a popular public speaking 
competition, endorsed by the Ministry of 
Education, which attracts over seven hundred 
thousand students from all across the nation. 
This event has become an integral part of the 
cultural and educational fabric of the Panama.
Work in bridging the digital divide across 
Panama has been ongoing for the Cable & 
Wireless Panama Foundation since 2003, 
when we embarked on the free Internet 
classrooms across the country. 
This year, the Cable & Wireless Panama 
Foundation continued to expand the reach 
of technology to different areas of Panama. 
The Arnulfo Arias School, where more than 
900 students have access to a high speed 
broadband Internet equipped facility, is one 
of the most recent beneficiaries. We installed 
a satellite technology pay phone service in the 
Indian reservation of Coronté providing fixed, 
portable, and mobile Internet access. It is 
the only means of delivering access to 
telecommunications across the population 
in this remote area. 
Our social telecoms services helped local 
government to improve delivery of public 
services. We implemented a new electronic 
document management platform at the 
National Registry of Panama. This project 
included the development and configuration 
of new software and telecommunication 
solutions that will positively impact legal 
security and transparency as well as improve 
the World Bank Group’s Doing Business index 
that indicates how Panama is progressing 
towards achieving more economic efficiency 
and greater ease of doing business.
We are committed to further strengthening 
our community involvement as we join forces 
with Columbus to make an even bigger, more 
impactful contribution to nation-building in 
every market we serve.
Left:  
Cable and Wireless Panama (CWP) tree planting 
environmental project.
Below:  
Once again, CWP emerged among Panama’s top 
three ‘Most Admired Companies’ and a ‘Great Place 
to Work’.
Annual Report 2014/15 39 Ethics in Business
As a continuing member of the FTSE4Good 
Index Series and Transparency International’s 
Business Integrity Forum, we are committed 
to maintaining high standards of ethical 
behaviour in all our markets. We operate fairly 
and with integrity and ensure our team 
members are aware of, and act in accordance 
with our Code of Conduct as well as our 
Anti-Bribery Policy. 
We updated our Anti-Bribery Policy in 2013 
to ensure full compliance with the US Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act, as we made the 
transition to establish our operational hub 
in Miami. 
The Board and Executive Team are responsible 
for communicating, implementing and 
monitoring adherence to our Code of 
Conduct. It is a mandatory requirement that 
each team member in all our business units 
reads and signs the Code of Conduct, which 
includes specific policies covering gifts and 
hospitality. As a priority, we also conduct 
refresher training for team members to 
ensure full compliance with our Anti-Bribery 
Policy and Code of Conduct. 
Third party suppliers, joint venture and 
other business partners are also required to 
operate within the parameters of our Code 
of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Policy.
Our internal audit team reviews the 
implementation and monitoring of the 
Anti-Bribery Policy within the business units 
as part of the annual internal audit plan.
We maintain timely reviews of our business 
integrity risks and ensure appropriate 
mitigation procedures are in place.
Focus on our People
With the acquisition of Columbus International 
Inc. and the subsequent merger of our two 
businesses, we are in the process of 
transforming into one combined Group with 
a new leadership team and culture. As a 
matter of priority, we have placed renewed 
emphasis on our customers, as well as our 
most important asset – our people.
As at 31 March, 2015 (including the 
Columbus Group) 3,597 of the Group’s 
employee base of 8,073 were female. At the 
senior management level there were 88 
females or 32% from a total of 276. There 
were two female directors serving on our 
Board out of a total of 11 Directors. We 
remain committed to ensuring that regardless 
of their gender, our employees have equal 
access to opportunities for career 
enhancement on the basis of merit.
Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued
 1 50 ,000+
Lives impacted by LIME Skool Aid 
in Jamaica since its inception five 
years ago.
Above:  
We are part of the vibrant Caribbean & Latin 
America culture and our sponsorships power 
the passion of our customers at several marquee 
events, including carnivals and other cultural 
festivals across the region.
Right:  
Our anticipated annual back-to-school programme, 
LIME Skool Aid, in Jamaica has become a national 
event impacting more than 150,000 beneficiaries 
over the past five years, since its inception. Here, 
happy recipients show off their gifts. 
40 Cable & Wireless Communications We are proud of our employment practices 
and our track record of adhering to the 
tenets of globally accepted standards of 
diversity, equal opportunity in recruitment, 
development, remuneration and 
advancement. Our employment policies also 
comply with local requirements within our 
markets and are aligned with relevant 
standards on the employment, training and 
career development of disabled people.
Employee communication and engagement 
remain high on our agenda. Over the past year 
Phil Bentley led 23 Team Talk Live! sessions 
in 12 countries with more than 2,100 team 
members. These face-to-face, interactive 
team engagement sessions created 
opportunities for open and honest discussions 
about business performance, the acquisition 
of Columbus, employee Net Promoter Score 
(eNPS), voting for our values and general 
feedback about our business.
We support the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the International Labour 
Organisation Core Conventions, and we seek 
at all times to operate our businesses in 
compliance with them. 
Health and safety remain of paramount 
importance to us. We continue to place 
particular emphasis on improving the health 
and safety practices of our team members 
who carry out network infrastructure and 
fieldwork activities, which present a greater 
health and safety risk than other areas of 
our business.
Environment
Work continues on improving our 
environmental performance across the Group. 
The operation and temperature regulation of 
our communications network equipment 
continues to be the principal source of our 
power consumption, and consequently, our 
environmental impact. Over the past year we 
have continued to develop and implement 
green initiatives. This included, for example, 
the replacement of legacy air conditioning 
units in The Bahamas business with new solar 
assisted units which are expected to reduce 
air conditioning electricity usage in those sites 
by as much as 50%. 
We have assessed our carbon footprint to be 
119,974 tonnes of CO
2
e based on our Scope 
1, 2 & 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as 
compared with 119,549 tonnes of CO
2
e for 
the 2013/14 reporting period. Our electricity 
consumption was 181 million kilowatt hours 
(kWh) this year as compared with 175 million 
kWh in 2013/14, and our fuel usage was 
33,654 megawatt hours (MWh) as compared 
with 39,366 MWh in 2013/14. 
Emissions and electricity consumption for 
2014/15 reporting period are relatively 
consistent with 2013/14, with a small 
increase in both items driven by the 
acquisition of Sonitel, resulting in a change 
in the profile of sites measured. Additionally, 
LIME carried out significant office clean out 
activities as part of its site rationalisation 
project, generating a material increase in 
landfilled waste, and a consequent increase 
in carbon emissions for the Caribbean region. 
Our Scope 1, 2 & 3 GHG emissions constitute 
68.44 tonnes CO
2
e per million US dollars of 
revenue; as compared with 63.83 tonnes 
CO
2
e per million US dollars of revenue in 
2013/14.
We continue to work on reducing travel 
through the use of videoconferencing and 
other technologies and ways of working, 
though business travel remains necessary to 
some extent due to our geographical spread 
and the importance of interpersonal relations 
in our business. Our travel emissions this year 
were 2,857 tonnes CO
2
e as compared with 
4,370 tonnes CO
2
e last year. The principal 
reason for this reduction was the 
establishment of our operational hub in 
Miami, which has located our hub team 
members closer to our operating businesses 
and reduced the travel distance required to 
visit our markets. These travel emissions 
constitute 1.63 tonnes CO
2
e per million 
US dollars of revenue as compared with 
2.3 tonnes CO
2
e per million US dollars of 
revenue in 2013/14.
The emissions we have reported on, cover all 
emission sources required under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic report and 
Directors’ reports) Regulations 2013. The 
method we have used to calculate GHG 
emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised 
edition), together with the latest emission 
factors from recognised public sources 
including, but not limited to, the Department 
for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (Defra), 
the International Energy Agency (IEA), the US 
Energy Information Administration (EIA), the 
US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC).
Privacy and Security
Protecting our customers’ and team 
members’ data is of primary importance to us. 
We continue to work hard to build security 
measures and protection into all of our 
business processes and practices which 
involve the processing of personal data and 
confidential information to ensure compliance 
with local legislative or regulatory 
requirements. This means raising awareness 
through training our team members on data 
privacy and data protection and working with 
our external partners to ensure robust 
measures are in place. In countries where we 
operate which do not yet have any legislative 
or regulatory regime to specifically address 
data protection and data privacy, we take 
a best practice approach in line with the 
EC Directive 95/46/EC on protection of 
individuals with regard to the processing 
of personal data and on the free movement 
of such data. At the same time we monitor 
existing and incoming legislation within the 
jurisdictions where our businesses operate 
and work with the local teams to adapt our 
practices as appropriate. We have updated 
all of our Information Security Policies based 
on international standards to apply across all 
regions in which we operate and will update 
these annually. Our Global Data Privacy Policy 
also helps to drive the appropriate behaviour 
with regards to secure handling of customer 
and employee data.
We continue to work hard on increasing the 
scope of our pre-contract assessments of 
all external partners who process our team 
members and customer information. These 
assessments include checking our partners’ 
practices and certifications with regards to 
data security and privacy protection. 
Additionally, we seek to impose contractual 
obligations on our partners to ensure they 
implement and maintain appropriate data 
security measures at each stage of a project 
life cycle.
We now have a dedicated team in place 
equipped and ready to respond to cyber 
security threats who are able to identify 
and address system vulnerabilities across 
the business.
Strategic report
The Strategic report (which is comprised 
of the Overview and Strategic review set 
out on pages 2 to 41) together with 
information incorporated by reference 
into each review, has been approved by 
the Board and signed on its behalf by 
order of the Board.
Clare Underwood
Company Secretary 
19 May 2015
Annual Report 2014/15 41 Our quad play offering: 
Always on connectivity to 
satisfy growing customer 
needs.
42 Cable & Wireless Communications 44-47 Board of Directors
48-58  Directors’ and corporate 
governance report
59  Independent Directors’ report
60-65 Audit Committee report
66-67 Nomination Committee report
6 8 - 8 8  D ir e c t o rs ’ r e m u n e r a t io n 
report
8 9    S t a t e me n t o f Di r ec t o r s ’ 
responsibilities
Governance
In this section we introduce 
the Board and explain how our 
business is governed properly 
and responsibly.
Annual Report 2014/15 43 Board of Directors
Chief Executive Ocer
Board of Directors
Executive Committee
Role
– Implementing strategy and 
  objectives set by the Board
– Managing Performance
Members
– Four Executive Directors
– Chief Operating Ocer
Meet weekly
Reporting Committees
Acestior rovitatis exceaturiti 
bea et velliqu ametus platur 
alignim quid que moluptat. 
Occum, omnis as as sa 
diantiorum estiore serero 
temposa nisciur.
Acestior rovitatis exceaturiti 
bea et velliqu ametus platur 
alignim quid que moluptat. 
Occum, omnis as as sa 
diantiorum estiore serero 
temposa nisciur.
Acestior rovitatis exceaturiti 
bea et velliqu ametus platur 
alignim quid que moluptat. 
Occum, omnis as as sa 
diantiorum estiore serero 
temposa nisciur.
 
 “The Board has seen significant change within the year. 
Perley McBride was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in 
June 2014, and we welcomed our four new Non-executive 
Directors – Barbara Thoralfsson, Brendan Paddick, 
John Risley and Thad York – who each bring extensive 
experience of the telecoms industry”
Sir Richard Lapthorne CBE, Chairman
Board of Directors
Chief Executive Officer
Executive Team
Reporting Committees
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee
 • Review and monitor financial results 
and controls, business operations and 
management of risks.
 • Assist the Board in confirming that the 
Annual Report and Accounts are fair, 
balanced and understandable.
 • Review and approve internal audit, and 
review and monitor independence and 
performance of the external auditor.
Phil Bentley 
Perley McBride 
John Reid 
John Maduri 
Paul Scott 
Carlo Alloni 
Michele English 
Belinda Bradberry 
Niall Merry 
Agustin de la Guardia 
Leon Williams
Chris Dehring 
 • Review composition of and succession to the Board and 
recommend appointments.
 • Ongoing assessment of the overall balance and 
performance of the Board.
 • Ensure the balance of the Board, and its Committees, are 
in compliance with the Corporate Governance Code.
 • Attend to Group operational matters.
 • Manage the performance of the Group.
 • Develop and execute the strategy of the Group.
 • Put in place strong functions across the Group so as 
to ensure consistency in all our markets and highest 
standards are maintained.
 • Report to the Board on all relevant matters under, and 
operate within, the Delegation of Authority Framework.
 • Recommend and review the 
remuneration policy.
 • Review the design and policy of share 
incentive plans.
 • Review performance conditions and 
measures.
 • Approve amendments to service 
contracts.
 • Meetings are held on a monthly basis.
44 Cable & Wireless Communications Sir Richard Lapthorne, cbe
Chairman, Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee
Phil Bentley
Chief Executive Officer
R. Perley McBride
Chief Financial Officer
Simon Ball
Joint Deputy Chairman, Senior 
Independent Director, Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee
N A
 
N
 
R
Sir Richard Lapthorne is Chairman of 
the Company having been Chairman 
of Cable and Wireless plc since 
January 2003; and is also Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee.
Richard is also Chairman of the 
PwC Public Interest Body; and a 
Non-executive Director of Sherritt 
International, based in Toronto.
Between June 2009 and April 2010, 
he was Chairman of the McLaren 
Group. From 1996 to May 2003 
Richard was Chairman of Amersham 
International plc (now GE Healthcare) 
having joined its Board as a Non-
executive Director in 1989. He was 
Finance Director of British Aerospace 
plc from July 1992 and Vice Chairman 
from April 1998 until his retirement 
in 1999. From March 2012 until 
October 2013 he served as Chairman 
of the Foresight Group on UK 
Manufacturing.
Richard was also a Trustee of 
Tommy’s Campaign until January 
2014; Non-executive Chairman of 
New Look Group and Morse plc until 
November 2007 and February 2008 
respectively; and Her Majesty the 
Queen’s Trustee at The Royal Botanic 
Gardens, Kew until his retirement in 
September 2009.
Phil Bentley was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company 
on 1 January 2014.
Between 2007 and 2013 Phil was 
the Managing Director of British Gas, 
the UK’s largest energy and services 
business; and was on the Board of 
Centrica Plc from November 2000 to 
June 2013, having served as Group 
Finance Director from 2000 to 2004 
and Managing Director, Europe from 
2004 to 2007.
Prior to that, he was Finance Director 
for Diageo Plc’s spirits division and 
Group Treasurer. He also served 
in several senior international 
management roles during a 15-year 
career at BP Plc and lived and worked 
in China, Egypt, France and the USA.
Phil was previously a Non-executive 
Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of IMI Plc between 2012 
and 2014; and was a Non-executive 
Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Kingfisher Plc between 
2002 and 2010.
Phil holds a Master’s degree from 
Oxford University; and received his 
MBA from INSEAD, Fontainebleau.
R. Perley McBride was appointed 
as Chief Financial Officer of the 
Company in June 2014.
Between December 2012 and May 
2014 Perley served as Chief Financial 
Officer at Leap Wireless International 
(which operated the Cricket 
Communications mobile brand). 
He was part of the executive team 
that led the business through its 
acquisition by AT&T Inc., which 
completed in March 2014.
Prior to Leap Wireless, he served as 
Executive Vice President of Finance 
at the Weather Company between 
2010 and 2012. Prior to that, he 
served in several senior financial 
management roles at Frontier 
Communications (formerly Citizen’s 
Communications) between 1999 and 
2010, and also between 1994 and 
1997. He also worked in the finance 
department at Sprint Corporation 
early in his career.
Perley holds a Bachelor of Science 
degree from Mount Allison University 
in Canada and has an MBA from the 
University of Houston.
Simon Ball is a Non-executive 
Director of the Company having 
previously served as a Non-executive 
Director of Cable and Wireless plc 
since May 2006.
Simon is also the Joint Deputy 
Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director, Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a 
member of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees. Simon became 
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee on 1 June 2012 having 
previously been the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
He is also a Non-executive Director 
of Allied Irish Bank plc, Non-executive 
Director of Commonwealth Games 
England and Chairman of Anchura 
Group Ltd.
Previously, Simon was Group Finance 
Director for 3i Group plc until 
November 2008; and was Non-
executive Director and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee of Tribal Group 
plc until May 2014. He also held a 
series of senior finance and 
operational roles at Dresdner 
Kleinwort Benson, served as Group 
Finance Director for the Robert 
Fleming Group and was Director 
General, Finance for the Department 
for Constitutional Affairs.
A
 
Denotes membership of Audit Committee.
N
 
Denotes membership of Nomination Committee.
R
 
Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee.
Committee membership shown as at 31 March 2015.
Annual Report 2014/15 45 John Risley
Joint Deputy Chairman, 
Non-executive Director
Mark Hamlin
Non-executive Director
Brendan Paddick
Non-executive Director
Alison Platt 
Non-executive Director
N A
 
N
 
R N A
 
N
 
R
John Risley was appointed as 
a Non-executive Director of the 
Company on 31 March 2015 and 
serves as the Joint Deputy Chairman 
and a member of the Nomination 
Committee.
John is the founder and Director of 
Clearwater Seafoods Incorporated 
and also President of Clearwater Fine 
Foods Incorporated. John also served 
on the Board of the Columbus Group 
from 2004; Persona Communications 
from 2002 to 2004; and Cable 
Bahamas from 2005 to 2010. In 
addition, John was the founder of 
Ocean Nutrition Canada and serves 
as a Director of numerous private and 
public companies, including 
Clearwater Seafoods Limited.
John sits on the Board of a number of 
charitable organisations. He is Chair 
of Futurpreneur Canada and co-Chair 
of the Capital Campaign for the 
Nature Conservancy. He regularly 
engages in public policy debate; is 
Chairman of the Atlantic Institute of 
Market Studies; a member of both 
the World Presidents’ Organization 
and The Chief Executives 
Organization; and is a Director of the 
Canadian Council of Chief Executives.
John is a graduate of Harvard 
University’s President’s Program in 
Leadership. Further achievements 
include being named an Officer of 
the Order of Canada and being 
inducted into the Nova Scotia Junior 
Achievement Business Hall of Fame in 
1997. He has also received numerous 
awards, including Atlantic Canadian 
Entrepreneur of the Year and a 
Canada Award for Business 
Excellence in Entrepreneurship.
Mark Hamlin has been a Non-
executive Director of the Company 
since his appointment on 1 January 
2012 and is a member of the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees.
Mark is a Chartered Clinical 
Psychologist. He established a 
Management Consulting firm, with 
offices in Washington, Johannesburg 
and London, in 1990 and for the last 
15 years has been the Chairman of 
the Organisation Resource Group, 
which includes companies focused on 
property, software and consulting.
Mark is a senior adviser to the boards 
of global businesses in many areas, 
such as strategy, culture and 
corporate change programmes in 
international markets. Clients include 
those from the finance, aerospace, 
electricity generation, utilities, 
airline, pharmaceutical, defence, and 
telecom industries. His models of 
transformation and change are used 
by practitioners around the world to 
enable the successful implementation 
of strategy.
Born in Johannesburg, he is involved 
with a number of charities in Africa, 
some aimed at creating additional 
income for subsistence farmers and 
their families, and others establishing 
life skills education centres for young 
people. Mark is the President of 
Wedmore Opera, a community-
based music performance charity 
in Somerset.
Brendan Paddick was appointed as 
a Non-executive Director of the 
Company on 31 March 2015 and 
serves as a member of the 
Nomination Committee.
Brendan founded the Columbus 
International group of companies in 
2004; and served on the Board as 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
from inception. He was also the Chief 
Executive Officer of all Columbus’ 
operating subsidiaries. Brendan 
currently serves on the Board of 
Clearwater Seafoods Incorporated.
From 2005 to 2012, Brendan served 
on the Board of the Caribbean Cable 
Television Cooperative and is a past 
Chair of the Board of the Caribbean 
Cable & Telecommunications 
Association. Prior to founding 
Columbus, Brendan was President 
and Chief Executive Officer of 
Persona, Inc. and Persona 
Communications Inc. from 1992 to 
2004. Brendan was a member of 
Industry Canada’s National Broadband 
Task Force in 2001, a government 
initiative to shape the country’s roll 
out of broadband access; and in 
2006, he was appointed Honorary 
Consul for Canada to The Bahamas by 
the Canadian Department of Foreign 
Affairs and International Trade – he 
was subsequently reappointed in 
2009 and 2012.
Brendan graduated with a Bachelor 
of Commerce degree from Memorial 
University of Newfoundland, where 
he also received his MBA. He served 
as a Member of the Board of Regents 
of Memorial University for six years. 
In 2013, he was named Memorial 
University’s Alumnus of the Year. 
Brendan is also a graduate of the 
Advanced Management Program 
at Harvard University.
Alison Platt was appointed as a 
Non-executive Director of the 
Company on 1 June 2012 and is 
a member of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees.
Alison is Chief Executive of 
Countrywide plc, having been 
appointed to the role on 1 September 
2014. Previous to this Alison was 
a Managing Director at Bupa, 
responsible for International 
Development Markets. She took 
up this post in October 2012 having 
previously held a number of senior 
posts across Bupa including Chief 
Operating Officer of its UK private 
hospitals business, Deputy Managing 
Director in its UK insurance business 
and latterly Managing Director for its 
businesses in the UK, Europe and 
North America. Before joining Bupa, 
Alison held a number of key positions 
in British Airways.
Alison was Chair of ‘Opportunity 
Now’, which seeks to accelerate 
change for women in the workplace, 
from May 2009 until April 2013. She 
was also Non-executive Director of 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office 
between 2005 and 2010, and in the 
2011 New Year Honours she was 
appointed a CMG for her services 
to the Board of the FCO.
Board of Directors continued
46 Cable & Wireless Communications Barbara Thoralfsson
Non-executive Director
Ian Tyler
Non-executive Director, 
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee
Thad York
Non-executive Director
A
 
N
 
R A
 
N
 
R N
Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed 
as a Non-executive Director of the 
Company on 7 January 2015. Barbara 
is also a member of the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees.
Barbara has extensive experience 
in the telecoms industry having been 
CEO of NetCom ASA, Norway’s 
second largest mobile network 
operator, between 2001 and 2005; 
and a Non-executive Director of 
Tandberg ASA, a leading global 
supplier of video conferencing 
systems, from 2006 until 2010. Since 
2009 Barbara has also served as a 
Non-executive Director of Telenor 
ASA, a leading mobile operator in 
Scandinavia, Eastern Europe and Asia, 
however, she is due to step down 
from this appointment in June 2015.
She has been an Industrial Adviser 
to EQT Private Equity Partners since 
2007; serves as a Non-executive 
Director on the Boards of SCA AB, 
Hilti AG and ColArt Holdings Ltd; 
and has been an owner of Fleming 
Industrier AS, investing in 
Scandinavian small cap companies, 
since 2006. 
Previously, Barbara was CEO of 
Midelfart & Co AS, from 1995 to 
2000, after holding senior positions 
in sales and marketing from 1988 
to 1995. Barbara has also served as 
a Non-executive Director on the 
Boards of Electrolux AB, Orkla ASA, 
and Stokke AS; as Chairman of SATS 
AB from 2005 to 2006; and sat on 
the Advisory Council for SOS 
Children’s Villages.
Barbara has an MBA in Marketing and 
Finance from Columbia University in 
New York; and a BA in Psychology 
from Duke University in Durham, 
North Carolina.
Ian Tyler has been a Non-executive 
Director of the Company since his 
appointment on 1 January 2011.
On 1 June 2012, Ian was appointed 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Ian 
is also a member of the Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees.
Ian is a Chartered Accountant and 
was the Chief Executive of Balfour 
Beatty plc from January 2005 to 
March 2013, having joined the 
company in 1996 as Finance Director 
and then becoming Chief Operating 
Officer in 2002.
From 1991 to 1996, Ian held various 
senior financial positions within 
Hanson PLC. Ian is a Non-executive 
Chairman and Chairman of the 
Nomination Committees of Bovis 
Homes Group PLC and Cairn Energy 
PLC; Non-executive Chairman 
and Chairman of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees of 
Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc; and 
a Non-executive Director of BAE 
Systems plc.
Ian is also Chairman of CRASH, the 
construction and property industry 
charity for homeless people around 
the UK; and serves as a Crown 
Representative for the Cabinet Office.
Thad York was appointed as a 
Non-executive Director of the 
Company on 31 March 2015 and 
serves as a member of the 
Nomination Committee.
Thad is the President, General 
Manager, and Director of numerous 
geographically diverse and various 
personal and business entities 
controlled by John C. Malone.
Prior to his current roles, Thad held 
senior positions at 
Telecommunications Inc. (‘TCI’) and 
TCI International, that ranged from 
operations to finance in TCI’s cable 
TV business. He started in the cable 
television business as an Installer for 
TCI while attending college.
Thad graduated from the University 
of Wyoming with a degree in Finance, 
and received his MBA from the 
University of Denver.
Annual Report 2014/15 47 48 Cable & Wireless Communications
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
Chairman
The Board has changed significantly since January 2014. Phil Bentley 
joined us in January 2014 as Chief Executive Officer, and having been 
with us for over a year now has proved himself to be a talented and 
energetic CEO who has achieved a huge amount since his arrival. 
Perley McBride joined the Board in June 2014 as Chief Financial 
Officer, and has brought with him a wealth of experience. In January 
2015, Barbara Thoralfsson joined as an additional Non-executive 
Director. Barbara brings extensive experience of the telecoms 
industry which will enable her to make a valuable contribution to the 
Board, and as a Cuban American who grew up in Miami, she also has a 
strong connection with our target region. As a result of the acquisition 
of Columbus International Inc. which completed on 31 March 2015, 
John Risley, Brendan Paddick and Thad York also joined the Board as 
Non-executive Directors. Each brings many years of experience in the 
telecoms industry within the Caribbean and Latin America region. We 
welcome each of the new Directors to the Board, and look forward to 
working with them, and the experience and insight they bring with 
them. Each Director, including existing Directors will be put forward 
for election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. Finally, Nick Cooper, who has served as Corporate Services 
Director since demerger in 2010 and provided valuable continuity for 
the Company during a period of unprecedented change, stepped 
down from the Board on 31 March 2015.
The core purpose of the Board is to set the Group’s strategy to deliver 
sustainable, profitable growth over the long term for the benefit of all 
stakeholders. Our strategy to deliver this growth is founded on the 
belief that we must grow our customer lifetime value by delivering a 
‘best-in-class’ customer experience. This cannot be achieved without 
the right people, processes and infrastructure to take advantage of 
opportunities and manage risks. During 2014/15, we launched Project 
Marlin, a significant capital investment programme to help achieve our 
strategic imperatives. The progress to date on each of our strategic 
imperatives along with Project Marlin is provided in detail in pages 8 to 
35. In addition to this, we also announced the acquisition of Columbus 
Dear Shareholder ,
This has been a transformational year 
for Cable & Wireless Communications. 
Our Miami operational hub is now 
established, with our main central 
services having relocated. The London 
Headquarters is maintained, but has also 
moved location to a smaller office in 
central London. We have also sold our 
Monaco business and acquired both 
Columbus International Inc. and Grupo 
Sonitel, S.A. during the year , both of 
which have strengthened our focus on 
the Caribbean and Latin America region.
Directors’ and corporate governance report
Committed to Good Governance Annual Report 2014/15 49
during the year. This is a transformational transaction for the 
Company, and will create an enlarged Group with greater regional 
presence, scale and scope with assets and capabilities that the Board 
believes will reinforce and accelerate the realisation across each of 
CWC’s six areas of strategic focus, as described in the Strategy 
section in this report. The acquisition will also strengthen the 
management team with highly skilled, experienced and 
entrepreneurial personalities focused on customer experience 
excellence and shareholder value creation.
We have continued our engagement with major shareholders and 
governance bodies throughout the year. The main instances of this 
were in respect of both the Directors’ remuneration policy earlier in 
the year and the acquisition of Columbus. The discussions on both 
occasions were highly constructive and we will continue to engage 
with shareholders regarding key issues in the future. Further details 
are given in respect of both the Directors’ remuneration policy and 
the acquisition within the Directors’ remuneration report and Strategic 
report respectively.
As part of our ongoing commitment to good corporate governance 
a full evaluation of the Board commenced in January 2015. The 
evaluation was facilitated by Independent Audit, and the process 
consisted of one to one interviews with the Board, senior 
management team and external advisors. Conclusions and 
recommendations will be discussed at a forthcoming Board meeting 
and findings of this evaluation will be reported on in the 2015/16 
Annual Report and Accounts. 
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
19 May 2015
Compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 
This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2012 (the Code) and the extent to which 
the Company complied with the provisions of the Code in the year to 
31 March 2015. Throughout the year the Group has applied the main 
principles of the Code as described in pages 48 to 54 except for 
provision C.3.7 in respect of putting the external audit contract out 
to tender at least every ten years. An explanation in respect of this 
provision is given in the Audit Committee report on page 60. 
The Board believes that this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as 
a whole, reflects a fair, balanced and understandable review of the 
Company, and presents a comprehensive and impartial view of the 
Group’s business. Further information on this requirement can be 
found on page 54 of the Corporate Governance Report. The Board 
also believes that the report provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy. We believe that the disclosure on the Group’s strategy 
and business model set out on pages 2 to 41, and the key performance 
indicators that we use to measure both financial and non-financial 
performance (and to set performance-related remuneration for senior 
executives), meet this requirement. The Code is available on the 
Financial Reporting Council’s website www.frc.org.uk.
The acquisition of Columbus
Following completion of the acquisition of Columbus, the Takeover 
Panel considers that the Directors from time to time (and their close 
relatives) will be deemed to be acting in concert with the Principal 
Vendors and the Ultimate Controllers (in each case, as defined and 
further described in the circular to shareholders dated 19 November 
2014). This has required CWC to put in place various arrangements 
which include regulating the holding of shares by Directors and 
ensuring the continued independence of the Company in accordance 
with the Listing Rules, which are summarised in more detail below 
on pages 55 to 56.
Board membership, balance and independence
Biographies of the current Directors, including details of their 
Committee memberships, are shown on pages 45 to 47. 
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors, 
and eight Non-executive Directors. Having reviewed the position 
of each Director individually, the Board considers five out of eight 
Non-executive Directors (Simon Ball, Mark Hamlin, Alison Platt, 
Barbara Thoralfsson and Ian Tyler) to be independent in both character 
and judgement. The remaining three Non-executive Directors 
(Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York) are considered non-
independent as they have been nominated to the Board by the 
Principal Vendors of Columbus. Collectively, the Non-executive 
Directors contribute to an effective Board with a strong mix of 
skills and business experience, including recent financial, strategic, 
operational and retail experience, gained in a variety of geographic 
areas. As they all occupy or have occupied senior positions each 
contributes significant weight to Board decisions. 
The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year 
term with an expectation that they will continue for a further 
three-year term.
Mark Hamlin’s initial three-year term came to an end on 31 December 
2014. The Board considered his reappointment for a further three-
year period. The reappointment of Simon Ball for a further one-year  50 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ and corporate governance report continued
Committed to Good Governance
period was also considered in February 2015. Simon has been 
a Director of the Company since demerger in March 2010, and prior 
to this served as a Non-executive Director of Cable and Wireless plc 
from 1 May 2006.
Having reviewed both Mark’s and Simon’s contributions to the Board, 
the Board considered their knowledge and skills to be invaluable to the 
Company. The Board considered both Directors to be independent in 
character and judgement, and as such, the Board approved their 
re-appointment.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive 
Directors, which set out the time commitment expected of them, 
and the service contracts for Executive Directors, are available for 
inspection by shareholders at our registered office during normal 
business hours and at our Annual General Meeting (AGM).
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary as 
well as appropriate training and briefings on matters including 
corporate responsibility and sustainability, ethics, health & safety, 
governance matters and specific aspects and implications of the 
acquisition of Columbus. Additionally, any Director may take 
independent professional advice on any matter at the Company’s 
expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Specific Role of Individual Members of the Board and the Company Secretary
Director Responsible for:
Sir Richard 
Lapthorne, CBE
1
Chairman
 • overall operation and governance of 
the Board; 
 • providing leadership of the Board to 
ensure that the Board satisfies its duties 
and responsibilities; 
 • setting of the agenda for the Board;
 • ensuring that the Board receives clear, 
timely and accurate information;
 • facilitating the contribution of the 
Directors; and
 • ensuring that the Company maintains 
effective communication with 
shareholders and other stakeholders 
(shared responsibility with the Senior 
Independent Director).
Phil Bentley 
Chief Executive Officer
 • developing the strategy for 
recommendation to the Board; and
 • leadership of the business and managing 
it within the authorities delegated by 
the Board.
Simon Ball
2
Senior Independent 
Director
 • meeting shareholders on request and 
acting as the designated point of contact 
for shareholders to raise any concerns 
where contact through the normal 
channels of the Chairman or Executive 
Directors is inappropriate. 
 • bringing to the attention of the Board the 
matters raised by major shareholders; and
 • ensuring that the Company maintains 
effective communication with 
shareholders and other stakeholders 
(shared responsibility with the Chairman).
Specific Role of Individual Members of the Board and the Company Secretary
Director Responsible for:
Clare Underwood 
Company Secretary
3
 • ensuring that good quality corporate 
governance is embedded and followed 
within the Company, along with the 
implementation of efficient company 
administration; 
 • acting as a confidential sounding board to 
the Chairman and other Directors; 
 • providing advice in relation to Board 
deliberations and decision making; and 
 • ensuring compliance with developments 
in legislation, regulation and governance.
1 The commitment of the Chairman as a Non-executive Director of Sherritt 
International, a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, and as Chairman of 
the PwC Public Interest Body are noted on page 45. The Board considers that these 
appointments are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
2 The commitment of the Senior Independent Director as a Non-executive Director 
of Allied Irish Bank plc, and of Commonwealth Games England, and as a Chairman 
of Anchura Group Limited are noted on page 45. The Board considers that these 
appointments are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
3 During the year both Belinda Bradberry and Nick Cooper acted as joint Company 
Secretary with Clare Underwood, and since 11 May 2015 Clare has been the sole 
Company Secretary.
Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the Group’s corporate governance system 
and is committed to maintaining high governance standards. In order 
to progress the objectives of the Group, the Board meets on a regular 
basis and is responsible for organising and directing the Company and 
the Group in a manner that promotes the success of the Company and 
is consistent with good corporate governance practice. To enable the 
Board to function effectively, full and timely access to all relevant 
information is given to the Board. 
The key policies and practices of the Company and the Group are set 
out in this report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on 
pages 60 to 65, the Remuneration Committee on pages 68 to 88 
and the Nomination Committee on pages 66 to 67. Furthermore, 
our independent Non-executive Directors have prepared a report 
describing corporate governance and behaviours of the Board on page 
59 and details of significant shareholdings and rights, obligations, 
powers and procedures under the Company’s Articles of Association 
(the Articles) are set out in the statutory information on pages 56 to 
58. Together, these reports provide shareholders with an insight into 
how our Board and senior management seek to manage the business 
to create and deliver long-term success for the Group. 
Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board and Committee 
meetings are prepared and circulated to each Director as appropriate. 
If a Director objects to a particular proposal, this is recorded in the 
minutes of the relevant meeting. During the period under review there 
were no such objections. 
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board which 
includes:
 • Strategy and management:
Approval of long-term objectives and strategy, extension of Group 
activities into new business or geographic areas, any decision to cease 
to operate any material part of the Group’s business, review of Group 
performance and the approval of annual budget Annual Report 2014/15 51
 • Corporate governance:
Annual formal reviews of its own performance, a review of Group 
corporate governance arrangements, receiving reports on the views 
of shareholders and determining the independence of Non-executive 
Directors
 • Financial reporting:
Approval of announcements of interim and final results, Annual Report 
and Accounts, approval of dividend policy and approval of significant 
changes in accounting policies and practices
 • Board membership and other appointments:
Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, 
membership and chairmanship of Board Committees, ensuring 
adequate succession planning, appointment of the Senior Independent 
Director and the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary
 • Remuneration:
Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors and other 
senior executives and the introduction of new share incentive plans or 
major changes to existing plans to be put to shareholders for approval
 • Delegation of authority:
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive Officer and receiving reports from Board Committees 
on their activities
 • Contracts/expenditure:
Approval of all significant contracts and expenditure and all 
investments or disposals in shares in which the Group holds an interest
 • Internal controls:
Receiving reports on and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk and control processes to support its strategy and objectives and 
assessing these annually
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees, each with clearly defined terms of 
reference. Each Committee reviews their terms of reference annually 
to ensure that they remain appropriate and effective.
Full details on matters reserved for the Board and the terms of 
reference of its Committees can be found on our website at 
www.cwc.com.
Board meetings
The Board meets regularly and there were eight meetings during the 
year. There are a number of informal meetings held throughout the 
year and as part of the annual corporate governance programme, the 
Independent Directors meet once a year to discuss any relevant 
governance matters. The Non-executive Directors also meet with the 
Chairman present and with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
present. This balance of formal and informal meetings throughout the 
year creates an environment that encourages challenge, the sharing of 
information, innovative thinking and open communication.
Details of Directors’ attendance at scheduled Board meetings are 
shown in the table below: 
Members Meetings attended
Chairman
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE        7/8*
Chief Executive Officer
Phil Bentley        8/8
Executive Directors
Nick Cooper
1
        8/8
Perley McBride
2
       7/7
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball         7/8*
Mark Hamlin         8/8
Brendan Paddick
3
0/0
Alison Platt         7/8*
John Risley
3
0/0
Barbara Thoralfsson
4
   1/2
Ian Tyler         8/8
Thad York
3
0/0
1 Nick Cooper stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2015. 
2 Perley McBride was appointed to the Board with effect from 26 June 2014. 
3 Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York were appointed to the Board with effect 
from 31 March 2015.
4 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the Board with effect from 7 January 2015, and 
was unable to attend a scheduled meeting as a result of a prior engagement which was 
in place before joining the Company.
* The frequency of meetings increased in the latter part of 2014 due to the oversight 
required by the Board for the acquisition of Columbus. As a result some meetings were 
arranged at short notice and not all Directors were able to attend.
Board Committees 
The reports of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 
are set out on pages 60 to 65, 66 to 67 and 68 to 88 respectively.
Integration Committee
An Integration Committee was established as part of the acquisition of 
Columbus International Inc. This is not a committee of the Board, but 
one which oversees the whole integration process, and provides 
regular updates to the Board on the progress, and aspects of the 
integration of the two businesses. 
The members of the Integration Committee are Sir Richard Lapthorne, 
Phil Bentley, Mark Hamlin, Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York.
One of the complexities involved in the acquisition of Columbus is the 
strategic imperative of integrating a talented group of executives 
from both Columbus and CWC, and creating a unified team with 
a shared culture, which is key to the success of the acquisition as a 
whole. It was agreed by the Board that as Mark Hamlin has unique 
capabilities and experience in this area having led similar projects for 
multinational companies in complex environments over many years, 
together with his acquired experience of CWC and its culture and 
history, he is uniquely qualified to support CWC on the integration 
project. In order to provide this support Mark has agreed to act as 
Alternate Chair of the Integration Committee. 52 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ and corporate governance report continued
Committed to Good Governance
Improving Board effectiveness/Continuing development
Induction
On appointment, the induction of new Board members is undertaken 
by the Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who 
retains responsibility for the induction process. The induction 
includes the provision of information about the Company, details of 
procedures, governance issues, Directors’ responsibilities, the role 
of the Board, the matters reserved for its decision, and the terms of 
reference of the principal Board Committees. The programme also 
includes meetings with senior management and key advisers, and 
meetings with major shareholders are arranged on request.
Professional development
The ongoing training and development programme for the 
Directors includes
 • Regular visits to the overseas business units to meet the local 
teams. During the year, this included three overseas Board visits 
(to Barbados, Jamaica and Miami) enabling the Board to meet with 
local senior management and to obtain an enhanced and more 
in-depth knowledge of the business operations 
 • Governance updates from external advisers or via the Company 
Secretary’s report 
During the year, presentations given to the Board included:
 • Corporate governance aspects arising from the acquisition of 
Columbus, including the concert party, financing and banking 
implications
 • Deep-dive presentations from both the Barbados and Jamaican 
business units regarding their business, political and economic 
environment, trading and performances, along with onsite visits 
to stores and technology sites
 • In-depth training sessions on both TV and B2B aspects of the 
businesses
In addition, individual training requirements are agreed and arranged 
with Directors, as required.
Performance evaluation
In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board takes 
place at least every three years. Independent Audit Limited, which has 
no other connection with the Company or Group, were engaged to 
undertake an externally facilitated Board evaluation during this 
financial year. 
The first stage of the review involved Independent Audit engaging 
with the Chairman and the Company Secretary to set the scope 
and context for the evaluation. Interviews were conducted with all 
members of the Board, senior management and external advisers 
by two partners from Independent Audit. All interviews were held 
on an individual, anonymous basis addressing the performance and 
effectiveness of the Board, Board Committees, Chairman and 
individual performance of the Directors. The anonymity of all 
respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to promote 
the open and frank exchange of views. 
The results will be discussed at a Board meeting in June 2015, and will 
be reported on in the 2015/16 Annual Report and Accounts.
Directors
Re-election
The Company complies with the Code, which specifies that all 
Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. The Board is satisfied that each Director 
continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their 
role. All Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2015 
AGM. As explained below on page 55, a dual voting procedure in 
respect of the election or re-election of the independent Directors 
will be implemented at this year’s AGM.
Directors’ interests
The remuneration of the Directors and interests of the Directors 
and their connected persons in the shares of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc, along with details of their share awards, 
are contained in the Directors’ remuneration report set out on 
pages 68 to 88.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Articles include provisions covering Directors’ conflicts and allow 
the Board to authorise a matter that would otherwise involve a Director 
breaching his duty to avoid conflicts. The Company has procedures in 
place to deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of interest, 
including the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts and the 
imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when considering and 
authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate. No Director had 
a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries during the year. For further information, refer to 
note 5.6 of the consolidated financial statements. 
Directors’ indemnities
The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its Directors 
against personal financial exposure that they may incur in the course 
of their professional duties as Directors of the Company and/or any 
subsidiaries (as applicable). These indemnities are qualifying third-
party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 
2006 (the 2006 Act). They were granted on appointment of the 
Directors and are still in force. Officers of wholly owned subsidiary 
companies within the Group have also been granted indemnities.
Powers of Directors
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and 
the Articles. As provided in the Articles, the Directors may exercise 
all the Company’s powers provided that the Articles or applicable 
legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised 
by the members. The Directors have been authorised to issue and 
allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 12. The powers under 
Article 12 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal. 
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are 
contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is eligible to be 
elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate 
such persons. 
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary 
resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, 
provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this way 
retires and stands for election at the first AGM following his appointment. Annual Report 2014/15 53
The Company’s members may remove a Director by passing an 
ordinary resolution for which special notice has been given. Any 
Director will automatically cease to be a Director if: (i) they resign; 
(ii) they offer to resign and the other Directors accept that offer; 
(iii) all the other Directors (being at least three) require it; (iv) they 
are suffering from mental ill health and the Directors require them to 
cease to be a Director; (v) they have missed Directors’ meetings for 
a continuous period of six months without permission and the other 
Directors resolve that they shall cease to be a Director; (vi) a 
bankruptcy order is made against them, or they make an arrangement 
or composition with their creditors; (vii) they are prohibited from 
being a Director by law; or (viii) they cease to be a Director under 
legislation or are removed from office under the Articles.
Shareholder engagement and communication
As part of our commitment to regular dialogue, meetings have been 
held between the Executive Directors and shareholders to discuss any 
issues they wished to raise during the year. The Chairman and the 
Senior Independent Director are responsible for ensuring that the 
Company maintains effective communication with shareholders and 
other stakeholders. The Company intends to continue this practice. 
Ahead of the 2014 AGM, and to take into account the new 
requirement to approve a Remuneration Policy and framework, Simon 
Ball sent letters to the Company’s top 20 shareholders at the time to 
offer meetings to discuss the proposed Remuneration Policy. Meetings 
and further discussions were then held with shareholders who had 
requested it, where the proposals were explained in detail. Feedback 
was taken from shareholders, reported back to the Board, and 
appropriate amendments were made to the Remuneration Policy and 
framework ahead of the AGM. 
AGM
The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Tuesday 21 July 2015 at the 
Hilton Hotel Paddington, 146 Praed Street, London W2 1EE. Details 
of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are given in the Notice 
of Meeting, a copy of which can be downloaded at www.cwc.com/
investor-relations. The AGM provides the Board with an opportunity 
to spend time with our private shareholders. The Board will be 
available for shareholders to speak to before the meeting. The 
Chairman and Chairs of each of the Committees will be available to 
answer shareholders’ questions during the meeting.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of US2.67 cents per 
ordinary share payable on 7 August 2015 to ordinary shareholders 
on the register at the close of business on 29 May 2015. This final 
dividend, together with the interim dividend of US1.33 cents per share 
paid by the Company on 9 January 2015, makes a total dividend 
payment to shareholders of the Company of US4 cents per ordinary 
share for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Internal Controls
Internal control, risk management and financial reporting
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis. The Group’s system 
of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost 
of control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
The Group operates a risk management process under which the 
regional businesses identify the key risks to their plans, their likelihood 
and impact and the actions being taken to manage those risks and the 
effectiveness of steps taken to mitigate them. The risk register is 
presented to the Audit Committee on a rolling 12-month basis. The 
principal risks identified by the Group are set out on pages 18 to 21.
The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of 
management, significant changes in the Group’s businesses and the 
external environment in which it operates. In addition, they provide 
the Board with monthly financial information, which includes key risk 
and performance indicators. The Group’s key internal control and 
monitoring procedures include the following:
 • Financial reporting: each year, an annual budget is agreed and 
approved by the Board. At each Executive Team meeting and 
each Board meeting, actual results are reviewed and reported 
against budget and, when appropriate, revised forecasts. Senior 
management within our businesses are required on a quarterly 
basis to certify compliance with the Group’s financial reporting 
requirements
 • Investment appraisal: the Group has clearly defined policies for 
capital expenditure. These include annual budgets, detailed 
appraisal and approval processes
 • Monitoring systems: internal controls are monitored through a 
programme of internal audits. The Internal Audit function reports 
to the Audit Committee on its examination and evaluation of the 
effectiveness and adequacy of systems of internal control. Any 
improvements required are identified, management actions 
assigned and implementation timescales agreed; progress against 
these actions is monitored on a monthly basis and reported to the 
Audit Committee
 • Financial and non-financial controls: the Group has dedicated 
resource to embed processes and controls across the businesses. 
It operates a number of self-assessment exercises, which include 
quarterly and annual processes to certify compliance with key 
financial and non-financial controls via the Business Assurance 
Checklist (BAC). The BAC requires management to assess and 
certify the effectiveness of its fundamental controls over all aspects 
of its operations. The Group is committed to a process of continual 
improvement in the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal 
control environment
 • Whistle-blowing: the Group operates an Ethics Helpline which is 
administered by an independent third party and is available to all 
employees
Effectiveness of internal control
The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems 
in operation during the financial year in accordance with the revised 
Turnbull guidance. These systems included financial, operational and 
compliance controls, along with risk management. The processes as 
set out above have been in place for the year under review and up to 
the date of this Annual Report and Accounts. Where appropriate, 
necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any failings and 
weaknesses identified as significant during this review.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within our 
subsidiaries rests with the senior management of those operations. 
We monitor our investments and exert our influence through Board 
representation where possible. 54 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ and corporate governance report continued
Committed to Good Governance
During the year, several aspects of the business have been reviewed 
and actions taken to help strengthen our system of control, 
transparency and governance. These have included:
 • Code of Conduct and Anti Bribery Policy – both of which have been 
reviewed and updated in light of the restructuring of the Group. 
These have been communicated to all employees, and training has 
been refreshed
 • Establishment of a Miami operational hub – our Miami operational 
hub has now been established and departments such as accounting, 
legal, treasury and procurement having been relocated has helped 
to streamline the division of responsibilities to allow markets to 
focus on serving customers
Fair, balanced and understandable requirements
The Board has responsibility for ensuring compliance of this Annual 
Report and Accounts with all elements of regulatory and governance 
best practice. One of the key governance requirements is that the 
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable. The Directors confirm that they consider the Annual 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and 
strategy. The following processes were adopted to assist the Board 
with reaching this conclusion:
 • Early preparation by management of a checklist of all reporting 
components of the Annual Report and Accounts, and how the 
requirements have been met. This is adopted by the Disclosure 
Committee and used in reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts 
before submission to the Audit Committee
 • Full review and verification of the Annual Report and Accounts by 
the Disclosure Committee, key stakeholders within the Company, 
the external auditor, and legal advisers to ensure consistency and 
accuracy in presentation
 • Agree the main areas of focus both for the Company and investors 
when drafting the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure all aspects 
are thoroughly considered, and key messages are communicated in 
a consistent, fair and balanced manner
 • A full presentation by the Disclosure Committee to the Audit 
Committee on a biannual basis detailing how the Company has 
reported on the business, and what considerations have been given 
to the reporting requirements
 • The final draft of the Annual Report and Accounts is reviewed in 
detail by the Audit Committee before it is submitted to the Board 
for consideration and final approval
Auditor
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information (as defined in Section 418(3) of the 2006 Act) of which 
the auditor, KPMG LLP , is unaware and the Directors have taken all 
reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and 
ensure the auditor is aware of such information.
Other information
Directors’ report and matters set out in the Strategic report
The Directors’ report comprises pages 48 to 58 (inclusive of the 
corporate governance section) and the other information in this report 
that is relevant to, and which is incorporated by reference into, the 
Directors’ report. Pages 2 to 41 inclusive consist of a Strategic report, 
through which the Board seeks to present a balanced and clear 
assessment of the Group’s activities, position and prospects. The 
Group’s results for the financial year are shown in the consolidated 
income statement on page 92. 
In accordance with section 414C(11) of the 2006 Act, the Board has 
chosen to set out in the Strategic report those matters required to be 
disclosed in the Directors’ report which it considers to be of strategic 
importance to the Company, as follows:
 • Likely future developments of the Company (throughout the 
Strategic report) 
 • Greenhouse gas emissions (page 41) 
 • Research and development activities (throughout the Strategic 
report) 
 • Employee communication (page 41) 
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4R
The relevant information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 
9.8.4R can be located as set out below:
Listing rule Description of Listing Rule Reference in Report 
9.8.4(1) A statement of any interest 
capitalised by the Group during 
the year
Note 4.1 of 
the financial 
statements
1
9.8.4(4) Details of any long-term incentive 
scheme as described in LR 9.4.2R (2)
Directors’ 
remuneration 
report 
9.8.4(7) Details of any allotments of shares 
by the company for cash not 
previously specifically authorised 
by shareholders
Note 4.10 of 
the financial 
statements
2
9.8.4(10) Details of any contract of 
significance with the company in 
which a director has a material 
interest; or a contract between 
the company and a controlling 
shareholder
Directors’ and 
corporate 
governance report
3
9.8.4(12) Details of any arrangement under 
which a shareholder has waived or 
agreed to waive any dividends
Notes 4.12 of 
the financial 
statements
4
9.8.4(13) Details of where a shareholder has 
agreed to waive future dividends
Notes 4.12 of 
the financial 
statements
5
9.8.4(14) Information required by LR 9.2.2AR 
(2)(a)
Directors’ and 
corporate 
governance report
3
1 Please refer to page 132 of the financial statements.
2 The company issued 252,812,284 new ordinary shares (‘Placing Shares’) of US5 cents 
each in the capital of the Company on 7 November 2014. These were placed by 
Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch (acting as lead manager and bookrunner) at a price 
of 45 pence per Placing Share. The Placing Shares issued represented 10%. less one 
share of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company prior to placing. Please refer 
to page 139 of the financial statements.
3 Please refer to pages 55 and 56.
4 The Cable & Wireless Communication Share Ownership Trust (the ‘Trust’) waived its 
rights to dividends held in the Trust, with the exception of those held by Directors under 
the deferred annual bonus plan. Please refer to page 142 of the financial statements.
5 See previous footnote. Annual Report 2014/15 55
The acquisition of Columbus
Following completion of the acquisition and owing to the voting 
arrangements between the Company and the Principal Vendors 
(as defined and further described in the circular to shareholders dated 
19 November 2014), which, subject to certain limited exceptions, 
require all voting rights on the consideration shares issued to the 
Principal Vendors to be exercised and all votes cast in line with the 
recommendation of the Board for an initial period, the Takeover Panel 
considers that the Directors from time to time (and their close 
relatives) will be deemed to be acting in concert with the Principal 
Vendors and the Ultimate Controllers (as defined and further 
described in the circular to shareholders dated 19 November 2014) 
(together, the ‘Concert Party’). The Concert Party holds 
approximately 36% of CWC’s share capital (excluding treasury shares).
When any person acquires an interest in shares which (taken together 
with shares in which persons acting in concert with him are interested) 
carry 30% or more of the voting rights of a company which is subject 
to the City Code and the Listing Rules certain requirements are 
triggered, including:
 • The requirement under Rule 9 of the City Code to make a 
mandatory offer to all the other shareholders to buy their shares 
both on initially acquiring the interest and where their shareholding 
subsequently increases
 • The requirements under the Listing Rules designed to ensure the 
independence of the company from any person who exercises or 
controls on their own or together with any person with whom they 
are acting in concert, 30% or more of the votes able to be cast on 
all or substantially all matters at a general meeting (the ‘controlling 
shareholders’.
Takeover Panel – Rule 9
On 5 December 2014, the Company’s independent shareholders 
approved a waiver of obligations arising under Rule 9.1 of the City 
Code (the ‘Whitewash’). The effect of the Whitewash was to waive the 
obligation which would normally oblige a member of the Concert 
Party to make a mandatory offer to all other shareholders to acquire 
their shares following the acquisition of certain shares in the Company.
The Whitewash permits up to the following numbers of interests in 
shares to be held by the Concert Party without a mandatory offer 
obligation under Rule 9.
Waiver
Maximum interest 
in CWC shares
Percentage of issued 
share capital of CWC
Waiver in respect of the issue 
of consideration shares
1,575,708,553 36.32
Waiver in respect of existing 
award under the Performance 
Share Plan
12,381,422 0.29
Waiver in respect of further 
awards under the CWC Share 
Plans
50,000,000 1.15
Waiver in respect of CWC 
Shares acquired by Directors to 
meet shareholding requirements
15,000,000 0.35
Waiver
Maximum interest 
in CWC shares
Percentage of issued 
share capital of CWC
Waiver in respect of CWC 
Shares acquired by Directors in 
proportion to the amount that 
they would otherwise have 
received through the dividend 
reinvestment plan
10,000,000 0.23
Total 1,663,089,975 38.34
The Consideration Shares were issued on completion of the acquisition 
on 31 March 2015. Since that date no further shares have been 
acquired by any member of the Concert Party under the terms of the 
Whitewash.
Listing rules – controlling shareholder
In addition, CWC is required to enter into relationship agreements with 
the Principal Vendors and all existing and any new Directors to ensure 
that its controlling shareholders comply with the provisions of the 
Listing Rules which are intended to ensure the independence of the 
Company from its controlling shareholders. These agreements (which 
were entered into on 31 March 2015) include the necessary 
independent undertakings. This includes:
 • Any transactions and arrangements between the Company and the 
controlling shareholder will be conducted at arm’s length and on 
normal commercial terms
 • Neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take 
any action that would have the effect of preventing CWC from 
complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules
 • Neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will 
propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is 
intended, or appears to be intended, to circumvent the Listing Rules
With effect from the 2016 AGM, CWC is also required to have in 
place procedures to allow dual voting on the election or re-election 
of the independent Directors, approval being required from both the 
shareholders as a whole and the independent shareholders (being the 
shareholders other than the controlling shareholders), and to include 
additional information in the notice of meeting in relation to the 
independent Directors. As part of the Company’s commitment to 
good corporate governance, the Board has decided to implement 
such dual voting arrangements at, and from, this year’s AGM.
CWC will report on compliance with the relationship agreements in 
next year’s Annual Report and Accounts. 
Put Option Deeds
As explained in the circular to shareholders dated 19 November 2014, 
as part of the acquisition the Company entered into lock-up and put 
option agreements (‘Put Option Deeds‘) with the Principal Vendors in 
respect of the consideration shares issued on completion which, 
(among other matters):
 • Enable each Principal Vendor to either (i) require the Company to 
purchase for cash up to a certain number of its consideration shares 
each year from 2016 to 2019 inclusive for the notional issue price 
of US$0.734917 cents per share; or (ii) sell up to that number of 
consideration shares each year from 2016 to 2019 in the market  56 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ and corporate governance report continued
Committed to Good Governance
(subject to orderly market arrangements with CWC). Specific 
shareholder authority for such purchases was obtained at the 
general meeting held on 5 December 2014 
 • Grant a right to the Principal Vendors to nominate one director 
each to the Board, subject to recommendation by the Nomination 
Committee. The initial three nominations were agreed at completion 
being, John Risley, Thad York and Brendan Paddick
 • Restrict the ability of the Principal Vendors to otherwise sell the 
consideration shares during the period covered by the options
At the general meeting held on 5 December 2014, shareholders 
granted authority to the Directors to allot, in addition to any other 
authority conferred on the Directors, including at last year’s AGM, 
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to US$100,000,000 
(representing 2,000,000,000 CWC shares of US$0.05 each). This 
authority is to enable the Company to allot new shares (if required) to 
fund its payment obligations under any options exercised under the 
Put Option Deeds. The current intention of the Directors is to cancel 
all shares bought back following the exercise of a put under a Put 
Option Deed to minimise any dilution to shareholders. This authority 
expires on 5 December 2019.
Political donations and expenditure
The Company does not make and has no intention of making 
donations to what are generally regarded as political parties within the 
European Union. As a precautionary measure and in light of the wide 
definitions of European Union political organisations for the purposes 
of the 2006 Act, a resolution was passed at the 2014 AGM permitting 
the Company to make political donations and incur political 
expenditure for a period of four years ending on the earlier of the 
2018 AGM or 24 July 2018. During the year, the Company did not 
exercise its authority granted to it at the 2014 AGM to make political 
donations within the European Union. In aggregate, the sum of US$0 
(US$0 restated for 2013/14) was made to non-EU political parties by 
non-EU subsidiary companies during the year. 
Employee communication and disability
The Group communicates with employees in many ways, including 
regular briefings by management, newsletters, emails, Team Talk Live! 
events, webcasts and intranet sites. These communications help to 
achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and 
operational performance of the Group. As described in the Corporate 
responsibility and sustainability section (‘Focus on our People’) on 
page 40, this year we have increased our employee engagement 
across the Group by implementing Team Talk Live! events, measuring 
employee engagement through the ‘Great Place to Work’ surveys and 
engaging on cultural and employee related impacts arising from the 
acquisition of Columbus.
Also, as described in that section, our employment policies comply 
with local requirements and relevant statutes. In particular, full and fair 
consideration with regard to employment and training is given to 
applicants with disabilities and career development is encouraged on 
the basis of aptitude and ability. It is Group policy to retain employees 
who become disabled while in its service and to provide specialist 
training where appropriate.
Share Information
Company’s shareholders
As at 31 March 2015 and the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the 
issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
As at 31 March 2015 As at 19 May 2015
 
No. of 
ordinary shares
% of 
voting rights
Nature of 
holding
No. of 
ordinary shares
% of 
voting rights
Nature of 
holding
CVBI Holdings (Barbados) Inc
1
788,549,081 18.18% Direct 788,549,081 18.18% Direct
Columbus Holding LLC 575,096,759 13.26% Direct 575,096,759 13.26% Direct
Orbis Holdings Limited 394,716,275 9.10% Indirect 390,365,353 9.00% Indirect
Quantum Partners LP 113,183,156 4.07%
Contract for 
Difference N/A below 3% N/A
Gamco Investors, Inc 165,409,680 3.70% Direct 165,409,680 3.70% Direct
Invesco Asset Management Ltd 139,872,700 3.22% Indirect 171,330,454 3.94% Indirect
Brendan Paddick 136,077,710 3.14% Direct 136,077,710 3.14% Direct
1 The combined shareholding of CVBI Holdings (Barbados) Inc and Clearwater Holdings (Barbados) Limited,  both ultimately controlled by John Risley, is 846,355,136 (19.51%). 
Share capital
The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details of 
shares allotted during the year, are shown in note 4.10 to the Company 
financial statements. 
252,812,284 new ordinary shares were issued on 7 November 2014 
pursuant to a placing exercise led by Deutsche Bank AG, London 
Branch, as lead manager and bookrunner, in order to help fund 
the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. Subsequently, on 
31 March 2015, 1,557 ,529,605 new ordinary shares were issued 
to the Principal Vendors as consideration in connection with the 
acquisition of Columbus.
In addition, at the general meeting held on 5 December 2014, 
shareholders granted specific authority to the Directors to allot 
new ordinary shares in connection with the rollover or satisfaction 
of awards under Columbus’ share schemes and/or other 
arrangements considered desirable to incentivise persons holding 
awards under those schemes up to an aggregate nominal amount  Annual Report 2014/15 57
of US$6,500,000. As at 19 May 2015 no shares had been issued 
under that authority. 
Details of the Relationship Agreements which were entered into on 
31 March 2015 between the Company and members of the Concert 
Party arising from the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. can 
be found on pages 55 and 56.
Further details on the share capital of the Company are set out in 
note 4.10 to the Company financial statements on page 140 and are 
incorporated into this report by reference. 
Existing authority to purchase own shares and treasury shares
At the 2014 AGM, the Company was authorised by shareholders to 
purchase up to 252 million of its own ordinary shares, representing 
approximately 10% of its issued share capital (excluding shares held 
in treasury) as at 9 June 2014. The Company did not exercise such 
authority during the year and the total number of shares held in 
treasury as at 31 March 2015 is 137 ,488,873. 
At the general meeting held on 5 December 2014, shareholders 
granted specific authority to the Directors to purchase up to 
1,557 ,529,605 CWC shares (being the consideration shares issued 
by the Company in connection with the acquisition of Columbus) under 
the Put Option Deeds. This authority expires on 5 December 2019.
The Board does not intend to seek shareholder approval at the 
forthcoming AGM on 21 July 2015 to make additional market 
purchases of its issued share capital.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes
The Trustees of The Cable & Wireless Communications Share 
Ownership Trust (the Trust) exercise the voting rights on shares held 
in the employee trust in accordance with their fiduciary duties as 
Trustees, which include the duty to act in the best interests of the 
beneficiaries of the Trust.
Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares
The following section summarises the rights and obligations in the 
Company’s Articles relating to the ordinary shares of the Company. 
The full Articles can be found on the Company’s website 
www.cwc.com.
Amendment of Articles: The Articles may be amended by a special 
resolution of the shareholders passed at a general meeting of the 
Company.
Voting: Each share (other than those held in treasury) allows the holder 
to have one vote at general meetings of the Company on votes taken 
on a poll. Proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received 
by the registrars at least 48 hours before the time appointed for the 
holding of a general meeting or 24 hours before a poll if not taken on 
the same day as the meeting (in each case subject to the Directors’ 
discretion to specify that the time periods exclude any part of a day 
that is not a working day).
Dividends: The Company’s shareholders can declare dividends by 
passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the 
amount recommended by the Directors. The Directors may also pay 
interim dividends without shareholder approval if they consider that 
the financial position of the Company justifies it. The Directors may 
operate dividend reinvestment plans or, subject to shareholder 
approval, operate scrip schemes or pay dividends by distributing 
assets. No dividend carries a right to interest from the Company. 
If dividends remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited by the 
shareholder and revert to the Company.
Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien on all partly paid shares 
(and dividends), which has priority over claims of others to such shares 
covering any money owed to the Company for the shares. The 
Directors may sell all or any of such shares where: (i) the money owed 
by the shareholder is payable immediately; (ii) the Directors have 
given notice demanding payment, stating the amount due and that 
the shares will be sold on non-payment; and (iii) the money has not 
been paid within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any money which 
has not yet been paid to the Company for their shares. If a call is 
unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay interest and all expenses 
incurred by the Company as a result of non-payment if the call 
remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the date of a notice. In addition, 
failure to comply with any such notice may result in forfeiture of any 
share which is the subject of the notice, including any unpaid dividends.
The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any shares that 
are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent dealings 
from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder shall 
not be entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Company or at 
any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares in 
the Company or exercise any other right conferred by membership in 
relation to general meetings if the shareholder has not paid all 
amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the 
meeting, or if the shareholder is given a notice following a failure by 
that shareholder or someone who appears to be interested in the 
shares to comply with a notice under section 793 of the 2006 Act. 
Further, if a shareholder holding 0.25% or more of the issued shares of 
a class (excluding treasury shares) or interested person is in default of 
a section 793 notice, the Directors may also state in the notice that: (i) 
the payment of any dividend shall be withheld; (ii) the shareholder shall 
not be entitled to elect to receive shares in place of dividends 
withheld; and (iii) the transfer of the shares held by such shareholder 
shall be restricted.
Certificated shares: The Company can sell any certificated shares at 
the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale if: (i) in a 
period of 12 years at least three dividends have become payable and 
no dividends have been claimed; (ii) the Company has published a 
notice after the 12-year period stating that it intends to sell the 
shares; and (iii) during the 12-year period and for three months after 
the notice, the Company has not heard from the shareholder or any 
person entitled to sell the shares.
The Directors may decline registration of certificated shares if: (i) a 
share transfer form is used to transfer more than one class of shares; 
(ii) transfers are in favour of more than four joint holders; or (iii) the 
share transfer form is not delivered to the office, or such other place 
decided on by the Directors, accompanied by the share certificate 
relating to the shares being transferred (unless the transfer is by a 
person to whom the Company was not required to, and did not, send a 
certificate) and any other evidence reasonably asked for by the 
Directors to show entitlement to transfer the shares.
Uncertificated shares: The Directors may decline registration of 
uncertificated shares if the transfer is in favour of more than four joint  58 Cable & Wireless Communications
holders or otherwise in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001.
Interests in shares: Except where express rights are given, the 
Company will only recognise a current and absolute right to whole 
shares. The fact that any share, or any part of a share, may not be 
owned outright by the registered owner is not of any concern to the 
Company.
US Holders: The Directors may require a shareholder or other person 
appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose information relating to 
the ownership of such shares or to show that such shares are not held 
by a US Holder (defined in the Articles as being: (i) persons resident in 
the US who hold shares in the Company and (ii) persons who appear to 
the Directors to fall within sub-paragraph (i) of the definition of a US 
Holder). The Directors may require a US Holder to sell their shares to 
someone who is not a US Holder, failing which, the Company may 
effect a sale of such shares on the US Holder’s behalf.
Disputes: Any disputes between a shareholder and the Company and/
or the Directors arising out of or in connection with the Articles shall 
be exclusively and finally resolved under the Rules of Arbitration of the 
International Chamber of Commerce, as amended from time to time, 
in accordance with the Articles.
Change of control
The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change of 
control clauses. These primarily relate to financing facilities, bonds, 
licences and operating agreements.
Under the Group’s US$570 million revolving credit facility agreement, 
on a change of control the lenders are not obliged to fund any further 
sums and, if the majority lenders require, on not less than 10 days’ 
notice, the facility can be cancelled and all outstanding loans, together 
with related charges, become immediately due and payable.
Under the terms of the 2017 US$390 million secured term loan and 
the 2017 US$300 million unsecured term loan, any lender may 
require, on not less than 10 days’ notice, the repayment of any 
outstanding loans, together with related charges, whereupon such 
outstanding amounts become immediately due and payable.
Under the terms of the US$400 million 8.75% 2020 senior secured 
notes and the US$1.25 billion 7.375% senior unsecured noted 
(together, the Notes), if a change of control event occurs, each holder 
of the Notes will have a right to require the repurchase of all or any 
part of their Notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of the 
principal amount of the Notes purchased, together with accrued 
(but unpaid) interest.
A number of the Group’s operating licences and shareholders’ 
agreements include change of control clauses which may be triggered 
by the sale of all or a controlling stake in a business, or certain types 
of restructuring.
In the event of a change of control, these clauses may require 
consideration to determine their impact on the Group. At present, 
risks arising from a change of control are not considered to be 
significant. The Group will take appropriate action to mitigate any risks 
arising from these events should they occur. Change of control 
provisions in relation to Directors’ service contracts are explained in 
the Directors’ remuneration report on page 73 and 74.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 41 including the Group Financial 
performance review on pages 22 to 27. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the financial statements on pages 93 to 97. Further, notes 
4.7 , 4.10 and 4.11 to the consolidated financial statements include the 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its 
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit and 
liquidity risk.
The Directors believe that the Group’s geographic spread, robust 
monitoring and forecasting processes leave it well placed to manage 
its business risks in the current economic conditions. In addition, the 
Group’s forecasts and projections, taking into account possible 
changes in trading performance which could be reasonably 
anticipated, indicate that the Group is able to operate within the level 
of its current available facilities. A formal process for monitoring 
compliance with debt covenants is also in place. Further information 
on debt can be found in note 4.3 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
After reviewing budgets and other longer-term plans and making 
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board
Clare Underwood
Company Secretary
19 May 2015
Directors’ and corporate governance report continued
Committed to Good Governance Annual Report 2014/15 59
Independent Directors’ report
The last 12 months has seen a period of exceptional change for CWC, 
which has required very close oversight by the Board, both at formal 
Board and Board Committee meetings and in numerous additional 
discussions throughout the year.
Alongside the continued exercising of appropriate corporate 
governance for the business, two issues have dominated the Board 
agenda – the ongoing transformation of the Company’s operating 
model, and specifically the transfer of its operational hub from London 
to Miami; and the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. which 
completed on 31 March 2015.
Consistent with plans outlined by Phil Bentley at last year’s AGM, 
the Company’s operational hub in Miami is now largely established, 
creating a new base for our Executive Team, and providing a range of 
key support services and expertise including Finance, Legal, Treasury 
and HR to our front line operations. With more than 170 people now in 
post, close to our businesses and more importantly our customers, 
this is already having a significant positive impact on our operational 
effectiveness. 
As Miami and the new operating model has become more fully 
established, there has been a substantial scaling down in the size of the 
team in London, and a significant amount of change in personnel at every 
level, including among the Independent Directors and senior executives. 
To enhance our focus on operational issues, Barbara Thoralfsson 
joined the Board in January 2015. With her experience as CEO of 
Netcom ASA and as a Non-executive Director of Telenor SA, Barbara 
has already brought much welcomed additional industry expertise and 
insight to the Board discussions. The Independent Directors have been 
delighted with the appointment of Perley McBride as CFO to replace 
Tim Pennington, who left the Group in June 2014. More recently, Nick 
Cooper, Corporate Services Director since the creation of CWC, stood 
down from the Board on 31 March 2015. Nick has offered essential 
continuity at Executive Director level since the departures of Tony 
Rice and Tim Pennington and the Independent Directors would like 
to record explicitly their appreciation for the role he has played. 
The shift in the geographic centre of gravity of the Group and the 
changes in personnel, while executed for the long-term benefit of the 
business, have naturally given rise to a raised operational risk profile 
during the transition period. The management of these risks has been 
a key area of focus for both the Independent Directors and executive 
management in terms of establishing essential relationships and 
overseeing the detailed execution of the new operating model. 
Turning to the acquisition of Columbus, this has brought yet more 
challenge to an already busy agenda, but represents a potentially 
transformational event for CWC. Detailed work on the transaction 
began in the summer of 2014 and has continued intensively since 
that time, requiring each of the Independent Directors to address the 
specific operational, capital markets and regulatory risks attaching to 
the transaction. Specifically, Mark Hamlin has performed a vital role 
during the process by spending a substantial amount of time meeting 
with senior executives from Columbus who were earmarked for the 
senior team and providing insights to the Board as a whole as to their 
capabilities and suitability to lead elements of the combined business 
post acquisition. Mark has also agreed to serve as a member of 
a newly formed Integration Committee which has been set up to 
oversee the integration of the two businesses and the synergy 
capture associated with it. Our people will be the key determinant of 
the success of the merger and Mark’s support during the integration 
process is of great comfort to the Board and vital for the success 
of the project as a whole. 
On completion of the transaction, John Risley, Brendan Paddick and 
Thad York joined the Board on 31 March 2015. The introduction of 
John, Brendan and Thad brings welcome additional expertise and 
insights into each of the Columbus businesses, the region in which we 
operate and the industry generally. As with the previously referenced 
personnel changes, it will bring further change to the dynamics of the 
Board which, as it focuses on the newly enlarged business, will require 
the Board to demonstrate continued flexibility and adaptability to 
support the new Cable & Wireless Executive Team effectively.
Turning now to the four questions posed annually as part of the 
Company’s approach to measuring effective corporate governance.
1. What is the quality of the relationship between the Chairman 
and the Executive Directors?
With the appointment of both a new CEO and CFO over the past 
18 months, the establishment of new relationships between Executive 
and Non-executive Board members has been a key feature of 
2014/15. Combined with the relocation of the Group Executive hub 
to Miami, whilst the Chairman and the majority of Non-executives 
were predominantly based in the UK, this has created challenges in 
establishing close working practices. To address these, the Board is 
holding more meetings in the region than previously, extending those 
visits to incorporate meetings with the wider local management 
teams, and the Chairman and CEO have revisited some of their 
processes to help embed a healthy and productive relationship. Nick 
Cooper’s presence throughout the year has helped the Chairman to 
maintain the Company’s existing corporate routines and compliance 
structures, despite the significant changes in personnel.
2. How open are the Executive Directors with the Board?
The nature of the operating model and transaction agenda has 
necessitated close contact between the Executive Directors and 
the Board on a collective and an individual basis throughout the year. 
The Independent Directors have particularly appreciated the CFO’s 
communication style around the refinancing of the enlarged business 
following the acquisition of Columbus and the manner in which the 
CEO dealt with regulatory and stakeholder considerations in our 
markets.
3. What is the visibility of the checks and balances between the 
Executive Directors?
Maintaining the right checks and balances through a period of such 
significant senior management and operational change has provided 
challenges. The previous CEO/CFO team had worked together for 
a number of years, and their check and balance routines were well 
established. Our new CEO and CFO bring different cultural and 
industry experience, and the refining of checks and balances through 
the year has required changes in approach by the Chairman, 
Executives and the Independent Directors, who in turn have relied 
on Nick Cooper to provide continuity through that process.
4. Have questions asked by the Independent Directors in Board 
and Committee meetings been appropriately addressed?
The Independent Directors are satisfied that questions have been 
answered in a considered and effective manner throughout the year 
ended 31 March 201 5 and are satisfied that the corporate governance 
controls of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc are effective. 
Simon Ball
Senior Independent Director
19 May 2015 60 Cable & Wireless Communications
Ian Tyler
Audit Committee Chairman
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the year 
ended 31 March 2015. The key elements of focus of the Audit 
Committee (the ‘Committee’) include financial reporting, internal 
control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and 
reporting of risk and that these remain effective. The Committee 
devotes significant time to each of these elements. The Committee’s 
agenda for the year ended 31 March 2015 has included the usual 
review of our financial results and controls, our business operations 
and the management of risk.
One of the core requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2012 (the Code) is for the Annual Report and Accounts to provide a 
fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects. In line with the responsibility of the Committee 
pursuant to the Code, the Committee has also assisted the Board in 
confirming that this requirement has been met and that the Annual 
Report and Accounts provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy. 
During the year, Perley McBride was appointed as the new Chief 
Financial Officer. The Committee is pleased to report that there was 
a smooth transition between the departure of Tim Pennington, and 
the appointment of Perley.
Audit Committee membership 
The Committee is comprised solely of independent Non-executive 
Directors. 
Members Audit Committee meetings attended
Ian Tyler (Chairman)    4/4
Simon Ball    4/4
Mark Hamlin    4/4
Alison Platt    4/4
Barbara Thoralfsson
1
0/1
1 Barbara Thoralfsson joined the Board on 7 January 2015. Barbara was unable to 
attend the scheduled March 2015 Audit Committee meeting due to a prior 
engagement which she had before joining the Company.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the 
Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, along with 
a broad commercial knowledge and is confident that the collective 
experience of the members enables them to act as an effective Audit 
Committee. The Committee is also satisfied that it has the expertise 
and resource to fulfil its responsibilities effectively including those 
relating to risk and control.
Meetings
The Committee held 4 scheduled meetings during the year ended 
31 March 2015, which were held at key times within our reporting 
and audit calendar. 
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, 
Head of Internal Audit and representatives from KPMG LLP (KPMG), 
the Company’s external auditor, are invited to attend all Committee 
meetings. In May and November when the full year and half year 
results are considered, the Chairman is also invited to attend.
Audit Committee report
 “The Audit Committee remained 
focused on the integrity of the 
Group’s financial reporting, the 
effectiveness of the internal control 
and risk management systems, as 
well as reviewing and assessing the 
banking and financial arrangements 
arising from the acquisition of 
Columbus International Inc.” Annual Report 2014/15 61
The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee Chairman in 
conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller 
and the external auditor. Each scheduled meeting includes a private 
session, attended only by Committee members, the external auditor 
and Head of Internal Audit, to provide an opportunity for open 
dialogue and feedback from the Committee and auditors without 
management present. At each meeting the Committee then receives 
reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor and the 
Head of Internal Audit, together with biannual litigation reports. The 
meetings of the Committee investigate the key accounting, audit and 
risk issues that are relevant to the Group. The mixture and experience 
of its members assists in providing a challenging environment in which 
these issues are debated. The table below details the key matters 
on the agenda throughout the year. In addition to these matters, 
the Committee has also reviewed and considered aspects of the 
acquisition of Columbus, especially in respect of the financing and 
debt arrangements.
Financial Reporting Internal control and compliance External Auditors Governance and other matters
May • Full year results
 • Annual Report
 • Preliminary Results 
Announcement
 • Litigation Report
 • Going concern review
 • Internal Control 
Framework Review
 • External Auditor 
independence
 • Full year external audit 
report
 • Compliance with UK Corporate 
Governance Code
 • Review of professional fees
 • Disclosure Committee Review
September • External Auditor Plan
 • External Auditor 
Evaluation
 • Audit Tendering
 • Accounting Policy Review
November • Interim Results 
Announcement
 • Litigation Report
 • Going concern review
 • Internal Audit and Risk 
Update
 • Half Year External Audit 
Report
 • Acquisition update and 
financing
 • Treasury Review
 • Tax Risk Review 
March • Insurance Update
 • Risk Management 
Framework Review
 • Internal Audit Evaluation
 • Internal Audit Plan
 • Audit strategy (including 
impact of the acquisition 
of Columbus)
 • Acquisition update, including 
financing arrangements and 
impact on year end
 • Terms of Reference Review
 • Non-Audit Fees Policy Review 
Role of the Committee
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and 
control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in 
relation to the appointment of the Company’s external auditor. The 
Committee meetings take place prior to Board meetings and the 
Committee Chairman reports to the Board, as a separate agenda item, 
on the activities of the Committee and matters of particular relevance 
for approval by the Board.
The Terms of Reference set out the authority of the Committee to 
carry out its duties. 
The principal duties of the Committee include:
 • To monitor the integrity of the financial statements and 
announcements relating to financial performance, and review 
significant judgements contained in them 
 • To review and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls, internal 
audit and risk management systems
 • To review and approve the internal audit programme, ensuring 
adequate resources and co-ordination with external auditor
 • To monitor the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of 
the statutory audit of the Annual Report and Accounts
 • To review and monitor independence and performance of the 
external auditor, recommend its appointment, reappointment and 
removal to the Board as appropriate and develop policy in relation 
to the provision of non-audit services
 • To monitor resources of the financing team to help ensure they 
are adequate
The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms 
of reference during the period and the full terms of reference are 
available at www.cwc.com. 
Main activities of the Committee during the year
Financial reporting
The Committee reviewed the half year and full year financial statements 
with management and the external auditor with particular focus on:
 • The appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies and 
practices
 • Compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial 
and governance reporting requirements
 • Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or 
there has been discussion with the external auditor
 • The nature and disclosure of exceptional items
 • Whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy
 • Any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial 
reporting 62 Cable & Wireless Communications
Audit Committee report continued
The significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 are set out in the 
following table, together with an explanation as to how the Committee addressed each issue: 
Significant issues How the Committee addressed these issues
Acquisition Accounting (see accounting policy 5.1.3, critical accounting estimates and 
judgements 5.2.7 and note 3.11 )
On 31 March 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of 
Columbus for an initial consideration of US$2,121 million 
(including the fair value of the put options – see Note 3.11). There 
were also a number of smaller acquisitions completed during 
the year.
Judgement is required in assessing the consideration transferred 
including the methodology used for valuing the shares and put 
options as part of the acquisition. There was also significant 
judgement in valuing the identifiable Property, Plant and 
Equipment (PPE) and intangible assets and acquired assets.
Given the close proximity to year end of the acquisition of Columbus, 
the acquisition accounting is preliminary and will be updated 
during the 12 month period of FY 2015/16 to allow finalisation 
of the acquisition accounting valuation and analysis exercise.
Management worked with external valuation consultants to assist 
with the methodology for the consideration transferred in relation 
to shares and put options.
The methodology and judgements were discussed with the 
Committee in relation to the valuation of the share consideration 
transferred and the put options that were fair valued as part of 
the acquisition.
In relation to the preliminary fair value adjustments identified by 
the external valuation consultants for intangible assets and PPE, 
key assumptions included discount rates, growth projections and 
plans for the acquisition were debated with the Committee.
Following consideration and after receiving satisfactory responses 
to the questions raised by Committee members, the Committee 
agreed with management’s initial acquisition accounting.
Impairment of goodwill, PPE, intangibles and assets held for sale (see accounting policy 
5.1.5, critical accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.1 and note 3.4)
The Group has recognised a number of impairment charges in 
respect of Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE), primarily in the 
Caribbean region, in current and previous years. Assessment of 
the carrying value, which necessitates making projections of 
future cash flows, is subjective and requires significant judgement. 
The impairment recognised in the current year relates to 
technology advancements in the Caribbean from upgrades 
undertaken as part of Project Marlin and from the acquisition of 
Columbus where certain infrastructure and networks in the 
overlapping markets are redundant.
The Committee considered the carrying value of all the Group’s 
non-current assets. Whilst it was clear that there was significant 
headroom in the valuations of goodwill, attention was focused 
on Caribbean PPE and the carrying value of the Group’s equity 
investment in Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and 
Tobago (TSTT). 
Management discussed with the Committee the impact of the 
acquisition of Columbus on the overlapping markets within the 
Caribbean. Key assumptions for this analysis include discount 
rates and plans for the businesses. The Committee was presented 
with analysis of valuations performed by management on the 
impairment and discussed the findings with management. 
In relation to TSTT, there was a reclassification for investment 
in associate to equity investment during the year due to the 
conditions attaching to the regulatory approval obtained from 
the Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and T obago for the 
acquisition of Columbus which requires the Group to divest of its 
interest in TSTT. The Committee was presented with an analysis of 
valuations performed by management in respect of the Group’s 
investment in TSTT. Key assumptions, including discount rates, the 
impending divesture process, EBITDA multiples and recent market 
transactions were debated. The report of the external auditor also 
provided analysis including the sensitivity of headroom calculations 
to changes in key assumptions.
Following consideration and after receiving satisfactory responses 
to the questions raised by Committee members, the Committee 
agreed with management’s proposal that an impairment charge 
was necessary for Caribbean PPE but no impairment charge was 
necessary in relation to TSTT. Annual Report 2014/15 63
Significant issues How the Committee addressed these issues
Valuation of trade receivables and accrued income (see accounting policy 5.1.4, critical 
accounting estimates and judgements 5.2.2 and 5.2.3 and note 3.1 )
At US$330 million, trade receivables represent a significant asset. 
Accrued income, at US$84 million, represents contractual revenue 
recognised in advance of billing. Assessing the recoverability of 
these amounts requires a high degree of judgement and analysis. 
At each meeting, the Committee receives detailed reports 
from management analysing the ageing trends across different 
categories of receivables and accrued income in the business. 
The Committee considered the coverage provided by the 
provisions proposed by management and the residual balances 
outstanding at 31 March 2015. Included in the trade receivables 
balance was the addition of Columbus receivables. Having 
examined the information provided, the Committee discussed 
with management the recoverability of any unprovided balances, 
particularly those owed by governments. 
As a key focus of the external audit, KPMG also provided the 
Committee with their analysis and conclusions on recoverability. 
Having considered all the information presented, the Committee 
satisfied themselves as to the recoverability of trade receivables 
and accrued income recognised in the accounts. 
Revenue recognition (see accounting policy 5.1.14, critical accounting estimates and 
judgements 5.2.3 and note 2.1 ) 
Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue 
recognition principles. This includes the allocation of revenue 
between multiple deliverables, such as the sale of a handset or set 
top box together with an ongoing service contract in a bundled 
package or management services contracts that have complex 
contractual arrangements.
The Group has well developed internal accounting revenue 
recognition guidance governing the services and products sold 
in our operating units. These policies comply with IFRS and are 
updated annually, reviewed by the external auditor and approved 
by the Committee. All operating units are required to comply with 
these policies and provide periodic sign off on compliance. 
The Committee received reports from both management and the 
external auditor which discuss the accounting treatment applied 
to revenue contracts. 
Following these reviews the Committee was satisfied that the 
Group’s criteria for revenue recognition had been met. 
Disclosure Committee
To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for identifying 
and considering disclosure matters in connection with the preparation 
of all market releases containing material financial and other price 
sensitive information has been delegated to a Disclosure Committee. 
This committee comprises members of senior management from 
finance, legal, company secretarial, investor relations and 
communications.
During the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts, the 
Disclosure Committee obtains certifications from contributors prior to 
the document’s review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
The Board receives an update from the Disclosure Committee in 
advance of each meeting as part of the Company Secretary’s Report. 
The Committee reviews the workings of the Disclosure Committee on 
an annual basis. Meetings of the Disclosure Committee were 
scheduled during the year to consider and review the preparation of 
the Annual Report and Accounts to enable the Committee to assist 
the Board in making their statement confirming that the Annual 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable. Additional meetings were scheduled to consider and 
review the market announcements which were necessary as a result 
of the acquisition of Columbus.
Internal control
A review of the Company’s system of internal controls and how they 
are implemented by the regional business units was undertaken. The 
Committee was focused on the need to promote improvement of 
internal controls and devoted time in each meeting to do this. In 
order to discuss progress and action plans in place to improve the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control environment, 
particularly in parts of our Caribbean business, the Committee found 
it useful to have representatives of Group Executive management, 
internal and external auditors, and representative of local 
management teams attend periodically.  64 Cable & Wireless Communications
Audit Committee report continued
The acquisition of Columbus was completed on the final day of the 
financial year. As such, the scope of the Committee’s evaluation of the 
system of internal controls of the Group excluded consideration of the 
system of internal controls at Columbus International Inc. 
Risk management
A review of the risk management framework process and its 
implementation was undertaken. The Committee received reports on 
the Group’s risk management process, changes to significant risks at 
an operational and Group level and how these are managed. 
In addition, the Committee reviewed the status of Group litigation at 
the half year and full year and also undertook a review of tax strategy 
and risk, tax and treasury policies and Group insurance cover.
Internal audit
Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal Audit, supported by a team 
of in-house auditors based in the US and Jamaica, and supplemented 
by a third party to provide specific skills as required. During the year, 
the Committee approved the internal audit plan. The scope, extent 
and effectiveness of the plan was then monitored and reviewed 
throughout the course of the year. 
At each meeting, the Committee received an update on internal audit 
activities, progress against the internal audit plan, the results of any 
unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas. 
The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the in-house audit 
team, the co-source arrangements taking into consideration the 
transformational activity during the year and the change in Head of 
Internal Audit. Periodically the Committee Chairman meets separately 
with the Head of Internal Audit, which provides further opportunity to 
explore internal audit findings. 
Whistle-blowing
The Company provides an Ethics Helpline which is administered by an 
independent third party and is available to all Group employees via a 
web-portal or by telephone. This provides a mechanism for employees 
to raise concerns where they either do not feel comfortable raising the 
matter with local management or they are not satisfied with the local 
management response. A report on the use of the whistle-blowing 
hotline is provided at each Committee meeting.
External audit
Audit effectiveness 
The Committee places great importance on the quality and 
effectiveness of the external audit. Whilst important for any company, 
the Committee believes this is of particular concern given the Group’s 
geographic spread. The Committee receives a detailed audit plan at 
the start of each audit cycle which includes the external auditor’s 
assessment of key audit risks. These risks are tracked throughout the 
year and used to test management assumptions in these areas.
Audit quality is assessed throughout the year by reference to the 
quality of the reports received by the Committee, the calibre of senior 
members of the audit team and the level of challenge provided to 
management. Specific importance was placed on the evolution of 
KPMG’s planned audit approach to incorporate the impact of the 
acquisition of Columbus including acquisition accounting and financing. 
In addition, the annual assessment of the performance of the external 
auditor was undertaken at the September Committee meeting. 
This comprised:
 • A survey of Committee members and key colleagues, both financial 
and non-financial, involved in the audit
 • Analysis of KPMG’s capabilities and independence
 • Review of the results of independent quality reports on KPMG and 
other audit firms
 • Discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee 
reviewed:
 • A report outlining KPMG’s response to the annual assessment and 
the specific measures planned to ensure a continual improvement in 
the external audit
 • The arrangements for ensuring the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity
 • The external auditor’s fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any 
variations from the plan
 • The robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in their 
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements
 • The content of the external auditor’s reporting on internal control
This process allows the Committee to monitor and assess the 
performance of the external auditor and informed the Committee’s 
recommendation to the Board for the reappointment of KPMG. 
Auditor independence
KPMG was appointed as auditor of the Company during the financial 
year 2009/10 and also acted as auditor of Cable and Wireless plc from 
1991. There are no contractual obligations restricting the Company’s 
choice of external auditor. 
The Committee has established policies to maintain the independence 
of the external auditor and its personnel and to govern the provision 
of audit and non-audit services provided by the external auditor and 
its associates. Permitted and prohibited services are clearly identified 
along with the processes to be followed for the approval of all audit 
and non-audit services. All engagements with an expected fee in 
excess of US$250,000 require the prior approval of the Committee 
Chairman and to be reported to the Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2015, the Committee approved fees for 
audit services of US$3.5 million, together with fees for audit-related 
regulatory reporting of US$0.4 million and non-audit work of US$1.0 
million. The nature of the services provided is set out in note 2.3.2 to 
the consolidated financial statements. There is no limitation of liability 
in the terms of appointment of KPMG as auditor to the Company.
In line with ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices 
Board, the external auditor is required to rotate the audit engagement 
partner responsible for the Group audit after a maximum period of five 
years. Accordingly, Peter Meehan rotated off the engagement 
following the conclusion of the 2013/14 audit and after discussions 
with the Chairman and other members of the Committee, John 
Edwards succeeded Peter Meehan as the audit engagement partner 
responsible for the 2014/15 audit. 
Audit tendering
During the year, the Committee considered the Group’s position on its 
audit services contract with KPMG taking into account the Code, the  Annual Report 2014/15 65
EU Audit Regulations 2014 and the Statutory Audit Service Order 
2014 issued by the UK Competition and Markets Authority, and the 
Guidance for Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council, in the context of tendering the external audit contract at 
least every ten years. 
KPMG has been the auditor of the Group since the demerger from 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc in 2010 and also prior to this. The 
Group has not undertaken an audit tender in the last ten years. During 
the year the Committee considered the appropriateness of a tender 
process, and in doing so, consideration was given to: 
(i)  The significant transformation currently ongoing across the Group 
from the refocus on a single geography in the Caribbean and Latin 
America, and the establishment of the new operational hub in 
Miami, and to come as a result of the acquisition of Columbus 
International Inc.
(ii)  The performance of KPMG and the findings from the annual 
auditor effectiveness assessment; and
(iii)  An audit partner rotation which took place in May 2014
The Committee concluded that a tender during the year ended 
31 March 2015 was not in the Group’s interest in particular due to the 
fundamental changes to the business. The Board has therefore 
accepted the Committee’s recommendation that KPMG should be 
retained for the financial years ended 31 March 2015 through 
31 March 2017 to help provide stability with the evolution of the 
Group. The Committee will continue to reconsider its position annually 
in light  of the guidance and regulations pursuant to which the 
Company would be required to rotate its auditor before the AGM 
in 2021.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors’ and 
corporate governance report on pages 48 to 58. 
Ian Tyler
Chairman, Audit Committee
19 May 2015 66 Cable & Wireless Communications
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
Nomination Committee Chairman
Role of the Committee
 • Review the composition of, and succession to, the Board
 • Undertake formal and rigorous review of Board member candidates, 
particularly taking into consideration the experience, skills and 
knowledge of the individuals
 • Recommend to the Board the appointment of Executive and 
Non-executive Directors
 • Ongoing assessment of the overall balance and performance of 
the Board
 • To ensure that the balance of the Board and its committees is 
consistent with good corporate governance and complies with the 
minimum requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Terms of Reference set out the principal duties of the Committee 
in full, including its authority to carry out these duties. These can be 
found at www.cwc.com
Nomination Committee report
 “The Nomination Committee is proud 
that the Company has been able to 
attract people of the calibre and skill 
of Perley McBride as Chief Financial 
Officer and Barbara Thoralfsson as 
a Non-executive Director to join the 
Board. We have great confidence in their 
vast experience to help guide the Group 
through a time of significant change” Annual Report 2014/15 67
Meetings
The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during the period 
1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015. The attendance of each Committee 
member is noted in the diagram below:
Members Nomination Committee meetings attended
Members
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE   3/3
Simon Ball   3/3
Mark Hamlin   3/3
Brendan Paddick
1
0/0
Alison Platt   3/3
John Risley
1
0/0
Barbara Thoralfsson
2
 0/1
Ian Tyler   3/3
Thad York
1
0/0
1 Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York were appointed to the Board with effect 
from 31 March 2015, and therefore, did not attend any scheduled meetings during 
the year.
2 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the Board with effect from 7 January 2015, and 
was unable to attend a scheduled meeting as a result of a prior engagement that was 
in place before joining the Company.
Main activities during the year
Appointment of the Chief Financial Officer – following the 
appointment of our new Chief Executive Officer, Phil Bentley, the 
Committee began to consider the experience and skills needed of 
a Chief Financial Officer to complement our new strategic direction. 
Russell Reynolds Associates, an external recruitment agency that has 
no other connection with the Company, undertook a global executive 
search, having been briefed in full by the Committee regarding the 
qualities they were expecting of the short-listed candidates. The 
agency identified two preferred candidates; and after conducting 
a thorough review of both, the Committee recommended Perley 
McBride to the Board. The Committee was in full support of Perley’s 
appointment due to his strong attributes and extensive knowledge of 
the sector and financial experience. Perley then met with the Directors 
and was subsequently appointed to the Board with effect from 
26 June 2014.
Appointment of a Non-executive Director – the Committee 
considered the need to strengthen the Board further by the 
appointment of an additional Non-executive Director, particularly 
during a time of change. Barbara Thoralfsson was recommended to 
the Board by Alison Platt, who had been impressed by Barbara’s sector 
experience and cultural background. Following separate meetings with 
the Chairman, Alison Platt, Ian Tyler and Nick Cooper, the Committee 
recommended the appointment of Barbara, as it was felt she would be 
a positive addition to the Board due to her knowledge and experience 
of the telecoms sector. Barbara was subsequently appointed to the 
Board and the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 
7 January 2015. 
As a result of the acquisition of Columbus, Brendan Paddick, John 
Risley and Thad York were appointed as Non-executive Directors on 
31 March 2015 after approval by the Board.
In addition to the work by the Committee on appointment of 
Directors, and ahead of the acquisition of Columbus International Inc., 
Mark Hamlin undertook extensive research on behalf of the Board, 
mostly with regard to the Columbus executives, to ensure that on 
completion of the acquisition of Columbus, the incoming Cable & 
Wireless Executive Team had the necessary skills and ability to 
perform their new roles within the Company effectively.
Board diversity 
The Board continues to be supportive of Lord Davies’ 
recommendations on board diversity. The Board understands the 
importance of diversity, including gender, and recognises the 
importance of women having greater representation in senior roles, as 
evidenced by the appointment of Barbara Thoralfsson; and the various 
appointments of women to senior executive roles throughout the 
Company as a whole. The Board remains resolute in its policy that the 
search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted, and 
appointments made, with due regard to the benefits of diversity on 
the Board. Where appropriate, specialist search consultants will be 
engaged to assist in the search for suitable candidates. However, all 
appointments to the Board are ultimately based on merit, measured 
against objective criteria and the skills and experience the individual 
can bring to the Board taking into account a number of factors 
including the existing size of the Board, the balance of Executive and 
Non-executive Directors, as well as the existing skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity already represented, and the likely future 
requirements. As such, the Board does not consider that it is 
necessary to set any formal measurable objectives in relation to 
diversity at this juncture.
The composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, 
independence, knowledge and diversity of the Board, will be reviewed 
annually as part of the Board evaluation process.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
Chairman, Nomination Committee
19 May 2015 68 Cable & Wireless Communications
Simon Ball
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
Annual Statement by the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) has been busy this 
year on many fronts reflecting the significant level of change in the 
organisation. In the following questions and answers format, we 
highlight some of the topics considered by the Committee during 
the 2014/15 financial year and the focus of activity for the year 
ahead. By way of summary, we confirm that we have operated pay 
arrangements for the three executive directors fully in line with the 
policy approved by shareholders at the July 2014 AGM. 
What are the key issues that we have dealt with this year?
2014/15 has been a year of significant corporate and management 
change. We completed the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. 
in March 2015, in the run up to which we formulated potential 
retention arrangements for key Columbus executives joining the 
Group post acquisition. We also considered and reviewed our overall 
reward framework to ensure that it remains fit for purpose for the 
enlarged Group. A series of Corporate acquisitions and disposals, 
including the disposal of our Monaco operation and the acquisition of 
Sonitel in Panama, required the Committee to revisit the validity of the 
Annual Incentive Plan (AIS) targets for 2014/15, and a similar process 
of review and adjustment took place with regard to the EPS targets 
for the January 2013 LTIPs given the disposal of our operations in 
Macau and Monaco & Islands during the performance period. 
On an operational front, we reviewed and approved the remuneration 
package for Perley McBride prior to his appointment as CFO on 
26 June 2014, conducted a risk review of our remuneration 
arrangements and reviewed and approved the pay arrangements 
for the wider senior executive team.
How is remuneration aligned with delivering Group strategy?
A primary objective of the Committee is to operate a remuneration 
framework which successfully promotes the long-term success of the 
Company. The Group strategy put in place last year focuses on four 
strategic objectives of growing top line revenue, maintaining cost 
efficiency, increasing returns on capital and delivering unparalleled 
customer service. Our remuneration strategy over the medium and 
long term remains fully aligned with these strategic objectives. The 
acquisition of Columbus has accelerated, but not fundamentally 
changed, our strategy and the initial view of the Committee is that 
our reward strategy remains appropriate. We will, of course, keep this 
under review in the coming months.
What is the remuneration package for our new CFO?
On joining the company Perley McBride’s package was set at a base 
salary of US$600,000 per annum, a pension allowance of 25% of 
salary, annual bonus opportunity of 150% of base salary, annual LTIP 
award of 200% of salary, an accommodation allowance of US$78,000 
per annum for a maximum of two years and benefits broadly in line 
with other US based employees. 
Directors’ remuneration report
 “We have operated pay arrangements 
fully in line with the policy approved 
by shareholders, and our remuneration 
strategy over the medium and long 
term remains fully aligned with the 
Company’s strategic objectives.” Annual Report 2014/15 69
What bonus/LTIP awards have been earned for financial year 
2014/15? 
2014/15 saw the Group deliver revenue growth of 4% year on year 
(2% on a like-for-like basis). EBITDA grew more strongly by 7% against 
the prior year. This has resulted in bonuses accruing below target for 
revenue achieved and above target for EBITDA achieved. When 
combined with performance against personal and Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) targets, this has resulted in bonus payments for the Executive 
Directors of between 104.5% and 110% of salary, set against the 
maximum bonus opportunity of 150% of salary. Full details of 
2014/15 performance against annual bonus targets are set out on 
pages 80 to 81.
Having seen zero LTIP vesting in each of the last three years, 
exceptionally, this year, two LTIP awards granted for financial years 
201 1/1 2 and 201 2/13 have vested. The performance condition for the 
awards made on 2 June 201 1 (the award for financial year 201 1/1 2) 
was based on absolute TSR performance to the end of May 2014. The 
performance conditions for the awards made on 14 January 2013 
were relative TSR and EPS measured to the end of March 2015.
The LTIP awards granted on 2 June 2011 achieved the maximum 
performance target of 14% per annum TSR and therefore 100% 
of the shares subject to that award vested.
The LTIP awards granted on 14 January 201 3 with performance 
measured over the three years to 31 March 2015 achieved a TSR 
performance greater than the highest ranked company in the 
comparator group and an adjusted EPS CAGR of greater than 10%, 
and consequently 100% of the shares attributed to the award will vest.
Further details on LTIPs are provided on page 82.
What are we changing for the year ahead?
We are making no changes to the salaries, bonus opportunities or level 
of LTIP award for the Executive Directors. 
The Committee’s Terms of Reference have been reviewed to ensure 
that they remain appropriate for the new organisation post the 
acquisition of Columbus, and we have incorporated robust withholding 
and recovery provisions into our LTIP and AIS plans to ensure 
consistency with the best practice expectations of investors. The 
acquisition of Columbus will necessitate adjustments to some of the 
existing LTIP targets to ensure that they reflect the enlarged business 
and so that the same degree of stretch is maintained. 
How have we engaged with shareholders?
The Committee actively seeks to engage with shareholders and values 
highly the contribution their views can make in the process of 
formulating remuneration policy decisions. During the year, the 
Committee engaged with the Company’s major shareholders on a 
number of remuneration issues, including the remuneration packages 
for Phil Bentley and Perley McBride, and the operation of our incentive 
arrangements in the context of the move to Miami. The shareholders 
who replied were supportive of our approach and we also 
incorporated some of the suggestions received. The Directors’ 
remuneration report clearly demonstrates that we are committed to 
fostering an environment where remuneration is strongly linked to 
performance and where our Executive Directors’ remuneration 
arrangements are directly aligned with our shareholders. 
As always, we continue as a Committee to welcome any feedback 
you may have. 
What is in the rest of this report? 
The report is split into two sections:
 • Key parts of our Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which was 
approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, and which summarises 
the framework for remuneration and each of its elements, have 
been included again in this report for information only. As there 
are no changes proposed to the policy, it will continue in force as 
previously approved and not be subject to a vote at this year’s AGM, 
but will be put to shareholders again for approval no later than the 
AGM to be held in 2017.
 • An annual report on remuneration, which provides details on the 
following:
 ‒ Implementation of remuneration policy for financial year 
2015/16
 ‒ The remuneration earned in respect of performance during the 
financial year 2014/15, along with details of any share awards 
made during the year
The annual report on remuneration along with the annual statement 
will be put to shareholders for an advisory vote at the AGM on 
21 July 2015.
Simon Ball
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Policy
This part of the Directors’ remuneration report sets out an abridged 
version of the Remuneration Policy (the ‘Policy’) which was approved 
by shareholders at the AGM on 25 July 2014. The Policy took formal 
effect from the date of approval and is intended to apply for the three 
years beginning on the date of approval.
Where references were made in the Policy last year to specific 
levels of pay in 2014/15 (e.g. the reward scenarios charts which 
incorporated salary levels effective 1 April 2014), these have been 
updated so that the report can be read in the context of the 2015/16 
financial year. 
A full version of the Policy can be found in the 2013/14 Annual Report 
and Accounts (pages 58 to 67) on the Company’s website 
www.cwc.com.
The overall aim is to establish remuneration structures which 
encourage, reinforce and reward the delivery of outstanding business 
performance measured against a basket of operational KPIs. This is 
underpinned by the following guiding principles:
 • The risk and reward structure must maintain an overall alignment 
with the interests of shareholders
 • Executive Directors are encouraged to maintain a very significant 
personal investment in the shares of the Company
 • There is a strong focus on performance-related pay
 • Targets should be appropriately stretching and adequately reward 
the Directors if they meet or exceed the targets set under the 
variable components of their remuneration packages 70 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Summary Remuneration Policy table for Executive Directors that took effect from the AGM on 25 July 2014 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Base salary • Recruit and retain high-calibre individuals 
to execute the Group’s business strategy 
 • Reflect the value of the individual and role
 • Reflect experience and expertise
 • Provide an appropriate level of fixed basic 
income 
 • Reviewed annually, effective 1 April
 • Set initially at a level required to recruit suitable Executive Directors 
reflecting their experience and expertise or to reflect up to, but not 
above, mid-market levels if promoted internally
 • Any increase determined by:
 ‒ Role, experience and personal performance
 ‒ Average change in total workforce salary
 ‒ Total organisational salary budgets
 ‒ Company performance
 ‒ External economic conditions 
 • Pay of other employees in relevant geographies (particularly the 
UK and US) taken into account periodically
 • Annual increases generally in line (in percentage of salary terms) 
with those of the wider workforce 
 • Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce (in 
percentage of salary terms) may be awarded in certain 
circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, 
experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and/or 
size, value and/or complexity of the Group 
 • Where new joiners or recent promotions have been given a 
starting salary at a discount to the mid-market level, a series of 
increases above those granted to the wider workforce (in 
percentage of salary terms) may be awarded over the proceeding 
few years, subject to satisfactory individual performance and 
development in the role
 • Salary levels at 1 April 2015 are set out on page 77
 • The Committee considers (but not necessarily alters) the salaries of 
Executive Directors each year taking due account of all the factors 
described in how the salary policy operates
Annual bonus • To incentivise the annual delivery of 
objectives relating to the business strategy
 • Rewards the achievement of stretching 
annual financial, strategic and personal goals
 • Compulsory deferral of part of bonus into 
shares provides further continuing alignment 
with shareholders
 • All bonus payments are at the discretion of the Committee
 • Not pensionable
 • Targets are reviewed annually
 • Half of gross bonus paid in shares deferred for 12 months
 • During the deferral period the shares carry dividend rights and any 
dividends awarded are also deferred during the deferral period
 • Remainder of bonus paid in cash
 • Claw back provisions apply to the deferred bonus such that it can 
be reduced in the event of restatement of the Company’s accounts 
resulting from fraud, error or misrepresentation, or any issues of 
a nature which have a significant effect on the performance of 
the business
 • Up to 150% of salary for all Executive Directors, dependent on 
performance
 • See annual bonus – arrangements for Corporate Services Director 
for financial year 2014/15 on page 81
 • Details of the performance targets set for the year under review 
and performance against them is provided in the annual report on 
remuneration along with outline details of the metrics for the next 
financial year
 • Bonus is based on the achievement of a range of strategic and 
personal objectives and targets relating to our key performance 
indicators
 • Financial measures derived from the operating plan will represent 
at least 50% of bonus with other measures representing the 
remainder. Measures and weightings may change each year to 
reflect any year on year changes to business priorities
 • 25% of each element of the bonus vests for a threshold level of 
performance rising to 50% vesting for ‘on target’ performance and 
100% vesting for maximum performance. Performance between 
threshold, on target and maximum will be calculated on a straight 
line basis
Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
 • Intended to align Executive Directors’ 
performance closely with shareholders and 
with key strategic objectives over the longer 
term
 • The LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2011
 • Awards of free performance shares are normally granted annually 
in the form of restricted share awards or nil cost options
 • Vesting is dependent on performance targets being met during the 
performance period and the continued service of the Executive 
Directors
 • A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Committee 
to pay dividends accrued during performance period on vested 
shares at the time of vesting in the form of additional shares
 • Maximum of 400% of salary per annum
 • Normal award policy currently set at up to 200% of salary 
although higher awards may be made in exceptional circumstances 
such as recruitment
 • See annual bonus – arrangements for Corporate Services Director 
for financial year 2014/15 on page 81
 • Awards will vest based on a range of challenging targets relating 
primarily to financial measures and total shareholder return based 
performance measured over a three year period
 • Targets relating to other key non-financial objectives (e.g. net 
promoter score) may also be included for a minority of an award
 • At least 50% of an award will be based on financial measures, at 
least 25% based on total shareholder return, and the remaining 
25% based on either financial, total shareholder return or other 
non-financial measures
 • 25% of each element of the LTIP vests for a threshold level of 
performance rising to 100% vesting for maximum performance 
Pension • Provide long-term savings through 
retirement benefits
 • Contribute to the provision of an appropriate 
balance in the overall package between fixed 
and variable income
 • Executive Directors may choose to receive an employer’s pension 
contribution or pension cash allowance
 • Employer’s defined contribution and/or pension cash supplement 
up to a total of 25% of salary
N/A Annual Report 2014/15 71
Summary Remuneration Policy table for Executive Directors that took effect from the AGM on 25 July 2014 
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Base salary • Recruit and retain high-calibre individuals 
to execute the Group’s business strategy 
 • Reflect the value of the individual and role
 • Reflect experience and expertise
 • Provide an appropriate level of fixed basic 
income 
 • Reviewed annually, effective 1 April
 • Set initially at a level required to recruit suitable Executive Directors 
reflecting their experience and expertise or to reflect up to, but not 
above, mid-market levels if promoted internally
 • Any increase determined by:
 ‒ Role, experience and personal performance
 ‒ Average change in total workforce salary
 ‒ Total organisational salary budgets
 ‒ Company performance
 ‒ External economic conditions 
 • Pay of other employees in relevant geographies (particularly the 
UK and US) taken into account periodically
 • Annual increases generally in line (in percentage of salary terms) 
with those of the wider workforce 
 • Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce (in 
percentage of salary terms) may be awarded in certain 
circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, 
experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and/or 
size, value and/or complexity of the Group 
 • Where new joiners or recent promotions have been given a 
starting salary at a discount to the mid-market level, a series of 
increases above those granted to the wider workforce (in 
percentage of salary terms) may be awarded over the proceeding 
few years, subject to satisfactory individual performance and 
development in the role
 • Salary levels at 1 April 2015 are set out on page 77
 • The Committee considers (but not necessarily alters) the salaries of 
Executive Directors each year taking due account of all the factors 
described in how the salary policy operates
Annual bonus • To incentivise the annual delivery of 
objectives relating to the business strategy
 • Rewards the achievement of stretching 
annual financial, strategic and personal goals
 • Compulsory deferral of part of bonus into 
shares provides further continuing alignment 
with shareholders
 • All bonus payments are at the discretion of the Committee
 • Not pensionable
 • Targets are reviewed annually
 • Half of gross bonus paid in shares deferred for 12 months
 • During the deferral period the shares carry dividend rights and any 
dividends awarded are also deferred during the deferral period
 • Remainder of bonus paid in cash
 • Claw back provisions apply to the deferred bonus such that it can 
be reduced in the event of restatement of the Company’s accounts 
resulting from fraud, error or misrepresentation, or any issues of 
a nature which have a significant effect on the performance of 
the business
 • Up to 150% of salary for all Executive Directors, dependent on 
performance
 • See annual bonus – arrangements for Corporate Services Director 
for financial year 2014/15 on page 81
 • Details of the performance targets set for the year under review 
and performance against them is provided in the annual report on 
remuneration along with outline details of the metrics for the next 
financial year
 • Bonus is based on the achievement of a range of strategic and 
personal objectives and targets relating to our key performance 
indicators
 • Financial measures derived from the operating plan will represent 
at least 50% of bonus with other measures representing the 
remainder. Measures and weightings may change each year to 
reflect any year on year changes to business priorities
 • 25% of each element of the bonus vests for a threshold level of 
performance rising to 50% vesting for ‘on target’ performance and 
100% vesting for maximum performance. Performance between 
threshold, on target and maximum will be calculated on a straight 
line basis
Long Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
 • Intended to align Executive Directors’ 
performance closely with shareholders and 
with key strategic objectives over the longer 
term
 • The LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2011
 • Awards of free performance shares are normally granted annually 
in the form of restricted share awards or nil cost options
 • Vesting is dependent on performance targets being met during the 
performance period and the continued service of the Executive 
Directors
 • A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Committee 
to pay dividends accrued during performance period on vested 
shares at the time of vesting in the form of additional shares
 • Maximum of 400% of salary per annum
 • Normal award policy currently set at up to 200% of salary 
although higher awards may be made in exceptional circumstances 
such as recruitment
 • See annual bonus – arrangements for Corporate Services Director 
for financial year 2014/15 on page 81
 • Awards will vest based on a range of challenging targets relating 
primarily to financial measures and total shareholder return based 
performance measured over a three year period
 • Targets relating to other key non-financial objectives (e.g. net 
promoter score) may also be included for a minority of an award
 • At least 50% of an award will be based on financial measures, at 
least 25% based on total shareholder return, and the remaining 
25% based on either financial, total shareholder return or other 
non-financial measures
 • 25% of each element of the LTIP vests for a threshold level of 
performance rising to 100% vesting for maximum performance 
Pension • Provide long-term savings through 
retirement benefits
 • Contribute to the provision of an appropriate 
balance in the overall package between fixed 
and variable income
 • Executive Directors may choose to receive an employer’s pension 
contribution or pension cash allowance
 • Employer’s defined contribution and/or pension cash supplement 
up to a total of 25% of salary
N/A 72 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Summary Remuneration Policy table for Executive Directors that took effect from the AGM on 25 July 2014 continued
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Other benefits • Provide competitive employee benefit 
programme to help recruit and retain 
employees
 • Directors are entitled to benefits including health insurance, long-term 
disability insurance, life assurance, personal accident insurance, 
holiday pay and other group-wide benefits offered by the Company
 • In addition, travel related expenses and overseas accommodation 
will be provided where necessary
 • Car/driver provision provided as applicable
 • Other benefits including relocation expense, benefits relating to 
working in Miami and expenses relating to financial planning may be 
offered, as appropriate
 • The value of benefits may vary from year to year depending on the 
cost to the Company
N/A
Annual bonus –
arrangements for 
Corporate Services 
Director for financial 
year 2014/15
 • With specific regard to providing executive 
continuity and retaining/incentivising Nick 
Cooper over the financial year 2014/15
 • This arrangement is for financial year 2014/15 only
 • 50% of the annual bonus will be in accordance with the annual 
bonus operation detailed above. The remaining half will be subject 
to the key strategic objective of the development of the new 
regional Miami hub and the reshaped operating model
 • Up to 300% of salary (i.e. not in addition to the normal 150% of 
salary bonus) for Nick Cooper. The enhanced bonus is in lieu of him 
receiving an LTIP grant for financial year 2014/15 of 150% of 
salary, so overall in net terms his pay potential will remain 
unchanged from the prior year
 • Details covering metrics for the financial year 2014/15 bonus are 
provided in the annual report on remuneration
 • Further bonus is based on the achievement of key strategic 
objectives
Explanatory notes to the Remuneration Policy table
What is our annual bonus plan and LTIP policy? 
The annual bonus plan and LTIP will be operated according to the rules 
of each respective plan and consistent with normal market practice 
and the Listing Rules. The quantum and performance targets 
applicable to awards will be within the parameters described above. 
Subject to that, the Committee has certain flexibility and the ability to 
exercise judgement in a number of areas. 
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting
The performance metrics and targets that are set for the Executive 
Directors via the annual bonus plan and LTIP are carefully selected to 
provide a clear link between our incentive arrangements and our 
strategic objectives of Top Line Growth, Profitability, Customer 
Satisfaction and Returns. The precise metrics chosen, along with the 
weightings of each, may vary in line with the Company’s evolving 
strategy. The Committee will review the performance measures and 
targets each year and vary them as appropriate to reflect the priorities 
for the business in the year ahead.
Share ownership requirement
The Committee’s policy is to have shareholding requirements for the 
Executive Directors which create greater alignment between their 
interests and those of shareholders and reduce the potential for 
behaviours and actions which are not beneficial for the long-term 
health of the organisation.
The required level is set at up to 400% of salary. Where the holding is 
not already attained it is required to be achieved through retention of 
shares or the vesting of awards (on a net of tax basis) from share plans. 
Reward scenarios
The Company’s Policy results in a significant proportion of 
remuneration received by Executive Directors being dependent on the 
Company’s performance. The chart below illustrates how the total pay 
opportunities for the Executive Directors vary under three different 
performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum for 
2015/16. The chart is indicative only as no assumed share price 
movement or dividend accrual has been included. 
Fixed pay
Fixed pay comprises salary eective 1 April 2015, beneﬁts paid for ﬁnancial year 2014/15 
(including cash allowances and expatriate beneﬁts relating to living/working in Miami and 
annualised for the CFO) and pensions of 25% of base salary . For the CFO the ﬁgures have 
been translated from $ to £ using an exchange rate of $1: £0.6293
Minimum (performance below threshold) 
– ﬁxed pay only
On-target (performance in line with expectations) 
– ﬁxed pay
– target bonus (50% of maximum opportunity)
– vesting of 25% of the maximum under the L TIP
Maximum (performance meets or exceeds maximum) 
– ﬁxed pay
– maximum bonus (100% of maximum opportunity)
– maximum vesting under L TIP
Annual bonus LTIP
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
Minimum
CEO
CFO
Executive Director total remuneration at dierent leve ls of perf ormance (£m)
On-targetOn-target MaximumMinimumMaximum
3
3.5
4
4.5
100%
£1,537k
£596k
£1,068k
£1,917k
£2,537k
£4,337k
100% 56%
27%
18%
35%
28%
37%
24%
16%
61%
31%
30%
39% Annual Report 2014/15 73
Approach to recruitment and promotions 
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be 
set in accordance with the terms of the Company’s Policy in force at 
the time of appointment, as detailed on pages 70 to 73. This Policy 
limits LTIP awards to 4 x salary in exceptional circumstances such 
as recruitment. The Committee may offer additional cash and/or 
share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best 
interests of the Company and shareholders. Any such payments would 
be based solely on remuneration relinquished when leaving a former 
employer and would reflect (as far as possible) the nature and time 
horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any 
performance conditions. Replacement share awards, if used, will be 
granted using the Company’s LTIP (up to the overall limit of 400% of 
salary) to the extent possible. Awards may also be granted outside of 
the Company’s existing LTIP if necessary and as permitted under the 
Listing Rules. Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at 
the time of appointment. 
The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the terms of the 
approved Policy, but with the opportunity for the year of joining 
pro-rated for the period of employment. Depending on the timing and 
responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set 
different performance measures and targets in the year of joining. 
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay 
element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay 
out according to its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take into 
account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration 
obligations existing prior to appointment would continue. 
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree 
that the Company will meet certain relocation and living expenses 
as appropriate.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, 
the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved 
policy in force at that time.
Service contracts and loss of office payments 
Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Director’s 
agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree. 
The Company’s policy is that Executive Directors will be employed 
on a contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no 
more than 12 months’ notice, with the Executive Director required 
to give 12 months’ notice of termination.
An Executive Director’s service contract may be terminated without 
notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for 
sums earned up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of 
certain events such as gross misconduct. The circumstances of the 
termination (taking into account the individual’s performance) and 
an individual’s duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken into 
account by the Committee when determining amounts payable on 
or following termination. The Committee’s normal policy is to reduce 
compensatory payments to former Executive Directors where 
they receive remuneration from other employment during the 
compensation period. The Committee will consider the particular 
circumstances of each leaver on a case by case basis and retain 
flexibility as to at what point, and to what extent payments would 
be reduced. 
Summary Remuneration Policy table for Executive Directors that took effect from the AGM on 25 July 2014 continued
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance
Other benefits • Provide competitive employee benefit 
programme to help recruit and retain 
employees
 • Directors are entitled to benefits including health insurance, long-term 
disability insurance, life assurance, personal accident insurance, 
holiday pay and other group-wide benefits offered by the Company
 • In addition, travel related expenses and overseas accommodation 
will be provided where necessary
 • Car/driver provision provided as applicable
 • Other benefits including relocation expense, benefits relating to 
working in Miami and expenses relating to financial planning may be 
offered, as appropriate
 • The value of benefits may vary from year to year depending on the 
cost to the Company
N/A
Annual bonus –
arrangements for 
Corporate Services 
Director for financial 
year 2014/15
 • With specific regard to providing executive 
continuity and retaining/incentivising Nick 
Cooper over the financial year 2014/15
 • This arrangement is for financial year 2014/15 only
 • 50% of the annual bonus will be in accordance with the annual 
bonus operation detailed above. The remaining half will be subject 
to the key strategic objective of the development of the new 
regional Miami hub and the reshaped operating model
 • Up to 300% of salary (i.e. not in addition to the normal 150% of 
salary bonus) for Nick Cooper. The enhanced bonus is in lieu of him 
receiving an LTIP grant for financial year 2014/15 of 150% of 
salary, so overall in net terms his pay potential will remain 
unchanged from the prior year
 • Details covering metrics for the financial year 2014/15 bonus are 
provided in the annual report on remuneration
 • Further bonus is based on the achievement of key strategic 
objectives 74 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Any share-based entitlements granted under the Company’s share 
plans will be determined on the basis of the relevant plan rules. 
The default treatment is that any outstanding awards would lapse 
on cessation of employment. However, under the rules of the LTIP , 
in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, redundancy, 
disability, retirement, the company business unit employing the 
individual ceasing to be part of the Group or other circumstances at 
the discretion of the Committee (taking into account the individual’s 
performance and the reasons for their departure), ‘good leaver’ status 
can be applied. In these circumstances a participant’s awards vest on 
a time pro-rated basis and further are subject to the satisfaction of 
the relevant performance criteria over the original performance 
period with the balance of the awards lapsing. 
The Committee retains discretion to decide not to pro-rate, to 
alter the basis of time pro-rating, and to alter the date on which 
performance is calculated, if it feels such decisions are appropriate 
in the particular circumstances. If, however, the termination of 
employment is not for one of the specified good leaver reasons, and 
if the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to 
vest, a participant’s awards will lapse in full. In determining whether an 
Executive Director should be treated as a good leaver, the Committee 
will take into account the performance of the individual and the 
reasons for their departure. Other than for US participants, shares 
deferred through the annual bonus plan will vest immediately on 
cessation of employment other than on cessation of employment 
for cause, in which case they will lapse. For US tax reasons, shares 
deferred through the annual bonus plan for US participants will vest 
on the earlier of the date that is six months following the cessation 
of employment and the date of death of the participant.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, a scheme of arrangement 
or similar other major corporate event, LTIP awards will only vest to 
the extent that any performance conditions have been met at the 
date of the event, as determined by the Committee. In such an event, 
LTIP awards will only vest pro-rata to the length of time that has 
elapsed between the date of award and the date of the relevant event, 
unless, in appropriate circumstances, the Committee determines 
otherwise. Other than for US participants, any deferred bonus share 
awards will vest in full and cease to be capable of forfeiture in the 
event of any such major corporate event during the 12 month deferral 
period. For US tax reasons, notwithstanding a major corporate event 
occurring during the 12 month deferral period, the deferred bonus 
share award for US participants will remain outstanding and will only 
vest on the earlier of the expiry of the 12 month deferral period and 
the date of death of the participant. However, the early vesting of 
awards following a change of control will not apply where a company 
acquires control of the Company and following that acquisition the 
shareholders of the Company immediately prior to the acquisition 
between them hold more than 50% of the issued share capital of the 
acquiring company, unless the Committee decides that the foregoing 
vesting rules should apply. 
The Company retains the ability to pay what it feels is an Executive 
Director’s reasonable legal fees associated with agreeing his/her 
termination and in relevant circumstances outplacement services and 
related costs.
In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows:
Provision Detailed terms
Notice period Maximum of 12 months
Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice of base salary, 
normally subject to mitigation and paid 
monthly
1,2
In addition, any statutory entitlements 
would be paid as necessary
Remuneration 
entitlements
A pro-rata bonus may also become payable 
for the period of active service along with 
vesting for outstanding share awards 
(in certain circumstances – see above) 
In all cases performance targets would apply
Change of control Payments on a change of control, where a 
Director’s employment is adversely changed, 
will be as on termination. There will be no 
enhanced provisions on a change of control
2
1 Notwithstanding the Company’s normal policy, the Committee retains the flexibility, 
in exceptional circumstances, to make lump sum termination payments (up to a 
maximum of 12 months’ base salary and contractual benefits) as part of an Executive 
Director’s termination arrangements where it considers it appropriate to do so.
2  The service contracts provide that, in the event of termination without cause and/or 
a change of control of the Company and an Executive Director’s employment being 
adversely changed, then a payment equal to base salary for the notice period and a 
time pro-rated annual bonus will be payable. For Phil Bentley all benefits will cease 
with the exception of life cover and medical insurance which will continue for a period 
of up to six months or earlier if a new job is commenced, and the Company will pay any 
costs associated with the early termination of housing and car provision in the US.  Annual Report 2014/15 75
Summary Remuneration Policy table for Non-executive Directors
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity
Base Fees To provide competitive 
fees in order to attract 
and retain high-calibre 
individuals with the 
relevant skills and 
experience to enhance 
the Board
 • The Chairman’s pay is determined by the 
Committee, and the pay of the other Non-
executive Directors is determined by the Board, 
within the limits set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association, with the Chairman and 
Non-executive Directors abstaining from any 
discussion or decision on their fees
 • The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are 
paid an annual fee and do not participate in any 
of the Company’s incentive arrangements or 
receive any pension provision 
 • The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, 
with reference to the time commitment of the 
role and market levels in companies of 
comparable size and complexity 
 • In respect of the Chairman in particular, the 
Company also considers the individual’s profile 
and experience
Fees for 2015/16 are:
Chairman: £386,000 per annum
Non-executive Director: £65,000 per annum
Additional Fees To reflect the 
additional time 
required when an 
individual chairs a 
committee or is 
appointed as Senior 
Independent Director
 • Fees are reviewed annually
 • The Chairman is not eligible to receive 
additional fees
 • Fees are benchmarked and set in a manner 
consistent with the base fees (see above)
Additional fees may be payable for additional 
responsibilities such as chairing committees or for 
the Senior Independent Director role. The fees for 
the forthcoming year are set out in the annual 
report on remuneration
Both the base and additional fee levels will be 
eligible for increase during the three year period 
that the Remuneration Policy operates to ensure 
they continue to appropriately recognise the time 
commitment of the role, increases to fee levels for 
Non-executive Directors in general and fee levels 
in companies of a similar size and complexity 
Benefits Contractual 
arrangements and 
reimbursement of 
reasonable expenses
 • Reimbursement of business expenses on 
production of receipts
 • Limited benefits relating to travel, 
accommodation and meals for Non-executive 
Directors will also be payable in certain 
circumstances
 • The Chairman may be provided with car-related 
benefits
The value of benefits/expenses may vary from 
year to year depending on the cost to the 
Company 76 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration 
The annual report on remuneration is split into two sections. The first 
section provides details on the implementation of the Remuneration 
Policy for financial year 2015/16 and the second section from page 
79 onwards provides details on the remuneration earned in respect 
of performance during the financial year 2014/15, along with details 
of any share awards made during the year.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for financial year 
2015/16
Executive Directors’ service contracts
Effective date of  
service contract Notice period
Phil Bentley 1 January 2014 Notice can be served 
by either party on not 
less than 12 months’ 
notice
Perley McBride 23 June 2014 Notice can be served 
by either party on not 
less than 12 months’ 
notice
The Company allows Executive Directors to hold external 
directorships subject to agreement by the Chairman on a case by case 
basis and allows the Executive Directors to retain fees received from 
these roles.
Chairman’s service contract
The Chairman has a service contract with 12 months’ notice of 
termination on either side. There are no other contractual 
entitlements on early termination or following a change of control. 
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with the 
Company, but instead have letters of appointment. Non-executive 
Directors are permitted to have other external appointments, but 
these should not adversely affect the ability of the Non-executive 
Director to perform his/her duties. Non-executive Directors are 
appointed for an initial three year term with the expectation that a 
further three year term will follow. After two three year terms, the 
continued appointment of any Non-executive Director may be 
extended on an annual basis on recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee. Termination of the appointment may be earlier at the 
discretion of either party on one month’s written notice. Non-
executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation if their 
appointment is terminated. Appointments will be subject to annual 
re-election at the AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
Effective date of  
initial appointment
Last extension of  
appointment letter
Unexpired term of appointment at 
31 March 2015 Notice period
Sir Richard Lapthorne
1
 25 January 2010 N/A
5
N/A
5
12 months
Simon Ball
2,3
25 January 2010 1 May 2014 1 month 1 month
Mark Hamlin 1 January 2012 1 January 2015 2 years, 9 months 1 month
Brendan Paddick 31 March 2015 – 3 years 1 month
Alison Platt
4
1 June 2012 – 2 months 1 month
John Risley 31 March 2015 – 3 years 1 month
Barbara Thoralfsson 7 January 2015 – 2 years, 9 months 1 month
Ian Tyler 1 January 2011 1 January 2014 1 year, 9 months 1 month
Thad York 31 March 2015 – 3 years 1 month
1 Appointment date shown from date of demerger in 2010. Originally appointed as Chairman to the former Cable and Wireless plc on 10 January 2003.
2 Appointment date shown from date of demerger in 2010. Originally appointed as a Non-executive Director to the former Cable and Wireless plc on 1 May 2006.
3 Appointment has been extended from 1 May 2015 until the 2016 AGM.
4 Appointment will be extended for a further three years from 1 June 2015.
5 The Chairman has a service contract with 12 months’ notice. Annual Report 2014/15 77
Salary
No salary increases will be granted to Executive Directors in financial 
year 2015/16. 
The current salaries as at 1 April 2015 are as follows:
Salary at 
1 April 2014 or 
on appointment 
to the Board
1
Salary at 
1 April 2015 % increase
Phil Bentley £800,000 £800,000 No increase
Perley McBride
1
 US$600,000 US$600,000 No increase
1  Perley McBride joined the Company on 23 June 2014 and was appointed to the Board 
on 26 June 2014.
Pension and other benefits
Executive Directors may choose to receive either a cash allowance of 
25% of their base salary, an employer’s pension contribution at the 
rate of 25% of base salary or a combination of a cash allowance and 
employer’s pension contribution with a combined value of 25% of base 
salary. An Executive Director is not required to pay any pension 
contributions.
The Executive Directors participate in employee benefit programmes 
including life cover, income protection and health insurance plans. For 
Phil Bentley, an annual accommodation/car allowance in Miami is 
provided to recognise the time periods spent between the UK and US. 
For Perley McBride an annual accommodation allowance is provided 
for a period of up to two years or until such time as he relocates to 
Miami on a permanent basis whichever is the earlier, and he is tax 
equalised on any of his CWC income which is taxable in the UK. 
Annual bonus
The operation of the bonus plan for financial year 2015/16 will be 
consistent with the framework detailed in the Policy. The measures 
have been selected to support the key strategic objectives of the 
Company alongside a number of personal objectives. 
The maximum bonus opportunity will continue to be 150% of salary 
for the Executive Directors.
What are the measures for the annual bonus for financial year 
2015/16?
For the financial year 2015/16, the measures adopted and their 
respective weighting for the annual bonus are detailed below.
Measure Rationale
Weighting of 
measure 
out of 100%
Revenue growth This measure reflects our 
ability to deliver sustainable 
long-term growth and will 
encourage innovation and 
investment to gain a greater 
share of customers’ telecoms 
wallet
25%
EBITDA (US$m) This measure seeks to 
incentivise our business 
operating effectiveness, 
encouraging cost control and 
operational gearing
25%
Net Promoter Score 
(NPS)
1
This measure tracks customer 
service and advocacy, 
improvements in which 
deliver an increase in the 
lifetime value of our customer 
relationships
25%
Personal performance Targets specific deliverables 
and behaviours by each 
individual. This will be a basket 
of measures, encompassing 
the ‘how’ as well as the ‘what’
25%
1 There will continue to be a minimum EBITDA underpin to the NPS element of the 
annual bonus, whereby the NPS element of the annual bonus will only pay out provided 
that the minimum EBITDA AIS target has been achieved.
Given the commercial sensitivity of the financial and personal 
performance targets we will not at this stage be providing details on 
the specific targets for the financial year 2015/16. It is our intention 
to report the targets and performance achieved in next year’s annual 
report on remuneration except to the extent that they remain 
commercially sensitive. However we can confirm that the bonus plan 
will have three data points: minimum, target and maximum. A range 
will be set based on the annual operating plan, whereby 25% of each 
of the financial measures will be paid for threshold performance, 50% 
for target performance and 100% for stretch performance.
Bonus will accrue on a straight line basis between the threshold, target 
and stretch levels. 
For bonuses awarded from 2015/16 we have introduced recovery 
provisions for a period of two years on the cash element of the bonus 
and a further period of one year’s recovery on the portion of the 
bonus deferred into shares for a year. These provisions will take effect 
in the event of restatement of the Company’s accounts resulting from 
fraud, error or misrepresentation or any issues of a nature which have 
a significant effect on the performance of the business. 78 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
LTIP 
The LTIP award levels for Phil Bentley and Perley McBride in the 
2015/16 financial year will be 200% of salary.
What are the measures for the LTIP for the financial year 2015/16?
For the LTIP for financial year 2015/16, the measures to be applied 
and their respective weightings are as follows:
Measure Rationale
Weighting of 
measure 
out of 100%
CWC Revenue Same as for annual bonus 18.75%
CWC EBITDA 18.75%
Net Promoter Score
1
18.75%
CWC Economic Profit This measure indicates 
whether we are creating 
value in excess of our cost of 
capital and ensures that our 
capital programme is targeted 
on delivering sustainable 
profitable growth
18.75%
Relative TSR This measure recognises 
that while our operational 
measures will deliver business 
progress, shareholders are 
only remunerated through 
improvement in share price 
and dividends paid
25%
1 There will continue to be a minimum EBITDA underpin to the NPS element of the LTIP, 
whereby the NPS element of the LTIP will only pay out provided that the minimum 
EBITDA LTIP target has been achieved.
Similar to the annual bonus, at threshold, interim and maximum, 
25%, 50% and 100% of each portion of the LTIP award vests. The 
Committee will exercise its discretion on any adjustments which may 
be required as a result of disposals and/or acquisitions during the 
performance period. For the improvement in NPS measure there will 
be an EBITDA underpin whereby this element of the LTIP will not pay 
out for the Executive Directors if the minimum three year EBITDA LTIP 
target is not achieved. Again due to the commercial sensitivity of the 
targets we will not be disclosing them at the outset but will do so after 
they cease to be commercially sensitive.
25% of the LTIP will be based on relative TSR measured against 
the FTSE 250, with 25% of the award vesting at threshold (median 
ranking) rising on a straight line basis to full vesting at upper 
quartile ranking.
For awards to Executive Directors from 2015/16 we have introduced 
recovery provisions for a period of two  years after vesting such that 
awards can be clawed back in certain circumstances including the 
restatement of the Company’s accounts including as a result of fraud, 
error or misrepresentation, or any issues of a nature which have a 
significant effect on the performance of the business.
Share ownership requirements
The required share ownership levels to be achieved will continue to be 
as follows:
CEO 400% of salary
CFO 300% of salary
Chairman’s fee
The Chairman’s annual fee of £386,000, effective from his 
appointment as Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc in January 2003, 
was reviewed by the Committee in March 2015 and will remain 
unchanged for financial year 2015/16. The Chairman receives a cash 
allowance of £5,500 per month in lieu of the provision of a car.
Non-executive Director fees
The fee levels of the Non-executive Directors were also reviewed in 
March 2015 and no increases were approved for the coming year.
The annual fees (which are based in sterling) payable to each 
Non-executive Director for financial year 2015/16 are shown in the 
table below. 
Base fee in sterling Additional fees in sterling
Simon Ball 65,000 20,000
1
Mark Hamlin 65,000 20,000
2
Brendan Paddick 65,000 –
Alison Platt 65,000 –
John Risley 65,000 –
Barbara Thoralfsson 65,000 –
Ian Tyler 65,000 20,000
3
Thad York 65,000 –
1 Additional fee for role of Senior Independent Director, Deputy Chairman, and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
2 Additional fee for membership of the Integration Committee and acting as Alternative 
Chairman of the Integration Committee which oversees the integration CWC and 
Columbus. Further information on the Integration Committee is available on page 51.
3 Additional fee for role as Chairman of the Audit Committee. Annual Report 2014/15 79
Directors’ total remuneration table
The table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc during the period 1 April 
2014 to 31 March 2015.
Salaries 
and fees
£
Benefits in 
kind
1
£
Bonus
2
£
Value of 
LTIP for 
2011/12
3
£
Value of 
LTIP for 
2012/13
4
£
Pension 
cash 
allowance
5
£
Other 
cash 
allowances
6
£
Total 
£
Chairman
Sir Richard Lapthorne 2014/15 386,000 46,262 – – – – 93,074 525,336
2013/14 386,000  44,125 – – – – 85,912 516,037
Executive Directors         
Phil Bentley
7
2014/15 800,000 126,018 880,000 – – 200,000 410,582 2,416,600
2013/14 200,000 46,653 284,055 – – 50,000 117,078 697,786
Nick Cooper
8
2014/15 375,000 8,891 954,375 1,100,388 1,107,311 93,750 2,814 3,642,529
2013/14 375,000 18,097 521,250 – – 93,750 11,908 1,020,005
Perley McBride
9
 2014/15 291,766  56,756 304,847 – – 72,942 37,632 763,943
2013/14 – – – – – – – –
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball 2014/15 85,000 771 – – – – – 85,771
2013/14 85,000  447 – – – – – 85,447
Mark Hamlin 2014/15 85,000 1,268 – – – – – 86,268
2013/14 65,000  1,235 – – – – –  66,235 
Brendan Paddick
11
2014/15 250 – – – – – – 250
2013/14 – – – – – – – –
Alison Platt 2014/15 65,000 376 – – – – – 65,376
2013/14 65,000 491 – – – – –  65,491 
John Risley
11
2014/15 250 – – – – – – 250
2013/14 – – – – – – – –
Barbara Thoralfsson
10
 2014/15 15,333 880 – – – – –  16,213
2013/14 – – – – – – – –
Ian Tyler 2014/15 85,000 275 – – – – – 85,275
2013/14 85,000  1,433 – – – – – 86,433
Thad York
11
2014/15 250 – – – – – – 250
2013/14 – – – – – – – –
Total 2014/15 2,188,849 241,497 2,139,222  1,100,388 1,107,311 366,692 544,102 7,688,061
Total 2013/14 1,261,000 112,481 805,305 – – 143,750 214,898 2,537,434
1. ‘Benefits in kind’ include car and fuel benefits, chauffeur provision, benefits associated with travel, accommodation and relocation, the cost of medical insurance and income 
protection insurance, and the tax settled by the Company in relation to those benefits.
2 With the exception of Nick Cooper, half of the bonus is paid in cash and the other half is deferred into shares for one year and subject to claw back at the discretion of the 
Committee. These shares will count towards each Executive Director’s shareholding requirement. For Perley McBride, bonus paid is calculated on annual salary and is pro-rated for 
the period 23 June 2014 to 31 March 2015. For Nick Cooper his bonus opportunity for financial year 2014/15 was 300% of salary as detailed in the policy report on pages 70 to 
73 with half the bonus (up to 150% of salary) in accordance with the ordinary annual bonus arrangements for 2014/15 and the remaining 50% (up to 150% of salary) awarded in 
lieu of an LTIP grant and subject to the key strategic objective of the development of the new regional Miami operational hub and the reshaped operating model.
3 This column represents the cash equivalent value of the LTIP award granted 2 June 2011 (for the financial year 2011/12) with performance measured over a period of three years 
from the date of grant and which vested in full on 2 June 2014 as detailed on page 82. Based on a closing share price of £0.52125 on 5 June 2014 (the date of vesting).
4 This column denotes the cash equivalent value of the LTIP award granted on 14 January 2013 (for the financial year 2012/13) with performance measured over the period 1 April 
2012 to 31 March 2015. The performance conditions of relative TSR and EPS have both been achieved at the maximum level as detailed on page 82. As the shares have not vested 
at the date of this report, the average share price for the three month period to 31 March 2015 of £0.55104 has been used to calculate the cash equivalent value. The amount 
includes reinvested dividends accrued to 31 March 2015.
5 Company pension contributions in financial year 2014/15 and financial year 2013/14 have been paid to the Executive Directors as either an annual cash allowance and/or employer’s 
pension contributions. An amount of £21 million (2013/14 – £20 million) is included in the net pensions deficit figure in note 3.10 to cover the cost of former Executive Directors’ 
pension entitlements.
6 Phil Bentley was provided with expatriate allowances relating to a car and accommodation (£358,188) and the tax liability for expatriate benefits incurred while living/working 
in Miami. Nick Cooper also received a cash allowance to settle the tax liabilities on benefits relating to living/working in Miami. For Richard Lapthorne, the cash allowance is in part in 
lieu of a company car (£66,000) and the remainder relates to the settlement of the tax liability on benefits. For Perley McBride the £37,632 relates to an accommodation allowance.
7 Phil Bentley was appointed as Director effective 1 January 2014.
8 Nick Cooper stood down from the Board on 31 March 2015.
9 Perley McBride joined the Company on 23 June 2014 and was appointed to the Board on 26 June 2014.
10 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the Board on 7 January 2015.
11 Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York were appointed to the Board on 31 March 2015.
12 The Directors’ total remuneration table is presented in sterling and the US amounts paid to Perley McBride have been converted to sterling using the average exchange rate of $1: 
£0.6293 for the tax year 2014/15. 80 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Payments to past directors/Loss of office
Tony Rice stood down from the Board on 31 December 2013. Under 
the terms of his exit, he remained an employee on garden leave until 
30 June 2014. During the period to 31 March 2015 he continued to 
receive healthcare (£456) and life cover up until 30 June 2014. On 
2 June 2014 the LTIP award attributable to Tony Rice for the financial 
year 2011/12 vested in full and the cash equivalent value of the LTIP 
on vesting was £3,081,092. In addition the LTIP award granted on 
14 January 2013 for the financial year 2012/13 whose performance is 
measured over the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015 will vest in 
full. As the shares have not vested at the date of this report the 
average share price for the three month period to 31 March 2015 has 
been used to calculate the cash equivalent value of £2,755,977 
(which includes reinvested dividends accrued to 31 March 2015).
Tim Pennington stood down from the Board on 11 February 2014 and 
left the Company on 2 June 2014. During the period to 31 March 
2015, he received his normal salary, pension cash contribution/
allowance, healthcare (£547) to his leave date and a cash allowance to 
settle the tax liability in respect of healthcare benefits for the period. 
On 2 June 2014 the financial year 2011/12 LTIP award vested in full 
and the cash equivalent value of the LTIP attributable to Tim 
Pennington on vesting was £2,200,779.
Details of variable pay earned in financial year 2014/15
Annual bonus payments
2014/15 saw the Company deliver revenue growth of 4% year on 
year (2% on a like-for-like basis). EBITDA grew more strongly by 7% 
against the prior year. 
The tables below detail the bonus composition, bonus target ranges 
and how the Executive Directors have performed against each of 
these targets. The targets and actual performance are measured at a 
fixed exchange rate to avoid currency fluctuations having a bearing on 
the financial performance.
Bonus composition for financial year 2014/15 
Bonus measures Revenue EBITDA Net Promoter Score (NPS) Personal performance
% of bonus opportunity 
(out of 100%)
Up to 25% of bonus 
opportunity
Up to 25% of bonus 
opportunity
Up to 25% of bonus 
opportunity
Up to 25% of bonus 
opportunity
% of salary  
(out of 150% of salary)
Up to 37.5% of salary Up to 37.5% of salary Up to 37.5% of salary Up to 37.5% of salary
Financial bonus targets and performance for financial year 2014/15  
Bonus targets Threshold Target Stretch
Financial year 2014/15 
performance
Revenue Target (US$m) 1,739.7 1,793.5 1,820.4 1,759.8
1
% of salary payable 9.38% 18.75% 37.5% 12.9%
EBITDA Target (US$m) 567.5 585.0 593.8 586.6
1
% of salary payable 9.38% 18.75% 37.5% 22.1%
NPS
2
Target +2 NPS points on CWC 
NPS baseline of 16
+4 NPS points on CWC 
NPS baseline of 16
+5 NPS points on CWC 
NPS baseline of 16
NPS score of 22 which is 
+6 NPS points on CWC 
NPS baseline of 16
% of salary payable 9.38% 18.75% 37.5% 37.5%
1 Financial year 2014/15 performance revenue and EBITDA has been calculated at a fixed exchange rate.
2. The NPS underpin of EBITDA being higher in 2014/15 than the prior year’s performance has been achieved with EBITDA at US$581m in 2014/15 versus US$546m in 2013/14 on 
a like-for-like basis. Annual Report 2014/15 81
Personal performance targets and performance for financial year 2014/15
Performance against personal targets Personal performance achieved
Phil Bentley Phil has completed what has been a transformational year for CWC. Aside 
from the acquisition of Columbus International Inc., he has delivered top line 
growth for the first time in five years and achieved the US$100 million cost 
reduction plan we committed to achieve by end of 2014/15. He embedded 
NPS within the business with visible improvements in customer engagement 
across all our markets and grew our B2B capabilities through the creation of 
a new B2B function, the acquisition of Sonitel and secured new business in 
Peru and El Salvador. The Executive Team has been strengthened with the 
appointment of the new CFO and the key hires from the Columbus 
management team.
37.5% out of 37.5% 
Perley McBride Perley was instrumental in obtaining the necessary financing for the 
acquisition of Columbus International Inc. He delivered the US$100 million 
cost reduction plan and supported Phil in delivering top line growth. On an 
operational front, he has identified additional Opex savings from the 
acquisition, and during the transition activities to Miami ensured that key 
personnel in London were retained with dual running for defined periods in 
order to minimise operational risk. 
32% out of 37.5%
Nick Cooper Nick managed the transfer of operations to the Miami office by establishing 
the Miami HR team and ensuring that key personnel were retained in London 
to support with the transfer of knowledge. He embedded the Plc 
governance systems and processes into the Miami office, ensuring the 
smooth running of the Board in a year where an unprecedented number of 
issues were dealt with. He also played a key role in the legal and regulatory 
negotiations on the acquisition of Columbus.
32% out of 37.5%
Bonus payments for financial year 2014/15
% of salary
 payable for
 Revenue 
performance
% of salary
 payable for
 EBITDA 
performance
% of salary
 payable for
 NPS 
performance
% of salary 
payable for 
personal 
performance
Total bonus 
payable as a 
% of salary
Total bonus 
paid out 
of 100%
Phil Bentley 12.9% 22.1% 37.5% 37.5% 110% 73.3%
Nick Cooper 12.9% 22.1% 37.5% 32.0% 104.5% 69.7%
Perley McBride
1
 12.9% 22.1% 37.5% 32.0% 104.5% 69.7%
1  Bonus paid is pro-rated for the period 23 June 2014 to 31 March 2015.
For financial year 2014/15, Nick Cooper was eligible for a bonus opportunity of up to 300% of salary as outlined in the Policy table on pages 70 
to 73. 50% of the bonus (up to 150% of salary) was based on the normal bonus performance for financial year 2014/15 as shown above, with 
the remaining 50% of bonus (up to 150% of salary) subject to the key strategic objective of the development of the new Miami operational hub 
and the reshaped operating model and was in lieu of him receiving an LTIP grant for financial year 2014/15. The Committee considered the role 
which Nick played in the delivery of this key strategic objective as follows:
 • The building of management capability in the new Miami operational hub including the recruitment of key senior executives including the new 
CFO, Perley McBride
 • The provision of executive support and continuity for Phil Bentley during Phil’s first full year in the CEO role
 • Ensuring continuity for the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors during the transition, and acting as a key adviser to the Chairman 
throughout the process
 • Downsizing the London Head Office from in excess of 120 people to less than 25 people at year end
 • Transferring certain London Head Office activities to Miami whilst ensuring that all corporate and governance routines were 
maintained throughout
The Committee concluded that this portion of the bonus would be paid in full. 82 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Long-term incentive awards earned in financial year 2014/15 
On 2 June 2011, performance share awards equal to 1.5 times base 
salary were granted to Nick Cooper (under the previous performance 
share plan) which were capable of vesting on the third anniversary of 
grant on 2 June 2014 subject to achievement of the performance 
conditions. 
The performance targets and vesting schedule for this award were:
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over 
performance period % of award vesting
14% compound p.a. or higher 100%
Between 8% compound p.a. and 
14% compound p.a.
Straight line between  
0% and 100%
8% compound p.a. or lower 0%
The Company’s TSR over the performance period at 16.7% compound 
per annum exceeded the maximum performance target therefore the 
shares vested in full during the financial year 2014/15. 
On 14 January 2013, a performance share award equal to 1.5 times 
base salary was granted to Nick Cooper and other Executives at that 
time. This award was based 50% on relative TSR against a comparator 
group, comprising companies predominantly from the European 
Telecoms sector and 50% on compound annual growth in EPS. This 
award was the LTIP award for 2012 which would ordinarily have been 
granted in June 2012 after the announcement of our full year results 
for 2011/12. However, because of the disposals of our Monaco & 
Islands operations we were in an extended closed period and the next 
available opportunity to grant this award was in January 2013. The 
performance period for this award was 1 April 2012 to 31 March 
2015. The performance targets and vesting schedule for this award 
are detailed below:
TSR performance targets
Company’s TSR ranking within the 
Comparator Company List
1
Percentage of the TSR element to vest
Upper quartile or above 100%
Between median and upper 
quartile
25%-100%  
on a straight line basis
Median 25%
Below median 0%
1 The comparator group for the award is France Telecom, BT Group, Telecom Italia, KPN 
Kon, Deutsche Telekom, Telefonica, Belgacom, Swisscom ‘R’. Telekom Austria, AT&T, 
Portugal Telecom. 
EPS performance targets
Company’s CAGR over the 
performance period Percentage of the EPS element to vest
10% or above 100%
Between 5% and 10% 25%-100%  
on a straight line basis
At 5% 25%
Below 5% 0%
As a result of the disposal of our Macau, and Monaco & Islands 
businesses and the proceeds received from those businesses not 
being reinvested into new businesses during the performance period, 
the Committee considered how to assess EPS performance given the 
significant proportion of EPS attributed to the disposed businesses at 
the time the targets were set. The Committee concluded that 
adjusting both the EPS performance vesting range and actual EPS 
performance to recognise the divestments during the performance 
period was the fairest approach to adopt in that we were maintaining 
the principle of applying the 5-10% CAGR per annum to the baseline 
EPS but only for the period during which we owned the respective 
businesses. Similarly, in applying the same adjustment methodology 
to the actual EPS performance, we have ensured that the degree of 
challenge is no greater or smaller than was intended in the original 
targets. This was more challenging than simply measuring 
performance for the continuing business against the 2011/12 starting 
point. Against the adjusted EPS targets, the adjusted EPS performance 
was in excess of 10% CAGR during the performance period. The 
Company’s relative TSR ranking has also exceeded upper quartile 
during the performance period, and therefore 100% of the shares 
will vest.
Details of historic awards granted to Executive Directors under the 
LTIP are summarised in the table on page 85, and the cash equivalent 
value of the LTIPs detailed above are included in Directors’ total 
remuneration table on page 79. Annual Report 2014/15 83
Long-term incentive awards granted in the year 
Details of awards made to Executive Directors under the Performance Share Plan in the year ended 31 March 2015 are as follows:
Scheme Award level Award date Face value Vesting period Performance conditions
Chief Executive 
Officer – 
Phil Bentley
PSP 2011 200% of 
salary
29 May 
2014
£1,600,000 Three year 
performance 
period 
commencing on 
1 April 2014
Performance against five measures; 
EBITDA, Revenue, Net Promoter Score 
(NPS), Economic profit and relative TSR.
Relative TSR will account for 25% of the 
LTIP (out of 100%) with the remaining 
four targets representing 18.75% each of 
the LTIP (out of 100%).
There will be a minimum EBITDA underpin 
to the NPS element of the LTIP , whereby 
the NPS element of the LTIP will only pay 
out provided that the minimum EBITDA 
LTIP target has been achieved.
Given the commercial sensitivity of the 
three year financial targets we will not be 
disclosing the EBITDA, Revenue and 
Economic profit targets until the end of 
the performance period. For NPS the 
range for vesting between threshold and 
maximum is an NPS improvement of 
between +6 to + 12 from the baseline. For 
TSR below median ranking against the 
comparator group no shares will vest, 
with vesting rising from 25% to 100% for 
a TSR ranking of between median and 
upper quartile. The comparator group of 
companies comprises France Telecom, BT 
Group, Telecom Italia, KPN Kon, Deutsche 
Telekom, Telefonica, Belgacom, 
Swisscom ’R’, Telekom Austria, AT&T 
and Portugal Telecom.
Chief Financial 
Officer – 
Perley McBride
200% of 
salary
30 June 
2014
US$1,200,000 
(which at the 
time of grant 
was a sterling 
equivalent of 
£707,046) 
For the purposes of the awards, TSR will be calculated using a one month average share price at the beginning and end of the performance 
period in order to moderate the effect of short-term volatility. The share price for the award to Phil Bentley was £0.5457 , being the average 
closing share price of the Company for the five business days commencing on 21 May 2014. The share price for the award to Perley McBride 
was £0.4868, being the average closing share price of the Company for the five business days commencing on 23 June 2014. Both 
Performance Share Awards were granted in the form of restricted share awards and a dividend award supplement will apply to awards that 
vest in accordance with the rules of the plan. 84 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Share ownership 
As at 31 March 2015, the Executive Directors’ shareholding requirements had been exceeded by Phil Bentley and Nick Cooper but had not yet 
been met by Perley McBride. Where the holding is not already attained it is required to be achieved through retention of shares or the vesting of 
awards (on a net of tax basis) from share plans.
As a result of the acquisition of Columbus, the Takeover Panel considers that the Directors from time to time (and their close relatives) will be 
deemed to be acting in concert with the Principal Vendors and the Ultimate Controllers (as defined and further described in the circular 
to shareholders dated 19 November 2014) (together, the ‘Concert Party’).  Consequently, there are restrictions on the acquisition of shares in 
the Company by any Director.  Further information regarding the Concert Party can be found on page 55 of the Corporate Governance Report. 
There has not been any change in the Directors’ interests in shares from 31 March 2015 to 19 May 2015.
Directors’ interests in shares as at 31 March 2015
Beneficially owned 
shares as at 
31 March 2015 or 
date of resignation
Unvested deferred 
bonus plan shares
1
% shareholding
requirement 
achieved
2
Share Purchase 
Plan (unvested)
Performance Share 
Plan shares
(unvested)
3
Total Interest in 
share plans
Chairman
Sir Richard Lapthorne 9,000,000 – – – – –
Executive Directors
3
Phil Bentley 5,265,968 265,968 421% – 7,750,176 7,750,176
Nick Cooper 2,558,646 488,061 495% – 3,459,515 3,459,515
Perley McBride
4
700,000 – 105% – 1,546,570 1,546,570
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball 504,348 – – – – –
Mark Hamlin 122,222 – – – – –
Brendan Paddick
6
136,077,710 – – – – –
Alison Platt 23,764 – – – – –
John Risley
6,7
846,355,136 – – – – –
Barbara Thoralfsson
5
– – – – – –
Ian Tyler 4,000 – – – – –
Thad York
6,8
575,096,759 – – – – –
1  Phil Bentley and Nick Cooper received 50% of their total gross bonus payment for the financial year ended 2013/14 in the form of bonus plan shares deferred for one year and 
subject to claw back at the discretion of the Committee. These shares count towards each Director’s shareholding requirements and are due to vest at the end of May 2015. 
A proportion of these deferred shares may be sold at the end of the deferral period to meet tax obligations relating to their acquisition/vesting.
2 Shares counting towards achievement of the requirement included beneficially owned shares. Share price as at the close of business on 31 March 2015 (£0.6095). Perley 
McBride’s salary of US$600,000 has been converted into sterling using the closing exchange rate of $1.4816: £1 on 31 March 2015.
3 As potential beneficiaries from outstanding awards which may be satisfied by shares held by the Trust, the Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest in all of the ordinary 
shares held by the Trust, which at 31 March 2015 amounted to 8,386,941 shares.
4 Perley McBride was appointed to the Board on 26 June 2014.
5 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the Board on 7 January 2015.
6 Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York were appointed to the Board on 31 March 2015.
7 CVBI Holdings (Barbados) Inc and Clearwater Holdings (Barbados) Limited are both ultimately controlled by John Risley. CVBI Holdings (Barbados) Inc owns 788,549,081 shares 
(18.2 %). Clearwater Holdings (Barbados) Limited owns 57,806,055 shares (1.3%). Further details in respect of this can be found in the Directors’ and corporate governance 
report.
8 Columbus Holding LLC owns the 575,096,759 shares listed above. Thad York has no direct interest in these shares, but has been nominated to the Board by Columbus Holding LLC 
and represents the private office of John Malone, who ultimately controls Columbus Holding LLC. Annual Report 2014/15 85
Directors’ share awards
Name and scheme Award date Vesting date
Market price 
on date of 
award of
 Cable & 
Wireless 
Communi-
cations Plc 
shares (pence)
Shares under 
award at 
 1 April 2014
Shares 
awarded
Shares 
vested
Shares lapsed, 
cancelled or 
forfeited
Shares under 
award at 
31 March 2015
Executive Directors
Nick Cooper
Performance Shares 02/06/2011 02/06/2014 43.29 1,592,718 – 1,592,718 – –
Performance Shares
DS
12/08/2011 02/06/2014 33.88 154,260 – 154,260 – –
Performance Shares
DS
12/01/2012 02/06/2014 37.99 71,984 – 71,984 – –
Performance Shares
DS
10/08/2012 02/06/2014 32.54 166,075 – 166,075 – –
Performance Shares
DS
11/01/2013 02/06/2014 39.40 33,192 – 33,192 – –
Performance Shares
DS
09/08/2013 02/06/2014 40.08 69,840 – 69,840 – –
Performance Shares
DS
10/01/2014 02/06/2014 56.50 22,988 – 22,988 – –
Performance Shares
1
14/01/2013 14/01/2016 37.72 1,812,761 – – – 1,812,761
Performance Shares
DS
11/08/2013 14/01/2016 40.08 79,489 – – – 79,489
Performance Shares
DS
11/01/2014 14/01/2016 56.50 26,164 – – – 26,164
Performance Shares
DS
08/08/2014 14/01/2016 47.37 – 59,751 – – 59,751
Performance Shares
DS
09/01/2015 14/01/2016 49.12 – 31,328 – – 31,328
Performance Shares 30/05/2013 30/05/2016 43.89 1,267,462 – – – 1,267,462
Performance Shares
DS
11/08/2013 30/05/2016 40.08 55,577 – – – 55,577
Performance Shares
DS
11/01/2014 30/05/2016 56.50 18,294 – – – 18,294
Performance Shares
DS
08/08/2014 30/05/2016 47.37 – 41,777 – – 41,777
Performance Shares
DS
09/01/2015 30/05/2016 49.12 – 21,904 – – 21,904
    5,370,804 154,760 2,111,057 – 3,414,507
Phil Bentley 
Performance Shares
2
02/01/2014 02/06/2017 57.40 4,288,011 – – – 4,288,011
Performance Shares
DS
11/01/2014 02/06/2017 56.50 61,891 – – – 61,891
Performance Shares
DS
08/08/2014 02/06/2017 47.37 – 141,340 – – 141,340
Performance Shares
DS
09/01/2015 02/06/2017 49.12 – 74,106 – – 74,106
Performance Shares 29/05/2014 29/05/2017 53.00 – 2,932,013 – – 2,932,013
Performance Shares
DS
08/08/2014 29/05/2017 47.37 – 96,644 – – 96,644
Performance Shares
DS
09/01/2015 29/05/2017 49.12 – 50,671 – – 50,671
4,349,902 3,294,774 – – 7,644,676
Perley McBride
Performance Shares 30/06/2014 30/06/2017 49.25 – 1,452,376 – – 1,452,376
Performance Shares
DS
08/08/2014 30/06/2017 47.37 – 47,872 – – 47,872
Performance Shares
DS
09/01/2015 30/06/2017 49.12 – 25,100 – – 25,100
– 1,525,348 – – 1,525,348
DS Dividend shares
1 The number of shares awarded under the PSP 2011 was calculated based on the average share price for the period 24 to 30 May 2012 (inclusive) which is the period immediately 
after the 2011/12 full year results and would ordinarily have been used to calculate the award price had the Company not been in an extended close period until January 2013. 
2 Share award of 4,288,011 CWC shares were granted to Phil Bentley on 2 January 2014 in order to secure his appointment as Chief Executive Officer. The PSP award based on 
300% of base salary is subject to performance measured over three years and continued service, and the award of which was contingent on Phil purchasing shares with a value of 
at least 200% of salary. This requirement has been met by the acquisition of 4,300,000 shares on 2 January 2014 (over 300% of his salary at the date of purchase). 86 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Dilution 
The Committee ensures that at all times the number of new shares 
which may be issued under any share option or share-based plans, 
including all employee plans, does not exceed the dilution limit of 10% 
of the Company’s issued share capital over any ten year rolling period. 
As at 31 March 2015, 6% of the issued share capital was available 
for issue under our share-based plans. In calculating this figure, the 
Committee has taken into account historic awards of the former 
Cable and Wireless plc shares made to current or former employees 
of the CWC business and the adjustments to the awards as a result of 
the demerger.
Awards under the various share plans are funded by a mix of 
purchased and newly-issued shares, as determined by the Committee. 
Newly issued shares are subject to the dilution limit outlined above. 
Purchased shares are held by the Trust, which is subject to a holding 
limit of no more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of 
the Company.
Percentage change in remuneration levels 
The table below shows the movement in the salary, benefits and 
annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and 
previous financial year compared to that for the average UK/US 
employee. The Committee has chosen this comparator as it feels 
that it provides a more appropriate reflection of the earnings of the 
average worker than the movement in the Group’s total wage bill, 
which is distorted by movements in the number of employees and 
variations in wage practices in our overseas markets. For the benefits 
and bonus per employee, this is based on those employees eligible to 
participate in such schemes. 
% Chief Executive Officer Average per employee
Salary
1
10% 3%
Benefits
2
141% 26%
Annual bonus paid
3
64% 50%
1 The 2013/14 salary for the Chief Executive Officer has been based on the salary paid 
to Tony Rice for the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2013 plus the salary paid to 
Phil Bentley from 1 January 2014 to 31 March 2014.
2 Benefits for the Chief Executive Officer include travel benefits, accommodation 
allowance and reimbursement of other necessary expenses incurred in the financial 
year 2014/15, whilst living/working in Miami.
3 Annual bonus paid relates to bonus paid in financial year 2012/13 and financial year 
2013/14 in respect of the prior year performance period to enable comparison.
Performance graph and pay table 
The chart below shows the Company’s TSR performance against the 
performance of the FTSE Europe Telecoms sector from 22 March 
2010 to 31 March 2015. This index was chosen as it represents a 
broad equity market index, which includes companies of a comparable 
or larger size and complexity operating in the same sector, but not the 
same geographies. 
Total shareholder return (TSR)
Value in £ from 22 March 2010 to 31 March 2015
180
160
140
120
80 
60 
40 
31 Mar 
2010
31 Mar 
2011
31 Mar 
2014
31 Mar 
2015
 Cable & Wireless Communications
 FTSE Europe Telecoms Sector
Value (£)
31 Mar 
2013
31 Mar 
2012
This graph shows the total shareholder return by 31 March 2015 for a 
£100 holding in the Company's shares for the period from 22 March 2010 
(the date shares in the Company were admitted to the Ocial List), compared 
with £100 invested in the FTSE Europe Telecoms Sector.
100  Annual Report 2014/15 87
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer for the six financial years to 31 March 2015. The total 
remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years. The annual bonus and LTIP 
percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Chief Executive Officer’s five year pay table 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
1
2014/15
Total remuneration
2
£2,641,465 £2,336,597 £1,306,651 £1,703,341 £2,093,065 £2,416,600
Annual bonus 0% 77% 76% 56% 89% 73%
LTIP vesting N/A
3
N/A
3
0% 0% 0% 0%
1 The information for financial year 2013/14 relates to the total remuneration, annual bonus and LTIP vesting for Tony Rice from 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2013 and total 
remuneration, annual bonus and LTIP vesting for Phil Bentley from 1 January 2014 to 31 March 2014. It also includes travel benefits, accommodation allowance and 
reimbursement of other necessary expenses incurred for the Chief Executive Officer in the financial year 2013/14, while working in London and Miami.
2 The total remuneration in this table has been adjusted to include half of the bonus which is deferred into shares for one year.
3 For the 2009/10 financial year and 2010/11 financial year, the LTIP payment relates to the cash LTIP plan which had no formal award limit. It was structured to vest at the end 
of its five year cycle with staged payments between years four and five. 85% vested at the end of year four (2009/10 financial year) of which 50% (£1,090,000) was paid 
immediately and 35% deferred for a further year with the balance vesting and payable at the end of the 2010/11 financial year. At the end of 2010/11 financial year, the cash LTIP 
units were revalued and a further payment of £1,660,000 was made (which included the 35% deferred from 2009/10). The total payment from the cash LTIP during the five year 
period was £2,750,000.
Relative importance of the spend on pay 
The table below shows the movement in spend on staff costs versus 
that in dividends.
2013/14 2014/15 % change
Staff costs
1
£266 million £203 million (23.7)%
Dividends
2
£63 million £64 million 1.6%
1 Staff costs include exceptional employee and other staff expenses and deferred bonus 
shares issued as disclosed in the prior year single figure amount.
2 Dividends listed above include final dividend in respect of the prior year and interim 
dividend in respect of the actual year.
External Non-executive Director positions 
Phil Bentley received and retained the following fees for external 
directorships during the year. 
Annual fees
 in sterling
Phil Bentley
Non-executive Director of IMI Plc
1
56,250
1 Phil Bentley resigned from the board effective 31 December 2014.
Statement of shareholder voting 
At last year’s AGM, the Directors’ remuneration report received the 
following votes from shareholders:
2014 AGM
Votes cast in favour 1,678,887,185 89.90%
Votes cast against 188,595,985 10.10%
Total votes cast 1,867,483,170
Abstentions 22,249,829
Shareholder engagement 
During the year, the Committee engaged with the Company’s major 
shareholders on the packages and incentive arrangements for the 
Executive Directors.
Most shareholders who engaged were understanding of the 
Committee’s reasoning on these matters and were broadly supportive. 
Committee governance
The principal duties of the Committee are detailed below:
 • To recommend to the Board the policy for the remuneration of the 
Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior executive 
management
 • To review the Remuneration Policy and consider its alignment with 
strategy on an ongoing basis
 • To review the design of all new share incentive plans, policy on share 
incentive awards and performance conditions
 • To determine whether performance measures for incentive plans 
have been satisfied
 • To approve any amendments to the service contracts of the 
Chairman and Executive Directors
In forming its recommendations, the Committee receives input and 
advice from the Executive Directors, the HR Director and New Bridge 
Street who are the Committee’s independent adviser. The outcomes 
of Committee meetings are reported to the Board. 88 Cable & Wireless Communications
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Terms of reference
The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to 
carry out its duties and the full terms of reference can be found on our 
website at www.cwc.com.
Advisers to the Committee 
New Bridge Street (NBS) provide advice on remuneration and share 
plans both for Executive Directors and the wider senior management 
population, and were appointed by the Committee. In addition, NBS 
provide measurement of the Company’s relative and absolute TSR 
performance and benchmark Non-executive Directors’ and the 
Chairman’s fee levels. 
The Committee regularly reviews the external adviser relationship and 
is comfortable that NBS’s advice remains objective and independent. 
The Committee reviewed the performance of the adviser during the 
year. Based on the quality of the advice received, their objectivity, 
independence and their familiarity with the Company’s existing 
structures and share plans during this period of significant change the 
Committee reappointed NBS until the time of the next review.
NBS are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code 
of Conduct and any advice provided by them is governed by that 
code. NBS’s terms of engagement are available on request from the 
Company Secretary. NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited 
(an Aon plc company) which, other than acting as independent 
consultant to the Committee, provided no further services to the 
Company during the year and has no other connection with the 
Company. For the year under review NBS’s total fees charged 
were £116,497 (exclusive of VAT) and the fees were charged on 
a timed basis. 
Remuneration Committee membership 
Membership and attendance at meetings
Simon Ball (Chairman)
     
5/5
Mark Hamlin
     
5/5
Alison Platt
    
5/5
Ian Tyler 
    
5/5
Barbara Thoralfsson
1
 
1/2
1 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from 
7 January 2015. Barbara was unable to attend the scheduled March 2015 Committee 
meeting due to a prior engagement which she had before joining the Company.
 
The Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year ended 
31 March 2015. Details of Committee membership and individual 
attendance at the meetings by members are given in the table above.
No person is present during any discussion relating to their own 
remuneration.
Audited information 
The sections of the annual report on remuneration that have been 
audited by KPMG LLP are from Directors’ total remuneration table on 
page 79 up to and including long-term incentive awards granted in the 
year and Directors’ interests in shares as at 31 March 2015 on pages 
84 to 85.
This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its 
behalf by
Simon Ball
Chairman, Remuneration Committee  
19 May 2015 Annual Report 2014/15 89
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company 
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, they are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union (EU) and applicable law. Further, they have elected 
to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with 
UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP)).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of their profit 
or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
 • Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
 • Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent
 • For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU
 • For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable 
UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Company 
financial statements
 • Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will 
continue in business
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and 
enable them to ensure that their financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them 
to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company and for taking 
reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance statement 
that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules to include a report containing a fair review of the business and 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group 
and the Company.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Group and 
Company’s website www.cwc.com. Information published on the 
Company’s website is accessible in many countries with different 
legal requirements. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 
45 to 47 confirm that, to the best of each person’s knowledge and 
belief:
 • The Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group
 • The Strategic report and Directors’ report contained on pages 
2 to 41 and pages 48 to 58, respectively, include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position of 
the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s and 
the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy. 
Disclosure of information to auditors
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information (as defined in Section 418(3) of the Companies Act 
2006) of which the auditor is unaware, and the Directors have taken 
all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Clare Underwood
Company Secretary
19 May 2015 92-99 Primary financial  
   statements and narrative
100- 102 Basis of preparation
103- 1 1 3 Results for the year
1 14- 1 31 Operating assets and liabilities
1 32- 142 Capital structure and financing
143-158 Other
1 59- 161 Independent auditor’s report
162- 168 Company financial statements
Financial statements
The contents below clearly show where you can 
find information relevant to you. We have presented 
the financial information in five sections to provide 
readers with a clearer understanding of what drives 
the financial performance of the Group. 
Plain English explanations are provided throughout 
these financial statements. 
90 Cable & Wireless Communications We are the leading landline 
service provider in 1 7 out 
of 18 markets.
Annual Report 2014/15 91 92 Cable & Wireless Communications
 2014/15
Restated*
2013/14
Continuing operations Note
Pre-
exceptional 
items 
US$m
 Exceptional 
items
1
 
US$m
 Total 
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
items 
US$m
 Exceptional 
items
1
 
US$m
 Total 
US$m
Revenue 2.1 1,753 – 1,753 1,689 – 1,689
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and 
impairment 2.3.1, 2.3.5 (1,168) (104) (1,272) (1,143) (174) (1,317)
Depreciation and impairment 3.4, 3.6 (209) (127) (336) (204) – (204)
Amortisation 3.5 (47) – (47) (31) – (31)
Other operating income 2.3.4 42 – 42 – – –
Other operating expense 2.3.4 (62) – (62) (15) – (15)
Group operating profit/(loss) 309 (231) 78 296 (174) 122
Share of profit/(loss) of joint ventures and associates 3.7 12 – 12 5 (67) (62)
Total operating profit/(loss) 321 (231) 90 301 (241) 60
Gain on sale of businesses 2.4 4 – 4 – – –
Finance income 4.1 26 – 26 6 – 6
Finance expense 4.1 (84) (37) (121) (139) (25) (164)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 267 (268) (1) 168 (266) (98)
Income tax (expense)/credit 2.6 (65) 33 (32) (51) 19 (32)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 202 (235) (33) 117 (247) (130)
Discontinued operations
Profit after tax for the year from discontinued 
operations 2.8.5 354 – 354 1,081 – 1,081
Profit/(loss) for the year 556 (235) 321 1,198 (247) 951
Profit/(loss) attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company 458 (205) 253 1,088 (229) 859
Non-controlling interests 98 (30) 68 110 (18) 92
Profit/(loss) for the year 556 (235) 321 1,198 (247) 951
Earnings per share attributable to the owners of the
Parent Company during the year (cents per share)
2
2.5
– basic 9.7 34.3
– diluted 9.7 34.3
Loss per share from continuing operations attributable
to the owners of the Parent Company during the year
(cents per share) 2.5
– basic (3.8) (8.4)
– diluted (3.8) (8.4)
Earnings per share from discontinued operations
attributable to the owners of the Parent Company
during the year (cents per share) 2.5
– basic 13.5 42.7
– diluted 13.5 42.7
*The results have been restated for the classification of Monaco in discontinued operations (note 2.8) and for Seychelles within continuing operations (note 2.2).
1 Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 2.3.5 and in the relevant note for each item. 
2 Includes discontinued operations (note 2.8). 
The notes on pages 100 to 158 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2015 Annual Report 2014/15 93
   The consolidated income statement includes the majority of our income and expenses 
for the year with the remainder recorded in the statement of comprehensive income. 
The commentary below is unaudited. As Columbus was acquired on the last day of the 
financial year no results are included in the income statement.
Revenue
Group revenue increased by 4% to US$1,753 million (2% increase 
excluding the impact of the Sonitel acquisition and currency 
movements). Growth was achieved across mobile, broadband, 
video and managed services. More information is provided in our 
segmental results in note 2.2.
EBITDA
The Group uses EBITDA as a key performance measure as it reflects 
the underlying operational performance of the businesses. EBITDA is 
not a measure defined under IFRS. It is calculated as earnings before 
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, net other operating and 
non-operating income and expense and exceptional items.
Overall Group EBITDA, at US$585 million, was 7% ahead of the prior 
year driven particularly by strong performance in LIME which grew 40%.
Reconciliation to total operating profit
2014/15 
US$m
Restated
2013/14 
US$m
Total operating profit 90 60
Depreciation and amortisation 256 235
Net other operating expense 20 15
Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 
and associates: pre-exceptional (12) (5)
Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 
and associates: exceptional – 67
Exceptional items: operating 104 174
Exceptional items: impairment 127 –
EBITDA 585 546
Exceptional items
Exceptional totalled US$231 million in the year. The charges included 
impairment of assets identified as redundant; primarily, copper plant 
and facilities in markets where CWC and Columbus overlap and legacy 
voice switches replaced as part of Project Marlin, as well as 
restructuring changes to yield synergies related to the Columbus 
transaction and a voluntary separation agreement in The Bahamas. 
US$241 million of expense in the prior period included charges for the 
Group cost reduction initiative and a charge of US$67 million in TSTT. 
Pre-exceptional depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation and amortisation at US$256 million was 9% higher 
than prior year due to investments made to upgrade networks for 
Project Marlin.
Net other operating expense/income
The US$20 million net other operating expense for the year comprised 
US$55 million of transaction fees in relation to the Columbus and 
Sonitel acquisitions, US$25 million of income in relation to the subsea 
cable partnership with Columbus and a foreign exchange translation 
gain related to the UK pension schemes. In the prior year the 
US$15 million expense was the result of a foreign exchange translation 
loss on the UK pension schemes.
Joint ventures and associates
Our share of profit after tax from joint ventures and associates was 
US$12 million, US$74 million higher than the prior period due to a 
US$67 million charge recorded for TSTT share of associate for their 
voluntary separation scheme that was recorded in 2013/14.
As at 31 March 2015, TSTT was reclassified as a held for sale asset 
due to conditions included in the regulatory approval obtained from 
the Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago relating to 
the acquisition of Columbus.
Gain on sale of business
The US$4 million gain on sale of business arose on the disposal of 
Solomon Telekom in October 2014. 
Net finance expense
The US$58 million net finance expense for the Group excluding 
exceptional items includes finance income of US$26 million 
(US$6 million in 2013/14) and finance expense of US$84 million 
(US$139 million in 2013/14). The decrease in finance expense 
predominantly related to the redemption of the secured 
US$500 million 2017 bond in February 2014.
Income tax expense
The income tax charge for the continuing Group of US$65 million 
(US$51 million in 2013/14) was in respect of overseas taxes. This 
charge represented an effective tax rate of 25% pre-exceptional 
items. Removing the impact of non-deductible interest charged on 
the Group’s central borrowing facilities this charge represented an 
effective tax rate of 20% pre-exceptional items.
Discontinued operations and gains on disposal
Monaco Telecom has been classified as a discontinued operation for 
the year ended 31 March 2015 and the comparative consolidated 
income statement has been restated. The results of Monaco Telecom 
were previously recorded in the Monaco operating segment.
During the period we recognised an accounting gain of US$346 million 
following the completed disposal of Monaco Telecom. For more 
information see note 2.8.
Reconciliation of basic earnings per share (EPS) to adjusted EPS
Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP measure and is used by the Group as it 
provides a measure of underlying earnings attributable to each share. 
We exclude one-off non-recurring items and also certain non-cash 
charges such as amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Adjusted EPS has increased from 2.2c to 4.7c due to improved 
performance and reduced finance expense.
Reconciliation of adjusted EPS to loss per share
2014/15 
US cents
Restated
2013/14 
US cents
Loss per share attributable to owners 
of the Parent Company (3.8) (8.4)
Exceptional items
1
7.9 9.2
Acquisition related transaction costs
1
2.1 –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles
1
0.2 0.1
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses on financing
activities (1.5) 1.3
Gain on disposal of businesses (0.2) –
Adjusted EPS attributable to owners 
of the Parent Company 4.7 2.2
Weighted average number of shares (million) 2,615 2,502
1 Excluding amounts attributable to non-controlling interests.
Commentary on the income statement 94 Cable & Wireless Communications
Note
2014/15 
US$m
2013/14 
US$m
Profit for the year 321 951
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year comprised:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Actuarial losses in the value of defined benefit retirement plans 3.10 (77) (8)
Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss – –
Net other comprehensive loss not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (77) (8)
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (11) (3)
Foreign currency translation reserves recycled on disposal of operations (94) (7)
Foreign currency translation reserves recycled on held for sale associate 3.8 (30) –
Fair value gain/(loss) on available-for-sale financial assets 4.4 3 (3)
Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss – –
Net other comprehensive loss to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (132) (13)
Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax (209) (21)
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 112 930
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company 42 836
Non-controlling interests 70 94
112 930
The notes on pages 100 to 158 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 March 2015 Annual Report 2014/15 95
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Attributable to the owners of the Parent Company
Share capital 
US$m 
Share 
premium 
US$m 
Foreign 
currency 
translation
and hedging 
reserve 
US$m 
Capital and 
other 
reserves 
US$m 
Retained 
earnings 
US$m 
 Total 
US$m 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
US$m 
Total equity 
US$m 
Balance at 1 April 2013 133 97 32 3,321 (3,832) (249) 501 252
Profit for the year – – – – 859 859 92 951
Actuarial losses recognised (net of tax) – – – – (6) (6) (2) (8)
Foreign currency translation reserves 
recycled on disposal of operations – – (7) – – (7) – (7)
Exchange differences on translation of 
foreign operations – – (7) – – (7) 4 (3)
Fair value movements in available-for-sale 
financial assets – – – (3) – (3) – (3)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income 
for the year
– – (14) (3) 853 836 94 930
Equity share-based payments – – – – 6 6 – 6
Dividends – – – – (100) (100) – (100)
Total dividends and other transactions 
with Cable & Wireless Communications 
Plc shareholders
– – – – (94) (94) – (94)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – – (76) (76)
Transfers on sale of subsidiaries – – – (30) 26 (4) (169) (173)
Total dividends and other transactions 
with non-controlling interests
– – – (30) 26 (4) (245) (249)
Balance at 31 March 2014 133 97 18 3,288 (3,047) 489 350 839
Profit for the year – – – – 253 253 68 321
Actuarial losses recognised (net of tax) – – – – (76) (76) (1) (77)
Foreign currency translation reserves 
recycled on disposal of operations – – (94) – – (94) – (94)
Foreign currency translation reserves 
recycled on held for sale associate – – (30) – – (30) – (30)
Exchange differences on translation of 
foreign operations – – (14) – – (14) 3 (11)
Fair value movements in available-for-sale 
financial assets – – – 3 – 3 – 3
Total comprehensive (expense)/income 
for the year
– – (138) 3 177 42 70 112
Put option arrangements
1
– – – (879) – (879) – (879)
Issuance of ordinary shares 91 163 – 1,312 – 1,566 – 1,566
Equity share-based payments – – – – 28 28 – 28
Dividends – – – – (104) (104) – (104)
Total dividends and other transactions 
with Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc shareholders
91 163 – 433 (76) 611 – 611
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – – (86) (86)
Transfer of BTC non-controlling interests – – – – (6) (6) 6 –
Total dividends and other transactions 
with non-controlling interests
– – – – (6) (6) (80) (86)
Balance at 31 March 2015 224 260 (120) 3,724 (2,952) 1,136 340 1,476
1 Refer to note 4.8 for lock-up and put option arrangements. 
The notes on pages 100 to 158 are an integral part of these financial statements. 96 Cable & Wireless Communications
Note
31 March 
2015 
US$m
31 March 
2014 
US$m
Assets   
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 3.5 2,954 526
Property, plant and equipment 3.6 2,523 1,418
Investments in joint ventures and associates 3.7 1 188
Available-for-sale financial assets 4.4 59 58
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4.5 14 –
Other receivables 3.1 158 170
Deferred tax assets 2.7 51 34
Retirement benefit assets 3.10 17 20
5,777 2,414
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 3.1 587 433
Inventories 3.2 50 36
Loans to related parties 3.1 56 –
Cash and cash equivalents 4.2 402 205
1,095 674
Assets held for sale 3.8 165 70
1,260 744
Total assets 7,037 3,158
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 3.3 771 612
Borrowings 4.3 82 58
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 4.6 – 274
Provisions 3.9 119 140
Current tax liabilities 118 121
1,090 1,205
Liabilities held for sale – 23
1,090 1,228
Net current assets/(liabilities) 170 (484)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 3.3 373 26
Borrowings 4.3 2,686 797
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 4.8 879 –
Deferred tax liabilities 2.7 225 27
Provisions 3.9 99 42
Retirement benefit obligations 3.10 209 199
4,471 1,091
Net assets 1,476 839
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the Parent Company
Share capital 4.10 224 133
Share premium 260 97
Reserves 652 259
1,136 489
Non-controlling interests 340 350
Total equity 1,476 839
The notes on pages 100 to 158 are an integral part of these financial statements. These financial statements on pages 92 to 158 were 
approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Phil Bentley Chief Executive Officer 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Registered number – 07130199 
Consolidated statement of financial position 
as at 31 March 2015 Annual Report 2014/15 97
   The consolidated statement of financial position shows all of our assets and liabilities at 
31 March 2015. The commentary below is unaudited. As Columbus was acquired on the last 
day of the financial year the preliminary acquisition accounting amounts are included in the 
statement of financial position.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment
The net book value of property, plant and equipment has increased by 
US$1,105 million due to the acquisition of Columbus and capital 
investments in HSPA+ mobile data networks across all markets and 
LTE upgrades in Panama, The Bahamas and Cayman. Intangible assets 
increased by US$2,428 million primarily due to recognition of goodwill 
and intangibles assets as part of the acquisition of Columbus.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations
In May 2014, the Company reached agreement with the Trustees of 
the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF) on the actuarial 
funding valuation as at 31 March 2013. This showed a funding deficit 
of £109 million. Cash contributions to the CWSF for 2014 to 2016 will 
remain in line with the agreement following the March 2013 triennial 
review. In addition to a payment of £30 million made in July 2014, 
future payments will be: April 2015 – £31 million and April 2016 – 
£33 million. Payments in 2017 , 2018 and 2019 will be based on the 
outcome of the triennial valuation as at 31 March 2016 and will be in 
the range of £0 – £23 million each year as necessary to fund the 
scheme by April 2019.
As at 31 March 2015, the defined benefit section of the CWSF had an 
IAS 19 accounting deficit of £106 million (US$158 million), compared 
to a deficit of £90 million (US$148 million) as at 31 March 2014. This 
deficit funding agreed as part of the 2013 actuarial funding valuation 
constitutes a minimum funding agreement and in accordance with 
accounting standards we are required to account for this within the 
deficit. The IAS 19 deficit recorded at 31 March 2015 therefore 
represents the present value of the amounts committed under the 
minimum funding agreement. 
There are other unfunded pension liabilities in the UK of £32 million 
(£29 million at 31 March 2014). The Group holds investments in gilts 
of £24 million to partially back the UK unfunded pension liabilities. 
Other schemes in Cable & Wireless Communications have a net IAS 19 
surplus of US$14 million (US$17 million surplus at 31 March 2014).
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings
 As at 
31 March 
2015 
US$m
 As at 
31 March 
2014 
US$m
Cash and cash equivalents 402 205
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2019 (219) (242)
US$400 million secured bonds due 2020 (394) (393)
US$390 million secured loan due 2017 (374) –
US$300 million unsecured loan due 2017 (288) –
US$1,250 million unsecured bond due 2021 (1,234) –
Other regional debt facilities (259) (220)
Total debt (2,768) (855)
Total reported net (debt) (2,366) (650)
During the year, the Group obtained additional financing for the 
acquisition of Columbus in the form of two year term loans totalling 
US$690 million. As at 31 March 2015, the aggregate commitment 
available under the new US$570 million RCF was US$421 million, with 
US$149 million drawn for letters of credit in favour of the CWSF 
pension trustees.
Consolidated net debt as at 31 March 2015 was US$2,366 million 
with proportionate net debt of US$2,263 million representing 3.6x 
proportionate EBITDA, pro forma the Columbus business for the 
year ended 31 March 2015.
In order to provide better insight into our net funds position, we 
provide a reconciliation on page 134 of the year on year movement.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
On 31 March 2015, as a result of the acquisition of Columbus, a 
financial liability was recognised for the put option arrangements 
entered into with the three Columbus vendors. The present value of 
the financial liability is US$879 million (note 4.8 details the accounting 
for these options).
A put option related to Monaco Telecom was cancelled as a result of 
the disposal of our stake in the business.
Provisions
Provisions have increased by US$36 million primarily due to 
increases in exceptional items, relating to restructuring and onerous 
contract costs.
Equity
On 7 November 2014, a cash box placement was completed for 
252,812,284 new ordinary shares with gross proceeds of 
US$180 million (excluding equity issuance costs of US$4 million).
On 31 March 2015, 1,557 ,529,605 shares were issued to the 
principal Columbus vendors as part of the acquisition of Columbus. 
This resulted in an increase in share capital of US$78 million and 
the formation of a merger reserve of US$1,209 million.
Commentary on the statement of financial position 98 Cable & Wireless Communications
 Note
2014/15 
US$m
Restated*
2013/14 
US$m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated – continuing operations (page 99) 431 421
Cash generated – discontinued operations 1 116
Income taxes paid – continuing operations (52) (54)
Income taxes paid – discontinued operations – (3)
Net cash from operating activities 380 480
Cash flows from investing activities
Finance income 4 6
Dividends received – 4
Purchase of available-for-sale assets (1) –
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (399) (234)
Purchase of intangible assets (57) (132)
Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries (net of cash disposed) 16 –
Loans to related parties 3.1 (56) –
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) 3.11 (677) –
Net cash used in continuing operations (1,169) (351)
Disposal proceeds (net of cash disposed and transaction costs) for discontinued operations 403 1,127
Other discontinued operations (1) (53)
Discontinued operations 2.8 402 1,074
Net cash (used in)/received from investing activities (767) 723
Net cash flow before financing activities (387) 1,203
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid to the owners of the Parent Company (104) (100)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (86) (72)
Repayments of borrowings (176) (1,138)
Finance costs (128) (141)
Proceeds from borrowings 900 162
Proceeds on issuance of shares 176 –
Proceeds on sale of CMC shares – 100
Unwind of sale of CMC shares – (100)
Net cash received/(used in) continuing operations 582 (1,289)
Discontinued operations – (4)
Net cash used in financing activities 582 (1,293)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents – continuing operations (208) (1,273)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents – discontinued operations 403 1,183
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 4.2 208 297
Exchange movements on cash and cash equivalents (1) 1
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 4.2 402 208
*The results have been restated for the classification of Monaco in discontinued operations (note 2.8) and for Seychelles within continuing operations (note 2.2).
The notes on pages 100 to 158 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2015 Annual Report 2014/15 99
The reconciliation of loss for the year to net cash generated was as follows:
 Note
2014/15 
US$m
Restated*
2013/14 
US$m
Loss for the year (33) (130)
Adjustments for:
Tax expense 2.6 32 32
Depreciation before exceptional items 3.6 210 204
Amortisation 3.5 47 31
Impairment 3.6 127 –
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.6 1 –
Gain on sale of businesses 2.4 (4) –
Finance income 4.1 (26) (6)
Finance expense after exceptional items 4.1 121 164
Other income and expenses (16) 15
Increase in exceptional provisions 38 52
Employee benefits 13 11
Defined benefit pension scheme contributions (6) (6)
Defined benefit pension scheme other contributions (52) –
Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 3.7 (12) 62
Operating cash flows before working capital changes 440 429
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries)
Increase in inventories (4) (6)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (39) 38
Increase/(decrease) in payables 34 (40)
Cash generated from continuing operations 431 421
*The results have been restated for the classification of Monaco in discontinued operations (note 2.8) and for Seychelles within continuing operations (note 2.2).
The notes on pages 100 to 158 are an integral part of these financial statements. 100 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
1.1 General information 
   Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (the Company or the Parent Company) and its 
subsidiaries (together Cable & Wireless Communications Group or the Group) is an 
international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United 
Kingdom. Following the disposal of Monaco and the reclassification of Seychelles, the Group 
has modified its operating segments. Accordingly, the Group operated under four segments 
being Panama, LIME, BTC and Seychelles for the year ended 31 March 2015 (see note 2.2 for 
further detail). On 31 March 2015 the Group acquired control of Columbus International Inc. 
(see note 3.11.1 for further detail) which is expected to further modify the Group’ s segmental 
analysis in future periods.
1.1.1 The Company
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK. 
The address of its registered office is 2nd Floor, 63-65 Chandos Place, London WC2N 4HG.
1.2 Basis of preparation and recent accounting changes 
1.2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union (EU) as they apply to the financial statements 
of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2015. 
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars (US$) and rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value. Non-current assets and disposal 
groups are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis (see page 58 of the Directors’ and corporate governance report for 
further detail).
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other 
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in 
which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are 
discussed in note 5.2.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Group’s 
share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates. The results of the Group’s main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates have been prepared to align with the Group’s reporting date.
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights 
to variable returns from its investment with the entity and has the ability to affect these returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries 
are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases. Accounting policies of 
subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for an acquisition is the fair value 
of the assets transferred, and liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. Identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the 
acquisition date. Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred over the fair value 
Section one – Basis of preparation Annual Report 2014/15 101
of net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is based on 
judgement and the Directors have 12 months from the date of the business combination to finalise the allocation of the purchase price. The 
allocation of the purchase price between finite lived assets and indefinite lived assets affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible 
assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures and associates
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the 
joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant 
activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence. 
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ and associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised through profit or loss. Its share of 
post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying 
amount of the investment.
When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture and/or associate exceeds its investment (including any other unsecured long-term 
receivables), the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
1.2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
The Group applied for the first time the following new standards and amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2015. The nature 
and impact of each new standard and amendment is described below:
 
Title Effective date Description and impact on the Group
IFRS 10 Consolidated 
financial statements, 
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 
and IFRS 12 Disclosures of 
interests in other entities
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2014
IFRS 10 Builds on existing principles of control and provides 
further guidance where control may be difficult to assess. 
IFRS 11 expands on the assessment of joint arrangements to 
consider all facts and circumstances surrounding the 
arrangements in addition to the structure of the 
arrangement as previously required. 
There was no impact on the Group from adopting IFRS 10 
and IFRS 11.
IFRS 12 requires disclosures for all forms of interests in other 
entities. Disclosures required by IFRS 12 are included in notes 
3.7 and 5.8.
Amendments to IAS 27 
Separate financial 
statements
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2014
Covers all disclosure requirements for financial statements 
prepared by a parent, or an investor in a joint venture or 
associate, where those investments are accounted for at 
cost or in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement or IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments.
Amendments to IAS 32 
Financial statements: 
presentation
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2014
Provides clarifications on the application of offsetting of 
assets and liabilities. 
This does not have an impact on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 36 
Recoverable amount 
disclosures for 
non-financial assets
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2014
Reverses the unintended requirement in IFRS 13 Fair Value 
Measurements to disclose the recoverable amount of 
every cash-generating unit to which significant goodwill or 
indefinite-lived intangible assets have been allocated. The 
recoverable amount is required to be disclosed only when 
an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed. 
Amendments to IAS 39 
Financial instruments: 
recognition and 
measurement
Annual periods beginning on or after
1 January 2014
Allows hedge accounting to continue in a situation where 
a derivative is novated. 
This does not have an impact on the Group.
There was no material impact on the Group upon adoption of any of these new IFRS standards and amendments. 102 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section one – Basis of preparation
1.2 Basis of preparation and recent accounting changes continued
New and amended standards and interpretations not endorsed by the EU, to be adopted by the Group in subsequent periods:
Title Effective date Description and impact on the Group
Amendment to IFRS 8 
Operating  
segments
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 July 2014 and EU endorsed
Requires an entity to disclose the judgements made by 
management in applying the aggregation criteria to 
operating segments.
This does not have an impact on the Group as there are no 
operating segments aggregated.
Amendment to IAS 16 
Property, plant  
and equipment and IAS 38 
Intangible Assets
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 July 2014
Clarifies when an item of property, plant and equipment 
or intangible asset requires restatement of accumulated 
depreciation or amortisation on revaluation.
This does not have an impact on the Group as the Group 
does not have a revaluation policy.
Amendment to IAS 19 
Defined Benefit  
Plans: Employee 
Contributions
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 July 2014 and EU endorsed
Amended the requirements for contributions from 
employees or third parties that are linked to services.
This should not have an impact on the Group as there are 
no contributions from employees or third parties linked 
to services. 
Clarification of Acceptable 
Methods of Depreciation 
and Amortisation – 
Amendments to IAS 16 
and IAS 38
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2016
The amendments introduce a rebuttable presumption that 
the use of revenue-based amortisation methods for 
intangible assets is inappropriate. This presumption can be 
overcome only when revenue and the consumption of the 
economic benefits of the intangible asset are ‘highly 
correlated’, or when the intangible asset is expressed as a 
measure of revenue. While this is not an outright ban, it 
creates a high hurdle for when these methods may be used 
for intangible assets.
The amendments also ban the use of revenue-based 
amortisation for property, plant and equipment.
This does not have an impact on the Group as the Group 
does not use revenue-based amortisation or depreciation. 
IFRS 15 Revenue from 
contracts with customers
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted
Establishes a comprehensive framework for determining 
whether, how much and when revenue is recognised. 
It replaces IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts 
and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
The Group is still assessing the impact of IFRS 15 but the 
new standard could have significant impact on customer 
acquisition costs and large Managed Services contracts.
IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted
Revises the existing accounting concerning classification and 
measurement, impairment (introducing an expected-loss 
method), hedge accounting, and on the treatment of gains 
arising from the impact of credit risk on the measurement of 
liabilities held at fair value. 
This is not expected to have a significant impact on the 
Group’s net results or net assets, although the full impact 
will be subject to further assessment.
There are no other new or amended standards that are considered to have a material impact on the Group.  Annual Report 2014/15 103
Section two – Results for the year
   This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group. On the following pages 
you will find disclosures explaining the Group’ s results for the year, segmental information, 
exceptional items, taxation and earnings per share.
2.1 Revenue
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.14
Continuing operations
2014/15
US$m
Restated
2013/14
US$m
Sales of telecommunications services and related operations 1,680 1,623
Sales of telecommunications equipment and accessories 73 66
Total revenue 1,753 1,689
2.2 Segment information
This section analyses our performance for the year by reference to our businesses in Panama, LIME, BTC (The Bahamas) and Seychelles.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and before exceptional items (EBITDA) remains the Group’s key 
performance indicator. This reflects the way the business is managed and how the Directors assess the performance of the Group. 
See page 93 for a reconciliation of EBITDA to total operating profit.
Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider. It operates integrated telecommunications 
companies offering mobile, broadband, video, fixed line and Managed Services and other to residential and business customers. The Group has 
modified its operating segments following the disposal of Monaco which has been classified as discontinued operations (note 2.8.1) and the 
reclassification of Seychelles to continuing operations. From 1 April 2014, the Board (the chief operating decision marker) considers the 
performance of BTC separately from that of LIME (rest of Caribbean). During the year the Group had four principal operations which have been 
identified as the Group’s reportable segments, being Panama, LIME, BTC and Seychelles. Our Business-to-Business and Business-to-
Government operations are included in the results of the region to which they relate.
The Group also has another operating segment which is comprised of the corporate centre, operational hub, results of our subsea cable 
partnership and wholesale solutions business and eliminations for inter-segment transactions. This segment does not meet the definition of 
a reporting segment as it earns revenue from its activities that are less than 10% of overall Group revenue. This function primarily acts as an 
operational support provider for the reportable segments.
The Board considers the performance of each of these operations in assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions about the 
allocation of resources. Accordingly, these are the operating segments disclosed. There are no other operating segments identified by the 
Board. The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board. 104 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section two – Results for the year
2.2 Segment information continued
Continuing operations
Year ended 31 March 2015
Panama
US$m
LIME
US$m
BTC
US$m
Seychelles
US$m
Other and
eliminations
1
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 636 709 348 52 8 1,753
Cost of sales (223) (154) (67) (8) (6) (458)
Gross margin 413 555 281 44 2 1,295
Pre-exceptional operating costs (172) (317) (159) (25) (37) (710)
EBITDA
2
241 238 122 19 (35) 585
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (101) (88) (43) (10) (14) (256)
Net other operating income/(expense) 21 (10) – – (31) (20)
Exceptional costs (9) (175) (25) – (22) (231)
Group operating profit/(loss) 152 (35) 54 9 (102) 78
Share of (loss)/profit after tax of joint ventures and associates – – – (1) 13 12
Total operating profit/(loss) 152 (35) 54 8 (89) 90
Gain on sale of businesses – – – – 4 4
Net finance (expense)/income (8) 24 – 1 (112) (95)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 144 (11) 54 9 (197) (1)
Income tax (expense)/credit (36) (9) (1) (8) 22 (32)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 108 (20) 53 1 (175) (33)
Income taxes paid
3
(24) (16) (1) (6) (5) (52)
1 ‘Other and eliminations’ includes the corporate centre and operational hub expenses, results of our subsea cable partnership, wholesale solutions business and eliminations for 
inter-segment transactions, the results of our joint ventures and associates and inter-segment management charges of US$44 million. 
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered by management to be a key financial metric. It is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, 
net other operating and non-operating income/expense and exceptional items (see page 93). 
3 Income taxes paid represents cash tax paid during the year by consolidated subsidiaries. 
Continuing operations (restated)
Year ended 31 March 2014
Panama
US$m
LIME
US$m
BTC
US$m
Seychelles
US$m
Other and
eliminations
1
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 576 691 354 53 15 1,689
Cost of sales (182) (153) (65) (7) (11) (418)
Gross margin 394 538 289 46 4 1,271
Pre-exceptional operating costs (155) (368) (161) (26) (15) (725)
EBITDA
2
239 170 128 20 (11) 546
Depreciation and amortisation (94) (89) (44) – (8) (235)
Net other operating expense – – – – (15) (15)
Exceptional operating costs (3) (120) (12) – (39) (174)
Group operating profit/(loss) 142 (39) 72 20 (73) 122
Share of loss after tax of joint ventures and associates – – – (2) (60) (62)
Total operating profit/(loss) 142 (39) 72 18 (133) 60
Net finance (expense)/income (11) 14 1 1 (163) (158)
Profit before income tax 131 (25) 73 19 (296) (98)
Income tax (expense)/credit (28) (5) (1) (5) 7 (32)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 103 (30) 72 14 (289) (130)
Income taxes paid
3
(27) (17) (2) (4) (4) (54)
1  ‘Other and eliminations’ includes the corporate centre and operational hub expenses, wholesale solutions business and eliminations for inter-segment transactions and the results 
of our joint ventures and associates. 
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered by management to be a key financial metric. It is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, 
net other operating and non-operating income/expense and exceptional items (see page 93). 
3 Income taxes paid represents cash tax paid during the year by consolidated subsidiaries.  Annual Report 2014/15 105
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments’ results and the Group’s results.
There is no significant trading between the segments. Transactions between the segments are on commercial terms similar to those offered to 
external customers.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments’ assets and liabilities and the Group’s assets and liabilities. 
Furthermore, there are no asymmetrical allocations to reportable segments.
Entity-wide disclosures for continuing operations
The revenue from external customers are analysed by product below. Our Business-to-Business and Business-to-Government operations and 
the results of our subsea cable partnership are included in the results of the product category to which they relate.
2014/15
US$m
Restated
2013/14
US$m
Mobile 929 898
Broadband and video 198 194
Fixed voice 359 374
Managed Services and other 267 223
Total 1,753 1,689
Revenue for continuing operations from external customers can be classified by country as follows:
2014/15
US$m
Restated
2013/14
US$m
United Kingdom (country of domicile) – –
The Bahamas 348 354
Barbados 149 157
Jamaica 182 181
Panama 636 576
Seychelles 51 53
All other countries and eliminations 387 368
Total 1,753 1,689
Revenue has been allocated to a country based on the location in which the telecommunications services were provided. The Group does not 
have any external customers from which revenue exceeds 10% of consolidated Group revenue.
Non-current assets (other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets) are classified by country and 
include the preliminary allocation of non-current assets of Columbus as at 31 March 2015:
At 31 March
2015
US$m
At 31 March
2014
US$m
United Kingdom (country of domicile) 13 17
The Bahamas 405 380
Barbados 933 157
British Virgin Islands 82 72
Colombia 567 –
Curacao 213 –
Jamaica 685 130
Monaco – 456
Panama 935 662
Seychelles
1
47 –
Trinidad & Tobago 835 159
United States of America 36 7
All other countries and eliminations (includes non-operating assets and liabilities) 885 262
Total 5,636 2,302
1 Seychelles was included within discontinued operations in 2013/14 and has been reclassified to continuing operations in 2014/15. 106 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section two – Results for the year
2.3 Operating costs and other operating income and expenses 
2.3.1 Operating costs
Detailed below are the key expense items charged or (credited) in arriving at our operating profit. Outpayments are amounts paid to 
other operators when our customers call customers connected to a different network.
An analysis of the operating costs from continuing operations incurred by the Group is presented below, classified by the nature of the cost:
2014/15
Restated
2013/14
Continuing operations
Pre-
exceptional 
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Outpayments and direct costs 457 – 457 417 – 417
Employee and other staff expenses 246 77 323 274 128 402
Operating lease rentals:
– Networks 17 – 17 18 – 18
– Property 22 – 22 22 7 29
Other administrative expenses 231 7 238 209 29 238
Network costs 116 20 136 122 – 122
Property and utility costs 79 – 79 81 10 91
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 1,168 104 1,272 1,143 174 1,317
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 209 127 336 204 – 204
Amortisation of intangible assets 47 – 47 31 – 31
Operating costs 1,424 231 1,655 1,378 174 1,552
Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
2.3.2 Auditor’s remuneration
2014/15
US$m
2013/14
US$m
Audit services:
Statutory audit services – in respect of the Group’s accounts 2.3 2.2
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 2.3 2.2
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates:
Statutory audit services – in respect of other statutory accounts 1.2 1.4
Audit related regulatory reporting 0.4 0.5
3.9 4.1
Tax services – compliance 0.2 –
Tax services – advisory 0.3 0.6
Services related to corporate finance activities 0.3 0.6
Other services (including other assurance services) 0.1 0.1
4.8 5.4
Auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services in respect of discontinued operations was US$nil in both 2014/15 and 2013/14. 
All amounts in 2014/15 and 2013/14 relate to KPMG LLP . Fees paid to KPMG LLP for audit and other services to the Company are included in 
the table above and are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. Annual Report 2014/15 107
2.3.3 Employee and other staff expenses
This note shows the average number of people employed by the Group during the year and where they are based. It also shows total 
employment costs.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.11
The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses for continuing operations are set out below:
2014/15
US$m
Restated
2013/14
US$m
Wages and salaries 229 247
Social security costs 13 15
Share-based payments 5 6
Pension costs:
– defined benefit plans 9 12
– defined contribution plans 6 7
Temporary labour and recruitment 19 17
281 304
Less: Staff costs capitalised (35) (30)
Staff costs 246 274
Exceptional employee and other staff expenses (note 2.3.5) 77 128
Total staff costs for continuing operations 323 402
Total staff costs in respect of discontinued operations in 2014/15 was US$4 million (2013/14 – US$42 million).
The average number of persons, excluding Columbus and including Executive Directors, employed by the Group during the year was:
2014/15
Restated
2013/14
Corporate centre and operational hub 232 144
Panama 1,547 1,434
LIME 1,392 2,045
BTC 787 824
Seychelles 207 242
Total 4,165 4,689
The average number of employees in discontinued operations up until disposal was 269 (2013/14 – 548). 108 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
2.3 Operating costs and other operating income and expenses continued
Directors’ and key management remuneration
Key management are represented by Directors only as those that have authority and responsibility for managerial decisions affecting 
the future development and business prospects of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group. Further details can also be found in 
the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 68 to 88.
Included within employee costs is key management remuneration relating to continuing operations as follows:
2014/15
US$m
2013/14
US$m
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 11.9 7.7
Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6
Total Directors’ remuneration
1
12.5 8.3
Share-based payments 1.5 3.5
Total key management remuneration 14.0 11.8
1 Please refer to the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 68 to 88 for further information on aggregate Directors’ emoluments of US$12.5 million (£7.7 million) (2013/14 – 
US$8.3 million (£5.2 million)). The Directors’ remuneration report is presented in sterling as salaries, benefits and bonuses are paid in sterling. 
2.3.4 Other operating income and expense
In 2014/15, other operating income of US$42 million included US$25 million of income relating to the subsea cable partnership with Columbus 
which existed pre-acquisition, US$16 million of foreign exchange translation gains on our UK defined benefit pension schemes and US$1 million 
of gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment. Other operating expense of US$62 million included US$55 million of acquisition costs 
relating to Columbus and Sonitel, US$3 million of integration costs relating to Columbus, US$2 million of transaction costs for the transfer of 
2% of our shares to the BTC Foundation and US$2 million of loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
In 2013/14, other operating expense of US$15 million related to foreign exchange translation losses on our UK defined benefit pension schemes.
2.3.5 Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items within profit or loss that derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the 
Group. They are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.15
Exceptional operating losses totalled US$104 million (2013/14 – US$174 million).
The exceptional costs consist of Columbus integration costs of US$68 million, Panama restructuring costs of US$9 million, BTC restructuring 
costs of US$24 million and restructuring and legal costs at the corporate centre of US$3 million.
In the prior year, the exceptional costs consisted of Caribbean restructuring costs of US$132 million, Panama restructuring costs of 
US$3 million and restructuring and legal costs at the corporate centre of US$39 million. Further information on impairment charges is in 
note 3.4.
2014/15
US$m
2013/14
US$m
Exceptional items within operating costs before depreciation and amortisation:
Staff costs 77 128
Legal and property costs 27 46
Total exceptional operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 104 174
Exceptional items relating to impairment charges can be found in note 3.4.
Section two – Results for the year Annual Report 2014/15 109
2.4 Gains on sale of businesses
This represents the profit or loss recorded on the sale of smaller businesses as we simplify our portfolio.
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group divested its 32.577% shareholding in Solomon Telekom Company Limited (‘Soltel’) to the 
Solomon Islands National Provident Fund Board for total cash proceeds of US$16.5 million. The transaction resulted in a gain on disposal of 
US$4 million. This divestment marks the Group’s exit from the South Pacific region as interests in Vanuatu and Fiji have previously been sold. 
The business disposed does not constitute a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and 
discontinued operations due to its size.
2.5 Earnings per share
Earnings per share (EPS) is the amount of profit after tax attributable to each share.
Basic EPS is calculated on the Group profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of US$253 million (2013/14 – US$859 million) 
divided by 2,615 million (2013/14 – 2,502 million) being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of all share options being exercised.
Basic EPS is adjusted in order to more accurately show the business performance of the Group in a consistent manner and reflect how 
the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis. See page 93 for a reconciliation.
2014/15
US$m
Restated
2013/14
US$m
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company 253 859
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (millions) 2,615 2,502
Dilutive effect of share options (millions) 12 –
Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue used to  
calculate diluted earnings per share (millions) 2,627 2,502
Basic earnings per share (cents per share) 9.7 34.3
Diluted earnings per share (cents per share) 9.7 34.3
Basic loss per share (cents per share) for continuing operations (3.8) (8.4)
Diluted loss per share (cents per share) for continuing operations (3.8) (8.4)
Basic earnings per share (cents per share) for discontinued operations 13.5 42.7
Diluted earnings per share (cents per share) for discontinued operations 13.5 42.7 110 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section two – Results for the year
2.6 Income tax expense
This section explains how our Group tax charge arises. The current and deferred tax charges or credits in the year together make up 
the total tax charge in the income statement. The deferred tax section also provides information on our expected future tax charges. 
A reconciliation of profit or loss before tax to the tax charge is also provided.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.12
2014/15
US$m
Restated 
2013/14
US$m
Current tax charge for continuing operations
UK tax at 21% (2013/14 – 23%) – –
Double tax relief – –
– –
Overseas tax 27 49
Adjustments relating to prior years 10 (11)
Total current tax charge for continuing operations 37 38
Deferred tax credit for continuing operations
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (4) (5)
Adjustments relating to prior years (1) (1)
Total deferred tax credit for continuing operations (5) (6)
Total tax charge for continuing operations 32 32
Income tax charge relating to discontinued operations (note 2.8.5) 1 6
Total income tax charge 33 38
The Group’s effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows:
2014/15
Restated 
2013/14
Continuing
US$m
Discontinued
US$m
Total
US$m
Continuing
US$m
Discontinued
US$m
Total
US$m
Profit before income tax before exceptional items 267 355 622 168 1,087 1,255
Exceptional charges (268) – (268) (266) – (266)
Profit/(loss) before income tax (1) 355 354 (98) 1,087 989
Income tax (credit)/charge at UK statutory tax rate: 21%  
(2013/14 – 23%) – 75 75 (22) 250 228
Effect of overseas tax rates (17) 1 (16) (27) (2) (29)
Effect of accounting for joint ventures and associates (2) – (2) 15 – 15
Effect of withholding tax and intra-Group dividends 16 – 16 6 – 6
Net effect of expenses not deductible/(income not taxable) 8 (75) (67) 18 (240) (222)
Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 17 – 17 53 (2) 51
Adjustments relating to prior years 10 – 10 (11) – (11)
Total income tax charge 32 1 33 32 6 38
Income tax credit on exceptional items (33) – (33) (19) – (19)
Pre-exceptional income tax charge 65 1 66 51 6 57
Pre-exceptional effective tax rate on profit 24.3% 10.6% 30.4% 4.5%
Effective tax rate on profit nm 9.3% (32.7)% 3.8%
A change in tax legislation from 1 January 2015 meant that Cable & Wireless Dominica’s corporate tax rate will be reduced from 30% to 28%.
For the analysis of the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities at the reporting date, including factors affecting the future tax rates, see 
note 2.7. Annual Report 2014/15 111
2.7 Deferred tax
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.12
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows:
Capital
allowances on
non-current
assets
US$m
Tax losses
US$m
Pensions
US$m
Other
US$m
Financial
position
offset
US$m
Total
US$m
Deferred tax assets 15 19 3 10 (17) 30
Deferred tax liabilities (37) – (9) – 17 (29)
At 1 April 2013 (22) 19 (6) 10 – 1
(Charge)/credit to profit or loss
1
(2) 5 – 1 – 4
Exchange differences – – 1 1 – 2
At 31 March 2014 (24) 24 (5) 12 – 7
Deferred tax assets 12 24 1 12 (15) 34
Deferred tax liabilities (36) – (6) – 15 (27)
At 1 April 2014 (24) 24 (5) 12 – 7
Acquisitions (157) 9 – (26) – (174)
Credit/(charge) to profit or loss
1
6 1 – (3) – 4
Disposals – (7) – (3) – (10)
Exchange differences (1) – – – – (1)
At 31 March 2015 (176) 27 (5) (20) – (174)
Deferred tax assets 13 27 – 15 (4) 51
Deferred tax liabilities (189) – (5) (35) 4 (225)
At 31 March 2015 (176) 27 (5) (20) – (174)
1 Including US$1 million in relation to discontinued operations (2013/14 – US$nil).
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences:
Capital
allowances
available on
non-current
assets
US$m
Tax losses
US$m
Pensions
US$m
Other
US$m
Total
US$m
At 31 March 2015 156 7,339 205 70 7,770
At 31 March 2014 144 6,643 196 37 7,020
Tax losses (recognised and unrecognised) which exclude Columbus, expire as follows:
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Within 1 year 13 3
Within 3 years 89 –
Within 5 years 124 2
Within 10 years 505 58
After more than 10 years 1,136 –
Other tax losses are not subject to expiry. 112 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section two – Results for the year
2.7 Deferred tax continued
The US$7 ,339 million (31 March 2014 – US$6,643 million) tax losses include UK capital losses of US$5,507 million (31 March 2014 – 
US$5,421 million). Tax losses have not been recognised as there are insufficient taxable profits to utilise those losses in future periods.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates where the Group controls the timing of 
remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and associates for which deferred tax liabilities have not been 
recognised is US$47 million (31 March 2014 – US$136 million). These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
2.8 Discontinued operations
The following section outlines what the Group is either holding for sale or has disposed of in the year. When the Group has assets and 
liabilities that are likely to be sold rather than being held for continuing use and when accounting standards require, these assets and 
liabilities are included in current assets and liabilities and denoted as held for sale, rather than in their usual categories.
If they represent a significant enough portion of the Group, they are also treated as discontinued operations. This means that their 
trading performance is no longer reported in the income statement and are instead reported in a separate line, net of tax, called 
‘discontinued operations’. These amounts no longer form part of continuing earnings per share.
Our former Monaco Telecom business, disposed of during the year, is included in discontinued operations. 
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.10
2.8.1  Monaco 
At a General Meeting on 15 May 2014, shareholders of the Company approved the sale of Compagnie Monégasque de Communication SAM 
(CMC), the holding company for the Group’s 55% stake in Monaco Telecom SAM to a private investment vehicle controlled by Xavier Niel. 
Monaco Telecom also owned 36.75% of Telecom Development Company Afghanistan Limited (Roshan). The sale of the business was 
completed on 20 May 2014 for a total consideration of US$445 million. In addition, the Group received US$8.6 million relating to the estimated 
cash, debt and working capital at completion. The disposal is a further step in CWC’s strategy to focus on the Caribbean and Latin America 
region, and after completion of the disposal, as the Group now generates all of its revenue from the Caribbean and Latin America region, with 
the exception of the Seychelles.
At 31 March 2014, Monaco did not meet the definition of a disposal group held for sale nor the criteria to be classified as discontinued 
operations as there was insufficient certainty regarding the completion of a sale process. The results of Monaco Telecom were disclosed 
separately in their own operating segment. At 31 March 2015, the Monaco business has been classified as a discontinued operation as the sale 
had been completed. The comparative consolidated income statement and cash flow statement have been restated. 
2.8.2  Islands
The significant aspects of the Islands transaction are described below:
 • We completed the sale of the Islands sub-group (including the Group’s interests in operations in the Maldives, the Channel Islands and Isle of 
Man, South Atlantic, Diego Garcia) for US$470 million on 3 April 2013. The Group received cash proceeds of US$501 million representing 
consideration of US$470 million plus US$31 million of proportionate net cash in the businesses attributable to Cable & Wireless 
Communications;
 • We also agreed to sell a 25% interest in Compagnie Monégasque de Communication SAM (CMC), the holding company of the Group’s 
interests in Monaco Telecom, for US$100 million which was completed on 3 April 2013; and 
 • We also granted to Batelco a put option over the 25% of CMC shares transferred to Batelco (the CMC put option, refer to note 4.6) which 
was recognised as a financial liability and the Group unwound the put option and repurchased the 25% CMC shareholding for US$100 million 
on 30 December 2013.
2.8.3 Macau
At a General Meeting on 28 February 2013, the shareholders of the Group approved the sale of the Macau operating segment for 
US$750 million to CITIC Telecom International Holdings Limited. This sale took place on 20 June 2013. The Group received cash proceeds of 
US$807 million comprising consideration of US$750 million plus US$57 million of proportionate net cash in the business attributable to 
Cable & Wireless Communications.
The Macau operating segment has been classified as a discontinued operation. The results of Macau were previously recorded in the Macau 
operating segment. Annual Report 2014/15 113
2.8.4 Seychelles
The Seychelles was disclosed as a discontinued operation and as a disposal group held for sale in the statement of financial position. At 
31 March 2014 net assets were US$47 million. This included cash and cash equivalents of US$3 million. At 31 March 2015 the Seychelles are 
presented in continuing operations as they no longer meet the definition of held for sale. The comparative consolidated income statement and 
cash flow statement have been restated and reported within the Seychelles operating segment. 
2.8.5 Results
The results of all discontinued operations are shown below:
Year ended 31 March 2015
Monaco
US$m
Total
discontinued
operations
US$m
Revenue 29 29
Expenses (20) (20)
Profit before tax 9 9
Tax (1) (1)
Profit after tax 8 8
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 346 346
Profit for the year 354 354
Disposal costs (8) (8)
346 346
Year ended 31 March 2014 (Restated)
Islands
sub-group
US$m
Macau
US$m
Monaco
US$m
Total
discontinued
operations
US$m
Revenue – 121 237 358
Expenses – (92) (184) (276)
Profit before tax – 29 53 82
Tax – (4) (2) (6)
Profit after tax – 25 51 76
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 274 737 (6) 1,005
Profit for the year 274 762 45 1,081
Disposal costs (3) (4) (1) (8)
271 758 44 1,073 114 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section three – Operating assets and liabilities Section three – Operating assets and liabilities
   This section shows the assets used to generate the Group’ s trading performance and the 
liabilities incurred as a result. Assets and liabilities relating to the Group’ s financing activities 
are addressed in section four. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in section two.
3.1 Trade and other receivables
Our trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed to us by customers and amounts that we pay to our suppliers in 
advance. Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts.
Accounting policy detailed in 5.1.4
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Gross trade receivables 400 276
Impairment allowance (70) (77)
Net trade receivables 330 199
Other receivables 88 71
Prepayments and accrued income 153 146
Taxation and social security receivables 15 15
Loans to related parties 56 –
Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 1 2
Trade and other receivables – current 643 433
Other receivables 31 46
Prepayments and accrued income 127 124
Other receivables – non-current 158 170
Total trade and other receivables 801 603
The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value. There is no material difference between the carrying value 
and fair value of trade and other receivables presented.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated. Receivables 
predominantly relate to retail customers, governments and corporate entities as well as other telecommunications operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer. These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history 
analysis and credit approval limits. Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past 
due nor impaired as low risk. There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that 
indicate this would change in the future. During the periods presented there was a continued economic weakness in some of the markets in which 
the Group operated. This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. However, management 
assessed this risk and, after providing valuation allowance where necessary, continued to support the assessment of credit quality as low risk.
An ageing analysis of the current ‘trade receivables’ and current ‘other receivables’ that are not impaired is as follows (excludes prepayments 
and accrued income, taxation and social security and amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates):
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Not yet due 68 20
Overdue 30 days or less 141 124
Overdue 31 to 60 days 48 39
Overdue 61 to 90 days 32 19
Overdue 91 days to 180 days 44 30
Overdue 181 days or more 85 38
Current ‘trade receivables’ and current ‘other receivables’ 418 270 Annual Report 2014/15 115
Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade and other receivables not 
past due or past due by up to 30 days. Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other 
carriers often have lengthy settlement periods. Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in both receivables and 
payables balances with the same counterparty. Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue 
and costs for a defined period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis.
An analysis of movements in the trade receivables impairment allowance during the year is as follows:
2014/15
US$m
2013/14
US$m
At 1 April 77 78
Reclassification from held for sale 2 –
Business disposals (6) –
Bad debts written off (22) (30)
Increase in allowance 20 29
Exchange differences (1) –
At 31 March 70 77
In a small number of the Group’s operations it is customary and practice to collect security deposits from customers as collateral. These are 
recorded as liabilities within other payables.
3.2 Inventories
Our inventory primarily consists of mobile handsets, equipment and consumables and is presented net of an allowance for obsolete products.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.6
Inventories of US$50 million (31 March 2014 – US$36 million) are presented net, after recording an allowance of US$7 million (31 March 2014 
– US$8 million) made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of inventories held for sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2014/15 was US$148 million (2013/14 – US$140 million). 
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Group’s borrowings.
3.3 Trade and other payables
Our trade and other payables mainly consist of amounts we owe to our suppliers that have been invoiced or are accrued. They also include 
deferred income which is amounts we have billed to our customers where we have yet to provide the service. Taxes and social security 
amounts are due in relation to our role as an employer.
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Trade payables 199 141
Other tax and social security costs 17 6
Accruals 429 339
Deferred income 52 58
Other payables 74 68
Trade and other payables – current 771 612
Accruals 13 –
Deferred income
1
333 23
Other payables 27 3
Trade and other payables – non-current 373 26
Total trade and other payables 1,144 638
1 Deferred income of US$333 million primarily relates to long-term capacity sales contracts that were acquired through a business combination (note 3.11).  116 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section three – Operating assets and liabilities
3.3 Trade and other payables continued
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented. For liquidity risk exposure 
analysis purposes, the carrying amount of trade and other payables is the same as the contractual cash flows, with the contractual maturities 
of these financial liabilities all due in less than one year.
3.4 Impairment review
Impairment occurs when the carrying value of an asset or group of assets is greater than the present value of the cash they are 
expected to generate.
We perform annual impairment reviews of the carrying value of goodwill. We consider the carrying value of other assets at least 
annually. If there are triggers that indicate an impairment of other assets is possible, we then perform a full impairment review. 
US$78 million impairment charges were recorded in 2014/15 (2013/14 – US$nil).
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.5
Goodwill
A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014. In performing this review, the 
recoverable amount has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of related businesses. 
The key assumptions used by the Group in the calculation of value in use for its goodwill balances are the discount rate, revenue growth, 
operating cost margin and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
The Group’s significant goodwill balances which are not impaired are discussed below:
Continuing operations
Year ended 31 March 2015
Reporting
segment
Carrying value at
31 March 2015
US$m
Terminal
growth
rate
Pre-tax
discount rate
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company
1
BTC 63 0% 10.0%
Continuing operations
Year ended 31 March 2014
Reporting
segment
Carrying value at
31 March 2014
US$m
Terminal
growth
rate
Pre-tax
discount rate
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company
1
BTC 63 0% 10.1%
Monaco Telecom group
2
Monaco 292 Between 0% and 1.5% Between 8.0% and 27.0%
1 The Bahamas Telecommunications Company (BTC): 
 One relevant cash-generating unit (CGU) has been identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the BTC business. 
2 Monaco Telecom group: 
 Three relevant CGUs were identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecom (domestic including the cable television business; international business 
and other services).
The value in use was determined for each CGU by discounting management forecasts of future cash flows (based on the approved three-year 
business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates) at pre-tax discount rates dependent on the risk-adjusted cost of capital of the different 
parts of the business. Management forecasts take account of the historical trading experience of the relevant business.
Sensitivity
The value in use is sensitive to a number of input assumptions, in particular relating to net cash flow and the discount rates. While the Group 
does not consider these scenarios to be reasonably possible, the value in use of the various CGUs in aggregate would not support the carrying 
value of the goodwill if:
 • The Bahamas Telecommunications Company – net cash flows decreased by more than US$15 million per year or the discount rate increased 
by more than 4% above the pre-tax discount rate.
Acquisitions
On 31 March 2015, goodwill of US$2,034 million was recognised on the acquisition of Columbus. As the acquisition was completed on the last 
day of the financial year, the goodwill has not been allocated to individual cash-generating units. This allocation will be performed in 2015/16 
with a corresponding impairment review.
During 2014/15, Cable & Wireless Panama acquired Sonitel which generated goodwill of US$13 million. Sonitel was reviewed as part of the 
Panama CGU. Annual Report 2014/15 117
Property, plant and equipment, indefinite lived intangible assets and other intangibles
The indefinite lived intangibles acquired during 2014/15 of US$6 million relate to the Sonitel and Sonset brands from the Sonitel acquisition. 
These brands are long-established in the Panama/Central American IT marketplace. 
As at 31 March 2015, no events or circumstances were identified during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and 
equipment had been impaired. 
However, as a result of the acquisition of Columbus and also technological upgrades as part of Project Marlin, certain specific assets in the 
Columbus overlapping markets and also islands which were upgraded as part of Project Marlin were reviewed for the impact on the carrying 
value of property, plant and equipment following those events. As a result of the review, a write-off of US$49 million and impairment of 
US$78 million was recorded across the Caribbean islands noted below.
Continuing operations
Year ended 31 March 2015
Reporting
segment
Pre-tax
discount 
rate
Asset 
write-offs 
2014/15 
US$m
Impairment 
2014/15 
US$m
Total
US$m
Barbados LIME 15.8%
Plant and equipment 25 23 48
Cayman LIME 8.7%
Plant and equipment 12 – 12
Grenada LIME 15.8%
Plant and equipment 2 8 10
Jamaica LIME 11.8%
Plant and equipment 2 30 32
St Lucia LIME 20.0%
Land and buildings – 8 8
Plant and equipment 1 6 7
St Vincent LIME 21.2%
Plant and equipment 3 3 6
Turks & Caicos LIME 12.6%
Plant and equipment 3 – 3
Other LIME LIME 14.3%
Plant and equipment 1 – 1
Total 49 78 127
The value in use after impairment was not considered significant.
Associates
Refer to note 3.7 for discussion on impairment considerations. 118 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section three – Operating assets and liabilities
3.5 Intangible assets
The following section shows the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits.
These assets include goodwill, software, licences and operating agreements and customer contracts. Within licence and operating 
agreements we include the cost of any acquired spectrum we use for our mobile services. The cost of intangible assets is the amount 
that the Group has paid or, where there has been an acquisition of a business, the fair value of the specific intangible assets that could 
be sold separately or which arise from legal rights. Goodwill arises when we acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair 
value of the net assets of that business. Goodwill is not amortised but subject to annual impairment tests. The value of goodwill is an 
‘intangible’ value that comes from, for example, synergies we expect to gain and the value of its employees.
The value of other intangible assets reduces over the number of years the Group expects to use the asset via an annual amortisation 
charge. Should an asset’s value fall below its carrying value an additional one-off impairment charge is made against profit.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.3
Goodwill
US$m
Software
US$m
Licences and
operating
agreements
US$m
Customer
contracts and
relationships
US$m
Brands
US$m
Other
US$m
Total
US$m
Cost
At 1 April 2013 309 237 160 31 – 61 798
Additions 31 10 7 – – 8 56
Transfer from tangible assets – 19 1 – – – 20
Disposals – (1) – (4) – (2) (7)
Exchange differences 15 (5) 8 – – 3 21
At 31 March 2014 355 260 176 27 – 70 888
Acquisitions 2,050 19 15 567 112 1 2,764
Additions – 19 39 – – 1 59
Transfer from tangible assets – 28 – – – – 28
Reclassification from held for sale – 5 – – – – 5
Business disposals (292) (3) (135) – – (70) (500)
Disposals – – – (6) – – (6)
Exchange differences – (4) (1) – – – (5)
At 31 March 2015 2,113 324 94 588 112 2 3,233
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2013 – 182 75 7 – 49 313
Charge for the year
1
– 35 10 4 – 6 55
Disposals – (1) – (4) – (2) (7)
Exchange differences – (5) 4 – – 2 1
At 31 March 2014 – 211 89 7 – 55 362
Charge for the year
1
– 33 8 7 – 1 49
Reclassification from held for sale – 3 – – – – 3
Business disposals – (2) (68) – – (56) (126)
Disposals – – – (6) – – (6)
Exchange differences – (3) – – – – (3)
At 31 March 2015 – 242 29 8 – – 279
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 2,113 82 65 580 112 2 2,954
At 31 March 2014 355 49 87 20 – 15 526
1 The charge for the year includes US$2 million (2013/14 – US$24 million) in relation to discontinued operations. Refer to note 2.8 for more information. Annual Report 2014/15 119
Goodwill balances are allocated to the following cash-generating units:
Monaco
Telecom
1
US$m
BTC
2
US$m
Columbus
3
US$m
Grupo
Sonitel
4
US$m
Dekal
Wireless
5
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2013 246 63 – – – 309
Acquisition of non-controlling interest (note 4.8) 31 – – – – 31
Exchange differences 15 – – – – 15
At 31 March 2014 292 63 – – – 355
Acquisitions – – 2,034 13 3 2,050
Business disposal (291) – – – – (291)
Exchange differences (1) – – – – (1)
At 31 March 2015 – 63 2,034 13 3 2,113
1 Reporting segment: Discontinued operations (note 2.8). 
2 Reporting segment: BTC. 
3 Reporting segment: Columbus. 
4 Reporting segment: Panama.
5 Reporting segment: LIME. 
3.6 Property, plant and equipment
The following section shows the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. We make significant investments 
in network plant and equipment – the technology and base stations required to operate our networks – that form the majority of our 
tangible assets.
Depreciation is calculated by estimating the number of years the Group expects the asset to be used (useful economic life). If there has 
been a technological change or decline in business performance the Directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not 
fallen below their depreciated value. If an asset’s value falls below its depreciated value an additional one-off impairment charge is 
made against profit.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.2 120 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section three – Operating assets and liabilities
3.6 Property, plant and equipment continued
2014/15 2013/14
Land and
buildings
US$m
Plant and
equipment
US$m
Assets
under
construction
US$m
Total
US$m
Land and
buildings
US$m
Plant and
equipment
US$m
Assets
under
construction
US$m
Total
US$m
Cost
At 1 April 423 4,001 220 4,644 427 3,852 188 4,467
Acquisitions 43 941 107 1,091 – – – –
Additions 1 12 403 416 – 10 279 289
Business disposals – (109) (2) (111) – – – –
Write-offs – (49) – (49) – – – –
Disposals (2) (94) – (96) – (18) – (18)
Reclassification from assets held for sale 8 55 9 72 – – – –
Transfers to intangible assets – – (28) (28) – – (20) (20)
Transfers between categories 21 334 (355) – 12 213 (225) –
Transfers to assets held for sale – (42) – (42) – – – –
Exchange differences (7) (33) (2) (42) (16) (56) (2) (74)
At 31 March 487 5,016 352 5,855 423 4,001 220 4,644
Depreciation
At 1 April 204 3,022 – 3,226 203 2,897 – 3,100
Charge for the year
1
15 195 – 210 12 195 – 207
Write-offs – 49 – 49 – – – –
Impairments 8 70 – 78 – – – –
Business disposals – (71) – (71) – – – –
Disposals (1) (137) – (138) – (15) – (15)
Reclassification from assets held for sale 2 25 – 27 – – – –
Transfers to assets held for sale – (14) – (14) – – – –
Exchange differences (6) (29) – (35) (11) (55) – (66)
At 31 March 222 3,110 – 3,332 204 3,022 – 3,226
Net book value at 31 March 265 1,906 352 2,523 219 979 220 1,418
1 The charge includes US$1 million relating to discontinued operations (2013/14 – US$3 million). Refer to note 2.8.1 for more information.
The Group held no assets under finance leases at 31 March 2015 or 31 March 2014.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of US$12 million 
(2013/14 – US$3 million) and US$35 million (2013/14 – US$30 million) respectively. Of these amounts US$nil (2013/14 – US$nil) and US$nil 
(2013/14 – US$nil) respectively, relate to discontinued operations (note 2.8). Annual Report 2014/15 121
3.7 Investment in joint ventures and associates
We own interests in a number of associate operations, with a material interest in Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago 
Limited (TSTT). These are companies where we either share control with one or more other parties or have a degree of ownership 
which gives us significant influence. TSTT was equity accounted for up until 31 March 2015 when it was reclassified as held for sale 
due to the acquisition of Columbus.
Our share of joint venture and associates’ profit and net assets is recorded as a single line item in the consolidated income statement 
and the consolidated statement of financial position, respectively. The principal investments in joint ventures and associates at 
31 March 2015 are shown in note 5.8.
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.2.1
The following is unaudited summarised financial information for TSTT, based on its financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
31 March
 2015
US$m
Restated
31 March
2014
US$m
Revenue 467 450
Profit/(loss) 26 (69)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) – (10)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 26 (79)
Attributable to investee’s shareholders 22 (79)
Non-current assets 621 624
Current assets 222 184
Non-current liabilities (98) (119)
Current liabilities (350) (311)
Net assets 395 378
Attributable to investee’s shareholders 395 378
Group’s interest in net assets of investee at 1 April 154 216
Total comprehensive income attributable to the Group 13 (60)
Dividends received during the year – (2)
Transfer to held for sale (167) –
Carrying value of interest in investee at 31 March – 154
Group carrying value in net assets of investee at 31 March – 185
Exceptional costs of US$nil (2013/14 – US$67 million) were incurred during the year ended 31 March 2015.
The following is summarised financial information for the Group’s interest in immaterial associates, based on the amounts reported in the 
Group’s consolidated financial statements: 
31 March
 2015
US$m
31 March
 2014
US$m
Carrying amount of interests in immaterial associates
Group’s share of:
Loss from continuing operations (1) –
Other comprehensive loss – –
Total comprehensive loss (1) – 122 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section three – Operating assets and liabilities
3.8 Assets held for sale
Assets held for sale relate to the reclassification of TSTT from investments in joint ventures and associates due to the conditions 
included in the regulatory approval from the Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago which requires the Group to 
dispose of our investment in TSTT within a prescribed timeframe. Property, plant and equipment was also transferred to held for sale 
and primarily relates to the Barbados fibre network which is being divested as part of the regulatory approval from the Barbados Fair 
Trading Commission. 
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.9
TSTT
US$m
31 March
 2015
US$m
31 March
 2014
US$m
Transferred from property, plant and equipment 28 –
Reclassification from investments in joint ventures and associates 167 –
Recycled foreign currency translation reserve for held for sale associate (30)
137 –
165 –
The investment in TSTT has been measured at fair value at US$137 million and was calculated using an earnings multiple technique, using inputs 
that are not based on publicly observable data. The investment represents 49% of the equity of TSTT. The key assumptions used in determining 
the market value of 100% of the equity of TSTT were the maintainable earnings for TSTT (based on actual 2015 results) and comparable 
transaction multiples for the telecom industry. A 10% variance in earnings would result in an increase or decrease in the valuation of 
US$13 million.
3.9 Provisions
A provision is recognised by the Group where a liability exists, relating to events in the past and it is probable that cash will be paid to 
settle it. A feature of provisions is uncertainty over the timing or amount to be paid and therefore the amounts are estimated.
The main provisions we hold are for redundancies, asset retirement obligations and claims for legal matters.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.13
Property
US$m
Redundancy
costs
US$m
Network
and asset
retirement
obligations
US$m
Legal and
other
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2014 20 43 30 89 182
Acquisitions – – – 11 11
Business disposals – (1) (2) (11) (14)
Additional provisions – 80 25 18 123
Amounts used (5) (37) – (29) (71)
Unused amounts released – (3) – (9) (12)
Effect of discounting – – – – –
Exchange differences – – (1) – (1)
At 31 March 2015 15 82 52 69 218
Provisions – current 12 51 2 54 119
Provisions – non-current 3 31 50 15 99 Annual Report 2014/15 123
Property
US$m
Redundancy
costs
US$m
Network
and asset
retirement
obligations
US$m
Legal and
other
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2013 2 34 28 53 117
Additional provisions 19 128 1 46 194
Amounts used 1 (119) – (12) (130)
Unused amounts released (2) – (1) – (3)
Effect of discounting – – 3 1 4
Exchange differences – – (1) 1 –
At 31 March 2014 20 43 30 89 182
Provisions – current 15 43 2 80 140
Provisions – non-current 5 – 28 9 42
The net expense recognised through profit or loss from movements in provisions relating to discontinued operations at 31 March 2015 was 
US$7 million (31 March 2014 – US$7 million).
Property
Provision has been made for dilapidation costs and for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in 
respect of vacant properties. Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be 
derived from the vacant properties being sublet. The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease 
contract life.
Redundancy
Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date. Amounts provided for 
during the year presented primarily relate to integration costs for merging the operations of the new combined group. The provision is expected 
to be used in the next two years. Amounts used relate to the regional transformation activities in the Caribbean.
Network and asset retirement obligations
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity. The provision is 
expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, mobile cell sites, 
domestic and subsea cabling. This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Legal and other
Legal and other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group together with amounts in respect of certain 
employee benefits and sales taxes. The timing of the utilisation of the provision is uncertain and is largely outside the Group’s control, for 
example, where matters are contingent upon litigation. Legal proceedings are further discussed in note 5.5. 124 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section three – Operating assets and liabilities
3.10 Retirement benefits obligations
We operate a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans for our employees. The Group’s largest defined benefit 
scheme is the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF) in the UK. We agreed a new funding agreement with the Trustees of the 
CWSF in May 2014.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.11
The Group operates pension schemes for its current and former UK and overseas employees. These schemes include both defined benefit 
schemes, where retirement benefits are based on employees’ remuneration and length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where 
retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees. Contributions to the defined 
benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund
Cable & Wireless Communications operates the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF). This plan provides defined benefit and 
defined contribution arrangements for current and former employees of the Group. The CWSF has been closed to new defined benefit 
members since 1998.
Regulatory framework and governance
The assets of the CWSF are held in trustee-administered funds governed by UK regulations, as is the nature of the relationship between the 
Group and the Trustees. Responsibility for the governance of the CWSF, including investment decisions and contribution schedules, lies with 
the Board of Trustees who must consult with the Group on such matters. The Board of Trustees must be composed of representatives of the 
Group, plan participants and an independent Trustee in accordance with the CWSF’s governing documents.
The weighted average duration of the total expected benefit payments from the CWSF is 16 years, and the weighted average duration of the 
expected uninsured benefit payments from the CWSF is 22 years.
Funding arrangements
The latest triennial actuarial valuation of the CWSF was carried out by independent actuaries Towers Watson Limited as at 31 March 2013.
The March 2013 actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future 
benefit accrual was 43.5% of pensionable earnings (38.5% employer’s and 5.0% employee’s). This contribution rate will be reviewed at the next 
triennial valuation. The terms of the CWSF Trust Deed also allow the Trustees or the Company to call for a valuation at any time. 
In May 2014, the Group reached agreement with the Trustees on the valuation which showed a funding deficit of £109 million as at 
31 March 2013. Cash contributions to the CWSF for 2014 to 2016 will remain as agreed following the 2010 triennial review. The first two 
payments of US$52 million and US$47 million were made in July 2014 and April 2015, respectively. Payments in 2017 , 2018 and 2019 will 
be based on the outcome of the actuarial funding valuation as at 31 March 2016 and will be in the range of £0 to £23 million (US$0 to 
US$35 million) each year necessary to fund the scheme by April 2019. 
As at 31 March 2015, the CWSF defined benefit scheme had an IAS 19 Employee Benefits deficit of US$158 million compared with 
a deficit of US$148 million at 31 March 2014. Cable & Wireless Communications paid a total contribution of US$52 million in 2014/15 
(2013/14 – US$2 million) to the CWSF.
The best estimate of contributions to the CWSF for 201 5/16 is US$49 million for employer contributions and US$0 million for employee 
contributions.
Minimum funding requirement
The deficit recovery funding plan agreed with the Trustees of the CWSF as part of the March 2013 actuarial valuation, which was applicable 
at 31 March 2015, constitutes a minimal funding requirement. An adjustment to the deficit in the CWSF to account for the minimum funding 
requirement has been calculated in accordance with IFRIC 14 The limits on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their 
interaction. The adjustment to the deficit, which is recorded in other comprehensive income, was US$41 million as at 31 March 2015 
(2013/14 – US$22 million). Annual Report 2014/15 125
Asset-liability matching
During 2008, the CWSF Trustees agreed an insurance buy-in of the UK pensioner liabilities with Prudential Insurance. The buy-in involved the 
purchase of a bulk annuity policy by the CWSF under which Prudential Insurance assumed responsibility for the benefits payable to the CWSF’s 
UK pensioners. In December 2011, a further 233 pensioners, having commenced with pensions in payment since the original annuity, were 
brought within the bulk annuity policy. These pensioner liabilities and the matching annuity policy remain within the CWSF. Approximately 63% 
of the liabilities (2013/14 – 71%) in the CWSF are matched by the annuity policy asset which reduces the funding risk for the Group.
UK unfunded pension arrangements
The Group operates unfunded defined benefit arrangements in the UK. These primarily relate to pension provisions for former Directors and 
other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap.
The arrangements are governed by individual trust deeds. One arrangement incorporates a covenant requiring the Group to hold security against 
the value of the liabilities. The security is in the form of UK Government gilts which are held separately as available for sale assets (note 4.4).
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the unfunded arrangements is 16 years.
Overseas schemes
The Group operates other defined benefit pension schemes in Jamaica and Barbados. The schemes are closed to new entrants and the Jamaican 
scheme is also closed to future accrual. The schemes are governed by local pension laws and regulations.
The Jamaican scheme owns an insurance policy which matches in full the value of the defined benefit liabilities.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available in 
the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions. Any adjustment to the surplus (net of interest) is recorded in other comprehensive 
income. The effect of these adjustments, described as asset ceiling adjustments, were US$26 million as at 31 March 2015 (31 March 2014 
– US$22 million) and relate to the Group’s defined benefit arrangements in Jamaica. The maximum economic benefit was determined by 
reference to the reductions in future contributions available to the Group.
The best estimate of contributions to the overseas schemes for 2015/16 is US$2 million for employer contributions and US$nil for 
employee contributions.
IAS 19 Employee benefits valuation – Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund and other schemes
The IAS 19 valuations of the major defined benefit pension schemes operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2015 by qualified 
independent actuaries. Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP prepared the valuation for the CWSF and the UK unfunded arrangements and reviewed the 
IAS 19 valuations prepared for Jamaica overseas scheme. Eckler Ltd prepared the valuation for the Barbados overseas schemes.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes’ assets are as follows:
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
CWSF
assumption
%
UK unfunded
assumption
%
Overseas
schemes
assumption
%
CWSF
assumption
%
UK unfunded
assumption
%
Overseas
schemes
assumption
%
Significant actuarial assumptions:
RPI inflation assumption 2.8 2.8 4.1 3.3 3.3 4.4
Discount rate 3.1 3.1 9.2 4.3 4.3 8.7
Discount rate – CWSF uninsured liability 3.2 – – 4.4 – –
Other related actuarial assumptions:
CPI inflation assumption 1.8 1.8 – 2.3 2.3 –
Salary increases 3.4 – 5.9 3.8 – 5.4
Pension increases 1.7-2.7 – 2.8 2.1-3.2 – 2.7
Increases to pensions are primarily linked to RPI inflation before and after retirement. 126 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section three – Operating assets and liabilities
3.10 Retirement benefits obligations continued
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
CWSF
assets
US$m
Overseas
scheme
assets
US$m
CWSF
assets
US$m
Overseas
scheme
assets
US$m
Plan assets:
– Annuity policies 1,235 88 1,288 75
– Equities – quoted 338 37 339 38
– Bonds and gilts – quoted 238 39 174 54
– Property 1 41 3 41
– Cash and swaps 18 23 13 16
1,830 228 1,817 224
Assumptions used are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice. 
The assumptions shown above for other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement for the CWSF and UK unfunded schemes were set having regard to the actual 
experience of the CWSF’s pensioners and dependants over the six years ended 31 December 2012. In addition, allowance was made for future 
mortality improvements in line with the 2012 CMI core projections, subject to a long-term rate of improvement of 1.5% p.a. These are the 
mortality rates used for calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The mortality rates used for the figure in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2015 are updated from those which were used 
for calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 are as follows:
On
31 March
2015
(years)
On
31 March
2025
(years)
On
31 March
2035
(years)
CWSF and UK unfunded:
Male pensioners and dependants 28.8 30.0 31.2
Female pensioners 28.2 29.5 30.8
Female dependants 31.3 32.5 33.6
Risks
Through its defined benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below. 
The balance sheet net pension liability is a snapshot view which can be significantly influenced by short-term market factors.
The calculation of the surplus or deficit depends, therefore, on factors which are beyond the control of the Group, principally the value at the 
balance sheet date of equity shares in which the scheme has invested and long-term interest rates which are used to discount future liabilities. 
The funding of the scheme is based on long-term trends and assumptions relating to market growth, as advised by qualified actuaries and 
investment advisers:
 • Investment returns: The Group’s net balance sheet and contribution requirements are heavily dependent upon the return on the assets 
invested in by the schemes;
 • Longevity: The cost to the Group of the pensions promised to members is dependent upon the expected term of these payments. To the 
extent that members live longer than expected this will increase the cost of these arrangements; and
 • Inflation rate risk: In the UK, the pension promises are, in the main, linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
The above risks have been mitigated for a large proportion of the CWSF’s population and all of the Jamaican scheme’s liabilities through the 
purchase of insurance policies, the payments from which exactly match the promises made to employees. Remaining investment risks in the 
CWSF have also been mitigated to some extent by diversification of the return-seeking assets.
In addition, the defined benefit obligation as measured under IAS 19 is linked to yields on AA rated corporate bonds, however, the majority of 
the Group’s arrangements invest in a number of other assets which will move in a different manner from these bonds. Therefore, changes in 
market conditions may lead to volatility in the net pension liability on the Group’s balance sheet and in other comprehensive income, and to a 
lesser extent in the IAS 19 pension expense in the Group’s income statement. Annual Report 2014/15 127
Sensitivity analysis
Increase in
assumption
US$m
Decrease in
assumption
US$m
CWSF and UK unfunded:
Discount rate
Effect on total defined benefit obligation of a 0.25% change (77) 77
Effect on defined benefit obligation net of bulk annuity of a 0.25% change (40) 40
RPI inflation (and related increases)
Effect on total defined benefit obligation of a 0.25% change 54 (54)
Effect on defined benefit obligation net of bulk annuity of a 0.25% change 31 (31)
Life expectancy
Effect on total defined benefit obligation of a one year change 59 (59)
Effect on defined benefit obligation net of bulk annuity of a one year change 21 (21)
Overseas schemes:
Discount rate
Effect on total defined benefit obligation of a 0.25% change (2) 2
Inflation assumption
Effect on total defined benefit obligation of a 0.25% change 2 (2)
Methods and assumptions for sensitivity analysis
The above analysis is based on a standalone change in each assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. The impact on the net 
liability is significantly reduced for the CWSF scheme as a result of the annuity policies held. In the absence of such policies, the impact on the 
net liability would be much closer to the significantly higher impact on the defined benefit obligation.
The methods used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the prior period.
Using the projected unit method for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost is expected to increase when expressed as a percentage 
of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
Assets and liabilities
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes operated by the Group were as follows:
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Total fair value of plan assets 1,830 – 228 2,058 1,817 – 224 2,041
Present value of funded obligations (1,947) – (185) (2,132) (1,943) – (182) (2,125)
Excess of (liabilities)/assets of funded
obligations (117) – 43 (74) (126) – 42 (84)
Present value of unfunded obligations – (48) (3) (51) – (48) (3) (51)
Impact of the minimum funding
requirement (41) – – (41) (22) – – (22)
Effect of asset ceiling – – (26) (26) – – (22) (22)
Net (deficit)/surplus (158) (48) 14 (192) (148) (48) 17 (179)
Defined benefit pension plans in deficit (158) (48) (3) (209) (148) (48) (3) (199)
Defined benefit pension plans in surplus – – 17 17 – – 20 20
Net (deficit)/surplus (158) (48) 14 (192) (148) (48) 17 (179)
Included within these liabilities is an amount of US$32 million (201 3/1 4 – US$33 million) to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements. 128 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section three – Operating assets and liabilities
3.10 Retirement benefits obligations continued
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows:
2014/15 2013/14
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Current service cost – – (2) (2) (1) – (3) (4)
Interest (charge)/credit on net 
liabilities/assets (5) (2) 2 (5) (6) (2) 2 (6)
Administration expenses (2) – – (2) (2) – – (2)
Gains on curtailment – – – – – – 8 8
Total net (charge)/credit (7) (2) – (9) (9) (2) 7 (4)
Changes in the net liability recognised in the statement of financial position (after application of asset limit):
2014/15 2013/14
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Net (liability)/asset at 1 April (148) (48) 17 (179) (130) (46) 19 (157)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations 11 5 (1) 15 (11) (4) (2) (17)
Net (expense)/credit recognised in the 
income statement (7) (2) – (9) (9) (2) 7 (4)
Net credit/(expense) recognised outside 
the income statement (68) (5) (4) (77) – 2 (9) (7)
Contributions paid by the employer 54 2 2 58 2 2 2 6
Net (liability)/asset at 31 March (158) (48) 14 (192) (148) (48) 17 (179)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations are as follows:
2014/15 2013/14
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April (1,943) (48) (185) (2,176) (1,872) (46) (188) (2,106)
Current service cost – – (2) (2) (1) – (3) (4)
Interest on obligations (80) (2) (13) (95) (80) (2) (14) (96)
Remeasurements:
Actuarial gain/(loss) from changes in 
demographic assumptions – – – – 55 1 – 56
Actuarial gain/(loss) from changes in 
financial assumptions (242) – (11) (253) 20 1 – 21
Actuarial loss from experience on 
obligations 21 (4) (2) 15 – – (9) (9)
Employee contributions – – – – – – (3) (3)
Gains on curtailment – – – – – – 8 8
Benefits paid 94 2 20 116 87 2 13 102
Exchange differences 203 4 5 212 (152) (4) 11 (145)
At 31 March (1,947) (48) (188) (2,183) (1,943) (48) (185) (2,176) Annual Report 2014/15 129
Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows:
2014/15 2013/14
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 1,817 – 224 2,041 1,771 – 222 1,993
Interest on plan assets 76 – 17 93 75 – 17 92
Remeasurements:
Return on invested plan assets, 
excluding amount in interest income 69 – (4) 65 7 – (1) 6
Actuarial loss from changes in 
demographic assumptions on 
insured asset – – – – (47) – – (47)
Actuarial gain/(loss)from changes in 
financial assumptions on insured asset 115 – 11 126 (32) – – (32)
Actuarial (loss)/gain from experience 
on insured asset (10) – 4 (6) (12) – 9 (3)
Employer contributions 52 2 2 56 2 2 2 6
Employee contributions – – – – – – 3 3
Benefits paid (94) (2) (20) (116) (87) (2) (13) (102)
Administration expenses (2) – – (2) (2) – – (2)
Exchange differences (193) – (6) (199) 142 – (15) 127
At 31 March 1,830 – 228 2,058 1,817 – 224 2,041
Changes in the fair value of minimum funding requirement/asset ceiling are as follows:
2014/15 2013/14
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
UK
unfunded
US$m
Overseas
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April (22) – (22) (44) (29) – (15) (44)
Interest on minimum funding/asset ceiling
requirement (1) – (2) (3) (1) – (1) (2)
Change in effect of minimum funding/
asset ceiling – (loss)/gain (21) – (3) (24) 9 – (8) 1
Exchange differences 3 – 1 4 (1) – 2 1
At 31 March (41) – (26) (67) (22) – (22) (44)
3.11 Acquisitions
3.11.1 Columbus International Inc.
On 6 November 2014, the Company agreed to acquire 100% of the equity of Columbus International Inc. (Columbus), a leading privately-
owned fibre-based telecommunications and technology services provider operating in the Caribbean, Central America and the Andean region 
with approximately 700,000 residential customers. 
In the Caribbean, Columbus is one of the leading providers of triple-play cable TV and broadband enabled services over its proprietary fibre 
optic network infrastructure. Through its wholly owned subsidiary, Columbus Networks, Columbus provides backhaul connectivity to 
42 countries in the region, as well as capacity and IT services, corporate data solutions and data centre services throughout the Caribbean, 
Central American and the Andean region. Columbus also provides next generation connectivity and IT solutions, managed networking and 
cloud-based services under the brand Columbus Business Solutions. This transaction is in line with the strategy outlined in May 2014 to drive 
mobile leadership, accelerate fixed-mobile convergence, reinforce TV offer and grow B2B/B2G business. 
On 31 March 2015, the acquisition was completed for consideration of US$2,121 million comprising a mixture of cash, the Company’s shares, 
capitalised share option amounts and the fair value of put options granted to the Columbus Principal Vendors. 130 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section three – Operating assets and liabilities
3.11 Acquisitions continued
As part of the acquisition of Columbus, Columbus’ existing US$1,250 million 7.375% Senior Notes due 2021 were assumed by the combined 
group and two year term loans were obtained: US$390 million secured and US$300 million unsecured term loan agreements which are 
repayable two years from the date of the close of the acquisition of Columbus. Additionally, a new revolving credit facility (RCF) of 
US$570 million was put in place for a term of five years. The Columbus Senior Notes, term loans and drawn RCF amounts are reflected 
in Borrowings (note 4.3).
The fair value of the consideration for the acquisition of Columbus is comprised as follows:
US$m
Cash 708
Shares in CWC 1,287
Fair value of put options 103
Replacement share option awards 23
Total consideration 2,121
 • The Company issued 1,557 ,529,605 consideration shares in the capital of the Company to the Principal Vendors. As a result, the Principal 
Vendors in aggregate hold 36% of the ordinary shares in the Company. The share consideration includes a lack of marketability discount. 
 • Each Principal Vendor agreed at completion to enter into lock-up and put option arrangements in respect of its consideration shares. Under 
the put option arrangements each Principal Vendor can require the Company to reacquire certain of the consideration shares in four tranches 
between 2016 and 2019 at a strike price of US$0.7349 per share. The fair value of this put option of US$103 million has been recognised as 
an equity instrument within other reserves. As this put option meets the definition of an equity instrument, it will not be revalued to fair value 
at subsequent year ends. The financial liability attaching to the put option was valued using the present value technique at US$879 million 
(refer to note 4.8 which details the accounting for the repurchase option). 
 • As part of the acquisition agreement, Columbus’ existing Employee Incentive Plan share option plan was cancelled, with certain employees of 
Columbus rolling over their options into an equivalent CWC share option plan. As set out in IFRS 3, the fair value of these replacement awards 
attributable to the pre-acquisition period of service by these employees is taken as part of consideration. 
The Group has made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date based on estimated total 
consideration of US$2,121 million. 
Book value
US$m
Fair value
adjustments
US$m
Provisional
fair value
US$m
Intangible assets 174 513 687
Goodwill – 2,034 2,034
Property, plant and equipment 1,041 36 1,077
Assets held for sale 7 – 7
Assets held at fair value 14 – 14
Other receivables 9 – 9
Deferred tax assets 23 – 23
Trade and other receivables 144 – 144
Inventories 5 – 5
Cash and cash equivalents 80 – 80
Trade and other payables (168) (3) (171)
Borrowings (1,234) – (1,234)
Current tax liabilities (16) – (16)
Deferred tax liabilities (85) (112) (197)
Other non-current payables (341) – (341)
Total (347) 2,468 2,121
Due to the timing of the acquisition, on the last day of the financial year, the assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities at the acquisition 
date will be subject to finalisation and the accounting for the acquisition will be revised in accordance with the prescribed 12 month period. Annual Report 2014/15 131
The goodwill recognised of US$2,034 million on acquisition was based on the provisional assessment of the fair values of assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed. Goodwill arising on the acquisition represents the value of the workforce and expected synergies resulting from the 
integration into the existing business that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be 
separately identified. Goodwill is not expected to be tax deductible.
Acquisition-related costs of US$54 million were recorded in these financial statements as other operating expenses. Exceptional financing costs 
of US$37 million were recorded in the income statement (note 4.1). These costs relate to requiring backstop facilities for both 2020 
US$400 million and Columbus bonds, 2020 US$400 million bondholder consent, Columbus backstop ticking fees and accelerated amortisation 
of existing RCF capitalised transaction costs. Additionally, fees of US$57 million were capitalised in the balance sheet, relating to debt issuance 
costs incurred from the acquisition.
Had the acquisition occurred on 1 April 2014, management estimates that the attributable income statement would show pro forma revenue 
of US$621 million and loss of US$40 million during the period.
The preliminary acquisition accounting includes the payment of US$3 million by Columbus Communications Inc to Brendan Paddick as 
required under the terms of Brendan Paddick’s employment contract with Columbus Communications Inc which was terminated with effect 
from completion.
3.11.2 Grupo Sonitel
On 12 September 2014, the Group, through its subsidiary Cable & Wireless Panamá, S.A. (CWP), agreed to acquire Panama-based Grupo 
Sonitel for US$36 million plus contingent consideration of up to an additional US$5 million. Grupo Sonitel operates SSA Sistemas, a provider of 
end-to-end managed IT solutions and telecoms services to business and government customers in Panama, as well as in El Salvador, Nicaragua 
and Peru; and Sonset, a provider of IT solutions and services to Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) customers in Panama.
This transaction is in line with the strategy outlined in May 2014 to grow business (B2B) and government (B2G) capabilities. 
The Group has made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date based on estimated total 
consideration (including contingent consideration) of US$39 million. 
Book value
US$m
Fair value 
adjustments
US$m
Fair value
US$m
Property, plant and equipment 2 – 2
Goodwill – 13 13
Customer contracts and relationships – 17 17
Brands – 6 6
Other net assets 5 (4) 1
Total 7 32 39
The goodwill recognised of US$13 million on acquisition was based on the provisional assessment of the fair values of assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed. Goodwill arising on the acquisition included the value of the workforce and expected synergies resulting from the integration 
into the existing business that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately 
identified.
Acquisition-related costs of US$1 million were recorded in these financial statements as other operating expenses.
Sonitel contributed revenue of US$44 million and profit of US$2 million to the Group’s results. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2014, 
management estimates that revenue would have been US$75 million and profit of US$4 million during the period.
3.11.3 Other acquisitions
Dekal Wireless (Holdings) Limited
On 16 December 2014, a subsidiary acquired 100% share capital of Dekal Wireless (Holdings) Limited for a purchase price of US$6.3 million. 
The preliminary fair value accounting has recognised goodwill of US$3 million.
Islandcom Limited
On 23 March 2015, a subsidiary acquired the trading assets of Islandcom Telecommunications Limited for a purchase price of US$6 million. 
No goodwill was recognised as part of the acquisition. 132 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section four – Capital structure and financing
   This section outlines how the Group manages its capital and related financing costs. The 
Directors determine the appropriate capital structure for the Group, specifically, how much 
cash is raised from shareholders (equity) and how much is borrowed from financial 
institutions (debt) in order to finance the Group’ s activities both now and in the future.
  The D irectors consider the Group’ s capital structure and dividend policy at least twice a year 
ahead of announcing results and do so in the context of its ability to continue as a going 
concern, to execute the strategy and to deliver its business plan.
  During the year the Group entered into two year secured and unsecured term loans for 
US$390 million and US$300 million, respectively. The Group also refinanced its revolving 
credit facility arrangements with a new five year US$570 million revolving credit facility.
4.1 Finance income and expense
Finance income is mainly comprised of interest received from short-term investments in money market funds, external bank deposits 
and government bonds. Financing costs mainly arise from interest due on bonds, external bank loans and foreign exchange losses 
primarily due to the translation of foreign currency borrowings.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.4
The pre-exceptional finance income and expense are set out below.
Continuing operations
2014/15
US$m
Restated
2013/14
US$m
Finance income
Interest on cash and deposits 2 4
Investment income 2 2
Foreign exchange gains 13 –
Gains on derivative contracts 9 –
Total finance income 26 6
Finance expense
Interest on bank loans 37 29
Interest on bonds 56 90
Unwinding of discounts on provisions 3 3
Foreign exchange losses – 19
Losses on derivative contracts – 1
96 142
Less: Interest capitalised (12) (3)
Finance expense 84 139
Exceptional finance expense 37 25
Total finance expense 121 164
2014/15 exceptional finance costs of US$37 million relate to backstop facilities for both 2020 US$400 million and Columbus bonds (bonds 
assumed in the acquisition of Columbus), 2020 US$400 million bondholder consent, Columbus backstop ticking fees and accelerated 
amortisation of the US$487 million RCF fees (note 4.3). These costs are treated as exceptional due to the nature of these costs which were 
necessary as bondholder approval and consents were required as part of the acquisition of Columbus.
2013/14 exceptional finance costs of US$25 million relate to additional interest, early redemption charges and capitalised finance transaction 
costs written off in respect of the 2017 bond which was redeemed on 28 February 2014.
Tax relief of US$4 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2015 (2013/14 – US$1 million). Interest has been 
capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 3.1% (2013/14 – 3.8%) on qualifying capital expenditure. Annual Report 2014/15 133
4.2 Cash and cash equivalents
The majority of the Group’s cash is held in bank deposits or in money market funds which have a maturity of three months or less to enable 
us to meet our short-term liquidity requirements.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.4
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 396 89
Short-term bank deposits 6 116
Cash and cash equivalents 402 205
Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice. The effective 
interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2015 was 2.21% (31 March 2014 – 0.18%). At 31 March 2015, these deposits had an 
average maturity of 17 days (31 March 2014 – five days).
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
4.3 Borrowings
The Group’s sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity purposes come from a range of secured and unsecured bonds and facilities. 
Our key borrowings at 31 March 2015 consist of bonds and bank loans. During the 12 months ended 31 March 2015, we entered into a 
two year US$390 million secured term loan and a two year US$300 million unsecured term loan and refinanced our US$487 million 
revolving credit facilities with a new five year US$570 million revolving credit facility. Through the acquisition of Columbus, the Group 
assumed Columbus 7.375% Senior Notes due 2021 with a face value of US$1,250 million.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.4
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
Type Security
Interest
rate
%
Carrying
value
US$m
Fair value
US$m
Interest
rate
%
Carrying
value
US$m
Fair value
US$m
2016 US$487 million facility
1
Floating Unsecured – – – 2.550 – –
2017 US$390 million loan Floating Secured 5.500 374 374
3
– – –
2017 US$300 million loan Floating Unsecured 6.500 288 288
3
– – –
2019 £200 million bond Fixed Unsecured 8.625 219 251
2
8.625 242 281
2
2020 US$570 million facility
4
Floating Secured 4.000 – – – – –
2020 US$400 million secured bond Fixed Secured 8.750 394 431
2
8.750 393 452
2
2021 US$1,250 million bond Fixed Unsecured 7.375 1,234 1,309
2
– – –
US dollar and currencies linked to 
the US dollar loans and facilities 
(various dates to 2038)
Fixed and
floating
Unsecured
3.778 258 258
3
3.970 213 213
3
Overdrafts Floating Unsecured – 1 1
3
– 7  7
3
Total borrowings 2,768 855
Borrowings – current 82 58
Borrowings – non-current 2,686 797
1 On 19 October 2011, the Group entered into a five-year borrowing arrangement for US$600 million of revolving credit facilities with a maturity date of October 2016. 
During 2013/14 the facility was reduced to US$487 million. On 31 March 2015, this facility was cancelled and replaced. (As at 31 March 2014, the Group had US$487 million 
of undrawn facilities available.) 
2 This value was determined by reference to market values obtained from third parties and are within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 
3 The carrying amount approximates to fair value, net of debt issuance costs, based on discounted cash flows and are within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. 
4 On 31 December 2014, the Group entered into a five-year borrowing arrangement for US$570 million of revolving credit facilities with a maturity date of 31 March 2020. 
As at 31 March 2015, the Group had US$421 million undrawn facilities available due to US$149 million letters of credit in favour of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund. 
These facilities incur commitment fees at market rates prevailing when the facilities were arranged. 134 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section four – Capital structure and financing
4.3 Borrowings continued
The agreements for the facilities entered into during the year contain financial and other covenants which are standard to these types 
of arrangements.
For liquidity risk exposure analysis purposes, the following are the contractual maturities of loans (including the expected interest payable 
at rates prevailing at the reporting date but net of debt issuance costs):
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Borrowings
Due in less than one year 275 120
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 910 110
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 1,146 521
Due in more than five years 1,347 445
3,678 1,196
Less: future finance charges on loans (910) (341)
Total borrowings 2,768 855
Interest was payable on borrowings falling due after more than five years at rates of between 0.0% and 7.4% (2013/14 – 0.0% and 
8.8%, respectively).
Reconciliation of net funds
Funds are defined as cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits. Debt is defined as bonds, loans and overdrafts. 
Analysis of changes in net funds:
At 1 April
2014
US$m
Cash flow
US$m
Capitalised 
fees and 
amortisation
US$m
Transfers
US$m
Acquisitions
US$m
Exchange
differences
US$m
Net cash from
discontinued
operations
US$m
At
31 March
2015
US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 89 (176) – – 81 (1) 403 396
Short-term deposits 116 (112) – – 2 – – 6
Total funds 205 (288) – – 83 (1) 403 402
Debt due within one year (58) 26 – (47) (4) 1 – (82)
Debt due after more than one year (797) (750) 26 47 (1,234) 22 – (2,686)
Total debt (855) (724) 26 – (1,238) 23 – (2,768)
Total net (debt)/funds (650) (1,012) 26 – (1,155) 22 403 (2,366) Annual Report 2014/15 135
4.4 Available-for-sale financial assets
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.4
2014/15
US$m
2013/14
US$m
At 1 April 58 58
Additions 2 –
Disposals (1) –
Fair value gain recorded in other comprehensive income 3 (3)
Exchange differences (3) 3
At 31 March 59 58
Available-for-sale financial assets consist of UK and Bahamian government bonds. These assets were measured at fair value based on 
observable market data and are within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy (note 4.7). The maximum exposure to credit risk for available-for-sale 
financial assets is equal to their carrying value.
4.5 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
This relates to the Columbus US$1,250 million senior notes for which the redemption option associated with the notes represent an 
embedded derivative. 
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.4
2014/15 2013/14
Derivative 
financial 
instrument
US$m
Total
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April – – –
Acquisitions 14 14 –
Movement in fair value of derivative financial assets – – –
At 31 March 14 14 –
Embedded derivative
As part of the acquisition of Columbus, the Group assumed the existing net debt held by Columbus at the acquisition date. Columbus held 
senior notes of US$1,250 million at 31 March 2015. The Group assumed all terms agreed by Columbus under the debt agreement. These 
terms enable the Group to redeem the notes under various scenarios. The redemption terms associated with the notes represent an embedded 
derivative which required bifurcation where the bifurcated amount is carried at fair value, with charges going through profit or loss. The 
embedded derivative is held at fair value and is valued using a valuation technique classed as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy. 
The lowest level inputs to the valuation are directly or indirectly observable. Based on the unique features of the notes, the derivative was 
valued using a binomial tree/lattice approach based on the Hull-White single factor interest rate term structure model. Under this approach, 
an interest rate lattice is constructed according to a given short rate volatility and mean reversion constant as implied by the market as at each 
valuation date. Key inputs to the valuation included: Percentages of swaption volatility selected as at 31 March 2015 between 34% and 
74.20% and the credit spread as at 31 March 2015 was implied to be approximately 4.51%.  136 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section four – Capital structure and financing
4.6 Financial liabilities at fair value
In the prior year, a liability was held for the 45% share of Monaco Telecom owned by the Principality of Monaco. In the event that the 
Principality decided to exercise their contractual right to sell this stake, we would have been obliged to purchase it from them. Monaco 
was sold in May 2014 and this liability was cancelled as part of the sale.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.4
At 31 March
2015
US$m
At 31 March
2014
US$m
Monaco Telecom put option (note 4.6.1) – 274
Total financial liabilities at fair value – 274
4.6.1 Monaco Telecom put option
A put option was held by the non-controlling shareholder of Monaco Telecom, the Principality of Monaco (the Principality) as at 31 March 2014. 
The put option was measured at fair value and was calculated using discounted cash flow techniques, using inputs that were not based on 
publicly observable market data. The liability for the put option represents 45% of the market value of Monaco Telecom. The key assumptions 
used in valuing the put option liability were the Monaco Telecom three-year operating plan (in particular revenue performance) and discount 
rates of between 8% and 27% for the distinct operating businesses within Monaco Telecom. A movement in the discount rate of 1% would 
result in an increase or decrease in the liability of US$33 million.
On 20 May 2014, the Group sold Monaco Telecom. The put option liability was cancelled as a result of the sale (note 2.8.1). 
4.6.2 CMC put option
As part of the transaction to sell Monaco & Islands to Batelco (note 2.8.2), we granted them a put option over the 25% of CMC shares 
transferred. The CMC put option was both issued and unwound during the year ended 31 March 2014.
4.6.3 Reconciliation
A reconciliation of the movements in the value of level 2 and 3 financial liabilities is as follows:
Monaco
Telecom
put option
2014/15
US$m
Total
2014/15
US$m
CMC
put option
2013/14
US$m
Monaco
Telecom
put option
2013/14
US$m
Total
2013/14
US$m
At 1 April 274 274 – 258 258
Issue of the CMC put option (note 2.8.2) – – 100 – 100
Decrease as a result of dividends paid to the Principality – – – (30) (30)
Changes in fair value recognised as an adjustment to goodwill – – – 31 31
Foreign exchange movements recognised in the foreign currency reserve 
in equity – – – 15 15
Cancellation of Monaco put option (note 4.6.1) (274) (274) – – –
Unwind of the CMC put option (note 2.8.2) – – (100) – (100)
At 31 March – – – 274 274 Annual Report 2014/15 137
4.7 Financial instruments at fair value
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. Accounting standards require us to disclose 
them into different levels as follows:
Level 1 – Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 –  Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or 
liability either directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Level 3 – Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
At 31 March 2015
Note
Level 1
US$m
Level 2
US$m
Level 3
US$m
Total
US$m
Financial assets measured at fair value:
UK and Bahamian government bonds 4.4 59 – – 59
Held for sale equity investment 3.8 – – 137 137
Embedded derivative 4.5 – 14 – 14
Total financial assets at fair value 59 14 137 210
At 31 March 2014
Note
Level 1
US$m
Level 2
US$m
Level 3
US$m
Total
US$m
Financial assets measured at fair value:
UK and Bahamian government bonds 4.4 58 – – 58
Total financial assets at fair value 58 – – 58
Financial liabilities measured at fair value:
Monaco Telecom put option 4.6 – – 274 274
Total financial liabilities at fair value – – 274 274
There were no transfers between levels during the year (2013/14 – no transfers). For a reconciliation of movements in level 3 instruments see 
note 4.6.3. 138 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section four – Capital structure and financing
4.8 Financial liabilities at amortised cost
As part of the acquisition of Columbus, the Company entered into lock-up and put option agreements (‘Put Option Deeds’) with the 
Principal Vendors in respect of the consideration shares issued on completion which (amongst other matters):
 • enable each Principal Vendor to either (i) require the Company to purchase for cash up to a certain number of its consideration shares 
each year from 2016 to 2019 inclusive for the notional issue price of US$0.734917 per share; or (ii) sell up to that number of 
consideration shares each year from 2016 to 2019 in the market (subject to orderly market arrangements with CWC). Specific 
shareholder authority for such purchases was obtained at the general meeting held on 5 December 2014;
 • grant a right to the Principal Vendors to nominate one Director each to the Board, subject to recommendation by the Nomination 
Committee. The initial three nominations were agreed at completion, being John Risley, Thad York and Brendan Paddick; and
 • restrict the ability of the Principal Vendors to otherwise sell the consideration shares during the period covered by the options.
A lock-up and put option agreement was entered into between the Company and each of the three Principal Vendors for the issued 
share capital as part of the acquisition of Columbus. 
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.4
2014/15 2013/14
Columbus
repurchase
liability
US$m
Total
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April – – –
Repurchase liability (note 4.8.1) 879 879 –
At 31 March 879 879 –
4.8.1 Columbus put option and repurchase liability
As part of the transaction to acquire Columbus International Inc, the Company issued 1,557 ,529,605 consideration shares of US5 cents each to 
the Principal Vendors in proportion to their Columbus shareholding. As a result, the Principal Vendors (CVBI Holdings (Barbados) Inc, Clearwater 
Holdings (Barbados) Limited, Columbus Holding LLC and Brendan Paddick) in aggregate hold approximately 36% of the ordinary shares in the 
Company. Each Principal Vendor agreed at completion to enter into lock-up and put option arrangements in respect of its issued consideration 
shares until 2019. An exception to the lock-up arrangements will enable each Principal Vendor to require the Company to purchase for cash 
up to a certain number of its shares each year from 2016 to 2019 inclusive for the notional issue price of US$0.7349 per share. If a Principal 
Vendor sells some or all of their shareholding (subject to orderly market conditions) then some or all of its future options to require the 
Company to purchase up to a certain number of shares (as described above) will immediately cease to have effect and will not be capable 
of exercise. 
The liability for the repurchase under the terms of IAS 32 have been valued on initial recognition using the present value technique of the future 
liability was US$879 million (2014/15 – US$nil).
4.9 Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
We made no business acquisitions with non-controlling interests during the year, however, accounting standards (note 5.1.3) require us 
to make an adjustment to goodwill attributable to Monaco Telecom. On 20 May 2014 we sold Monaco Telecom (note 2.8.1).
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.2.1
Monaco Telecom
Goodwill in connection with the Group’s investment in Monaco Telecom SAM increased by US$46 million during the year ended 31 March 2014. 
The goodwill balance increased as a result of exchange differences and changes in the fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option.
As part of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom a put option was issued (note 4.6.1). Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated as 
contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill. The cash outflow in respect of contingent consideration, being the dividend paid to the 
Principality as the non-controlling shareholder of Monaco Telecom, was US$30 million for the year ended 31 March 2014. 
Monaco Telecom was sold on 20 May 2014. The put option was cancelled subsequent to the sale. Annual Report 2014/15 139
Goodwill
2014/15
US$m
2013/14
US$m
At 1 April 292 246
Increase as a result of changes in the fair value of Monaco put option – 31
Disposals (292) –
Exchange differences – 15
At 31 March – 292
4.10 Equity
Called up share capital is the number of shares in issue at their par value of US5 cents each. There were 1,810,341,889 new ordinary 
shares issued during the year. In this note we also explain how we manage capital which we define as equity, borrowings and cash and 
cash equivalents.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.7
Share capital
Issued, called-up and fully paid shares of US5 cents each
Number of
shares
(000) US$m
31 March 2015 4,475,954 224
At 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014 2,665,612 133
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was US$91 million (2013/14 – US$nil).
On 7 November 2014, a total of 252,812,284 new ordinary shares of US5 cents each in the capital of the Company were placed by Deutsche 
Bank AG (cash box placement) at a price of 45 pence per placing share, raising gross proceeds of US$180 million (excluding equity transaction 
costs of US$4 million). The placing shares being issued represented 10% less one share of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company 
prior to Placing. 
On 31 March 2015, a total of 1,557 ,529,605 new ordinary shares of US5 cents each in the capital of the Company were issued to the Principal 
Vendors (as defined and further described in the circular to shareholders dated 19 November 2014). These shares represent approximately 
36% of the ordinary shares in CWC (excluding treasury shares).
Included within the number of shares disclosed in the table above are treasury shares and shares held by The Cable & Wireless Communications 
Share Ownership Trust (the Trust).
No treasury shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled during the periods presented.
At 31 March 2015, a total of 137 ,488,873 shares were classified as treasury shares (31 March 2014 – 137 ,488,873). This represented 3% of 
called-up share capital at the end of the year (2013/14 – 5%).
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2015 was US$7 million (2013/14 – US$7 million) and US$125 million 
(2013/14 – US$119 million), respectively. Disclosures in respect of the shares held by the Trust are included in note 5.7.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, each share (other than those held in treasury) entitles the holder to one vote 
at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc. The Company’s shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary 
resolution but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors. There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital 
other than those imposed by law. For further information refer to pages 56 to 58 of the Directors’ and corporate governance report.
As detailed above, there were share allotments of 252,812,284 ordinary shares on 7 November 2014 and 1,557 ,529,605 ordinary shares on 
31 March 2015, totalling 1,810,341,889 ordinary shares of US5 cents allotted during the period under review (2013/14 – no allotments).
Capital management
The Group defines capital as equity, borrowings (note 4.3) and cash and cash equivalents (note 4.2). The Group does not have any externally 
imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law. 140 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section four – Capital structure and financing
4.10 Equity continued
The Board’s objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Group’s strategic objectives, including, but not limited to, reshaping 
the portfolio through mergers and acquisitions. In doing so the Board seeks to:
 • Manage funding and liquidity risk;
 • Optimise shareholder return; and
 • Maintain credit ratings.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
Funding and liquidity risk are reviewed regularly by the Board and managed in accordance with the policies described in note 4.11.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit aggregate borrowing up to the higher of three times the adjusted capital and reserves of 
the Group or US$3 billion.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders and it 
intends to target a sustainable and progressive dividend that reflects the underlying cash generation and growth outlook of the business. 
This process is managed through the Group’s budget and longer-term forecasting process.
In May 2014, the Group received total cash proceeds of US$445 million for the Monaco Telecom disposal (note 2.8.1). In addition, the Group 
received US$8.6 million relating to the estimated cash, debt and working capital at completion. In line with the Board’s objectives, these 
proceeds were used towards the acquisition of Columbus (note 3.11.1). 
In April 2013, the Group received total cash proceeds of US$501 million in respect of the Islands sub-group disposal (note 2.8.2), excluding 
the Seychelles for which regulatory approval was not obtained, representing consideration of US$470 million plus US$31 million of the 
proportionate share of net cash in the disposed businesses attributable to Cable & Wireless Communications. The Group also received 
US$100 million for the sale of a 25% interest in Compagnie Monégasque de Communication SAM, the holding company of Monaco Telecom, 
to Batelco. Proceeds were used to repay drawn bank facilities, including the revolving credit facility of US$360 million (note 4.3) and other 
facilities of US$38 million. In December 2013, the Group returned US$100 million to Batelco to unwind a pre-agreed option on the sale of 
Monaco Telecom not gaining the regulatory consents required.
In June 2013, the Group received total cash proceeds of US$807 million in respect of the Macau disposal (note 2.8.3) representing 
consideration of US$750 million plus US$57 million of the proportionate share of net cash in the disposed business attributable to 
Cable & Wireless Communications. In line with the Board’s objectives, these proceeds will be used for investment opportunities. In the 
absence of suitable investment opportunities, proceeds have been used to de-leverage the balance sheet (note 4.3). On 28 February 2014, 
the 2017 US$500 million secured bond was redeemed in full (note 4.3).
The US dollar secured bonds of US$400 million maturing in 2020 has a credit rating of Ba2 with Moody’s and BB- with Standard and Poor’s. 
The unsecured sterling bond repayable in 2019 has a credit rating with Standard and Poor’s of B+. As part of the acquisition of Columbus we 
assumed unsecured bonds of US$1,250 million maturing in 2021 with a credit rating of Ba3 with Moody’s and BB with Standard & Poor’s. 
Foreign currency translation and hedging reserve
The foreign currency translation and hedging reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency 
different to the presentation currency of the Group. It also includes cumulative exchange differences arising on the translation of hedging instruments.
Capital and other reserves
At 31 March 2015, other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of US$152 million (2013/14 – US$152 million), a revaluation 
reserve of US$nil (2013/14 – US$nil), a fair value reserve of US$20 million (2013/14 – US$17 million), a special reserve of US$2,137 million 
(2013/14 – US$2,137 million) and a capital reserve of US$987 million (2013/14 – US$987 million), less a reserve relating to transactions with 
non-controlling interests of US$5 million (2013/14 – US$5 million) and a reserve for the repurchase of shares and put option of US$776 million 
(2013/14 – US$nil).
A merger reserve is a statutory relief from recognising share premium when issuing equity shares in order to acquire the legal entity shares of 
another company where specified conditions are met. The merger reserve was formed at 31 March 2015 as the Company acquired 100% of 
the issued share capital of Columbus and the consideration for Columbus included the issuance of shares. The put option reserve was also 
formed at 31 March 2015 with the acquisition of Columbus (note 4.8).
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited (formerly Cable and Wireless Plc) 
in February 2004. It will reduce from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account of 
Cable & Wireless Limited after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a 
capitalisation of distributable reserves.
On 26 March 2010, a court-approved capital reduction became effective which had the effect of creating a capital reserve of US$1,931 million 
which may be released, in whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion (and upon the resolution) of the Board of 
Directors or a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors. Annual Report 2014/15 141
4.11 Financial risk management
This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies. We discuss the exposure and 
sensitivity of the Group to credit, liquidity, interest and foreign exchange risk and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Treasury policies have been approved by the Board for managing each of these risks including levels of authority on the type and use of 
financial instruments.
Treasury policy
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk); credit risk; and liquidity 
risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Day to 
day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Group’s treasury function (Treasury), within specified financial limits for each type of 
transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities. Material 
subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury. Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board. All subsidiaries are required to 
report details of their cash and debt positions to Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk. 
The majority of the Group’s cash resources (including facilities) and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
From time to time, the Group may use derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and 
options, where appropriate, in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures. The use of these instruments is in 
accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury and subject to policies approved by the Board. Derivatives are not used for 
trading or speculative purposes and derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported by Treasury on a regular basis and are 
subject to policies adopted by the Board.
Exchange rate risk
The Group trades in many countries and a proportion of its revenue is generated in currencies other than US dollars. The Group is exposed to 
movements in exchange rates in relation to non-dollar currency payments (including external dividends, the corporate centre costs and 
pensions), dividend income from foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries and 
the net asset carrying value of non-US dollar investments. Exchange risk is managed centrally by the corporate centre on a matching cash flow 
basis including forecast foreign currency cash repatriation inflows from subsidiaries and forecast foreign currency payments. See note 5.1.1 for 
key exchange rates used.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and from time to time may use forward 
foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally 
offset in the short term. The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign 
exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate. Where cost-effective and possible, foreign subsidiaries are financed in their domestic 
currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas 
investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Overseas earnings are predominately 
in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar. However, the Group also has overseas earnings in other currencies.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in relation to monetary assets and liabilities that are not in the functional currency of the entity 
that holds them. In broad terms, based on monetary assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2015 the impact of a unilateral 10% weakening of the 
US dollar would have been to decrease profit from continuing operations by approximately US$34 million (at 31 March 2014 – US$42 million).
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans although there is a degree of offset 
between the two. Treasury may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure while taking account of prevailing 
market conditions as appropriate.
At 31 March 2015, 69% (31 March 2014 – 79%) of the Group’s loans were at a fixed rate. A reduction in interest rates would have an 
unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Group’s fixed rate loans. However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it 
will be kept in place until maturity. As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on fixed rate borrowings and, as such, its effect has not 
been modelled.
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a US$4 million (2013/14 – US$2 million) impact on the income received from the 
surplus cash balances of the Group and a US$(9) million (2013/14 – US$2 million) impact on the floating rate loans of the Group. The impact on 
equity is limited to the impact on profit or loss. 142 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section four – Capital structure and financing
4.11 Financial risk management continued
Credit risk
Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty 
failed to perform as contracted. The carrying amount of the financial assets of the Group represents the maximum credit exposure of the 
Group. Management seeks to reduce this credit risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Group’s financial 
instruments are the core relationship banks. These banks are awarded a maximum credit limit based on ratings by Standard & Poor’s and 
Moody’s, the level of the banks’ credit default swap (CDS) and its associated level of tier one capital. The credit limit assigned to counterparties 
is monitored on a continuing basis. 
The Group Treasury policy approved by the Board contain limits on exposure and prescribes the types of instrument used for investment of 
funds. Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 3.1.
Liquidity risk
The Group ensures that the operating units manage their own operational liquidity supported by the corporate centre, which manages its 
own liquidity to meet its financial obligations of servicing and repaying external debt, external dividends, corporate centre costs and strategic 
initiatives. The principal source of liquidity for the corporate centre is repatriation cash inflows from the operating units supported by financing 
arrangements, bond issuances and asset disposals.
At 31 March 2015, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of US$402 million. These amounts are highly liquid and are a significant 
component of the Group’s overall liquidity and capital resources, which also includes the available undrawn revolving credit facilities of 
US$421 million.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance and 
that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements. The Directors also 
regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
At 31 March 2015, approximately 1% of the Group’s cash was invested in short-term bank deposits and money market funds (2013/14 –57%).
4.12 Dividends declared and paid
Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders twice a year in January and August.
2014/15
US$m
2013/14
US$m
Final dividend in respect of the prior year 67 67
Interim dividend in respect of the current year 37 33
Total dividend paid 104 100
During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group declared and paid a final dividend of US2.67 cents per share in respect of the year ended 
31 March 2014 (2013/14 – US2.67 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013). The Group declared and paid an interim 
dividend of US1.33 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2015 (2013/14 – US1.33 cents per share in respect of the 
year ended 31 March 2014).
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2015, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of US2.67 cents per share (US$116 million) 
(2013/14 – US2.67 cents per share), for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 21 July 2015. These financial statements do not 
reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 
31 March 2016.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (the Trust) waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the Trust, with the 
exception of those shares held for Directors under the deferred bonus plan. Annual Report 2014/15 143
   This section includes all other notes including accounting policies and critical judgements, 
c ommitments and guarantees, licences and operating agreements, legal proceedings, related 
party transactions, share-based payments, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and 
events after the reporting period.
5.1 Significant accounting policies
This section sets out the Group’s accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
5.1.1 Foreign currencies
a) Functional currency
Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency).
b) Foreign currency translation
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised through profit or loss.
c) Foreign operations
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Group’s presentation currency of 
US dollars are translated as follows:
i) Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date; 
ii) Income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions; and 
iii) Resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate. On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the same 
period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders’ equity. Where investments 
are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded 
as movements in the Group’s translation reserves and any excess taken to profit or loss.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
Section five – Other 144 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section five – Other
5.1 Significant accounting policies continued
The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of these accounts are as follows:
2014/15 2013/14
£ : US$
Average 0.6206 0.6313
Year end 0.6705 0.6059
€ : US$
Average 0.7895 0.7461
Year end 0.9101 0.7258
Jamaican$ : US$
Average 112.6438 102.7058
Year end 114.8900 109.1550
Seychelles Rupee : US$
Average 13.1440 11.9863
Year end 13.7550 12.1713
Colombian Peso : US$
Average N/A N/A
Year end 2,544.9250 N/A
Trinidad and Tobago$ : US$
Average 6.3687 6.4117
Year end 6.3418 6.3803
5.1.2 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, plant and 
equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment. 
Plant and equipment represents the Group’s network infrastructure assets.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets, typically cell sites and network equipment, and restoring land on which they are 
located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment. The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with 
IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the 
future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably. All other subsequent costs (primarily repairs and 
maintenance) are charged to profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction. Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant 
and equipment, on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Lives
Cables up to 20 years
Network equipment 3 to 25 years
Ducting 40 years
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less
Asset useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down to its 
recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use. Annual Report 2014/15 145
5.1.3 Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the future economic benefits that arise from acquired assets that are not capable of being individually identified and 
separately recognised.
The goodwill recorded in the Group’s statement of financial position is calculated using two different methods, depending on the acquisition 
date, as a result of changes in accounting standards.
All business combinations that occurred since 31 March 2010 are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 
Business combinations revised. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the 
identifiable net assets acquired. All transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
All other business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations (2004). 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired. 
Costs attributable to these combinations are included in the cost of acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated 
to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
b) Other intangible assets
Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are 
recognised as intangible assets. Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original 
specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Intangible assets relating to customer contracts, customer relationships and licences obtained as part of the Group’s business combinations 
are recorded initially at their fair values. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Other intangible assets that do not have indefinite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis over their respective lives which are 
usually based on contractual terms. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues 
to be supportable.
Lives
Software 3 to 5 years
Licences Up to 25 years or the licence term if less
Customer contracts and relationships, brands and licences 4 to 10 years
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in profit or 
loss for the period in which the expenditure is incurred. 
5.1.4 Financial instruments
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: cash and cash equivalents; trade and other receivables; financial assets 
at fair value through profit or loss; available-for-sale financial assets; and held-to-maturity investments. The classification depends on the 
purpose for which the assets are held. The Group does not currently classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date 
for financial assets other than those held at fair value through profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, money market funds and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or 
less. They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk 
of changes in value. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position is considered to approximate fair 
value. Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings and classified in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable. Trade and 
other receivables are presented in current assets in the statement of financial position, except for those with maturities greater than one year 
after the reporting date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost less provision for impairment. 146 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section five – Other
5.1 Significant accounting policies continued
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets that are either held for trading or those designated upon initial recognition. 
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by 
management. These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is 
designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not 
designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately through profit or loss.
The Interest Rate Option Pricing Method was used to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative associated with the unsecured senior 
notes of US$1,250 million assumed in the acquisition of Columbus (note 4.5). Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for as 
separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contracts 
and the host contracts are not held for trading or designated as fair value through profit or loss.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. 
Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category upon initial recognition or not 
classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 
one year of the reporting date and such assets recognised in this category by the Group include UK and Bahamian government gilts. Purchases and 
disposals of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value, other than impairment losses and 
foreign currency differences, are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve (within Capital and Other 
reserves) in equity. When an asset is derecognised the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified through profit or loss.
Due to the conditions attaching to the regulatory approval from the Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago, the Group was required 
to divest of its shareholding in TSTT as at 31 March 2015. As significant influence was lost TSTT was reclassified as a held for sale equity 
investment (note 3.8).
Financial liabilities
The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following categories: trade and other payables; borrowings; financial liabilities at amortised 
cost; and financial liabilities at fair value.
Management determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting 
date for financial liabilities other than those held at fair value.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred and are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds received (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised through profit 
or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. The financial liabilities recognised in this category include secured 
and unsecured bonds and facilities and other loans held by the Group and are presented in borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of 
financial position unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the reporting date.
Financial liabilities at fair value
This category includes a puttable instrument on non-controlling interests relating to the acquisition of Monaco Telecom (the Monaco Telecom 
put option) and derivative financial instruments. The CMC put option, more fully described in note 4.6, was issued and redeemed during the 
year with no impact on profit or loss. These financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are 
recognised through profit or loss except for changes in the fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option.
The fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option is based on the present value of the redemption amount, calculated using discounted cash 
flow techniques, as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the reporting date. Movements in the fair value of the liability are 
recognised as adjustments to goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations (2004). The Monaco put option, more fully described 
in note 4.6, was cancelled in the year ended 31 March 2015 with no impact on profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
This category includes the redemption option relating to shares issued as part of the acquisition of Columbus. The redemption options were 
initially recognised at the present value of the future obligations and will be amortised on a straight line basis over the redemption option period.
5.1.5 Impairment of assets
Financial assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or 
loss or a group of those financial assets is impaired. Annual Report 2014/15 147
An impairment allowance is established for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Non-financial assets
Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. All other non-current assets are 
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. For the 
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-
generating units).
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Group’s assets (or the cash-generating unit to which it 
belongs) to their recoverable amounts, which is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Fair value represents 
market value in an active market. Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset. Future cash flows are 
determined with reference to the Group’s own projections using pre-tax discount rates.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
5.1.6 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies. It also 
includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs. Cost is based on 
the first-in, first-out (FIFO) principle. For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business less costs to sell. Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories as required.
5.1.7 Share capital
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, standalone options or the repurchase of shares are recognised in equity 
against share premium.
Instruments over own shares that conveys the right to the option holder to require the Company to pay a fixed amount of cash for a fixed 
number of shares are classified as equity instruments and recorded in other reserves. Such instruments are not remeasured subsequently. 
The present value of the redemption amount of the option is recognised as a financial liability with the corresponding debit recognised in other 
reserves in equity.
5.1.8 Leases
All Group leases are operating leases. Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are recognised in 
profit or loss on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
5.1.9 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they are 
available for immediate sale in their present condition and a sale is highly probable, they are classified as assets held for sale. With the exception 
of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits and financial instruments, the assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction. They are recognised as held for 
sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position. Any amortisation 
and depreciation ceases when classified as held for sale.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and 
separately disclosed.
Due to the conditions attaching to the regulatory approval from Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago, the Group were 
required to divest of its shareholding in TSTT as at 31 March 2015. This required a reclassification from investments in associates to a held for 
sale equity investment (note 3.8).
5.1.10 Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group where the operations and cash flows are clearly distinguished from the rest of the Group 
and which:
 • Represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations;
 • Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations; or
 • Is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs on disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative income statement and cash flow statement are restated as if the 
operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative year. 148 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section five – Other
5.1 Significant accounting policies continued
The Monaco business was disposed of on 20 May 2014 and is classified as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2015. The comparative 
income statement and cash flow statement are restated for the year ended 31 March 2014. See note 2.8 for details.
5.1.11 Employee benefits
Defined contribution pensions
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a third party. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as operating costs as they are incurred through profit or loss.
Defined benefit obligations
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually 
dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. These schemes are generally funded through payments to 
insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value 
of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date. Assets are only recognised to the extent that the 
present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed 
the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations. Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are 
calculated annually by independent actuaries.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in 
which they occur in the statement of other comprehensive income. Past service costs are recognised immediately through profit or loss.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on net plan assets or liabilities, are included within 
operating costs through profit or loss.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange 
for the grant of options over shares in the Company is recognised as an operating cost through profit or loss over the vesting period with a 
corresponding increase in other reserves in equity. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the 
fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example service, profitability and cash 
flow targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each 
reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts 
voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits within other provisions when it is 
demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employee’s termination.
Bonus plans
The Group recognises a liability in the statement of financial position in relation to bonuses payable to employees where contractually obliged 
or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
5.1.12 Tax
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised through profit or loss except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income and equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or 
equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from:
 • The initial recognition of goodwill; or
 • The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised. Annual Report 2014/15 149
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures and associates, except 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
5.1.13 Provisions
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as 
a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be 
reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to 
settle the obligation. Provision charges and reversals are recognised through profit or loss. Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
5.1.14 Revenue recognition
Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services and 
goods provided to customers. It includes sales to joint ventures and associates but does not include sales by joint ventures and associates or 
sales between Group companies. Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided. In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until 
provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided. Charges are negotiated separately 
and are subject to continual review. Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable 
to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Revenue from mobile, broadband, video and fixed line products comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, 
airtime and usage, messaging and other telecommunications services. This includes data services and information provision and revenue from 
the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Monthly access charges from mobile, broadband, video and fixed line products are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle. Airtime, 
either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid credit, is recorded in the 
period in which the customer uses the service. Unbilled revenue resulting from services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle 
date to the end of each period is accrued. Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third-party providers. Third-party dealers 
and partners are also used to facilitate the sale and provision of some services and equipment sold by the Group. We assess whether revenue 
should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following factors:
 • Whether the Group holds itself out as an agent;
 • Whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, either directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services;
 • Provision of customer remedies;
 • Whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulfilling the order; and
 • Assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunications equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities (generally the sale of telecoms equipment and ongoing 
service) is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently, based on the estimated fair value of the components. 
The fair value of each component is determined by amounts charged when sold separately and by reference to sales of equivalent products 
and services by third parties.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised over the periods in which the service 
is provided.
Customer acquisition costs including dealer commissions and similar payments are expensed as incurred.
5.1.15 Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items within profit or loss that derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group 
that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
5.1.16 Transactions with holders of non-controlling interests
Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Group’s subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as 
equity transactions. In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in 
the Group’s relative interest in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the 
fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. 150 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section five – Other
5.2 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
A number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition 
of the Group. Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. The Directors consider 
that the following discussion addresses the Group’s most critical accounting estimates. These particular policies require subjective and 
complex assessments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
5.2.1 Impairment
The Directors assess property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value is less than its recoverable amount. Factors that are considered important and that could trigger 
an impairment review include the following:
 • Obsolescence or physical damage;
 • Significant changes in technology and regulatory environments;
 • Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;
 • Significant changes in the use of the assets or the strategy of the overall business;
 • Significant negative industry or economic trends; and
 • Significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
The Directors also assess the carrying value of the Group’s interests in joint ventures and associate undertakings to identify whether there is 
any objective evidence of impairment.
The identification of impairment triggers is a key judgement. Where an impairment review is required, the Group generally determines 
recoverable amount based on value in use. The key estimates used in calculating value in use are the discount rate, revenue growth, operating 
cost margin and capital expenditure. Estimates are based on extrapolated approved three-year business plans.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life at least annually for impairment. 
Note 3.4 sets out the assumptions and estimates used during these assessments.
5.2.2 Receivables allowance
The impairment allowance for trade receivables reflects the Group’s estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Group’s 
customers to make required payments. The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer creditworthiness and the Group’s 
historical write-off experience. Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Group’s customers improves or 
deteriorates. An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs. Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have 
not been material to the Group’s financial position and results.
5.2.3 Revenue recognition
Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue. This 
includes the allocation of revenue between multiple deliverables, such as the sale value of telecommunications equipment and ongoing service, 
where such items are sold as part of a bundled package. See note 5.1.14.
5.2.4 Exceptional items
Judgement is required in assessing the classification of items as exceptional and assessing the timing of recognising exceptional provisions. 
The Group has established criteria for assessing the classification and a consistent approach is applied each period.
5.2.5 Tax
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge involves a degree of estimation in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be 
finally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process. The final 
resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and/or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal 
processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve. Payments in 
respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items. As a result, there 
can be substantial differences between the tax charge through profit or loss and tax payments made. Annual Report 2014/15 151
5.2.6 Pensions
The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees. The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial 
position in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
at the reporting date. The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as:
 • The life expectancy of the members;
 • The length of service;
 • The rate of salary progression;
 • The rate used to discount future net pension assets or liabilities; and
 • Future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 3.10 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may 
not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 250 companies. Changes to 
these assumptions could materially affect the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities and assets.
5.2.7 Business combinations
The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of assets acquired to 
be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity. The Group makes judgements and estimates in relation to the fair value allocation 
of the purchase price. If any unallocated portion is positive, it is recognised as goodwill and if negative, it is recognised in the income statement.
5.3 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities 
5.3.1 Commitments
A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future. These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated statement 
of financial position since we have not yet received the goods or services from the supplier. We have a number of commitments, mainly in 
relation to leases and agreements to buy fixed assets. The amounts below are the minimum we are committed to pay.
Capital commitments at the end of the financial year for the continuing Group relating to the purchase of plant and equipment was 
US$45 million (2013/14 – US$92 million). No provision has been made for these commitments. US$nil (31 March 2014 – US$10 million) 
of these commitments relate to the Group’s share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Group’s business. The most significant 
of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs. In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional 
contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and 
renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2015 is disclosed in note 2.3.1. The aggregate future minimum lease 
payments under operating leases are:
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
No later than one year 49 35
Later than one year but not later than five years 107 76
Later than five years 30 20
Total minimum operating lease payments 186 131
In 2012, Columbus Networks entered into an agreement with one of its customers, (‘the Customer’) whereby the Customer has transferred 
ownership to Columbus Networks of a subsea link it had constructed to connect Haiti to Columbus Network (the ‘Haiti Link’). In exchange for 
transferring ownership, the Customer received capacity on the Haiti Link and other consideration, which is recorded as deferred revenue. Also 
as part of the agreement, Columbus Networks and the Customer are entitled to 50% of the revenue collected from the sale or lease of capacity 
on the Haiti Link until such time as the Customer has recovered the US$12 million cost it incurred to construct the Haiti Link. Once the Customer 
recovers its construction costs Columbus Networks is entitled to all revenues generated from the Haiti Link into perpetuity thereafter. 152 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section five – Other
5.3 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities continued 
On 22 October 2004, a subsidiary of the Group became a party to the Atlantic Cable Maintenance and Repair Agreement (‘ACMA’). ACMA 
is a consortium of submarine cable systems that collectively share the standing costs of submarine cable system maintenance based on the 
number of kilometres of cable that comprises their respective cable system. The costs of repairing individual cable faults are in excess of the 
standing charges and are borne by the respective cable system. The original ACMA contract was twice renewed and recently extended for an 
additional period expiring on 31 December 2017. The subsidiary’s estimated annual minimum payments related to standing charges, net of any 
credits per contractual terms are approximately US$3 million.
5.3.2 Guarantees
Guarantees at the end of the year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows:
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Trading guarantees 44 50
Other guarantees 473 329
Total guarantees 517 379
Trading guarantees
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the 
Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The nature of contracts includes 
projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials. The guarantees 
contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of business disposals, letters of credit, property and other 
leases. The Group is party to a contingent funding agreement with the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF) Trustees, under which 
the Trustees can call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as the breach by the Group of certain financial 
covenants, the incurrence by the Group of secured debt above an agreed level or the failure to maintain available commitments under the 
revolving credit facilities of at least US$150 million.
Following the Group’s issue of the 2020 bonds in January 2012 and the consequential increase in the Group’s available secured borrowings, 
letters of credit totalling £100 million had been issued in favour of the CWSF Trustee under the Contingent Funding Agreement. These letters 
of credit expired in February 2014 following the Group’s redemption of the 2017 US$500 million bonds and consequential decrease in the 
Group’s available secured borrowings. New letters of credit totalling £100 million (US$149 million) were put in place in connection with the 
acquisition of Columbus International Inc. pursuant to the terms of the Contingent Funding Agreement.
In addition, the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of 
business disposals. Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities 
have been given. In relation to the Islands disposal to Batelco International Group Holding Limited (note 2.8.2) the Group has provided a 
guarantee for up to US$300 million in respect of tax-related claims (until April 2020) and all other indemnity claims (until April 2015). The 
Group has also provided indemnities in respect of the Monaco Telecom SAM disposal to a private investment vehicle owned by Xavier Niel 
(note 2.8.1). The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements. Some of 
these agreements do not contain liability caps.
The Group may be required to provide performance and payment guarantees in respect of its contractual obligations under key supplier or 
customer arrangements. The provision of these guarantees is made on an exceptional basis and such guarantees terminate upon full 
satisfaction of the relevant performance and or payment obligations.
The Group no longer provides guarantees to third parties in respect of trading contracts between third parties and the Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide Group.
5.3.3 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are potential future cash outflows where the likelihood of payment is considered more than remote but is not 
considered probable or cannot be measured reliably.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide (now wholly owned by Vodafone Group 
Plc) agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Group may incur but 
which relate exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do 
not relate exclusively to one Group or the other. Annual Report 2014/15 153
While Pender, the Group’s former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in 
favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third-party 
policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers. Significant progress has been made in resolving these 
claims. Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims. 
While the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund (MNOPF), it may be liable for contributions to fund a 
portion of any funding deficits which may occur in the future. At 31 March 2015, the Group has scheduled payments to the MNOPF through 
September 2020 totalling £1.7 million relating to the actuarial valuations made by the MNOPF Trustee as at 31 March 2006, 2009 and 2012. 
It is possible that the MNOPF Trustee may invoice us in the future for additional amounts to the extent that there is an actuarially determined 
funding deficit. It is not possible to quantify the amount of any potential additional funding liability at this time. 
Legal proceedings are discussed in note 5.5.
5.4 Licences and operating agreements
In all countries in which it operates, the Group holds licences to operate or operating agreements. These licences and operating 
agreements take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly. The Group assumes that it will renew these 
licences and operating agreements as they expire. Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
The Group is currently in the process of renewing its mobile licences in Antigua and Barbuda.
In December 2014, the Group’s Anguilla telecommunications licence was renewed for a term of 10 years expiring in December 2024. It was 
also confirmed that the licence in Montserrat has been renewed for a term expiring in September 2022.
The Columbus subsidiaries operate their local businesses under the applicable telecommunications licences for each jurisdiction. As part of the 
regulatory clearance process connected with the acquisition, the Group is well advanced in the process of obtaining consents from regulators, 
where required, for the indirect change of control in the Columbus subsidiaries arising from the acquisition of Columbus.
The Group does not have any concession agreements with governments that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements.
On demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by, 
and for the continuing use of, the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Groups. As part of this transfer, 
Cable & Wireless Communications received a royalty-free licence, granting rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand in all of the Group’s current 
operating jurisdictions and the wider Caribbean and South American regions. These licence arrangements remain in force despite Vodafone 
Group Plc’s acquisition of Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group in July 2012.
There were no other significant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Group’s subsidiaries or operating agreements with 
governments during the periods presented.
5.5 Legal proceedings
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews. The facts and 
circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outflow of 
funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient. Accordingly, significant management 
judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited was the defendant to legal proceedings brought against it by Digicel Jamaica. The dispute related to certain 
amounts claimed by Digicel as due to them for interconnection. Group management believed that all deductions made by Cable & Wireless 
Jamaica Limited from amounts paid to Digicel were validly made in accordance with determinations and orders issued by the relevant local 
regulator. Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited and Digicel Jamaica entered into a conditional settlement agreement in relation to interconnection 
charges bringing this dispute to a conclusion.
In 2006, a subsidiary, Columbus Communications Trinidad Limited (‘Columbus Trinidad’), acquired physical and intangible assets from Trinidad 
and Tobago Trans-Cable Company Unlimited (‘T&T Trans-Cable’). In September 2012, T&T Trans-Cable (which is an ultimately wholly owned 
subsidiary of Columbus International Inc.) received various notices of assessment from the Board of Inland Revenue (‘BIR’) of the Government 
of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago with respect to Columbus Trinidad’s acquisition of these assets, raising a tax assessment for the sale of 
fixed and intangible assets on the grounds that the purchase price for the fixed and intangible assets represented income to T&T Trans-Cable, 
that the purchase price was a distribution to the T&T Trans-Cable shareholders, and that Value Added Tax was payable on the proceeds from 
the sale of the T&T Trans-Cable fixed assets. Columbus Trinidad objected to the BIR assessments in October 2012. On 3 November 2014, 
Columbus Trinidad received notice that BIR has rejected this objection; Columbus Trinidad objected to the BIR notice on 26 November 2014. 
Management believes that the BIR assessments are not in accordance with Trinidad and Tobago tax law; consequently they consider no 
provision for any liability is required. 154 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section five – Other
5.6 Related party transactions
The related parties identified by the Directors include joint ventures, associated undertakings, investments and key management personnel.
To enable users of our financial statements to form a view about the effects of related party relationships on the Group we disclose the 
related party relationship when control exists, irrespective of whether there have been transactions between the related parties.
Transactions with joint ventures and associates
All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of the 
Group’s products and services, network and access charges. Group subsidiaries had transactions with Telecommunications Services of 
Trinidad and Tobago Ltd and Seychelles Cable System Limited during the year. The transactions were in relation to the sale and purchase of 
telecommunication services. In respect of these transactions, US$3 million has been reported within revenue and US$2 million in cost of sales 
(2013/14 – US$3 million and US$2 million respectively).
The Group received dividends of US$nil from joint ventures and associates (2013/14 – US$4 million). At 31 March 2015, joint ventures and 
associates owed US$nil (31 March 2014 – US$2 million) in respect of trading balances.
There were no other material trade transactions with joint ventures and associates during the year.
Transactions with key management personnel
There have been no transactions with key management personnel of the Group other than the Director and key management remuneration.
Director and key management remuneration is disclosed in note 2.3.3.
Transactions with other related parties
There are no controlling shareholders of the Group as defined by IFRS. There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of 
the Group. 
Pensions contributions to Group schemes are disclosed in note 3.10.
The Group has US$56 million of loans receivable and US$20 million of other receivables with legal entities controlled by Brendan Paddick, 
CVBI Holdings (Barbados) Inc. and Clearwater Holdings (Barbados) Limited as of 31 March 2015. 
The loan receivable of US$56 million relates to the two year term facility agreement for US$74 million that was entered into on 27 March 2015. 
The interest rate on the term loan facility is based on the Group’s cost of borrowing and payable in arrears. 
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
5.7 Share-based payments
We have a number of share plans used to award shares to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration package. A charge is 
recognised in the consolidated income statement to record the cost of these, based on the fair value of the award on the grant date. 
For further information on how this is calculated refer to ‘share-based compensation’ under significant accounting policies on page 148. 
Additional information on options and shares granted to Directors can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 68 to 88.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.11
Share option schemes
The Group does not currently have outstanding share option awards over its own shares (2013/14 – nil) other than awards of performance 
shares granted as nil-cost options. There are no outstanding share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior 
employees (2013/14 – no options outstanding). These options were originally granted over Cable and Wireless plc shares at exercise prices 
between 101 to 154 pence. All options have vested in full. Subsequent to the demerger, these options were redesignated as an option over 
a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc (an unrelated company). 
The share price of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at 31 March 2013 and the final share price of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc prior 
to its takeover by Vodafone Group Plc were such that the obligation for these stapled unit options was US$nil.
During the year, 17 ,049,197 options were exercised (2013/14 – no options were exercised). No options lapsed during the year  
(2013/14 – 1,246,303).  Annual Report 2014/15 155
Other equity instrument awards
Performance shares
Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of outstanding performance shares granted in June 2010 and 2011 are subject to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc absolute 
TSR performance conditions (see performance conditions for share-based award on page 83). For the performance shares granted in January 
2013, performance is based on a combination of relative TSR against a bespoke comparator group and earnings per share (EPS) performance 
measures. For the performance shares granted in May 2013 performance is based on relative TSR against a bespoke comparator group. 
For the performance shares granted in December 2013, January 2014, May 2014 and July 2014 performance is based on non-market 
performance measures.
A dividend award supplement operates on all these awards. Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be 
regarded as having been reinvested in additional shares at the notional date of distribution.
Restricted Share Plan
Restricted shares are awarded to senior management and selected other employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool. Generally, 
restricted shares vest over periods of one to three years from grant date.
Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan
The Company also offered its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, 
the opportunity to participate in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan which is a HMRC-approved share incentive plan. 
Under the share purchase plan, employees could contribute up to £1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year (whichever is the lower), to buy 
partnership shares in the Company, and the Company offered a matching award of one share for each partnership share purchased. From 
13 April 2012, the share purchase plan is no longer offered. The existing shares will remain in the plan until such time as they would ordinarily 
vest in accordance with plan rules.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (the Trust) is a discretionary trust, which was funded by loans from Cable & 
Wireless Limited, a wholly owned Group company, to acquire and hold shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
At 31 March 2015, the Trust held 9,140,970 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (of which 754,029 are shares awarded to the 
Executive Directors under the Deferred Bonus Plan and which carry dividend rights) with a market value of US$9 million.
Share awards
The equity instruments granted during the year can be summarised as follows:
Awards of
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc
shares granted during 2014/15
Awards of
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc
shares granted during 2013/14
Award Shares
Weighted
average
fair value
(pence/share)
Features
incorporated
in schemes Shares
Weighted
average
fair value
(pence/share)
Features
incorporated
in schemes
Restricted shares 12,990,348 60 – 1,472,110 43 –
Share purchase plan scheme (matching shares) – – – – – –
Performance shares – May 2013 – – – 9,327,338 28 TSR conditions
Performance shares –  May 2014, June 2014 
and July 2014 15,209,991 53
TSR conditions 
and non-market 
performance 
measures – – –
Performance shares –  December 2013 and 
January 2014 – – – 14,110,468 55
Non-market 
performance 
measures
Only the performance share grants made during 2012/13 and 2011/12 have performance criteria attached. A fair value exercise was 
completed for grants made during 2014/15 and 2013/14 using the Monte Carlo method. 156 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section five – Other
5.7 Share-based payments continued
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the performance share grants in 2014/15 and 2013/14 were:
2014/15 2013/14
Weighted average share price (pence per share) 52.80 43.90
Dividend yield 0.0% 0.0%
Expected volatility 28.0%-30.3% 32.1%
Risk-free interest rates 1.02%-1.25% 0.48%
Expected life in years 3.0-3.39 3.0
The total expense during the year related to equity settled share-based payments was US$5 million (2013/14 – US$6 million). A summary of 
the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 are as follows:
31 March 2015 31 March 2014
Award
Number of
shares
outstanding
Weighted
average
remaining life
(rounded to
nearest year)
Number of
shares
Outstanding
Weighted
average
remaining life
(rounded to
nearest year)
Restricted shares 13,350,706 3 585,685 1
Restricted shares (LTIP) – – 2,198,490 –
Share purchase plan scheme (matching shares) 120,556 – 220,496 –
Performance shares 43,766,442 2 45,754,681 2
5.8 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes 
those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures shown in the Group’s 
financial statements.
Refer to note 3.7 for Joint ventures and associates.
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.2.1
Continuing operations
as at 31 March 2015
Ownership of
ordinary shares
%
Country of
incorporation
Area of
operation
Subsidiaries
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company Ltd 49 The Bahamas The Bahamas
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd 82 Jamaica Jamaica
Cable & Wireless Panama, SA 49 Panama Panama
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Ltd 81 Barbados Barbados
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Ltd 100 England Caribbean
Cable & Wireless Ltd 100 England England
Sable International Finance Ltd 100 Cayman England
Cable and Wireless International Finance BV 100 Netherlands England
Columbus International Inc. 100 Barbados
Caribbean/ 
Latin America
Columbus Communications (Trinidad) Limited 100 Trinidad and Tobago Trinidad and Tobago
Columbus Communications Jamaica Limited 100 Jamaica Jamaica
Columbus Networks Limited 100 Barbados
Caribbean/ 
Latin America
Joint ventures and associates
Cable & Wireless Trade Mark Management Ltd 50 England N/A Annual Report 2014/15 157
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates will be attached to the Company’s next annual return, to be filed with the 
Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
The following table summarises the information relating to each of the Group’s subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests (NCI); before 
any intra-group eliminations:
Continuing operations
as at 31 March 2015
Panama
1
US$m
The Bahamas
2
US$m
Jamaica
US$m
Barbados
US$m
Other
 subsidiaries
3
US$m
Total
US$m
Ownership interests held by NCI 51% 51% 18% 19% 20-30%
Revenue 636 348 190 154 85
Profit/(loss) 108 53 (66) (20) 7
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 1 – 9 (2) –
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 109 53 (57) (22) 7
Profit/(loss) attributable to NCI 55 27 (12) (4) 2 68
Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to NCI 55 27 (10) (4) 2 70
Non-current assets 714 364 189 138 101
Current assets 212 120 73 48 29
Non-current liabilities (310) (6) (443) (38) (5)
Current liabilities (258) (129) (94) (115) (25)
Net assets/(liabilities) 358 349 (275) 33 100
Net assets/(liabilities) attributable to NCI 183 178 (50) 6 23 340
Cash flows from operating activities 223 107 18 64 16
Cash flows from investing activities (124) (74) (67) (64) (7)
Cash flows from financing activities (101) (46) 9 (1) (3)
Net (decrease/increase) in cash and cash equivalents (2) (13) (40) (1) 6
Dividends paid to NCI during the year 63 22 – – 1 86
1 The Company holds 49% of the share capital but regards CWP as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement.
2 The Bahamas Government holds 49% non-controlling interests in BTC. On 24 July 2014, the Company completed the transfer of share capital from our holding, representing 
2% of the total issued share capital in BTC, to The BTC Foundation, a charitable trust dedicated to investing in projects for the benefit of Bahamians. The Company currently 
holds 49% of the share capital but regards BTC as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement.
3 ‘Other subsidiaries’ includes Dominica, Grenada and St Kitts as the NCI for these subsidiaries is not material individually but is material in the aggregate.  158 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2015
Section five – Other
5.8 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
Continuing Discontinued
as at 31 March 2014
Panama
1
US$m
The Bahamas
US$m
Jamaica
US$m
Barbados
US$m
Other
 subsidiaries
2
US$m
Macau
3
US$m
Total
US$m
Ownership interests held by NCI 51% 49% 18% 19% 20-30%
Revenue 576 354 181 157 84 121
Profit/(loss) 103 72 (34) (25) 6 25
Other comprehensive income/(loss) – 3 17 (1) (3) –
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 103 75 (17) (26) 3 25
Profit/(loss) attributable to NCI 53 35 (6) (5) 2 13 92
Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to NCI 53 36 (3) (5) 1 12 94
Non-current assets 662 339 159 159 95
Current assets 221 123 67 40 25
Non-current liabilities (288) (5) (364) (44) (5)
Current liabilities (222) (116) (80) (102) (22)
Net assets/(liabilities) 373 341 (218) 53 93
Net assets/(liabilities) attributable to NCI 190 167 (39) 10 22 350
Cash flows from operating activities 226 104 (27) 15 22
Cash flows from investing activities (179) (50) (34) (32) (5)
Cash flows from financing activities (56) (58) 59 25 17
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (9) (4) (2) 8 34
Dividends paid to NCI during the year 44 30 – – 2 76
1 The Company currently holds 49% of the share capital but regards CWP as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through 
a shareholders’ agreement.
2 ‘Other subsidiaries’ includes Dominica, Grenada and St Kitts as the NCI for these subsidiaries is not material individually but is material in the aggregate.
3 Macau was disposed of on 20 June 2013.
5.9 Events after the reporting period
Where the Group receives information in the period between 31 March 2015 and the date of this report about conditions related to 
certain events that existed at the year end, we update our disclosures that relate to these conditions in light of the new information. 
Such events can be categorised as adjusted or non-adjusting depending on whether the conditions existed at 31 March 2015. 
If non-adjusting events after the year end are material, non-disclosure could influence the economic decisions that users make 
on the basis of the financial statements.
Accordingly, for each material category of non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose in this section the nature of the 
event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an estimate cannot be made. 
The acquisition of Columbus by the Company constituted a change of control of Columbus for the purposes of the US$1,250 million 7.375% 
Notes (the Columbus Notes). The Columbus Notes indenture includes a change of control provision requiring Columbus to make an offer to the 
holders of the Columbus Notes to purchase the Columbus Notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and related 
fees. This offer was launched on 31 March 2015 and expired on 28 April 2015. None of the Columbus Notes were tendered.
5.9.1 Accounts approval
There have been no events affecting the Group since 31 March 2015 which need to be reflected in the 2014/15 financial statements.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2015 and authorised for issue. Annual Report 2014/15 159
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified
We have audited the financial statements of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc for the year ended 31 March 2015 set out 
on pages 92 to 168 excluding pages 93 and 97. In our opinion:
 • The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2015 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 • The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the European Union;
 • The Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and
 • The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the 
risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our 
audit are set out below.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these significant risks is set 
out in the Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 63.
Acquisition accounting
Acquisition accounting (see note 3.11 and note 5.1.3 for accounting 
policy and note 5.2.7 for critical accounting estimates and judgements).
Risk
The acquisition of Columbus on 31 March 2015 for a consideration of 
US$2,121 million was a significant acquisition for the Group. 
Accounting for the acquisition requires the Group to determine the 
preliminary fair value of consideration transferred and the net assets 
acquired as part of the acquisition. 
This requires the Group to make a number of judgements, which focus 
on, but are not limited to:
 • Valuation of the shares issued and options granted as part 
consideration for the acquisition;
 • Identification of intangible assets acquired; and 
 • Determining the 31 March 2015 Columbus balance sheet.
In determining the fair value of the acquired intangible assets, 
medium-term cash flow forecasts have been prepared by the Group. 
The inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting future cash flows and 
the judgement involved in the selection of the appropriate discount 
rate makes this a key area of focus. 
Due to the timing of the Group’s acquisition of Columbus, the Group’s 
acquisition accounting information is preliminary and is based on the 
most recently available Columbus information, adjusted for significant 
transactions to the acquisition date. Identifying and measuring these 
adjustments is complex and can require the Directors to use 
estimates. As a result this was one of the focus areas of our audit.
Our response
Our audit procedures over preliminary acquisition accounting included, 
among others:
Using our own valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing:
 • the methodology for and inputs used in the valuation of shares 
issued and options granted; and 
 • the appropriateness of the identified intangibles, against the criteria 
of the relevant accounting standards, and the appropriateness of 
the discount rates; and comparing the inputs used in determining 
the discount rate to externally derived data. 
Testing the principles and integrity of the Group’s cash flow model 
used in determining fair value of acquired intangible assets. We 
compared the Group’s forecast revenue growth and margins 
assumptions to our own assessments in relation to key inputs such as 
market performance and economic conditions in each of the regions. 
We gained an understanding of the principles applied by the Directors 
in determining their acquisition date fair value information. In respect 
of significant adjustments we challenged the Group’s assumptions 
based on our knowledge and experience of the industry in which 
Columbus operates. We agreed significant transactions to supporting 
documentation, such as underlying contracts, third party 
confirmations and valuation reports discussed above. 
We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect 
of the acquisition and the related judgements in note 3.11.
Valuation of trade receivables and accrued income
Net trade receivables US$330 million and accrued income 
US$84 million (see notes 3.1 and 5.1.4 for accounting policy 
and notes 5.2.2 and 5.2.3 for critical accounting estimates and 
judgements).
Risk
The Group has significant trade receivables and accrued income with 
customers in Panama and the Caribbean. 
Given the age profile and high debt levels in these regions and the level 
of judgement required in determining the provision levels on these 
balances, this is considered a significant risk.
Our response
Our audit procedures on the existing businesses included among others:
Testing of controls over the Group’s collection procedures, and the 
Group’s assessment of the provision required at every period end; 
Testing the receipt of cash after the year end for enterprise and 
government customers; and 
We have critically assessed the Group’s provision levels by considering 
the historical cash collection trends and the local economic 
environment in each of the regions. 
On Columbus trade receivables, we critically assessed the provision 
levels by considering the historical cash collection trends in the in 
scope businesses. 
On all receivables, we have also considered the adequacy of the 
Group’s disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving 
at the provision.
Independent auditor’ s report to the members of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc only
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 160 Cable & Wireless Communications
Independent auditor’ s report continued
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
Carrying value of PPE and assets held for sale
PPE US$2,523 million and assets held for sale US$137 million 
(see note 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8, notes 5.1.4 and 5.1.5 for accounting policies 
and note 5.2.1 for critical accounting estimates and judgements).
Risk
There is a risk of impairment of the Group’s PPE assets particularly 
in the Caribbean region in light of recent impairments in that region, 
together with technological change, challenging economic conditions 
and changing competitive and regulatory landscapes. 
During the year the Group recorded assets write-offs and impairment 
charges in LIME as a result of technological change and the acquisition 
of Columbus expected to render parts of the existing network 
redundant. The Group has determined the impacted assets from the 
integration plans and the value in use is determined based on 
estimates for the following: average revenue rates, engineering 
estimates of timing of migration to acquired networks and an 
estimated allocation of costs for the total business. Also judgement is 
involved in the selection of the appropriate discount rate which makes 
this a key area of focus for our audit. 
As part of obtaining regulatory approvals for the acquisition of 
Columbus in Trinidad and Tobago, the Group agreed to divest its 49% 
shareholding in Telecommunication Services of Trinidad and Tobago 
(TSTT). As such, the investment in TSTT has been classified as an asset 
held for sale as at 31 March 2015. In determining fair value of TSTT, 
the Group is required to make a number of judgements which focus 
on, but are not limited to: recent trading performance, economic and 
market conditions and data from comparable market transactions in 
the telecom industry.
Our response
Our audit procedures included among others:
PPE: Assessing the appropriateness of the assets impacted by 
technological change based on capital expenditure plans and discussing 
the key changes with the Group’s technology teams. We agreed the 
value of the assets written off to the underlying fixed asset registers.
Inspecting the integration plans and discussing the key terms with the 
engineering teams to critically assess the appropriateness of the 
Group’s determination of assets impacted by the acquisition and the 
assumptions used in the value in use models. 
We challenged the assumptions used in the value in use models by 
forming an expectation of the assumptions in light of our knowledge 
of the client and experience of the telecom industry in each of the 
markets the Group operates in. 
TSTT: Using our own valuation specialists to assist us in critically 
assessing the appropriateness of the judgements made and comparing 
the inputs used in determining fair values to internally and externally 
derived data. 
We considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures and assessed 
whether disclosures for PPE and assets held for sale about the 
sensitivity of the outcome of the assessment to changes in key 
assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the key 
assumptions and the requirements of accounting standards.
Revenue recognition
Revenue US$1,753 million (see note 2.1, note 5.1.14 for accounting 
policy and note 5.2.3 for critical accounting estimates and judgements).
Risk
The Group’s revenue consists primarily of mobile, broadband, TV, fixed 
line and Managed Services contracts. 
Revenue from mobile, broadband and fixed line products is considered 
a significant risk due to both the bundling of these services and 
the complexity of the Group’s systems and processes used to 
record revenue.
Our response
Our audit procedures over revenue included, among others:
Testing of controls, assisted by our IT specialists including those over: 
set-up of customer accounts, pricing data, segregation of duties, 
and the linkage to usage data that drives revenue recognition. 
Compensating manual controls were tested for certain legacy 
system issues in LIME and BTC; 
To assess the relative fair value of each separable component within 
a price plan, we tested the controls over the Group’s estimate of 
standalone value. This included comparing the standalone fair 
values to published information on the standalone price for each 
component; and 
Performing an analysis of revenue and deferred revenue based on our 
industry knowledge, forming an expectation of revenue based on key 
performance indicators taking into consideration disconnections, 
installations, changes in rates and trends in deferred income days. 
We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect 
of the accounting policies on revenue recognition set out in 5.1.14.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope 
of our audit
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set 
at US$12 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group 
profit before taxation for continuing operations normalised to exclude 
exceptional costs as disclosed in the Group Consolidated Income 
Statement of which it represents 4.5%. 
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 
identified misstatements exceeding US$0.6 million, in addition to 
other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. 
Our Group audit scope focused on the key operating locations – 
Panama, The Bahamas and the four principal operating locations 
within LIME, together with the Group’s Associate in Trinidad and 
Tobago, which were all subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 
31 March 2015 and were performed by component auditors in these 
regions. Following the acquisition of Columbus at year end, opening 
balance sheet audits were performed at Columbus Jamaica and 
Columbus Trinidad by component auditors in these countries and at 
Columbus Networks by the Group audit team. 
In addition, the Group audit team performed specified audit 
procedures on the Group Functions using a materiality of US$10 
million. These locations represent the principal business units of the 
Group and account for 95% of the Group’s total assets, 88% of the 
Group’s revenue and 91% of the total profits and losses that made up  Annual Report 2014/15 161
the Group’s profit before tax from continuing operations. For the 
remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated 
Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the 
significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed 
above and the information to be reported back. The Group audit 
team approved the component materialities which ranged from 
US$4 million to US$6 million, having regard to the mix of size 
and risk profile of the Group across the components. 
The Group audit team visited five out of the nine full scope locations 
not audited by the Group audit team. Telephone meetings and video 
conferences were also held with the auditors at all locations 
throughout the audit. At these meetings, the findings reporting to the 
Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work 
required by the Group audit team was then performed by the 
component auditor.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
 • The part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 • The information given in the Strategic report and Directors’ report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements. 
5  We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which 
we are required to report by exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based 
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified 
other information in the Annual Report that contains a material 
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
 • We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge 
we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ statement that they 
consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as 
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy; or
 • The Audit Committee report does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
 • Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
 • The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 • Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
 • We have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 • The Directors’ statement, set out on page 58, in relation to going 
concern; and
 • The part of the corporate governance statement on pages 48 to 58 
relating to the Company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the 
2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 89, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is 
provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.
uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members as a body and subject to important explanations and 
disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at 
www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated 
into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an 
understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have 
undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
John Edwards (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL
19 May 2015 162 Cable & Wireless Communications
Note
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Fixed assets investments
Investments in subsidiaries 6 6,131 6,103
Current assets
Debtors 7 100 100
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 3,199 4,669
Financial liability 9 879 –
Net current liabilities 3,978 4,569
Net assets 2,153 1,534
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 10 224 133
Share premium 11 260 97
Reserves 11 1,669 1,304
Equity shareholders’ funds 2,153 1,534
The notes on pages 164 to 168 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company.
The financial statements of the Company on pages 162 to 168 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2015 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Phil Bentley Chief Executive Officer 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Registered number – 07130199
Company balance sheet 
as at 31 March 2015 Annual Report 2014/15 163
2014/15
US$m
2013/14
US$m
Profit for the year 8 1
Equity share-based payments 28 6
Dividends (104) (100)
Issuance of share capital 1,463 –
Put and repurchase option acquired (776) –
Increase/(decrease) in equity shareholders’ funds 619 (93)
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 1,534 1,627
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 2,153 1,534
The notes on pages 164 to 168 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company.
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds for the Company 
for the year ended 31 March 2015 164 Cable & Wireless Communications
1 Statement of accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of preparation
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally accepted 
accounting principles in the United Kingdom and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. They have been prepared on the historical cost 
basis where appropriate.
These financial statements set out the position of the Company and not the Cable & Wireless Communications Group (the Group) which it 
heads. The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements.
The Company is exempt under FRS 29 Financial instruments: Disclosures from the requirement to provide its own financial instruments 
disclosures on the grounds that they are included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply 
with the IFRS equivalent standard.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars (US$), as this is the functional currency of the Company at 31 March 2015, and rounded 
to the nearest million.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18 Accounting policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the 
change has a material impact on the reported results for the year.
1.2 Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at historical cost less any impairments recognised. Impairment reviews are 
carried out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be fully recoverable. 
Impairments are determined by comparing the carrying value of the investment in the subsidiary to its recoverable amount, being the higher of 
the subsidiary’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Fair value represents market value in an active market. Value in use is determined 
by discounting future cash flows arising from the subsidiary with reference to the Group’s own projections using pre-tax discount rates which 
represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the Company. Impairments are recognised in profit or loss.
1.3 Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities
The Company classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, 
held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held. 
The Company currently does not hold or classify any financial assets under these categories. The basis of determining fair values is set out in 
note 1.4.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with FRS 26 Financial instruments: 
Recognition and measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value 
through profit or loss.
Recognition and measurement
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the 
Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets 
is impaired.
1.4 Fair value estimation
The nominal value (less estimated impairments) of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair value 
of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to 
the Company for similar financial instruments. Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining 
financial instruments.
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2015 Annual Report 2014/15 165
1.5 Tax
The charge for tax is based on the result for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of 
certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the 
extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which 
the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have arisen 
but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
1.6 Dividends
Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Company’s shareholders or their payment.
1.7 Share-based compensation
The Group operates various equity-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for 
the grant of the options is recognised as an expense in the subsidiary companies over the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed over 
the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions (for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the 
number of options that are expected to vest. At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are 
expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in the profit and loss, and a corresponding 
adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are 
exercised. The Company recognises an additional investment in subsidiaries equivalent to the equity instruments granted, being a capital 
contribution to those subsidiaries.
1.8 Financial liability at amortised cost
This category includes the redemption option relating to shares issued as part of the acquisition of Columbus. The redemption options were 
initially recognised at the present value of the future obligations and will be amortised on a straight line basis over the redemption option period. 
2 Company’s profit and loss account
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its own 
profit and loss account. The profit for the year ended 31 March 2015 amounted to US$8 million (2013/14 – US$1 million).
3 Remuneration of Directors
Information covering Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in note 2.3.3 to the consolidated financial statements. Interests in shares, share 
options and pension benefits are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 68 to 88 and have been borne by a subsidiary company.
4 Staff numbers and costs
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year was nil (2013/14 – nil). Their costs 
for the year ended 31 March 2015 were US$nil (2013/14 – US$nil).
5 Share-based payments
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.7
The details of share option schemes and other share-based plans are disclosed in note 5.7 to the consolidated financial statements.
The total additional investment in subsidiaries relating to equity settled share-based payments was US$28 million (2013/14 – US$6 million). 166 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2015
6 Fixed asset investments
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.2
Subsidiary
undertakings
US$m
Cost
At 1 April 2013 6,097
Capital contribution (note 5) 6
At 1 April 2014 6,103
Capital contribution (note 5) 28
At 31 March 2015 6,131
Net book value
At 31 March 2015 6,131
At 31 March 2014 6,103
7 Debtors
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 100 100
Total debtors 100 100
8 Creditors
31 March
2015
US$m
31 March
2014
US$m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,199 4,669
Total creditors 3,199 4,669
There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of creditors at 31 March 2015.
9  Financial liability at amortised cost
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.8
Financial liability at amortised cost is detailed in note 4.8 to the consolidated financial statements. Annual Report 2014/15 167
10 Called-up share capital
Issued, called-up and fully paid shares of US5 cents each
Number of
shares
(000) US$m
At 1 April 2013 and 31 March 2014 2,665,612 133
At 31 March 2015 4,475,954 224
On 7 November 2014, a total of 252,812,284 new ordinary shares of US5 cents each in the capital of the Company were placed by Deutsche 
Bank AG (cash box placement) at a price of 45 pence per placing share, raising gross proceeds of US$180 million (excluding equity transaction 
costs of US$4 million). The placing shares being issued represented 10% less one share of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company 
prior to Placing. 
On 31 March 2015, 1,557 ,529,605 new ordinary shares were issued as consideration in connection with the acquisition of Columbus. 
11 Share capital and reserves
Share
capital
US$m
Share
premium
US$m
Merger 
reserve 
US$m
Other
reserve
US$m
Profit
and loss
account
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2014 133 97 – 987 317 1,534
Profit for the year – – – – 8 8
Equity share-based payments – – – – 28 28
Dividends – – – – (104) (104)
Issuance of share capital 91 163 1,209 – – 1,463
Put option acquired – – – (776) – (776)
At 31 March 2015 224 260 1,209 211 249 2,153
The other reserve relates to the cancellation of the B shares, the capital reduction occurring on the demerger of the Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide business and the lock-up and put option arrangements with the Principal Vendors as part of the acquisition of Columbus. As part 
of the transaction to acquire Columbus International Inc., the Company issued 1,557 ,529,605 consideration shares of US5 cents each to the 
Principal Vendors in proportion to their Columbus shareholding. As a result, the Principal Vendors (CVBI Holdings (Barbados) Inc., Clearwater 
Holdings (Barbados) Limited, Columbus Holdings LLC and Brendan Paddick) in aggregate hold approximately 36% of the ordinary shares in the 
Company. Each Principal Vendor agreed at completion to enter into lock-up and put option arrangements in respect of its issued consideration 
shares until 2019. An exception to the lock-up arrangements will enable each Principal Vendor to require the Company to purchase for cash up 
to a certain number of its shares each year from 2016 to 2019 inclusive for the notional issue price of US$0.7349 per share. If a Principal 
Vendor sells some or all of their shareholding (subject to orderly market conditions) then some or all of its future options to require the 
Company to purchase up to a certain number of shares will immediately cease to have effect and will not be capable of exercise. The fair value 
of this put option has been recognised as an equity investment within other reserves. As this put option meets the definition of an equity 
instrument, it will be revalued to fair value at subsequent year ends. 
The other reserve may be treated as realised profit, subject to the resolution of the Directors.
At 31 March 2015, a total of 137 ,488,873 shares were classified as treasury shares (31 March 2014 – 137 ,488,873). This represented 3% 
of called-up share capital at the end of the year (2013/14 – 5%).
12 Related party transactions
Under FRS 8 Related party disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions with entities that are part of the 
Cable & Wireless Communications Group, or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties, as all of the Company’s voting rights are 
controlled within the Group.
Related party transactions are detailed in note 5.6 to the consolidated financial statements. 168 Cable & Wireless Communications
Notes to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2015
13 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are detailed in note 5.8 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them. The list therefore only includes those companies 
whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial statements.
The Company does not have any direct investment in the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates listed in note 5.8 to the consolidated 
financial statements, with the exception of Cable & Wireless Limited.
Full details of all subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be attached to the Company’s annual return, to be filed with the Registrar of 
Companies in England and Wales.
14 Dividends
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.6
Dividend information is detailed in note 4.12 to the consolidated financial statements.
15 Commitments
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2015 (31 March 2014 – no capital commitments).
16 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc (now wholly owned by Vodafone 
Group Plc) agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which Cable & Wireless 
Communications may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed 
proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the other.
While Pender, the Group’s former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in 
favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third-party 
policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers. Significant progress has been made in resolving these 
claims. Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
In addition, the Company, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number 
of business disposals in prior years. Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some 
uncapped indemnities have been given. The Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility 
sharing agreements. Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps. Annual Report 2014/15 169
Registrar 
If you have any queries regarding your shareholding in Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc, please contact:
Equiniti
Aspect House, Spencer Road
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone 0871 384 2104¹ (UK shareholders)
+44 (0)121 415 7052 (overseas shareholders)
Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their 
shareholding at www.shareview.co.uk and answers to frequently 
asked questions can be found at www.help.shareview.co.uk
ShareGift 
If you have a small number of shares whose value makes them 
uneconomic to sell, you may wish to consider donating them to 
charity. ShareGift is a registered charity (no. 1052686) which collects 
and sells unwanted shares and uses the proceeds to support a wide 
range of UK charities. Further information about ShareGift and the 
charities it supports is available at www.sharegift.org or by contacting 
them at:
17 Carlton House Terrace
London SW1Y 5AH
Telephone +44 (0)20 7930 3737
Registered Office and Company Secretary 
The Company’s Registered Office is:
2nd Floor, 62-65 Chandos Place
London WC2N 4HG
Telephone +44 (0)20 7315 4000
Email: companysecretary@cwc.com
Clare Underwood is the Company Secretary
Investor Relations 
Enquiries may be directed to:
Head of Investor Relations
2nd Floor, 62-65 Chandos Place
London WC2N 4HG
Telephone +44 (0)20 7315 4000
Email: investor.relations@cwc.com
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date 28 May 2015
Record date 29 May 2015
Last date for election to join dividend 
reinvestment plan for August 2015 dividend 10 July 2015
Last date for election to receive dividend 
in US dollars 10 July 2015
Notification of sterling dividend 
payment amount 16 July 2015
AGM 21 July 2015
Payment of final dividend 7 August 2015
Announcement of interim results 2015/16 5 November 2015
Updates to the financial calendar will be available on the Company’s 
website www.cwc.com when they become available.
Dividends 
Dividends are declared by the Company in US dollars. The default 
payment currency for dividends is sterling and shareholders may elect 
to receive payment in US dollars. The actual sterling amount of any 
dividend payable by the Company from time to time will be based on 
the sterling/US dollar exchange rate in effect on a date chosen by the 
Directors nearer to the relevant payment date.
A Currency Mandate Form to receive dividends in US dollars may be 
requested from Equiniti or can be found on the Company’s website 
www.cwc.com. Any election to receive dividends in US dollars will 
remain in force until cancelled.
The table below sets out the US dollar amounts of the interim, final 
and total gross dividends paid or proposed per ordinary share.
Cents per ordinary share
Year ended Interim Final Total
31 March 2013 1.33 2.67 4.00
31 March 2014 1.33 2.67 4.00
31 March 2015 1.33 2.67 4.00
If your dividend is paid directly into your bank or building society 
account, you will receive one consolidated tax voucher each year, 
which is sent to you in January at the time that the interim dividend is 
paid. If you would prefer to receive a tax voucher with each dividend, 
please contact our shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2104¹.
If your dividend is not currently paid direct to your bank or building 
society account and you would like to benefit from this service, please 
contact our shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2104¹. By receiving 
your dividends in this way you can avoid the risk of cheques getting 
lost in the post. It is also now possible for shareholders in over 
90 countries worldwide to benefit from a similar service. Further 
information can be obtained from www.shareview.co.uk or by calling 
+44 (0)121 415 7052.
1 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 
from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding UK public holidays.
Shareholder information  170 Cable & Wireless Communications
Shareholder information continued
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc offers a dividend reinvestment 
plan. Shareholders wishing to join the dividend reinvestment plan 
should return a completed mandate form to the Registrar, Equiniti. 
Copies of the dividend reinvestment plan brochure can be obtained 
either from Equiniti or from our website www.cwc.com. 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc trading market 
The Company’s shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
The Company had a market capitalisation of approximately 
£2,728 million on 31 March 2015.
The diagram below details the position in the FTSE All Share Index and 
the high and low middle market quotations for the ordinary shares on 
the London Stock Exchange as reported on its Daily Official List.
182 60.95 43.43
Position in the 
FTSE All Share Index 
at the year end
Pence per ordinary share
High Low
31 March 2015
LSE ticker: CWC.
ISIN: GB00B5KKT968
Electronic communication
Together with Equiniti, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc is able to 
offer shareholders the option to manage their shareholding online. To 
make use of this facility, please register at www.shareview.co.uk 
following the onscreen instructions.
The Company also offers shareholders the option to receive 
communications from the Company electronically as an alternative to 
receiving documents through the post.
Warning to shareholders (‘boiler room’ scams)
Over recent years we have become aware of investors who have 
received unsolicited calls or correspondence, in some cases purporting 
to have been issued by us, concerning investment matters. These 
typically make claims of highly profitable opportunities in UK or US 
investments which turn out to be worthless or simply do not exist. 
These approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and 
individuals and are commonly known as ‘boiler room’ scams. Investors 
are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice or offers to buy 
shares. If it sounds too good to be true, it often is. See the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s website www.fca.org.uk/scams for more detailed 
information about this or similar activity. 
Documents on display 
Shareholders can view the service contracts of Executive Directors 
and the letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors at the 
Company’s Registered Office. Shareholders may also obtain copies of 
the Company’s Articles of Association at the Company’s Registered 
Office or on the website www.cwc.com. 
Distribution and classification of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc shareholdings 
Shares at 31 March 2015
Total 
Number of
Holdings
% of
Holders
Total 
Number of
shares
% of
Issued 
Capital
Up to 1,000 49,773 67.32 20,571,907 0.46
1,001–10,000 21,771 29.44 58,002,310 1.30
10,001–100,000 1,952 2.64 46,164,602 1.03
100,001–1,000,000 259 0.35 87,465,934 1.95
1,000,001 and over 186 0.25 4,263,748,863 95.26
Total 73,941 100.00 4,475,953,616 100.00
At 19 May 2015, the Company had 73,457 shareholders on record. Annual Report 2014/15 171
Definitions
The Annual Report and Accounts of Cable & Wireless Communications 
Plc have been prepared in accordance with English legal and UK Listing 
Rules requirements. 
Unless otherwise stated in this report, the terms ‘Cable & Wireless 
Communications’, the ‘Group’, ‘CWC’, ‘Cable & Wireless 
Communications Group’, ‘it’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Cable & 
Wireless Communications Plc and its subsidiaries collectively. The 
terms ‘Company’ and ‘Parent Company’ refer to Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc. The terms ‘Cable & Wireless’ and ‘Cable & 
Wireless Group’ refer to the previous Cable & Wireless plc and its 
subsidiaries collectively. The term ‘Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group’ 
refers to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and its subsidiaries 
collectively, which was demerged from the former Cable & Wireless 
plc on 26 March 2010, and since July 2012 has been a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Vodafone Group Plc.
Unless otherwise indicated, any reference in this report to financial 
statements is to the consolidated financial statements of Cable & 
Wireless Communications on pages 92 to 158. References to a year 
in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references to the year 
ended 31 March 2015 (the financial year).
Cable & Wireless Communications prepares its financial information 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
applicable for use in the European Union (EU). The Company prepares 
its financial information in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP).
In this report, financial and non-financial information is, unless 
otherwise indicated, stated on the basis of the Group’s financial year. 
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation, net other operating and non-operating income and 
expense. Unless otherwise stated EBITDA excludes exceptional items.
Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual 
events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are 
identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or 
incidence. Cash capital expenditure is adjusted for the movements in 
capital expenditure payables and accruals. Operating cash flow is 
defined as pre-exceptional EBITDA less balance sheet capital 
expenditure. Adjusted earnings per share (adjusted EPS) is before 
exceptional items, transaction costs, gain/(loss) on disposal of 
businesses, foreign exchange gains/(losses) on financing activities 
and amortisation of acquired intangibles. A reconciliation of GAAP 
to non-GAAP measures is provided on page 93.
Where appropriate, to aid understanding of our results compared 
to the prior year, we refer to financial performance on a constant 
currency basis. Constant currency figures are calculated by 
retranslating prior year figures at the exchange rates used during 
2014/15 to eliminate the impact of movements in exchange rates. 
Where percentages are shown to illustrate year-on-year movements, 
the abbreviation ‘nm’ means that the percentage change is 
not meaningful.
Information has been updated to the most practical date prior to the 
approval date of the document, being 19 May 2015. 172 Cable & Wireless Communications Engaging Interactive Sessions As part of our employee engagement 
initiatives to build a high performance 
culture and a customer-centric 
organisation, we launched a series of 
face-to-face company-wide interactive 
sessions called, Team Talk Live! 
We shared our strategy and vision, got 
great ideas on how to better serve our 
customers from our front-line team 
members, and talked about our values. 
T eam Talk Live!
Addressees of the Annual Report
This Annual Report is addressed solely to the members of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc as a body, to assist them in assessing the strategies adopted by the 
Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed. Neither the Company nor its 
Directors accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report or any 
responsibility to update any statements in this Annual Report, save as required by 
applicable laws or regulation.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that are based on current 
expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events. These forward-
looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical 
or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as ‘anticipate’, 
‘target’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘will’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘would’, 
‘could’ or other words of similar meaning. Undue reliance should not be placed on any 
such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown 
risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual 
results, and Cable & Wireless Communications’ plans and objectives, to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Furthermore, 
nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. There are several 
factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied in forward-looking statements. Among the factors are changes in the global, 
political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange 
and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or disposals. 
Summaries of the potential risks faced by Cable & Wireless Communications are set out 
on pages 18 to 21.
Cable & Wireless Communications cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, 
performance or achievements. Cable & Wireless Communications undertakes no 
obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement contained within this 
Annual Report, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise, save as required by applicable laws or regulation.
Left:  
CEO, Phil Bentley, shares the Company’s strategy 
at one of the many Team Talk Live! sessions.
Above:  
Phil captured in a light moment interacting with 
team members. Designed by Fishburn® 
thisisfishburn.com
The paper used in this Annual Report is produced from pulps 
sourced from fully sustainable forests and has been made 
without the use of elemental chlorine (ECF). 
Both manufacturing mill and printer are FSC® certified and 
both have been accredited with ISO14001 environmental 
management system.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using the  and 
 environmental printing technology. 
For further information go to www.cwc.com
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual Report 2014/15 Connecting Communities… Transforming Lives
