 Annual report and accounts 201 1
Annual report and accounts 2011
Helping communities thrive
Balfour Beatty plc
130 Wilton Road
London SW1V 1LQ
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7216 6800
Facsimile: +44 (0) 20 7216 6950
www.balfourbeatty.com
Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark  
of Balfour Beatty plc
View our online report at: 
http://annualreport11.balfourbeatty.com Performance highlights
Pre-tax profit
1
Underlying earnings per share
1
Dividends per share
10
09
08
07
11
£306m
£244m
£227m
£186m
£334m
+9%
10
09
08
07
11
32.7p
30.7p
30.6p
27.0p
35.5p
+9%
10
09
08
07
11
12.7p
12.0p
11.15p
10.0p
13.8p
+9%
Financial summary
(£m unless otherwise specified) 2011 2010 Change (%)
Revenue including joint ventures and associates 11,035 10,473 +5
Group revenue 9,494 9,236 +3
Profit from continuing operations
– underlying
1
330 325 +2
– reported 242 220 +10
Pre-tax profit from continuing operations
– underlying
1
334 306 +9
– reported 246 201 +22
Earnings per share from continuing operations
– underlying
1
35.5p 32.7p +9
– basic 26.7p 23.0p +16
Dividends per share 13.8p 12.7p +9
Financing
– net cash before PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse) 340 518
– net borrowings of PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse) (332) (270)
2010 financial statements have been re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (see Note 10).
 
1
 Before non-underlying items.
Forward-looking statements
This document may include certain forward-looking statements, 
beliefs or opinions, including statements with respect to Balfour 
Beatty plc’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of 
forward-looking terminology, including the terms “believes”, 
“estimates”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “targets”, “aims”, “continues”, 
“expects”, ”intends”, ”hopes”, ”may”, ”will”, ”would”, ”could” 
or “should” or in each case, their negative or other various or 
comparable terminology. These statements are made by the 
Balfour Beatty plc Directors in good faith based on the information 
available to them at the date of this report and reflect the Balfour 
Beatty plc Directors’ beliefs and expectations. By their nature 
these statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate 
to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur 
in the future. A number of factors could cause actual results and 
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied 
by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, 
developments in the global economy, changes in UK and US 
government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, 
failure in Balfour Beatty’s health, safety or environmental policies 
and those factors set out under “managing risk” on pages 58 to 62 
of this document.
No representation or warranty is made that any of these 
statements or forecasts will come to pass or that any forecast 
results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements speak only 
as at the date of this document and Balfour Beatty plc and its 
advisers expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to 
release any update of, or revisions to, any forward-looking 
statements in this document. No statement in the document is 
intended to be, or intended to be construed as, a profit forecast 
or to be interpreted to mean that earnings per Balfour Beatty plc 
share for the current or future financial years will necessarily 
match or exceed the historical earnings per Balfour Beatty plc 
share. As a result, you are cautioned not to place any undue 
reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Designed and produced by C O N R A N D E S I GN GR O U P
Board and the executive leadership team photography by Andy Wilson
Photography on pages 22, 23, 42, 49, 51 and schoolchildren on the 
front cover by Andy Wilson
Printed in England by Pureprint
The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, of which 
100% is de-inked post-consumer waste. All of the pulp is bleached 
using an elemental chlorine free process (ECF). Printed in the UK by 
Pureprint using its  and environmental printing 
technology, with vegetable inks used throughout. Pureprint is a 
CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both the manufacturing mill and printer are 
registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and 
are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified. Our governance Our business Shareholder information Our accounts
Balfour Beatty is an integrated 
infrastructure services group, operating 
in more than 80 countries, and across 
the lifecycle of infrastructure assets.
We believe that there has never been 
a more important role for infrastructure to 
support the economic growth we all need. 
We use our knowledge and capabilities, 
in partnership with our clients, to deliver 
society’s infrastructure, and to help our 
communities thrive.
Contents
Overview
IFC Performance highlights
IFC Financial summary
08 Group at a glance
10 Chairman’s message
Our business
12 Chief Executive’s review
14 Our strategy
16 Strategic performance
24  Chief Operating Officer’s review
28 Operating review
 28 Professional Services
 32 Construction Services
 37 Support Services
 40 Infrastructure Investments
 44  Directors’ valuation of  
PPP concessions
48 The way we work
54 Chief Financial Officer’s review
58 Managing risk
Our governance
64 Chairman’s introduction
66 Board of Directors
68 Directors’ report
82 Remuneration report
View our online report at: 
http://annualreport11.
balfourbeatty.com
Join Balfour Beatty’s  
eShareholder programme at  
www.balfourbeatty-shares.com 
Our accounts
94 Independent auditor’s report
95 Financial statements
100 Notes to the accounts
Shareholder information
163 Group five-year summary
164 Shareholder information
Case studies
02 From community partnerships
  to emerging partnerships
04 From network transformation
  to journey transformation
06 From technical efficiency
  to time efficiency
22 From essential services
  to energy services
46 From olympic needs
  to future needs
52 From powering today
  to powering tomorrow
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 01
Overview from 
community
partnerships
We listened with care to the concerns of a community divided by an ever-
present highway in their midst. Throughout the decade-long Hindhead 
project our relationship with the client, the UK Highways Agency, was 
anchored on partnership. We worked together to engineer value, minimise 
environmental impact and protect community interests. 
Read more: case study on page 33.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 02 to  
emerging  
partnerships
To win great projects and do them well, you need exceptional skills. And also local 
know-how: if you’re not a local, it helps to have a partner who is and who shares 
your customer focus and values. So we’ve formed a partnership in this vibrant 
and exciting market to pursue new business opportunities with one of India’s 
largest and most respected companies, Tata.
Read more: case study on page 16.
Overview
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 03 from 
network
transformation
Denver’s rail system is already at capacity. With its population set to grow another 50% 
by 2035, the region needs to transform its commuter network fast. A truly international 
Balfour Beatty team, which included Parsons Brinckerhoff, secured a major part of 
Denver’s US$2.4bn Eagle P3 Commuter Rail project to engineer, build and operate 
35 miles of new lines under America’s first rail public private partnership. Good progress 
was made on the design phase in 2011.
 
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 04 to 
journey
transformation
Aligning our international rail expertise with our established professional 
services presence in Parsons Brinckerhoff’s business in Australia has created 
the formula to help us penetrate new markets. Our integrated offer helped 
win an AUS$835m contract to design and build a new line in Melbourne that 
will transform the daily commute for thousands of passengers.
 Read more: case study on page 18.
Overview
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 05 from 
technical
efficiency
Soaring passenger demand means airports keep expanding. But customers don’t 
like the disruption caused by endless work. At London’s Heathrow we’re extending 
Terminal 2 with unprecedented speed. Building parts of the project offsite in a 
factory is smarter and delivers cost savings shared with our customer, BAA. It’s this 
kind of approach that has made us one of BAA’s core long-term partners. 
Read more: case study on page 19.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 06 to 
time  
efficiency
Dallas/Fort Worth, the second largest US airport, is undergoing 
a seven-year, four-terminal makeover. The potential for disruption 
is immense – but so is the know-how we’ve accumulated on 
developing airports while maintaining services. So we’re applying 
our UK expertise in offsite prefabrication to cut the time we spend 
onsite in Texas. Read more: case study on page 34.
Overview
07 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Focused on growth markets 
The global infrastructure market is estimated 
at £8trn over the next four years, with higher 
growth rates in Australia and Asia, South 
America, Africa and Middle East.
Organic growth and recent acquisitions have 
added to our global scale; we are now one of 
the largest players in infrastructure by revenue. 
Our international reach and ability to access 
growth markets have been greatly enhanced 
in recent years, particularly with the addition 
of professional services capability. We are 
already in Asia and the Middle East, and we 
are intensifying our focus on geographies and 
sectors such as the ones below where we 
see opportunities for growth.
Growth markets
•	 Brazil
•	 India
Resource 
economies
•	 Australia
•	 Canada
High-growth sectors
•	 Power
•	 Rail
•	 Mining
•	 Transportation
Structured for competitive advantage
Focus on customers’ assets 
Our customers are owners of large and complex assets. They view 
their assets strategically and often want to work with people who 
can share the big picture with them.
Increasingly our organisation is structured to identify customers’ 
strategic objectives and to deliver our collective services to meet 
these objectives. This is about focusing on our customers and their 
assets which goes beyond our work on any single project.
By capturing and sharing our knowledge across the whole asset 
lifecycle and deploying this knowledge for our customers, we 
differentiate ourselves from competitors and maximise value both 
for those customers and for the Group.
Breadth of capability
With more comprehensive capabilities than our international 
peers, we can address a broader range of infrastructure 
markets and customers. For management purposes our 
businesses are structured into four complementary divisions:
•	 Professional Services (see page 28)
•	 Construction Services (see page 32)
•	 Support Services (see page 37)
•	 Infrastructure Investments (see page 40)
Our ability to build project teams integrating capabilities 
from across these divisions gives us real competitive edge, 
providing a strong platform for growth and value creation.
Group at a glance
North America
£3.5bn
Group revenue
*
2.6%
Market growth
#
South America
£13m
Group revenue
*
 16.8%
Market growth
#
2.1%
Growth in Canada
#
 1 9 .1 %
Growth in Brazil
#
900
700
£8trn
Estimated global infrastructure 
spend in 2012–2015
9%
Average annual growth rate  
in global infrastructure spend
£11bn
Revenue generated this year
80+
Presence in over 80 countries
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 08
Overview Structured for competitive advantage
Efficiency 
Through broadening the scope of our current cost efficiency 
programme over the next few years, we will capture 
efficiencies from a larger cost base. Cost efficiency will 
be targeted at the highest possible organisational and 
geographical level and will not jeopardise our focus on 
customers or asset knowledge. 
Balance sheet strength
Infrastructure projects are long term and large in value. Being 
able to demonstrate that we have the financial strength to 
complete them is fundamental. We maintain positive cash and 
PPP assets to balance against our pension deficit and negative 
working capital.
£200m
Cash
1
£743m
PPP assets
2
1
 Average net cash for the year 2011, excluding PPP subsidiaries.
2
 Directors’ valuation of PPP concessions at 31 December 2011.
£50m
Estimated annual savings by 2015
Europe
£6.2bn
Group revenue
*
5.0%
Market growth
#
Africa & Middle East
£224m
Group revenue
*
 14.5 %
Market growth
#
 11 . 0 %
Growth in S. Africa
#
6.5%
Growth in Australia
#
 14 .5 %
Growth in India
#
 1 9 .1 %
Growth in Brazil
#
Australia & Asia
£1.1bn
Group revenue
*
10.5%
Market growth
#
3,700
1,900
500
* Group revenue is total revenue including joint ventures and associates.
# Compounded annual market growth rates for the four-year period 2012–2015 by Global Insight.
   Non-residential infrastructure market size for the four-year period 2012–2015 by Global Insight (£7,700bn). 
09 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Overview Real growth 
opportunities both in 
existing and new markets
Chairman’s message
View our online report at: 
http://annualreport11.balfourbeatty.com
Underlying earnings per share
+9%
Underlying earnings per share
1
 
up by 2.8p to 35.5p 
(2010: 32.7p)
Dividends per share
+9%
Final dividend of 8.5p per 
ordinary share, giving a total 
dividend for 2011 of 13.8p 
(2010: 12.7p)
1
 From continuing operations, before non-underlying items.
Steve Marshall
Chairman
“ Balfour Beatty continued to 
perform strongly during 201 1. 
This was despite difficult 
trading conditions in our 
two largest markets. ”
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 10
Overview While Balfour Beatty’s core markets continue to provide the bulk 
of the Group’s revenue, the make-up of the business and its 
involvement in new areas of opportunity is also creating a sense 
of change in the way in which the business operates. This is to 
be welcomed. 
We have seen a good performance in our professional services 
business and, in turn, people here have worked hard alongside 
colleagues in other businesses to secure important pieces of work 
in areas that would not otherwise have been seen as opportunities 
for Balfour Beatty. 
This welcome development reinforces the importance of engaging 
with our customers at a very early stage in the planning process. 
Embedding greater efficiency and an effective cross-team working 
culture translates into enhanced value for customers and the 
business as a whole. In turn, this ensures we maintain a strong 
focus on sustainability and in this year’s report we have sought to 
ensure we reflect this critical area throughout the narrative. It is a 
core part of what we do and there is more information on this in 
“the way we work”.
Go to P48 – P51 for more information 
on “the way we work”
Safety continues to be an area of unrelenting attention for the Board 
and the management team, and over the course of 2012, the goal 
of delivering on our Zero Harm vision takes on an even sharper 
level of focus. 
Very significant steps have been taken to improve safety 
performance, nevertheless the fact is that the sector in which our 
business operates is one where risk remains a constant and it is 
with sadness that the Board learned of five fatalities during the 
course of the year, all of which were in our business in Hong Kong. 
Steps are being taken to address this with our joint venture partner.
As I mentioned above, the economic challenges facing our 
traditional markets continue. With these challenges it is vital that 
we maximise efficiencies throughout the Group. This will be an 
ongoing theme for the coming period. A Group-wide culture of 
efficiency is critical if our broad ambitions are to be realised.
Looking ahead
We remain confident that Balfour Beatty is well positioned to 
take advantage of the inevitable growth in long-term infrastructure 
investment, in existing as well as in new and exciting markets. It is 
clear that the proportion of work we do away from the traditional 
markets and sectors will grow, albeit in a timely and controlled 
fashion. Pace of change and momentum is also important in a 
business as diverse as ours. Management will be redoubling its 
efforts to capture Group-wide efficiencies and to accelerate market 
development plans. We will also work and collaborate ever more 
closely with our key customers, as we increasingly demonstrate 
the benefits of our Group-wide reach and capabilities, both to our 
customers – existing and prospective – and to our investors. 
We have every reason to be confident of playing a larger 
international leadership role across our chosen infrastructure 
sectors in the years ahead. Near-term market pressures are 
however likely to continue, requiring continuing focus on 
operational delivery and on increasing the contribution from 
Group-wide efficiencies.
Balfour Beatty continued to perform strongly during 2011. This 
was despite difficult trading conditions in our two largest markets.
A relentless focus on operational delivery for our customers and 
on enhancing the Group’s reputation enabled us to successfully 
deliver numerous high-profile project commitments – such as 
the Aquatics Centre for the 2012 London Olympics – and also 
to maintain a strong forward order book into 2012 and beyond. 
Efforts to accelerate the realisation of the Group’s long-term 
strategy, based on deploying and sharing our combined expertise 
worldwide, have also been a major focus. The Chief Executive’s 
review summarises these.
Go to P12 – P21 for more information on the  
Chief Executive’s review and our strategy
This combination of strategic focus and development of new 
opportunities enabled Balfour Beatty to withstand the impact of 
tough economic conditions in our two largest markets – the UK and 
US. As a result, the business at year-end was again able to report 
an order book of more than £15bn for the second successive year, 
a significant achievement given prevailing economic conditions, 
which included major cuts in public spending on both sides of the 
Atlantic. In addition, underlying profit from continuing operations 
has been resilient, as we reported year-on-year growth of £5m 
or 2%. 
As you will hear from Ian Tyler later in this report, despite the tough 
economic backdrop, there are real growth opportunities both in 
existing and new markets. Balfour Beatty is investing significant 
efforts in positioning itself to take advantage of these. As a Group, 
we operate across the infrastructure lifecycle. This gives us a 
unique insight into the performance of our customers’ critical 
assets. Progressively, this will enable us to add value to our 
customers in a way that others cannot, differentiating Balfour Beatty 
from its competitors in its chosen markets.
In 2012, the Group will be focusing on three key strategic priorities: 
delivering greater customer value, particularly via knowledge 
sharing and collaboration; seeking out superior growth market 
opportunities in developing geographies and market sectors; and 
ensuring that our operating structure is as efficient as it can be. 
You will find more on these points in Ian’s review.
Dividend
In line with its existing progressive dividend policy, the Board is 
proposing a final dividend of 8.5p per ordinary share. This will give 
a total dividend for 2011 of 13.8p, an increase of 9% on 2010.
The Board
Our Board has been stable throughout the year. Our most recent 
non-executive appointments, Rob Amen and Iain Ferguson, 
have contributed rapidly and strongly with Iain taking on the 
chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee during the year. 
With Balfour Beatty’s increasingly diverse global and sector 
reach, it is important that we continue to ensure the aggregated 
experience of the Board reflects the nature of these markets. We 
are still an all-male Board, and we are taking active steps to address 
this during 2012, albeit any selected Board appointment must have 
the best overall credentials to contribute, irrespective of gender.
Our people and reputation
It is our people that make this business a successful one. The 
Group’s hard-won reputation for delivering for its customers 
reflects the hard work and dedication of all of our people. I extend 
my thanks to all of them for their commitment and skill in helping 
us navigate our way through the current choppy waters.
11 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Overview Duncan Magrath
Chief Financial 
Officer
Andrew 
McNaughton
Chief Operating 
Officer
Anthony Rabin
Deputy Chief 
Executive
Peter Zinkin
Planning and 
Development 
Director
Kevin Craven
Chief Executive 
Officer, Support 
Services
Manfred Leger
International 
Business director
John Moore
Chief Executive 
Officer, Rail
Our knowledge and capability 
across the infrastructure 
market differentiates us 
from our competition
Chief Executive’s review
“ As a business growing into 
new geographies and markets, 
delivering ever greater value and 
efficiency to customers, we look 
forward with confidence. ”
Ian Tyler
Chief Executive
Our executive leadership team
View our online report at: 
http://annualreport11.balfourbeatty.com
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 12
Our business Brian Osborne
International 
Business director
Mike Peasland
Chief Executive 
Officer,  
Construction 
Services UK
George Pierson
Chief Executive 
Officer,  
Professional  
Services
Robert Van 
Cleave
Chief Executive 
Officer,  
Construction 
Services US
Paul Raby
Human Resources 
director
Chris Vaughan
Chief Corporate 
Officer
Customer value 
The customers who present the biggest opportunities are large-
scale owners of complex infrastructure assets. We believe that 
increasingly, these customers need partners who can join with 
them in addressing their true goals. Typically, they are concerned 
not just with the assets themselves but with the beneficial outcomes 
those assets will deliver to the communities they serve. They need 
partners who are equipped with the experience, knowledge and 
breadth of vision to see the big picture and help them to devise 
and engineer optimal solutions. 
Our breadth of capabilities, whole-lifecycle experience and 
insight into customers’ underlying concerns give us considerable 
competitive advantage. This relies on having the knowledge 
sharing and integration capability to turn those elements into 
effective teamwork with customers. This is the way to add real 
value. Not many companies can do this. 
Operational efficiency
Generating good profits and converting them into cash is 
imperative for us. We have big aspirations for growth and we need 
to be able to fund them. Our customers embarking on a long-term, 
high-value relationship want to be sure they are partnering with a 
robust and sustainable business. And our investors expect no less. 
So we have no intention of relaxing our declared margin improvement 
targets, despite the current economic and market conditions. 
Over the past couple of years we have begun to realise substantial 
cost savings by adopting a more joined-up approach to back office 
services and procurement – another way in which we benefit from 
better integration across the Group. We are currently working on 
broadening these programmes into other support functions.
The future looks good
By addressing these three key issues – and adhering to our values 
of integrity, excellence, respect and teamwork – we can differentiate 
ourselves in ways that matter to customers. 
Our executive leadership team featured below is energised by the 
changes taking place at Balfour Beatty.
In the following pages we set out our strategic objectives and 
our progress towards them. As a business growing into new 
geographies and markets, delivering ever greater value and 
efficiency to customers, we look forward with confidence.
Our differentiation comes from collaborative thinking by drawing 
on the whole breadth of our knowledge. We start with strategic 
planning, develop through design and financing, and deliver 
construction and operation.
It is the many differences that come from daily ingenuity; our 
people working with our clients to solve the toughest problems; 
combining decades of experience with new ideas and techniques 
– all to ensure that our clients achieve ever better outcomes for 
themselves and for society.
The strategy we have been pursuing has enabled us to build a 
world-class infrastructure business with global reach. We continue 
to develop the strategy in response to changing economic 
conditions and our own constantly expanding capabilities.
Our business model and the opportunities we are pursuing are 
detailed in the Chief Operating Officer’s review on page 24.
In a more uncertain world we aim to maximise opportunities 
for continued growth by making best use of the unique mix 
of capabilities we now possess. So we are focusing on three 
key strategic areas:
Growth markets and sectors
While we continue to expand internationally, around 80% of our 
business still comes from the UK and US. Over the next 10 years, 
the infrastructure sector in those markets is expected to grow at 
an annual rate of around 4%. By contrast, the comparable growth 
in emerging markets is expected to be 10%–12%. 
Emerging economies like India and Brazil are investing significantly 
in infrastructure. Others which are rich in natural resources, such 
as Australia and Canada, have the economic firepower to procure 
large new infrastructure projects. 
We already have capability in many of these markets and have 
been stepping-up our activity. Recently, for example, we 
announced a new rail contract win in Australia, a significant new 
infrastructure project in Qatar and a partnership agreement with 
Tata Projects in India. We have strengthened both our presence 
and our senior management resources in India and Brazil.
13 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Our strategy
Our strategy, which 
evolves with our 
competitive landscape, 
sets our direction 
and determines our 
objectives for each year. 
It is crucial that we are 
able to measure the 
achievement of our key 
strategic objectives and 
to report on our key 
performance indicators 
for our own benefit as 
well as the benefit of 
our stakeholders.
For more information on our strategic 
objectives and key performance 
indicators go to P16 – P21
Our strategic objectives
1.
 Grow in new markets 
and vertical sectors
We are already one of the largest global players in 
infrastructure by revenue. To achieve further growth we are 
working to develop our position in new geographies and 
resource-rich economies such as Brazil, India, Australia and 
Canada and we are intensifying our focus on high-growth 
sectors such as power, rail, mining and transportation. 
2.
 Deliver greater value 
to the customer
Many of our customers own complex and critical assets that 
enable societies to function by providing transport, energy, 
water, natural resources, schools, hospitals and local services. 
For them, providing an asset is not an end in itself. They are 
concerned to provide education rather than schools, healthcare 
rather than hospitals, mobility rather than roads or railways. 
We help them achieve their true goals by working in partnership 
with them – bringing together teams that have the know-how 
and talent to understand the underlying issues and solve the 
toughest infrastructure challenges.
3.
Improve operational 
performance and 
cost-effectiveness
Our unique breadth of capabilities and our wide geographical 
reach are the results of a sustained period of expansion. Much 
of this expansion has come through acquisitions, and we will 
continue to acquire businesses that enhance our capabilities 
or expand our territorial coverage – as described in objective 1 
above. But it is not enough to build the platform; we must also 
operate it as efficiently and profitably as possible.
4.
Continue to show 
leadership in values 
and behaviour
To be recognised as the leading provider of infrastructure 
services – and to secure a sustainable, long-term future for 
the Group – we must also be a leader in areas such as ethics, 
safety and the environment.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 14
Our business Our key performance indicators
Order book and revenue are good indicators of top-line 
growth, with order book growth leading revenue growth 
by six to 12 months in our business. Increased revenue in 
higher-growth markets (outside Europe and North America) 
is evidence of our focus on new geographies. In a difficult 
year overshadowed by governments’ austerity measures, 
we kept our order book stable and increased our revenue, 
particularly in higher-growth markets.
0%
Order book
+5% 
Revenue
1
+12% 
Revenue
1
 in higher-  
growth markets
Every year, Roads and Bridges magazine in the US surveys 
10,000 government officials and asks them which design 
firm they prefer to work with. In the industry, this is called 
the Go-To List. 
While they only cover our professional services business, 
these rankings are a good example of the strength of our 
track record and reputation with our customers. In 2011, 
there was a slight deterioration in the rankings, although we 
are still in an enviable No. 1 or No. 2 position in four categories.
Go-To List rankings for Parsons Brinckerhoff
No . 1
in the Road & 
Highway (=) and 
Airport categories
No. 2
in the Bridge and 
Mass Transit (=) 
categories
No. 4
in the Design-Build 
category
We aim to increase Group operating margin to a level of 
3.5%–4% by 2015 mainly through better utilisation of 
resources, efficiency savings and improved business mix.
While our £30m cost reduction programme is on course, 
our margin progress in 2011 was hindered by difficult 
market conditions in our major established markets.
3.0%
Group operating margin
1,2
The safety of our people and everyone we come into 
contact with remains a key priority although our safety 
performance was disappointing in 2011.
We have challenged ourselves to reduce our impact on 
the environment. In 2011, we made good headway in 
water and waste, but our CO
2
e emissions made little 
progress due to energy-intensive projects.
+6%
Accident Frequency 
Rate (AFR)
-1%
Greenhouse gas 
emissions (tonnes 
CO 2e/£m revenue)
1
 Including joint ventures and associates.
2
 Before non-underlying items.
Principal risks
Economic environment 
•	 Changes in general economic 
conditions and the impact on 
customers’ investment plans
Expansion into new territories 
and by acquisition 
•	 Failure to address associated risks
Legal and regulatory
•	 Breaches of local law and regulations 
Business conduct
•	 Not observing the highest standards 
of integrity and conduct in dealing 
with customers, supply chain and 
other stakeholders 
People 
•	 Failure to recruit and retain 
appropriate skilled people to deliver 
specific contracts and the Group’s 
future growth 
Bidding
•	 Not adequately estimating risks and 
costs associated with contract terms 
and conditions
Project execution
•	 Not executing projects to customers’ 
requirements and on a timely basis
Health, safety and sustainability
•	 Failure to manage risks associated 
with health, safety and sustainability 
and hence exposing our people and 
the public to injury or harm
Reward
A world-leading infrastructure business 
differentiated by asset knowledge
Superior growth and value for 
stakeholders
Go to P58 – P62 for more 
information on how the Group 
manages risk
15 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business  
In emerging economies, infrastructure markets are driven by 
economic growth and changing demographics, and also by 
government-led market reforms. We are focusing on those with 
sufficient scale, a good competitive environment and appropriate 
ethical standards, and approach them cautiously as we consider 
the implications for health and safety and corruption risk.
In 2011 we began making inroads into India and Brazil, our priority 
emerging markets. Both countries represent larger infrastructure 
markets than the UK, are allowing private capital to play a growing 
role in infrastructure provision, and are making determined efforts 
to reduce corruption. 
The Indian government aims to invest 8% of GDP in infrastructure. 
It targeted a total spend of US$494bn in the five years to 2012, 
and aims to spend double this amount over the next five years. 
To maintain this pace of investment it is actively promoting 
public private partnerships (“PPP”).
In 2011 Brazil began a four-year Growth Acceleration Programme to 
invest over US$500bn in logistics (including transportation), energy 
and social development. It is also encouraging for us to see the 
government’s endeavours to ensure the financing of this growth. 
Brazil has been letting infrastructure concessions since 1995 and 
introduced PPP in 2004. 
Inevitably our entry into these markets is a long-term proposition, 
but the prospects are very attractive.
The developed economies tend to commit a reasonably 
consistent proportion of GDP to maintaining and developing their 
infrastructure. However, we expect an increase in the proportion 
of GDP committed to their infrastructure over the next 10–15 years 
as the need to renew ageing post-war assets becomes critical. 
1.
 Grow in new markets 
and vertical sectors
We are already one of the largest global players 
in infrastructure by revenue. To achieve further 
growth we are working to develop our position 
in new geographies and resource-rich 
economies such as Brazil, India, Australia and 
Canada, and we are intensifying our focus on 
high-growth sectors such as power, rail, mining 
and transportation. 
Why is this important? 
We do not want our growth to be constrained by the pace of 
growth in our traditional markets. The breadth of our capabilities 
and the extent of our international reach give us access to an 
exceptionally broad range of markets and customers. We will 
exploit this by increasing the focus of our activity in markets 
where opportunities are bigger and growth rates higher.
What are we doing?
Infrastructure markets around the globe are growing at different 
rates. We are harnessing our unique combination of capabilities, 
particularly in professional services and project finance, to build 
our position in selected geographic markets and sectors that have 
superior growth rates.
This is how we addressed our four strategic priorities in 2011:
Strategic performance
Gaining a  
head start  
in India
With infrastructure spending expected to 
reach nearly 10% of GDP over the next five 
years, India is one of the principal markets 
where we are looking to expand our 
presence and earnings. 
The challenge for us is to turn this market potential into a 
substantial business. While we do not have downstream 
construction activity in India, we have a valuable bridgehead 
through Parsons Brinckerhoff’s established presence. We 
can complement our professional services capability with 
PPP project finance and development expertise, offering 
technical and financial solutions to infrastructure challenges. 
And in October 2011 we took an important step forward 
by collaborating with Tata, the infrastructure engineering 
and construction arm of one of India’s largest and most 
respected companies.
In partnership with Tata we will jointly identify and pursue 
infrastructure opportunities in India and sub-Saharan Africa. 
Our initial focus will be on the power transmission, railways, 
mining infrastructure and water/wastewater markets – 
all areas where we have transferable expertise across 
the Group. 
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 16
Our business What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to: 
•	 leverage our US footprint in US construction to gain 
market share
•	 exploit opportunities in regulated power and rail markets, 
and in commercial property in the UK
•	 develop our presence in Australia and Canada
•	 pursue opportunities in India and Brazil
•	 develop our capabilities in power, rail, mining, water and 
transportation in geographies where we see opportunities.
2.
 Deliver greater value 
to the customer
Many of our customers own complex and 
critical assets that enable societies to function 
by providing transport, energy, water, natural 
resources, schools, hospitals and local services. 
For them, providing an asset is not an end in 
itself. They are concerned to provide education 
rather than schools, healthcare rather than 
hospitals, mobility rather than roads or railways. 
We help them achieve their true goals by 
working in partnership with them – bringing 
together teams that have the know-how and 
talent to understand the underlying issues and 
solve the toughest infrastructure challenges.
Why is this important? 
Our large and complex customers view their assets strategically 
and holistically. They often want to work with people who can 
share the big picture with them, understand their strategic 
objectives, marshal the appropriate resources and deliver a solution 
rather than just an asset. For them, that is what adds true value.
Our ability to work this way can give us real competitive advantage. 
Few companies can do it to the extent that we can. By capturing, 
sharing and deploying asset knowledge across the Group, we 
differentiate ourselves from competitors and maximise value both 
for our customers and for the Group.
What are we doing?
We have built a group of differentiated people businesses on a 
global scale. These give us unrivalled ability to put together teams 
uniting diverse talents across all aspects of asset ownership from 
development and delivery through to operation.
The key to adding real value for customers is not just breadth of 
knowledge but the ability to share and deploy that knowledge 
effectively. So that, for example, what we learn from operating and 
maintaining existing assets informs the way we design new ones. 
We are continuing to make progress in managing and enhancing 
these information flows. 
We also anticipate some changes in the pattern of spending. In 
the UK, for example, we expect a shift of emphasis from social 
infrastructure (such as schools and hospitals) to civil infrastructure. 
This includes utilities such as water and power, and segments such 
as nuclear and renewable energy that will be boosted by developed 
economies’ increasing concerns about sustainability.
Resource-rich countries, buoyed by rising demand for commodities, 
present clear opportunities for us. Australia and Canada in particular 
have the scale, economic growth rates and market structure that 
suit our model. We are working to expand our existing position in 
both these territories.
In addition to these geographic targets, we have identified target 
vertical sectors such as power, rail and mining amongst others in 
certain geographies. Growth in all three of these is being driven by 
current trends such as sustainability, urbanisation and globalisation.
The power market has three strong drivers: asset renewal; demand 
growth; and carbon reduction. Many developed countries need to 
renew transmission lines built in the 1960s that are reaching the 
end of their useful lives. In the case of the UK, some 20% of power 
generation capacity has to be retired by 2020. Emerging countries 
need to generate more power to support their growing economies. 
And the carbon agenda is driving demand for more clean energy 
plants – including nuclear, biomass and renewables – and new 
transmission lines to connect them to the grid. 
Carbon concerns are also stimulating the rail market – favouring 
rail over roads, encouraging electrification of existing lines and 
increasing the pressure for mass transit systems that support 
urbanisation while minimising congestion.
In resource-rich countries, there is a synergy between all three 
sectors. Increased extraction activity to support economic growth 
leads to growing demand for power to mine the resources and rail 
to transport them. We are ideally placed to meet this demand – 
particularly since the customers are typically multinationals 
who expect their specialist suppliers to work with them in 
multiple territories.
For more information on our markets  
go to P24 – P27
How are we performing?
Order book
10
09
11
£15.2bn
£14.1bn
£15.2bn
0%
Revenue
1
10
09
11
£10,473m
£10,254m
£11,035m
+5%
Revenue
1
 in higher-growth markets
10
09
11
£1,224m
£930m
£1,374m
+12%
1
  Including joint ventures and associates.
17 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business  
How are we performing?
Go-To List rankings for Parsons Brinckerhoff
No. 1
in the Road & 
Highway (=) and 
Airport categories
No. 2
in the Bridge and 
Mass Transit (=) 
categories
No. 4
in the Design-Build 
category
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to: 
•	 improve our asset knowledge by developing platforms 
to capture, share and deploy it
•	 develop a culture to aid collaboration and delivery 
to customers
•	 leverage our customer relationships across divisions 
and geographies.
Putting together teams for ever more complex bespoke projects 
has highlighted the need for better processes to capture, share 
and deploy asset knowledge routinely and systematically. Over 
the past couple of years we have invested significant time and 
money in Building Information Modelling (“BIM”) to capture and 
utilise our knowledge of assets through their lifecycle. We are 
now among the leaders in using BIM to facilitate knowledge 
sharing and provide insight for creating and managing building and 
infrastructure projects faster, more economically, and with less 
environmental impact. Customers are becoming increasingly alert 
to the promise of BIM, and the UK Government plans to require its 
use on public building projects from 2016.
In late 2011 we formed a £7.5m strategic partnership with 
Autodesk, the world leader in 3D design technology, that will 
expand our use of BIM to set the pace in project integration. 
This partnership, the first of its kind and size in the infrastructure 
industry, sets us apart from our competitors. 
We can only collaborate fully with our customers to help them 
reach their goals if we really understand what they want, and 
have real insight into the needs of their end-customers and other 
stakeholders. Increasingly, we will be organised, managed and 
incentivised to understand customers’ assets and needs, and to 
use our expertise to collaborate constructively towards better 
solutions. The next steps will be to define and foster a customer-
centred culture across the Group by building our performance 
metrics, incentives and management around customer outcomes 
and delivery performance.
Strategic performance continued
Taking the fast  
track in Australia
Commuters and rail travellers to Melbourne 
share a problem. Their trains – local and 
regional – have to use the same tracks. 
So late-running fast trains get stuck 
behind frequently-stopping metro trains; 
and one late metro train can clog the 
regional network.
Adding an extra line to separate the services will clear the 
bottleneck, increasing the capacity and reliability of public 
transport around the city. But making it happen, with 
minimal disruption to crucial services, will be tricky. 
By combining the resources of Parsons Brinckerhoff in 
Australia and our global rail business, we’ve won a position 
in an alliance with construction partners Thiess and design 
partners Sinclair Knight Merz to design and construct an 
AUS$835m key section of the new line.
In the Australian rail market our combination of skills is seen 
as unique, and our ability to integrate design with delivery 
brought real value to our partner. The win shows the 
effectiveness of integrating Group capabilities to manage 
complexity for customers, and accelerates our progress in 
Australia’s buoyant rail market. 
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 18
Our business  
What are we doing?
All our divisions have margin targets appropriate to the 
characteristics of their business. These targets are backed by cost 
and efficiency plans and recognise changes foreseen in the mix of 
their business. However, there were some headwinds in 2011.
In Professional Services, deteriorating market conditions in the UK 
reduced volume, and operating margins. The large number of new 
contracts in Support Services, one of our highest organic growth 
areas, meant considerable start-up costs. As a result, the progress 
our teams made with active management of cost in these divisions 
was partly offset by these adverse impacts.
In Construction Services margins deteriorated, primarily due to 
very competitive markets in the US, where we suffered a marked 
reduction in the number of niche higher-margin projects. The 
business has reached a level of margin which we are protecting 
with financial discipline and underpinning with the cost reduction 
measures we announced at the end of 2010.
So, while it is not easily apparent in the movement in margins, 
the Group-wide cost efficiency programme made good progress 
in 2011. Operational efficiency has benefited from the opening 
of our UK shared service centre (“SSC”) in early 2011. The SSC 
now has over 230 employees and provides eight of our operating 
companies, representing £3.0bn or 50% of UK revenue, with their 
accounting and employee transactional services. On the 
procurement side, we are now delivering benefits by managing 
£300m of spend centrally. Operational cost savings reached an 
annual run-rate of some £15m by the end of 2011, and we are on 
target for £30m of gross savings by 2013 as forecast.
The achievements of 2011, and what we have learned, give us 
confidence to broaden these programmes this year into other 
back office functions and into territories outside the UK. We are 
targeting to deliver a further £50m of savings per annum by 2015 
3.
 Improve operational 
performance and 
cost-effectiveness
Our unique breadth of capabilities and our wide 
geographical reach are the results of a sustained 
period of expansion. Much of this expansion has 
come through acquisitions, and we will continue 
to acquire businesses that enhance our 
capabilities or expand our territorial coverage – 
as described in objective 1 on page 16. But it is 
not enough to build the platform; we must also 
operate it as efficiently and profitably as possible.
Why is this important? 
Generating good profits and converting them to cash is an 
imperative for us, not least because we have big aspirations. We 
want to be able to fund organic growth – and future acquisitions 
when attractive opportunities arise – as well as maintain our 
progressive dividend policy. Our goal set in 2010 remains to raise 
margins to 3.5%–4.0% by 2015. To achieve this in challenging 
economic and market conditions, with competition intensifying, 
we must work systematically to enhance our cost-effectiveness 
across the board.
A smarter way  
to build
The best place for 21st century precision 
building engineering work isn’t a 
construction site. It’s a factory, like this one 
that we operate in the English Midlands. 
We’ve pioneered the use of prefabricated modules, built 
offsite, because they offer efficiency and cost benefits. 
Quality control is tighter, onsite health and safety risks are 
reduced, and we can cut the time we spend onsite.
In the UK we’ve been refining our modularisation capability 
for some years. We built complete bathroom pods for 
hospitals – and bedhead units with all the electrical 
equipment and medical gas systems preinstalled and 
tested, resolving several challenges related to quality 
control and commissioning. Then, drawing on our 
experience of operating hospitals and of building modelling, 
we developed complete prefabricated operating theatres. 
We’re currently using similar techniques in buildings ranging 
from schools to airport terminals.
We’re also transferring our expertise internationally. After 
successful trials with a facility in Dubai, we’ve opened a 
factory in Abu Dhabi that services mechanical and electrical 
engineering installations in the Middle East. And in the US 
our first facility is already using modularisation on hospital 
and airport projects.
19 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business  
4.
 Continue to show 
leadership in values 
and behaviour
To be recognised as the leading provider of 
infrastructure services – and to secure a 
sustainable, long-term future for the Group – 
we must also be a leader in areas such as ethics, 
safety and the environment.
Why is this important? 
Our reputation is crucial to winning new business, attracting 
and retaining the best people, and building high-quality business 
partnerships. To build and protect a reputation, we have been on 
a journey to embed our ethical and sustainable approach among 
our own 50,000 people and our wider 500,000-strong community 
of partners, subcontractors and suppliers. In addition, the 
emergence and increasingly aggressive enforcement of anti-
corruption legislation with global reach makes ethical rigour a 
critical risk management issue. As we grow into new markets, 
we must work harder to maintain our high standards.
for a one-off cost expected to be in a range of 1 to 1.5 times the 
annual savings. We aim to see some modest savings in 2012 with 
a major portion coming through in 2013 and the residual element 
in 2014.
How are we performing?
Group operating margin
1
11
10
15
3.0%
3.1%
09 2.5%
3.5%–4%
1
    Profit from continuing operations before non-underlying items as a percentage of 
revenue including JVs and associates.
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to: 
•	 continue to implement procurement and back office initiatives
•	 enhance margins further at Parsons Brinckerhoff by focusing 
on better utilisation of resources
•	 expand the cost efficiency programme by broadening 
its scope. 
Strategic performance continued
Setting standards 
for a new  
generation
In the UK alone, we work with a substantial 
number of supply chain partners every year 
and they are key to our success.
And what better way to do that than by sharing the way we 
train the next generation of workers? Through our Balfour 
Beatty Apprenticeships scheme, we’re pioneering a shared 
apprenticeship model in which we employ young trainees 
and place them with companies in our supply chain. By 
moving around different sites and host employers, Balfour 
Beatty’s apprentices can be sure of sufficient continuous 
employment to become fully qualified. And for smaller 
companies that can’t easily commit to providing such a 
long period of continuous employment, it’s a low-risk way 
of participating in apprenticeship training. 
Last year the scheme recruited 27 apprentices – alongside 
the 450 already working in Balfour Beatty – and we expect 
the numbers to rise significantly this year as more suppliers 
join in. In this way, we’re taking a lead in developing a future 
skilled workforce that’s grown up with the quality and 
safety standards we set for our own people.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 20
Our business How are we performing?
Accident Frequency Rate (“AFR”)
11
10
Target
0.17
0.16
09 0.17
0.10
1
+6%
Greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO
2
e/£m revenue)
11
10
Target
41.4
41.7
3
09 36.3
37.5
2
1
  Or lower by end of 2012.
2
  10% reduction by 2012 and 50% by 2020, both against the 2010 baseline.
3
  Restated due to more comprehensive data.
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to: 
•	 refresh our sustainability roadmap, developing new targets 
for 2015
•	 continue to roll out sustainability training to involve an 
increasing number of employees in our 2020 vision
•	 participate in Business in the Community’s corporate 
responsibility index for the first time
•	 sponsor Ecobuild 2012, the construction sector’s largest 
event, to share our knowledge on BIM, offsite construction, 
energy efficiency and whole-life carbon modelling
•	 continue to embed our ethics, values and compliance 
programme and leverage it to support the Group’s growth 
strategy as we enter new and sometimes higher-risk markets.
What are we doing?
We have a major ethics, values and compliance programme, 
centred on the Code of Conduct we published in 2009 and two 
online training modules that all office-based and supervisory staff 
are required to take. In 2011 we published a Code of Conduct for 
subcontractors, suppliers and partners, as part of an ongoing drive 
to embed appropriate procedures and controls in the supply chain.
Since 2008 our Zero Harm programme has been working towards 
our safety goal of eliminating deaths and permanently disabling 
injuries to employees and contractors, injuries to members of the 
public and long-term harm to anyone’s health. This has had a real 
impact, and our overall accident frequency rate is already down 
by some two-thirds compared with 10 years ago. 
However, in 2011 the pace of improvement stalled. There were 
five fatalities – in our Hong Kong joint venture, Gammon – the same 
unacceptably high figure as we saw in 2010, and our accident 
frequency rate marginally increased. In 2012 we are redoubling our 
efforts to ensure that we return to the steady progress required by 
our Zero Harm vision. 
It is almost three years since we set out our vision for sustainability, 
with a roadmap outlining where we want to be by 2020. All our 
operating companies have drawn up action plans and in 2011 we 
asked KPMG to conduct an independent review of their progress 
in implementing these plans. The review has identified some 
180 examples of good practice which we have shared across 
the Group. We continue to raise our employees’ sustainability 
awareness, and in 2011 over 15,000 of them received online 
sustainability training.
In 2011, we made little progress in reducing our CO
2
e emissions 
due to the increase in more energy-intensive projects in our Hong 
Kong joint venture. We achieved our water reduction target in 2011. 
We are also on track to halve our waste to landfill by 2012 and have 
procured 34% of our UK major materials from recognised 
responsible sourcing schemes.
For the fourth consecutive year, we asked an external stakeholder 
panel to review our reporting practices and provide an independent 
opinion of our sustainability performance and recommendations 
for where we could improve. This panel of 10 experienced 
sustainability and corporate responsibility practitioners comprises 
both public and private sector customers, an investor, supplier, 
trade association and third sector organisations. We believe that 
this approach to assurance is unique for our sector. 
We help to influence the market to adopt more sustainable 
outcomes. From thought leadership on the natural environment, 
and industry partnerships, through to the development of 
innovative water footprinting and climate change adaptation 
tools, we are playing our part. For the UK Government’s Natural 
Environment White Paper in 2011, we provided both written 
and oral evidence to the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 
Committee and encouraged the Government to use the 
procurement process to move from ecological protection to 
enhancement. We also sponsored the development of the UK 
Green Building Council’s leadership course for a sustainable built 
environment which was launched last year for senior executives.
You can read more about our efforts to demonstrate leadership in 
values and behaviour in “the way we work” and in our sustainability 
report 2011 – available online at www.balfourbeatty.com/sr11.
Go to P48 – P51 for more information  
on “the way we work”
21 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business from
essential
services
We’re used to ensuring complex buildings fit within local communities to deliver 
essential services. It’s a delicate balance: focus on the technology and you can lose 
sight of the people. Capturing and acting on feedback is vital. Hospitals are a case in 
point, as we learned from those we’ve financed, designed and built – and then gone 
on to operate, like this one in Salford which opened in 2011.
22 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 We’ve used the knowledge and skills acquired through Group-wide collaboration 
to make ourselves highly competitive in new markets. This led to us being 
chosen as preferred bidder for waste schemes in Essex and Gloucestershire. 
The latter benefits young and old alike by turning 91% of Gloucestershire’s 
municipal waste into energy – enough to power 25,000 homes. 
Read more: case study on page 42.
to 
energy 
services
Our business
23 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Design and PM¹      Civils      Track      
Power²      Signalling      Rolling stock
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0
Total Middle East
& Africa
Rest of
America
Eastern
Europe
CIS NAFTA Asia
Paciﬁc
Western
Europe
98.4 3.8 4.0 5.5 7.2 21.1 26.8 29.9
¹  Project management.  
²  Includes power and electriﬁcation. 
Spend £bn pa
Chief Operating Officer’s review
A route to lasting 
customer confidence
“ We have accelerated the 
international reach of our 
business and increased our 
focus on markets where 
demand is expanding faster.”
Andrew McNaughton
Chief Operating Officer
Source: Association of the European Rail Industry (UNIFE) projections.
For more information go online: 
http://annualreport11.balfourbeatty.com 
Total annual spend on rail infrastructure 2015 (£bn)
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 24
Our business Our approach – sharing knowledge and innovating
For more discerning customers, our broad capabilities and 
collective asset knowledge are powerful competitive strengths. 
But the key to adding real value for them is the ability to share and 
deploy our knowledge effectively – so that, for example, what we 
learn from operating and maintaining existing assets informs the 
way we design new ones. We have made world-class knowledge 
management a strategic priority – one reason why we have 
become leaders in seeking to maximise the technological 
capabilities offered by tools such as Building Information 
Modelling (“BIM”), as described on page 18. 
BIM also facilitates the innovation that customers expect from us 
and we have moved to enhance our skills in this important area. 
We see a culture of innovation as another competitive strength, 
addressing it systematically through three linked initiatives.
Innovation as One aims to make us a leader in integrated 
solutions by joining our strengths with those of our partners and 
supply chains. Focused on markets where this integrated approach 
will deliver disproportionate value to clients, it launches in 2012. 
Innovation Everywhere aims to develop a culture of innovation 
at every level. We are investing in tools such as BIM that will 
support this by providing insight for creating and managing projects 
faster, more economically and with less environmental impact. 
Open Innovation aims to harness the creativity of our supply 
chain and strategic partners to develop ideas that yield mutual 
benefits as well as value to our clients. 
Growth sectors – opportunity and advantage
Customers with more complex and sophisticated requirements are 
central to our main strategic goal of growing and creating value. We 
are focusing on the sectors where they are prevalent and our broad 
capabilities and asset knowledge give us competitive advantage.
Considering the infrastructure landscape in terms of complexity, 
growth potential, global leverage and our current presence, we 
see particular potential in the rail, power and mining sectors – 
plus, in some geographies, transportation and water.
Rail
In many developing markets, rapid urbanisation is fuelling a 
surge in demand for urban transit systems. At the same time, 
unprecedented growth in commodity prices has spurred an 
increase in mining activity – driving increased private sector 
investment in rail to transport commodities from mine to market. 
In major mature markets, constrained public finances are creating 
pressure to reduce public spending on rail investments, which are 
seen as desirable but costly – but this can create opportunities 
for new and innovative financing structures. 
Overall, we expect growth of £15bn in annual rail infrastructure 
spend worldwide from 2008, reaching some £100bn by 2015. 
This market is increasingly global, creating opportunity for 
international players like us to participate in emerging markets. 
But there is also rising competition from low-cost Chinese 
providers, who increasingly bring project finance with them.
The opportunity for Balfour Beatty is the trend towards 
multidisciplinary projects encompassing all elements from 
programme management; civil engineering; routine and operational 
maintenance; track and electrification; and signalling and rolling 
stock. These are increasing in proportion and offering higher 
margins. We have had considerable success in this area, with 
projects such as Denver Eagle, the recent Denmark Rail signalling 
upgrade and the welcome decision taken by the state government 
in Victoria to involve us in an upgrade of a critical section of 
Melbourne’s urban rail network.
Our strategy has built Balfour Beatty into one of the world’s largest 
players in infrastructure – a market characterised by sustained 
strong growth in both developed and emerging economies. 
Mature economies need to renew ageing assets and to adopt 
technologies that satisfy changing environmental, sustainability 
and energy security criteria. These pressures are sufficient to 
maintain moderate growth despite current economic and fiscal 
constraints. However, the pace of growth is very much faster in 
emerging markets – driven by rapidly rising populations, economic 
expansion and the more sophisticated demands of increasingly 
urbanised and affluent populations.
Our business model – focused on infrastructure
To satisfy this demand we have built – through organic growth and 
acquisitions – a Group with world-class expertise across the entire 
infrastructure lifecycle. Our capabilities extend from financing and 
designing assets to constructing, operating and maintaining them. 
This enables us to engage with asset owners at any stage in the 
life of their assets. We can also build project teams that draw skills 
and resources from across the Group. For management purposes 
we have structured our businesses into divisions representing four 
broad areas of capability: Infrastructure Investments, Professional 
Services, Construction Services and Support Services.
At present some 80% of our business is in the UK and US, 
although we have a presence in more than 80 countries around 
the world. In recent years, as the economic crisis slowed market 
growth in the US and UK, we have accelerated the international 
reach of our business and increased our focus on markets where 
demand is expanding faster.
Our customers – seeing a bigger picture 
Historically, asset owners have viewed projects in isolation and 
tendered them largely on price. But over the past decade many 
of our customers have moved to a broader view involving much 
closer engagement with us. Rather than focusing narrowly on 
building or upgrading an asset, they want to collaborate on 
achieving a desired outcome or finding the best solution to a 
challenge. They understand the risks and are willing to share them. 
Often they look to us to manage costs and share the savings.
Customers who buy a single service in a single geography still 
account for the majority of our revenue. But a growing proportion 
want to buy more than one capability and seek a combination 
that delivers a better solution and reduces interface risk between 
suppliers. They are more concerned with obtaining outcome value 
than with price per se. 
An increasing number are taking the next logical step, and looking 
beyond single projects. They want to work with partners who grasp 
the complex challenges they face; understand their true objectives; 
and deliver a solution rather than just an asset. Sharing risk related 
to outcome increasingly plays a part in our engagement with core 
customers. So where a traditional highway owner might contract 
for potholes to be repaired cost-effectively, these customers 
would seek value in outcomes such as reliable journey times with 
minimal negative impacts on external stakeholders. Equally, where 
a regulated utility provider in the water sector, for example, seeks 
reliable infrastructure performance the onus is on both parties to 
perform and share outcome risk. 
Over time we will significantly reshape our organisation, business 
model and strategic direction to satisfy these more sophisticated 
customers. Increasingly, we will be organised, managed and 
incentivised to understand their assets and needs, and to 
collaborate constructively towards better solutions. We have 
begun to foster a more customer-centred culture across the Group 
by building performance metrics, incentives and management 
around customer outcomes and delivery performance.
25 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Mining
In resource-rich countries there is synergy between rail, power 
and mining. Increased extraction activity requires power to mine 
the resources and rail to transport them. We are ideally placed to 
meet this demand – particularly since the customers are typically 
multinationals who favour suppliers that can work with them 
holistically in multiple territories.
The mining construction market is large and is growing fast 
(16% a year 2009–2012). Most projects are procured via umbrella 
Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management (EPCM) 
contracts, and the few large players capable of providing these 
services dominate the market. Parsons Brinckerhoff currently 
provides infrastructure design and project management services 
in Australia and Africa to clients on smaller projects, or as a 
subcontractor to EPCMs.
This could be a springboard to a far greater opportunity. We have 
already begun extending Parsons Brinckerhoff’s current services 
organically to new geographies and commodities, increasing the 
addressable market from US$1.1bn to US$3.4bn. Beyond this, 
as we develop our EPCM capability, we could gain access to the 
whole US$8.4bn professional services market. An integrated offer 
combining professional services with our construction capabilities 
would open the door to the related US$5.8bn rail and power 
construction markets.
Growth economies – extending our reach
Our desire to expand in these sectors draws us towards 
economically buoyant countries such as South Africa, India 
and Brazil. We have taken important steps in recent months 
in establishing a presence in both India and Brazil while further 
leveraging our footprint in South Africa where we also see 
significant opportunities. Elsewhere, in highly developed markets 
such as Canada and Australia, we have a good understanding 
of these countries and their business models. Buoyed by rising 
demand for commodities, they do present clear opportunities 
for us – while their scale, economic growth rates and market 
structures suit our model. 
Australia
Australia is an attractive market with enormous potential, founded 
on a steady economy weighted towards infrastructure. The 
Australian market already accounts for some £300m of the Group’s 
Power
Balfour Beatty’s heritage is built on this core sector. This is what 
we do – and it is no coincidence that the first construction contract 
secured by our fledgling business 102 years ago was to build a 
new generating plant and lay new track and lighting in Dunfermline, 
Scotland. Since then our knowledge and reach throughout the 
sector has continued apace. That reach is now truly international 
with major projects currently underway in South Africa, New 
Zealand, Arizona and elsewhere. Globally, this is a vast market 
with generation capacity currently totalling some 5,000GW. 
Most of this is fossil-fuelled, particularly in developing countries. 
Investment is driven by growing demand in developing markets, 
replacement of ageing infrastructure in developed markets and 
green agendas. The market opportunity is very significant: US$9trn 
of capital investment is forecast between now and 2035 – around 
US$350bn a year – with developing countries accounting for about 
60%. The technology mix is expected to see a growing proportion 
of renewables and nuclear as coal’s share reduces. 
In transmission and distribution we are already working with asset 
owners National Grid in the US; in Australia through our joint 
venture with UGL; and in Indonesia through our joint venture with 
Sakti. We intend to develop our position further in these markets.
Brazil, the largest South American market, presents significant 
opportunities. Investment totalled £400m in 2010 and is set to 
grow at 10% annually. The whole network was state owned but 
auctions have brought private companies into the market. 
India is another attractive market – the second largest in Asia. 
Annual spending on transmission is over £3bn, forecast to grow at 
12% a year to 2014. While most assets are publicly owned, nearly 
all construction and some professional services are outsourced. 
The government is encouraging PPP in transmission and six lines 
have been awarded to private companies over the past year. 
Our activities in power globally have gained momentum in recent 
years. We are now preferred bidder for two offshore wind assets 
and a waste PPP project. In addition to our partnerships in the US, 
Australia and New Zealand, we are one of three preferred bidders 
for an EDF nuclear new-build project in the UK. 
Chief Operating Officer’s review continued
0
1000
500
1500
2000
2500
3500
3000
Other 
renewables¹
Renewables:
Wind
Hydro
Nuclear
Coal
Gas
Oil
2011 existing capacity      Forecast additions to 2035
¹ Other renewables include biomass and waste, geothermal, solar PV, CSP and marine.
Current
addressable
PS market
Geography
and 
commodity
diversiﬁcation
EPCM 
roles
Total
potential
addressable
market
Additional
power
opportunities
Additional
rail
opportunities
Total
potential
addressable
market for
Balfour Beatty 
Group
1.1
3.4
8.4 8.4
12.7
14.2 14.2
5.8 1.5
4.3
5.0
2.3
8.4
Professional services      Power & rail construction 
Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2011, and Balfour Beatty estimates. Source: Balfour Beatty research.
Potential addressable mining market (US$bn) Global power generation 2011–2035 (GW)
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 26
Our business India’s long-term growth outlook is strong, buoyed by a growing 
working-age population and high domestic demand that will soon 
lift the country into the world’s top five consumer markets. 
Infrastructure spending is expected to account for 10% of GDP by 
the end of the government’s 12th Five Year Plan in 2017 – up from 
5% in the 2002–2007 Plan. If policy and regulatory reforms go 
ahead as expected, private investment’s share of the total is 
expected to rise from 30% to 50%. PPP is gaining traction – 
seen initially as a way of bringing in private funds to offset 
government shortfalls, it is now recognised as a major catalyst 
for infrastructure development.
Brazil’s GDP has recently overtaken the UK’s to rank sixth in the 
world. It now outvalues all the other South American economies 
combined. Real GDP growth is forecast at 4% a year to 2016. 
The construction market, worth US$140bn (7% of GDP) in 2011, 
is forecast to grow at a similar pace, as strong growth in 
infrastructure and mining offsets a reduction in oil and gas 
spending. The government is ramping up its own investment 
in infrastructure through its Growth Acceleration Programme. 
It is committed to US$596bn in the 2011–2014 second phase, 
compared with US$349bn in the 2007–2010 first phase.
Our “home” markets – still hold growth opportunities
In our UK and US “home” markets, demand for infrastructure 
continues to rise, albeit more slowly than in the growth markets we 
have identified. In the operating review which follows we outline 
developments in these cyclical, low-risk markets, as well as some 
of the actions taken in 2011 to reach into our newer target markets. 
The overall picture is one of continuing growth, building on our 
cash-generative core building markets. They continue to offer a 
strong platform on which to demonstrate our capabilities. Sharing 
knowledge built on our skills and experience affords a sound basis 
to pursue the opportunities we see emerging in other markets.
revenue. We have a long and proud record here with a growing 
presence reflecting a strong pipeline of work with hotspots in 
mining, power and transportation. All these projects are reliant 
on commodity markets, but are currently suffering from delays 
in the public sector. The country has a sophisticated procurement 
model including lifecycle contracts providing PPP and services 
opportunities relating to key infrastructure projects in markets 
we understand such as water, highways maintenance and rail.
The US$200bn Australian construction market accounts for 14% 
of GDP. This above-average proportion is due to significant market-
sector led infrastructure investment, which accounts for 40% of 
construction. While the public sector accounts for 60% of civil 
infrastructure spend, private customers make up 100% of mining 
spend and 50% of power spend. Annual growth rates are forecast 
at 5% to 2015, though we are mindful that this reflects commodity 
demand and the current hiatus in public spend.
Canada
We acquired Halsall, a Canadian professional services firm, in 2010 
as a base for developing a transportation and power business. 
Canada’s GDP ranks ninth in the world. Relative to other developed 
economies, its underlying fundamentals are very strong. Its 
infrastructure market is forecast to grow 3% annually to reach 
US$132bn by 2020. We see attractive drivers: a well-established 
PPP market and strong prospects in power and rail. There is a 
suitable competitive structure on the supply side and business 
ethics are excellent.
Emerging markets
In addition to these existing markets, we are targeting emerging 
economies with favourable growth dynamics – typically driven by 
economic growth, changing demographics and government-led 
market reforms. We are focusing on those with sufficient scale, 
a good competitive environment and appropriate ethical standards.
In 2011 we began making inroads into India and Brazil, our 
priority emerging markets. We already have an office in Brazil; 
in India we opened a Balfour Beatty office to complement 
Parsons Brinckerhoff’s presence and signed a memorandum 
of understanding with Tata Projects. Both countries have larger 
infrastructure markets than the UK, are welcoming private capital 
into infrastructure provision and are making determined efforts 
to eliminate endemic corruption.
Chief Operating Officer’s review continued
0
40
20
80
60
100
120
140
180
160
2007
2008
2010
2009
2011
2012
2014
2013
2015
Residential      Commercial, retail, industrial      Social infrastructure 
Economic infrastructure: transport, power, water      Oil & gas      Mining
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
1
2
3
4
5
6 7
US$500bn¹
US$1,000bn¹
1 Electricity
2 Roads & bridges
3 Irrigation
4 Railways
5 Water supply & sanitation
6 Ports
7 Airports
¹   Total (including other sectors such as telecom, urban, etc).
 
Source: Planning Commission, Government of India, www.infrastructure.gov.in, 
KPMG Analysis. Source: Balfour Beatty research.
Brazil construction market 2007–2015F (real US$bn) India’s infrastructure investment
11th plan (2007–2012) 12th plan (2012–2017)
27 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Our strategy
Professional Services, trading under the brand name Parsons 
Brinckerhoff, is a fee-based consultancy business. Its success 
relies on winning work on the strength of its track record of 
technical expertise and execution, while maximising staff 
utilisation to increase billable hours.
Professional Services is at the heart of the Group’s growth 
strategy. Knowledge is much more mobile than downstream 
capability; so in growth markets where we currently lack a local 
presence in construction, we look to Professional Services (and, 
often, Infrastructure Investments) to provide access routes. Some 
of these markets are developing countries where our rigorous 
health, safety and ethics standards make it difficult for us to 
compete effectively for work on the ground; however, we can 
work ethically and safely as a professional services provider.
Professional Services
What do we do?
•	 Programme and project management 
•	 Construction management
•	 Project design
•	 Technical services
•	 Planning
•	 Consultancy
What’s happened?
•	 Integration of Halsall in Canada was completed
•	 Recognition for excellence by industry bodies 
•	 Significant growth in Australia
•	 Award of first major contract in Qatar
•	 Two large rail contracts in collaboration with the rail division
What’s next?
•	 Exploiting growth opportunities in emerging markets 
and growth sectors
•	 Continuing cost and utilisation initiatives to ensure 
margin expansion  
The success of our business relies on winning 
work on the strength of our track record of 
technical expertise and execution, while 
maximising staff utilisation to increase billable 
hours. We are encouraged by our robust order 
book and market developments in higher- 
growth regions – particularly Australia, Asia and 
Southern Africa – and expect the professional 
services business to remain resilient.
How we performed
Order book
10
09
11
£1.5bn
£1.4bn
£1.6bn
+7%
Revenue including JVs and associates
10
09
11
£1,613m*
£558m
£1,645m
+2%
Profit before non-underlying items
10
09
11
£85m*
£13m
£87m
+2%
KPI
Billability
Billability is a good measure of resource utilisation, and hence 
profitability, in what is essentially a billable hours business. 
10
09
11
58.7%
57.7%
58.7%
Computes Parsons Brinckerhoff’s total direct labour cost charged 
to projects divided by total labour cost of employees.
* Parsons Brinckerhoff was consolidated for the full year for the first time.
Operating review
Professional Services is an area where we are targeting further 
growth by acquisition. Gaps in our coverage that could be filled 
more readily through acquisition rather than organic growth 
include power and federal services in the US, mining in resource-
rich geographies and transportation in certain geographies where 
there may be gaps in our skill set.
In 2010 we identified a number of areas in Professional Services 
where there was scope for increasing profitability. Over the past 
year we have acted on this, reducing costs in several territories 
by increasing our organisational efficiency – although this effort 
was partially offset by a drop in the volume of work in the UK. 
We will continue our efforts to reduce costs while also shifting 
our business towards higher-margin services and projects such 
as programme management, design-build and public private 
partnerships. We also aim to retain a higher proportion of 
gross revenue by subcontracting less. 
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 28
Our business  
Europe, Middle East and Northern Africa (“EuMENA”)
The UK business faced a shortage of public sector consultancy 
work following the Government’s Comprehensive Spending 
Review announced in October 2010. The market was also weak 
in Dubai.
However, we are actively addressing the opportunities presented 
by countries such as Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, which are 
looking to upgrade their national infrastructure significantly as part 
of recently revised national vision programmes.
Asia, Australia-Pacific and Southern Africa (“AAPSA”)
Australia is currently a buoyant market, particularly in the minerals 
and power sectors. Our healthy order book development there 
reflects strong customer relationships and our reputation for 
technical expertise.
Financial performance
The order book increased in the year from £1.5bn to £1.6bn with 
reductions in the UK and the US more than offset by wins in the 
rest of the world, primarily in South Africa and Qatar.
The impact of the acquisition of Halsall, increased revenue in 
Australia, particularly in the mining sector, partly offset by revenue 
decline in the UK, resulted in overall revenue growth of £32m, 
or 2%.
The improvement in profit from operations is particularly 
noteworthy. The division’s underlying profit from operations of 
£87m was ahead of the £85m in 2010. Excluding the effect of the 
additional £8m incentive income in 2010, underlying operating 
margin improved from 4.8% in 2010 to 5.3% in 2011. 
Our marketplace
Americas
In the US, stalemate on the Transportation Bill has delayed the 
commissioning of large, long-term public infrastructure projects. 
Federal transportation funding is caught in the crossfire between 
politicians and is unlikely to be resolved until after the next 
presidential election. We expect to continue working with short-
term extensions to funding that keep the level of spending stable 
but do not offer the certainty of long-term funding for large projects.
However, a new model is taking hold. Local governments are 
implementing various taxation methods specifically to respond 
to the need for infrastructure investment as federal support is 
reduced. Alternative means of funding are also developing such 
as PPP, with an increasing number of states – 31 so far – putting 
PPP legislation in place.
In this difficult environment we continued to win work as a result 
of our strong customer relationships, track record and strength 
in feasibility work at the early stages of potential projects. 
By maintaining stable revenues we believe we have gained 
market share. 
The US power market presented opportunities in the year. Our 
volume of work doubled, albeit from a small base, and we are 
encouraged about the future. The US team has also leveraged 
its skill set in EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) 
delivery into New Zealand.
We operate in Canada through our recently acquired business, 
Halsall. Halsall is giving us a good platform on which to develop 
a transportation and power business; we have recently been 
selected for two transportation projects in the country.
Extracting 
opportunity  
from mining
The rapid industrial growth of economies 
such as China and India is driving strong 
global demand for mineral resources – and 
for the kind of mining project expertise that 
we are already demonstrating in eastern 
and southern Australia.
Worldwide, investment by mining companies was 
estimated at about US$150bn in 2010 – of which US$8.4bn
 
was spent on professional services alone. And the market is 
still growing apace.
Building on Parsons Brinckerhoff’s four decades’ 
experience in Australia, we now aim to build a global 
mineral resources business – operating across coal, iron 
ore, and base and precious metals and integrating the 
broader skills available across Balfour Beatty. The business 
has expanded its geographical footprint to Western 
Australia, building on the success of projects like the 
award-winning AUS$420m Jacinth-Ambrosia Mineral 
Sands Mine in South Australia (pictured).
We are now making further inroads into Africa, South 
America and Asia by extending our existing relationships 
with mining companies – going with them to support 
efficient, safe and sustainable operations at their other 
locations around the world. 
29 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business EuMENA
In the UK, we have shifted our emphasis towards the delivery 
of complex and specialist solutions, and away from commodity 
services. This approach has helped us to secure large contracts 
across a number of market sectors, including a significant power 
transmission contract in the second half. In parallel, a rigorous cost 
saving programme has ensured that we remain competitive in the 
challenging market conditions. 
A series of high-profile wins in the rail sector has boosted our order 
book for 2012. Secured contracts include Northern Hub, where we 
are providing programme management for multiple infrastructure 
and operational projects, and engineering consultancy services 
for the enhancement of the central Manchester section. Our rail 
team also gained a place on the newly created High Speed 2 
frameworks, through which the engineering design services 
will now be procured.
While the UK power market remains slow, with few new-build 
projects initiated, we have picked up significant study and 
development work including an Industrial Emissions Directive study 
for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, a Plant 
Costing Study for the Department of Energy and Climate Change, 
and a recently completed Transmission Technology Costing Study 
for the Infrastructure Planning Commission.
The UK highways sector is particularly depressed following 
Government spending reductions, but we continue to win new 
work. Our new contracts include the Department for Transport’s 
Technical and Engineering Advice framework, through which we 
will deliver services across the road and rail sectors to the national 
government. Other major projects in progress in this sector include 
numerous Olympic contracts, focused on the delivery of complex 
planning, design and operational support services on behalf of 
the London Organising Committee for the Olympic Games, the 
Olympic Delivery Authority and Transport for London.
In the Middle East our work is shifting from Dubai and Abu Dhabi, 
where opportunities are currently limited, to other Gulf States 
such as Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. We see these as growth 
markets which are integral to our expansion strategy and we 
have been mobilising some of our UK technical expertise to meet 
demand in these countries.
In November we were awarded the programme management 
consultancy contract on a £5bn roads and drainage scheme in 
Qatar. Under the £104m, five-year commission we will have overall 
responsibility for management and co-ordination of all construction, 
logistics and supply chain interfaces with Ashghal, Qatar’s public 
works authority. We will also oversee general engineering 
consultants for each of Qatar’s five geographic zones. And Qatar 
Rail has selected us as strategic programme manager for its 
multibillion-dollar Qatar Integrated Rail Programme. 
In Saudi Arabia, important commissions included serving as 
owner’s engineer for the Saudi Electric Company (“SEC”) on 
its Rabigh thermal power plant project. This 2,800MW plant 
is a vital part of SEC’s plans for meeting growth in electricity 
demand and supporting major economic development.
Responding to an ongoing demand for additional specialist 
resources in the Middle East, many UK-based employees 
are now engaged on projects throughout the wider region. 
Operational performance
Professional recognition
Parsons Brinckerhoff’s world-class technical expertise and global 
reputation are significant assets for the Group – both operationally 
and as a key factor in differentiating us from competitors. That is 
why we use Parsons Brinckerhoff’s Go-To List rankings as a KPI 
for the strength of our core skills.
It was therefore encouraging to receive another crop of prestigious 
awards in 2011. For geotechnology and tunnelling these included 
a Platinum Award in Engineering Excellence from the New York 
Chapter of the American Consulting Engineers Council, ENR New 
York’s Regional Infrastructure Project of the Year award and New 
Civil Engineer’s International Award for Tunnel Programme 
Manager of the Year. Jim Monsees received the Golden Beaver 
Award, the highest honorary recognition given to a tunnelling 
professional, and a Lifetime Achievement medal from Tunnels 
and Tunneling magazine.
Parsons Brinckerhoff was also named Professional Services Firm of 
the Year by the Hispanic American Contractors Industry Association.
Americas
In the US, transportation accounts for some 80% of our 
professional services revenue and the funding of transportation 
projects is crucial to the availability of work. However, the contracts 
we won throughout the year demonstrate that despite the failure 
to agree a new six-year federal funding budget for transportation, 
individual states have found innovative ways to finance projects 
and bring them to market. 
We won three major contracts on the Los Angeles rapid transit 
system: Phase 2 of the Expo light rail extension of the Green Line 
light rail to Los Angeles International Airport; and the regional 
connector linking the Metro Gold and Blue Lines with the new 
Expo light rail. As the lead member of the Eastside LRT Partners 
joint venture, Parsons Brinckerhoff has been providing planning, 
design and construction engineering services to the Los Angeles 
Metro for the Eastside extension for 20 years. These projects have 
included six street-level stations, two underground stations and a 
2.7km tunnel through Boyle Heights. 
We led a team which was selected to provide project 
management, construction management and management 
consulting services to Valley METRO Rail in Phoenix, Arizona 
for its five-year capital programme.
In the power sector, the Coolidge Generating Station in Phoenix, 
Arizona – completed ahead of schedule and under budget – was 
hailed as a success by all stakeholders. We provided full design and 
engineering support in joint venture for the fixed-price engineering, 
procurement and construction delivery of the 500MW plant.
Our expertise in sustainable structures and construction is an 
increasingly important factor in winning new business. To ensure 
that we maintain high sustainability standards in our own activities 
and operations, we established a new Sustainability Council for our 
Americas business in 2011.
Operating review continued
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 30
Our business  
Looking forward
Despite the continuing difficulties in US transportation funding 
and constraints on UK public sector spending, we look forward 
with optimism. With 150 offices worldwide, we are well-diversified 
and able to direct resources to the markets that present the 
greatest opportunities. 
We are encouraged by our robust order book and expect favourable 
market developments in higher-growth regions – particularly 
Australia, Asia and Southern Africa. Collectively, these positive 
developments are expected to benefit Professional Services and 
ensure that we continue to make further progress in 2012.
AAPSA
Strong revenue growth in Australia and parts of Asia helped to 
drive profitable growth in the region.
An alliance in which Balfour Beatty has a 35% share was awarded 
an AUS$835m (£535m) contract for works on the Footscray to 
Deer Park section of the Regional Rail Link project in Melbourne. 
We will play a vital role in the alliance, with Thiess and Sinclair 
Knight Merz, by combining our professional services with 
Balfour Beatty’s rail infrastructure capabilities. 
As part of the Well-Connected consortium, we were chosen to 
form an alliance with the New Zealand Transport Agency to deliver 
the Waterview Connection linking two motorways in Auckland. 
The 4.5km link, including 2.5km of six-lane, twin-bore tunnel, 
is New Zealand’s biggest and most complex road project.
In Singapore the Circle Line, the island’s fourth mass rapid 
transport line, opened in October. We were the lead consultant 
on 11 underground stations.
Taking  
the heat  
in Arizona
Power is a critically important sector for 
Balfour Beatty globally. The nature of the 
challenge varies from market to market. 
In Phoenix, Arizona, temperatures vary wildly – from 
sub-zero in winter to a summer daily average of over 38°C. 
As a result, power demand also fluctuates sharply. It peaks 
on hot summer afternoons when air conditioners are 
working flat out. The new Coolidge Generating Station, 
for which Parsons Brinckerhoff provided all the engineering 
services, is one of the largest “peaking” power plants in 
the US. When demand spikes, it is designed to go from 
standstill to its full 512MW output in just 10 minutes.
That enables the local utility company to operate baseload 
generation more efficiently. It also enhances the reliability 
and flexibility of the local grid by providing back-up when 
other plants are down for maintenance – and when weather 
conditions reduce output from wind and solar sources. 
Peaking plants’ ability to power up rapidly enables utilities to 
bring more renewable capacity onto the grid without risking 
security of supply.
Sustainability features of the Coolidge plant, opened ahead 
of schedule and under budget in 2011, include systems to 
eliminate wastewater discharges and cut NO x emissions 
to well below present or likely future requirements.
 
31 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Operating review continued
Our strategy
The strength of our construction business lies in our ability to 
integrate and manage local supply chains to deliver projects on 
budget and on time. Our asset knowledge, supplemented by 
Parsons Brinckerhoff’s professional services capabilities, is crucial 
in meeting the complex needs of infrastructure customers. We see 
our knowledge of customer assets and our integrator capability 
as competitive advantages that differentiate us from our peers.
Our strategy for the UK construction business is to seek growth 
right across the available market by deploying the collective 
strength of the division rather than working in silos. To this end we 
have already joined up the management structures of the division’s 
operating companies; and this also makes it easier to deliver an 
even broader range of capabilities by joining forces with other 
divisions. This approach is particularly relevant in vertical markets 
such as power and rail, where projects and customers are large and 
complex. To maintain margins we manage risk carefully and focus 
closely on cost and operational performance.
Construction Services
What do we do?
•	 Civil and ground engineering
•	 Rail engineering
•	 Building
•	 Refurbishment and fit-out
•	 Mechanical and electrical services
What’s happened?
•	 Difficult market conditions leading to lower volumes and 
competitive pricing
•	 Completion of a number of iconic projects in the UK such 
as the Olympic Aquatics Centre and A3 Hindhead tunnels 
and dual carriageway
•	 Won two waste contracts in the UK working with Investments
•	 Award of Britain’s Most Admired Company in the heavy 
construction sector
•	 Acquisition of Howard S. Wright in the US 
•	 44th place for our US business in Fortune magazine’s  
100 Best Companies to Work For list
•	 Record order book in Hong Kong for the second year running
What’s next?
•	 Continue to develop private and regulated market opportunities 
in the US and the UK
•	 Leverage customer relationships and capabilities in the 
context of our expanded footprint in the US 
•	 Build on position in Hong Kong and adjacent markets 
Over the past year we have made good 
progress in differentiating Balfour Beatty as an 
integrated construction provider with superior 
asset knowledge. In 2012 we aim to build on 
this positioning in the UK and internationally 
– seeking in particular large and complex 
projects while continuing to serve our current 
customers effectively. 
How we performed
Order book
10
09
11
£9.2bn
£8.2bn
£8.5bn
-8%
Revenue including JVs and associates
10
09
11
£6,734m*
£7,482m*
£7,050m
+5%
Profit before non-underlying items
10
09
11
£201m*
£197m*
£169m
-16%
KPI
Secured orders and ABNC as % of revenue
The secured order book and the awarded but not contracted 
orders (“ABNC”) are leading indicators of future revenue.
10
09
11
188%
156%
177%
-11%
*    Re-presented to reflect the change in the group management structure  
(see Note 38.3).
During 2011 we completed our desired footprint in US construction 
by acquiring Howard S. Wright in the Northwest. There are clear 
opportunities to leverage our capabilities from one region into 
another, particularly now we have combined our building, rail 
and civil businesses across the country. We have launched 
programmes to achieve synergies and efficiencies while 
differentiating ourselves in a very competitive market. 
Rail is a significant component of our integrated offering. Our rail 
business has always been a strong contender in infrastructure 
projects as main contractor or supplier of rail systems including 
signalling and electrification; now, working jointly with Parsons 
Brinckerhoff, we are emerging as a significant player in the 
integrated design and construction of complex rail projects.
We will continue to develop our business where we see growth 
opportunities, particularly in the Group’s focus markets such as 
Australia, Canada, Brazil and India.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 32
Our business  
competition. Throughout the year there have been signs of 
recovery in parts of the commercial marketplace, but it is still 
too early to point to a trend. 
International
We have a 50% interest in Gammon Construction, the market-
leading contractor in Hong Kong. Gammon has seen a continuing 
shift of spend from Hong Kong’s weak private building market to 
the public sector. This has been buoyant in both social and civil 
infrastructure segments, particularly in mass transit rail, roads, 
and sewerage schemes. This trend plays to our strengths and 
we expect continued growth.
Gammon also has a presence in Singapore, where opportunities 
have been reasonably good but very competitive market conditions 
have constrained our growth. Macau continues to provide 
opportunities for Gammon and Vietnam remains a target market 
for growth. 
While Dubai and Abu Dhabi remain quiet, there are growth 
opportunities in Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait – where 
governments are increasing spending on infrastructure to support 
their growing economies.
In the rail sector the German market remained stable. However, 
as in the previous year, conditions in Southern Europe continued 
to be difficult.
Financial performance
Performance was impacted by the full-year effect of the reduction 
in public spending as well as low volumes in commercial property 
development in our major markets. Against this background, our order 
book declined by 8% to £8.5bn, including £0.4bn from acquisitions. 
Our marketplace
UK
At the start of the year expectations had been dampened by the 
UK Government’s 2010 Comprehensive Spending Review. As 
expected, the overall UK market has been contracting – although 
some sectors have fared better than others. 
The volume of work has been lower – particularly in health and 
education. This has increased competition in the market, with 
a consequent adverse impact on margins. In these conditions, 
our diversity has been a particular strength – enabling us to shift 
resources into more promising sectors such as energy-from-waste, 
nuclear new build and Crossrail.
However, during the year the Government made a series of 
encouraging announcements about its commitment to 
infrastructure as a key component of economic growth. This found 
expression in additional spending and new policy measures 
announced in the Autumn Statement.
US
US construction markets, where our strength is in building, were 
adversely impacted throughout the year by the lack of federal and 
private funding. Nevertheless, we increased our revenue while US 
public construction contracted by 7% according to the US Census 
Bureau, gaining market share and achieving organic growth in our 
order book.
We are strongly differentiated from competitors in the delivery of 
major projects – such as large data centres, hospitals and vertical 
housing. However, current constraints on federal spending and 
bank financing have reduced the number of such projects, focusing 
the market on smaller projects which are subject to intense 
Giving back  
the Devil’s  
Punch Bowl
For decades, planners were bedevilled 
by the UK’s A3 trunk road at the 
Devil’s Punch Bowl. 
Passing through the peaceful Surrey hills, traffic sliced 
through an environmentally sensitive beauty spot, cut the 
village of Hindhead in half and ground to a timewasting halt 
in perpetual queues around a set of traffic lights. But a 
succession of proposed solutions proved too costly, too 
difficult or environmentally unacceptable.
Now peace has returned to the Punch Bowl and the old 
road is being restored to the heathland byway it was before 
1830, creating a new natural wilderness for all to enjoy. 
Community engagement at every level was critical to 
successful delivery of the scheme, alongside effective 
teamwork between our client the Highways Agency, the 
consultant Mott MacDonald and Balfour Beatty.
Building the 1.8km twin-bored tunnel through sandstone 
rock began in February 2008 and three and a half years later 
the new route was opened to acclaim from drivers, 
neighbours and visitors alike. 
Some of the project site sits on National Trust land and 
it was vital to ensure great care and sensitivity was 
maintained in planting, general landscaping and the right 
environment for wildlife, while 85% of site waste in total 
was recycled.
33 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business  
We completed the construction of 42 education projects across the 
UK with a total value of almost £500m, continued to win academy 
contracts under the national framework agreement and secured 
further student accommodation contracts. This positions us well 
for the PFI Priority Schools Programme which we will be bidding 
with the Investments division. We have made a very determined 
move into the student accommodation market and Multi-build, 
our hotel and leisure fit-out contractor, plans to diversify into this 
market in 2012.
In healthcare we handed over major construction phases of four 
hospitals in Tameside, Salford, Pinderfields and Kirkcaldy. 
Roger Frost, Project Director for the Queen Elizabeth Hospital 
Birmingham, won the Construction Manager of the Year award for 
his stewardship of this mighty hospital. The hospital took 14 million 
man-hours to build and all 34 sectional handovers were completed 
on or ahead of time.
Our in-house mechanical and electrical (“M&E”) manufacturing 
facility, Modular Systems+, delivered many of the M&E 
components for Kirkcaldy’s Victoria Hospital in Fife including over 
270 self-contained bathroom pods. We see modular systems 
as a powerful differentiator that enables faster, cheaper and 
safer construction.
Revenue grew overall by 5% to £7.1bn for the year. This was made 
up of mixed performances from different parts of the business and 
can be summarised by very good growth in Hong Kong and the US, 
which was partly offset by a 1% decline in the UK, particularly in 
civil infrastructure. 
The reduction in underlying margins from 3.0% to 2.4% is due to 
a number of factors. Margins in US construction, which had been 
buoyed in the past by higher-margin niche projects, have come 
down to market levels in 2011 due to fierce competition for lower 
levels of available work. In the UK, the market was competitive and 
average project sizes were smaller relative to those in the recent 
past. In this difficult environment, margins in UK construction held 
up reasonably well at 2010 levels. This performance was helped 
by the cost reduction initiatives we have been implementing in 
back office and procurement in parts of the UK business. Our rail 
business had a solid performance overall, although a small number 
of projects in Germany and Scandinavia held back overall profitability.
Operational performance
UK
Our operational delivery was excellent during the year. We 
completed and handed over a number of projects – most notably 
the Olympic Aquatics Centre, finished and delivered on time to the 
Olympic Delivery Authority in July. 
We are also very proud to have received Britain’s Most Admired 
Company award in the heavy construction sector from 
Management Today magazine for the sixth year running.
Operating review continued
Delivering  
Dallas from  
the disco era
“ Travelers, get ready for seven-plus years 
of yellow tape, orange cones and detours 
at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, 
where four terminals are overdue to get 
upgraded out of the disco era.”
So said the Dallas Morning News last year, at the launch of 
a US$1.9bn programme to update the original terminals of 
the second largest airport in the US – all dating from the 
1970s. Its forebodings were doubtless shared by many 
travellers familiar with the chaos of airport expansion.
But the airport’s management is determined to minimise 
passenger inconvenience. This is a key concern for our joint 
venture, currently at work on a US$900m pre-construction 
and construction management contract on two of the 
terminals. The project involves radically modernising both 
terminals and building a station for future rail connections 
to both Dallas and Fort Worth metro systems.
To minimise impact on passenger flows and facilities, work 
is being carefully phased to affect only small parts of each 
terminal at any time. Also, we are applying our UK expertise 
by prefabricating sections in an offsite factory for quick 
installation onsite.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 34
Our business In nuclear new build, another energy market with high potential 
value, we have a joint venture with Vinci and are Areva’s 
construction partners in the UK. We are currently one of three 
bidders for the main civil works at Hinkley Point C, one of the UK’s 
eight designated sites for nuclear power. Our customer, EDF, is 
expected to reduce the number of bidders in early 2012. Our 
consortium with Areva is one of two bidders to Horizon (a joint 
venture between E.ON UK and RWE npower) for the Wylfa B 
Project in Wales. A selection is likely to be made in the near future.
Balfour Beatty won a “Big Tick” award from Business in the 
Community for its role in “Get Into Construction”, a five-year 
programme which has supported over 2,000 young people with 
employment and training opportunities. 
US
After several years of acquisitions, culminating with Howard S. 
Wright (“HSW”) in June, we completed our target US construction 
footprint. This allowed us to undertake a significant year of 
reorganisation and consolidation while successfully pursuing 
growth in a very competitive market.
Having restructured the business to leverage our construction, rail 
and civil engineering capabilities across the US, we organised our 
management into regions. SpawMaxwell, Barnhart and Charter 
now trade as Balfour Beatty Construction in their respective 
regions and HSW covers the Northwest.
HSW operates across a wide range of sectors including corporate 
offices, healthcare, education, data centres and multi-family 
housing. It has a reputation for quality and is a leader in sustainable 
building. Its strong presence in northern California and the Pacific 
Northwest – now emerging from the downturn – makes a perfect 
geographic fit, and the addition of HSW makes us the third largest 
construction business in the US general building market according 
to 2010 revenues. Just before the acquisition, Engineering 
News-Record had ranked us fourth in its US General Building 
Top 400.
HSW’s integration has gone smoothly and our combined team 
is already pursuing projects. We have had a number of wins and 
prequalifications which are evidence of the revenue synergies 
we expected from the acquisition. 
We completed the acquisition of Fru-Con in June, significantly 
enhancing our strength in the US water sector.
Important completions during the year included Florida Atlantic 
University Stadium delivered through PPP and Lady Bird Johnson 
Middle School – the first public school in Texas and largest in the 
US to be “net zero”, generating all the energy it needs without 
fossil fuels.
Significant business wins included the contract to design and build 
the new US$221.5m San Diego County Women’s Detention 
Facility. The 1,216-bed complex will comprise 34 buildings across 
45 acres. Completion is scheduled for October 2015. This project 
will incorporate building techniques and materials to meet the US 
Green Building Council’s LEED
®
 Gold standard.
We continued to extend our LEED
®
 credentials in 2011 – receiving 
Platinum certification for Wounded Warrior Barracks in California, 
and Gold and Silver certification for our own environmentally 
friendly new office buildings in Fairfax, Virginia and Charlotte, 
North Carolina respectively.
We also continued to raise our profile as an employer of choice. 
In Fortune magazine’s 100 Best Companies to Work For list we 
ranked 44th in 2011.
In the transportation sector the 6.5km A3 Hindhead road project, 
including a 1.8km twin-bore road tunnel, opened to the public in 
May with a community walk-through for 7,000 people. The project 
was hailed as a success for congestion relief and an environmental 
breakthrough that reunites the Devil’s Punch Bowl Site of Special 
Scientific Interest bisected by the previous road.
A further six major road construction schemes are due for full 
handover in 2012, including sections 1 and 4 of the M25 widening. 
We have hit all the major project milestones on time for this crucial 
project, which is on track to be handed over in time for the London 
Olympics. Our work has achieved the highest-ever CEEQUAL 
(Civil Engineering Environmental Quality Assessment and Award 
Scheme) score for a highways project, and 99.5% of all materials 
on the project have been recycled.
Balfour Beatty came first out of 21 contractors in the sustainability 
category of the Highways Agency’s Strategic Alignment Review 
Tool (“StART”) assessment. We were very pleased to be 
commended for demonstrating clear understanding of a key 
customer’s agenda and influencing their thinking. 
Our redevelopment of Blackfriars Station – part of Thameslink and 
the first rail station to span a bridge over the River Thames – was 
completed in February 2012 on schedule, despite the challenge of 
keeping the rail station operational throughout the project. 
Crossrail provided two additional high-profile wins for us during 
2011. In January we secured the Whitechapel and Liverpool Street 
Station tunnels contract in joint venture, and construction has 
started. In November we added the Whitechapel Station contract. 
At London’s Heathrow Airport we are delivering the £592m 
Terminal 2B satellite pier for BAA which draws on the skills and 
know-how from across the Group. We recently completed the 
ground engineering element of T2B, Europe’s largest ground 
engineering project. We are using advanced collaborative working 
techniques and information technology to improve efficiency, 
decision making and safety visualisation – the project is currently 
one of the UK’s best examples of applying Building Information 
Modelling (“BIM”) technology. 
Signs of recovery in the UK commercial sector, particularly in 
London, offer us opportunities. We have recently announced 
commercial awards totalling £100m. In the City of London we won 
a two-phase contract to construct AXA Real Estate’s Sixty London 
prime office development and a contract to deliver an 11-storey 
office building. In Glasgow, Land Securities awarded us a contract 
for a new five-storey residential and retail scheme. On both London 
schemes, a high percentage of the building services engineering 
will be delivered using BIM and offsite prefabrication to reduce 
waste and increase efficiency.
We made great progress in generating revenue from framework 
agreements. Over the year we secured or renewed places on 
14 frameworks, offering revenues worth an estimated £2bn over 
their lifetimes.
In the pursuit of future growth, the energy sector is as much 
a focus for the Construction division as it is for the Group as a 
whole. We aim to support a broad range of power generation 
options and continue to develop our capabilities in new and cleaner 
technologies. In recent years we have dedicated particular resource 
to waste-to-energy projects. In 2012 we won preferred bidder 
status for a waste-to-energy project for Gloucestershire Council 
as well as a waste treatment project for Essex Council. These 
projects, in joint venture with Urbaser, are together worth £1.3bn.
35 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Signalling Solutions Limited (“SSL ”), our joint venture with Alstom, 
secured involvement in seven of the eight geographical regions 
covered by Network Rail’s seven-year “New Signalling 
Frameworks”. In three of these regions, SSL is primary supplier.
In the US, we made significant progress in the design, 
procurement and utility relocations on the Eagle P3 commuter 
rail project in Denver.
In April we sold our UK trackwork manufacturing business to a 
subsidiary of Caterpillar. The business designs and manufactures 
manganese steel castings, track panels, turnouts and crossings 
at five sites in the UK. Changes in our major UK rail clients’ 
procurement model over recent years had eliminated the 
competitive advantage of owning our own manufacturing 
capability, decreasing the strategic importance of the business 
for us.
Looking forward
Over the past year we have made good progress in differentiating 
Balfour Beatty as an integrated construction provider with superior 
asset knowledge. In 2012 we aim to build on this positioning in the 
UK and internationally – seeking in particular large and complex 
projects while continuing to serve our current customers effectively. 
With public sector spending likely to continue shrinking in many 
developed countries, we will look for growth in the regulated and 
private sectors – as well as economies where governments are 
spending on infrastructure to support their economic development. 
In the UK we are pursuing growth particularly in the power, rail and 
commercial sectors. We also see continuing opportunity in parts of 
the public sector, such as the new PFI priority schools programme.
In the US we can now compete from a position of strength as one 
of only a few players with national capability. We are looking to 
capitalise on this position by leveraging customer relationships and 
capability from one region to another. 
The public sector infrastructure market in Hong Kong is expected 
to remain strong. While the private sector building market remains 
subdued, public sector spending on residential, leisure and 
government buildings will take up the slack to some extent. 
We expect the reduction in the US margin to continue in 2012. 
Given the increasing proportion of our business from the US, 
this will reduce the overall margin for the division. The UK should 
remain reasonably steady, benefiting from the cost reduction 
plans we announced in 2010.
International
In Hong Kong, 2011 was a heavy tendering period that ended in 
a record order book for the second year running. Gammon won 
its fourth major contract from public transport operator MTR 
Corporation. The £724m contract, in which Gammon has a 50% 
share, covers the construction of a major terminus in the West 
Kowloon district and part of the Hong Kong section of the 
Guangzhou-Shenzhen-Hong Kong Express Rail Link, which 
forms part of China’s strategic national express rail network.
As we sought new opportunities in the Middle East, we had 
particular success in winning M&E work in Qatar despite intense 
competition from other international companies. Historically, our 
core markets in the region have been Dubai and Abu Dhabi. There 
are early signs of improvement in the Dubai market in terms of 
awards. Abu Dhabi has grown less than expected but we remain 
active, both in M&E and construction.
In Indonesia, the World Trade Centre has progressed well and is 
due for completion in the second quarter of 2012. In West Java, 
Indonesia we are also building a cosmetics factory that will be 
L’Oréal’s largest facility in the world.
In line with the Group strategy of extending into new growth 
markets, we started two new ventures in the year. In India we 
opened a new office to complement Parsons Brinckerhoff’s 
existing presence by bringing the Group’s full capability to the 
country. We also signed a Memorandum of Understanding 
with Tata Projects to jointly identify and pursue infrastructure 
opportunities in India and sub-Saharan Africa. The initial focus 
will be on power generation and transmission, railways, mining, 
and water and wastewater sectors.
Our second key target was Brazil, where we appointed a 
country manager to promote Balfour Beatty’s capabilities in 
mining, power and rail. Our aim is to build on our relationships 
with mining companies that have already worked with us in our 
existing markets. 
Rail
Tendering opportunities for our rail business have continued to be 
plentiful. Although traditional work in southern Europe has been 
constrained by project delays, PPP activities in Spain started with 
Balfour Beatty Rail participation.
We have formed a discrete business unit to develop major rail 
projects globally – typically those requiring integration of 
resources from across the Group. We believe this is a market 
offering considerable opportunity, and the combination of our 
construction and professional services capabilities gives us a strong 
competitive position.
In December an alliance in which Balfour Beatty has a 35% share 
was awarded an AUS$835m (£535m) contract for works on the 
Footscray to Deer Park section of the Regional Rail Link project in 
Melbourne, Australia. We will play a vital role in the alliance, with 
Thiess and Sinclair Knight Merz, by combining our rail infrastructure 
capabilities with Parsons Brinckerhoff’s professional services. 
In January 2012, our joint venture with Thales signed the signalling 
contract for west Denmark with a value to the Group of £90m. 
Balfour Beatty’s role in the contract involves us adopting an 
integrated approach to the project by combining signalling 
installation and programme management services from 
Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
Operating review continued
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 36
Our business our customer’s stakeholders is an everyday part of our business, 
and part of our strategy is to increasingly draw capabilities from 
other parts of Balfour Beatty.
The majority of our business comes from the public and regulated 
sectors in the UK. Pressure on spending in these areas is driving 
innovation and creating new opportunities with central and local 
government as well as other public entities. As a full-service 
provider we aim to benefit from the continuing trend towards 
integrated contracts, where we are competitively advantaged.
Support Services is at the forefront of the Group’s offering to 
the power sector. Its leading capabilities in extra high voltage 
transmission and distribution networks are in increasing demand 
internationally, and its other areas of expertise include helping 
clients to meet their energy reduction targets. 
Our strategy
Support Services helps customers to maximise their organisational 
efficiency and the value they generate from their infrastructure 
while maintaining continuity of service. We maintain and enhance 
all aspects of social and civil infrastructure assets, delivering a 
broad range of services including facilities management (“FM”) 
and the construction, upgrading and maintenance of utility and 
transport networks. 
Our customers trust us to deal directly with their end-users and 
stakeholders. The quality and closeness of customer relationships 
underpin our organic growth by enabling us to extend the length 
and breadth of successful contracts.
As a services integrator we bring together a diversity of capabilities 
to meet customer needs. Integrating our teams with suppliers and 
Support Services
What do we do?
•	 Upgrade and maintenance of water, gas and electricity 
networks
•	 Total facilities management, business services outsourcing 
and energy services
•	 Highways network management, operation and maintenance
•	 Rail renewals
What’s happened?
•	 Significant organic growth 
•	 Local authority order book up by some 60%
•	 Awards of power transmission and utilities contracts
•	 Acquisition of an energy consultancy to enhance skills
•	 Excellent customer retention rates with extensions to Royal 
Mail and National Grid contracts
What’s next?
•	 Benefit from contract liquidity in public sector outsourcing
•	 Expand internationally in power transmission and distribution
•	 Continue to fill gaps in capability  
We will continue to target segments of the 
UK public sector market where an integrated 
model delivers attractive solutions to complex 
challenges. We are one of only a handful of 
companies with the ability and capacity to 
offer this approach to complex customers 
such as local authorities.
How we performed
Order book
10
09
11
£4.5bn
£4.5bn
£5.1bn
+13%
Revenue including JVs and associates
10
09
11
£1,443m*
£1,452m*
£1,584m
+10%
Profit before non-underlying items
10
09
11
£62m*
£65m*
£67m
+8%
KPI
Customer retention
Retained customer revenue is a key measure for Support 
Services, as it shows how well we have leveraged our existing 
customer relationships. 
10
09
11
95.2%*
87.0%*
108.2%
+13%
Defined as the revenue from existing customers retained from 
one year to the next. Based on Balfour Beatty WorkPlace and 
Utility Solutions revenue; includes Balfour Beatty Living Places 
in 2010 and 2011. 
 
*    Re-presented to reflect the change in the group management structure  
(see Note 38.3).
37 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business  
Operating review continued
Internationally, all markets are seeing significant investment 
in electricity networks to support a shift towards renewable 
generation and to meet rising energy demand from consumers and 
the resources sector. This applies particularly in emerging markets, 
where robust energy networks are seen as a cornerstone of 
economic growth in which energy-intensive resource mining is 
often a key factor. We have power network contracts in the US, 
Australasia, Hong Kong and Indonesia, where we operate domestic 
businesses in joint ventures. We are now reviewing opportunities 
in these and other international markets such as Canada where 
we have past experience and there is a demand for our skilled 
resources and capabilities in managing supply chain relationships.
Financial performance
The order book grew to a record level in the year in all activities 
except in water where we are working through the AMP5 water 
cycle. Our order book of £5.1bn, up 13% from 2010, promises 
good growth for the future.
Revenue improved in transport, power and buildings, each of 
which represents around 30% of the division, while water revenue 
recovered from the low level last year with over 40% growth. 
Overall, revenue reached £1,584m, up 10% from that in 2010. 
Underlying profit from operations increased by 8% to £67m in the 
year, resulting in an underlying operating margin of 4.2% compared 
to 4.3% in 2010. This was a good result in view of numerous new 
contracts which are typically less profitable at the start of the 
contract period due to mobilisation costs.
Our marketplace
Although the UK Government’s Comprehensive Spending Review 
aimed to reduce public sector spending overall, it has opened up 
new kinds of opportunity. Local authorities are changing the way 
they work in order to be more cost efficient. They are bringing 
more services into the marketplace, integrating contracts and 
lengthening contract terms. This has created a window of 
opportunity to build order books. As a strongly differentiated 
full-service supplier with a wide range of capabilities, we are 
particularly well placed to benefit.
A similar pattern is evident in the outsourced facilities management 
(“FM”) market. While the reduction in discretionary spend since the 
2008 financial crisis has made this market extremely competitive 
at the single-service end, there is significant potential for profitable 
work in the bundled FM and total FM segments that we target. 
The regulated utilities sectors in the UK and elsewhere have 
substantial investment programmes driven by rising energy 
demand and the need to renew ageing assets. Growing consumer 
demand and the privatisation of network ownership mean that 
much of this investment is insulated from government spending 
reviews. As well as asset renewal and construction we also 
undertake asset maintenance, providing a steady business stream 
alongside the investment cycles. 
Utility contracts are typified by long-term frameworks, with clients 
now letting longer-duration contracts that span investment cycles. 
The UK water sector is currently mid cycle, with investment levels 
holding steady. The energy regulator, Ofgem, has ratified ongoing 
investment in replacing the UK’s gas distribution network – work 
for which we hold two UK frameworks.
Rising to  
the challenge of 
energy costs
UK business costs for gas and electricity 
are up 77% since 2004, and we forecast 
a further 81% increase over the coming 
decade. For the public and private sectors 
combined, that will push up the annual 
energy bill by £8.4bn to £18.7bn.
Rising prices have made energy management a board-level 
issue. And Government plans to cut emissions and improve 
energy security will increase this trend. Small wonder that 
more and more organisations are turning to us for advice and 
support in cutting their energy costs and carbon footprint.
To broaden our capability, in 2011 we acquired Power 
Efficiency, a leading player in carbon consultancy, energy 
management and procurement. Integrated with our 
WorkPlace facilities management business, it enables us 
to offer a complete energy service from carbon footprint 
planning to procurement, project implementation, operation 
and maintenance.
The benefits can be startling: for a London Docklands client, 
Power Efficiency saved £6.3m in its first four years. Its 
skills gain further value when combined with our ability to 
improve or replace inefficient energy-consuming assets 
– and further strengthen the business case for clients to 
form long-term strategic partnerships with us.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 38
Our business  
To enhance our full-service energy offering, we acquired UK energy 
consultant Power Efficiency in March 2011. This company’s work 
in risk-managed energy procurement, invoice validation, carbon 
management and technical services gives us an exciting additional 
offer to our existing FM clients, who are increasingly concerned to 
manage high energy costs.
Through Balfour Beatty Living Places we provide managed services 
to local authorities and other public sector bodies. During the year 
this business progressed extremely well, gaining contracts worth 
£475m – half in highways and half in integrated contracts. With a 
win rate better than 1 in 2.5, it increased its order book by some 
60% to over £800m.
In a competitive environment for FM, we demonstrated our ability 
to create bespoke solutions – offering quality, innovation and value 
for money – built around talented people and national capability. 
In a record year for both revenue and order intake, new clients 
included Care UK, BBC Wales, Crossrail, Greenwich Leisure, 
Camden and Islington NHS Trust, University of Salford and the 
North of the Thames Region of the London Fire and Emergency 
Planning Authority. 
We extended our relationship with Royal Mail in a new deal worth 
up to £900m over 10 years. This involved restructuring Romec, our 
joint venture with Royal Mail, in a way that deepens our relationship 
to provide solutions in areas that include energy, FM and the cost 
of change in a reducing estate.
As part of this new agreement we acquired Romec’s external trading 
business, which provides mobile engineering and maintenance 
services to third-party customers such as Sainsbury’s, Asda, BBC, 
British Museum and Camelot. This gives us a highly-skilled technical 
services business with scale and a nationwide footprint, significantly 
enhancing our ability to serve customers and achieve our growth plans.
Operational performance
Power is an area of strategic focus for the Group, and Support 
Services has a major part to play – both in our current core 
markets and internationally. During the year we won power-related 
contracts with a significant impact on the scale of our operations, 
our international reach and the capabilities we deploy.
These included a £290m contract from Scottish and Southern 
Energy to replace the electricity transmission line between Beauly 
and Wharry Burn, 20km north of Denny. This involves the project 
development, design and construction of a 200km double-circuit 
400kV overhead line and associated civil and access works, 
including construction of temporary access roads and 
improvements to some private roads.
Our international utilities business took an important step forward 
with a £414m nine-year contract, in joint venture, from Bord Gais 
in the Irish Republic. This covers the installation and maintenance 
of vital gas transmission and distribution networks across Ireland, 
including the delivery of new construction, emergency response 
and planned maintenance services. 
For over a decade we have worked with the UK’s National Grid on 
its capital programmes and the long-term maintenance of its gas 
and electricity networks. In December, National Grid extended our 
electricity alliance for another five years under a contract potentially 
worth £750m. This contract – involving design, programme 
management, construction and technical support – draws on a 
wide range of skills and resources. It provides convincing evidence 
of the breadth of the Group’s infrastructure capabilities, particularly 
in areas where clients face large and complex challenges.
Building on this work, we are seeking opportunities to deploy 
our combined capabilities in other markets, both in the UK 
and internationally. 
When the  
games end,  
the park begins
As the athletes and media depart, London’s 
Olympic site will start preparing for its 
reopening in 2013 as the Queen Elizabeth 
Olympic Park. It will be no ordinary park, 
and our custodianship will be no ordinary 
estates and facilities management job.
To do it, we’ve formed a Community Interest Company with 
environmental regeneration charity Groundwork London 
and community-led economic development specialist 
Renaisi. It’s called Our Parklife. 
Our aim is to manage a park that’s a sustainable, world-
class amenity for the communities that live around it. But 
there’s more. It will actively engage local residents in the 
way it is run. It will provide opportunities to learn about 
sustainability and launch environmental initiatives both in 
the park and in local neighbourhoods. It will provide training 
and work experience for local job seekers who need 
particular help in preparing for long-term employment.
Some of the funding for these activities will come from 
managing commercial concessions and events in the park. 
Attractions will include the 114 metres tall ArcelorMittal 
Orbit – the UK’s tallest sculpture, offering views across the 
city. And our own charitable foundation, Building Better 
Futures, has also pledged £90,000 of support.
39 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Looking forward
We expect 2012 to be another year of progress for Support 
Services, with the current order book supporting good revenue 
growth. We expect the continuation of reductions in rail and 
highways volumes to have a negative impact on margins, although 
this is expected to be offset by the positive impact on margins 
from recent contracts which will have bedded down. 
We will continue to target segments of the UK public sector market 
where an integrated model delivers attractive solutions to complex 
challenges. We are one of only a handful of companies with the 
ability and capacity to offer this approach to complex customers 
such as local authorities.
The utilities sector works through regulatory cycles. We are 
working on implementation of the water industry’s current 
2010–2015 asset management plan as well as ramping up to the 
electricity work for the recently extended National Grid contract.
International power transmission and distribution remains an area 
where technical resources are scarce. We are mobilising the 
Group’s resources and using our global footprint to develop other 
service opportunities.
We will also leverage our capabilities in energy by finding new 
ways to make our customers’ assets more energy efficient. This 
calls for innovation both in the way we deploy technology and in 
the way we structure our relationships to help customers balance 
capital and operating costs. 
We have started 2012 well, with prestigious new business wins in 
FM including a 10-year contract to run services and facilities for the 
future Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in East London, and contracts 
for UK Power Networks and EDF Energy’s offices estate.
Our PPP operation and maintenance activity continues to grow as 
the Group completes construction of new schools and hospitals 
under existing PPP contracts. During the year we added six 
hospitals and nine schools to the portfolio, taking the total to 20 
hospitals and 191 schools. This means that we now generate 
£126m of FM revenue from hospital and school assets, a 26% 
increase on 2010. 
Our rail renewal activities for Network Rail were adversely 
impacted by a 24% planned reduction in volume. Efficiency 
improvements and gain-share payments offset part of this impact. 
In highway maintenance, our contract for Area 2 was not renewed 
during the year. We are currently bidding to secure the contract for 
Area 10.
Balfour Beatty WorkSmart, which manages our UK shared service 
centre for transactional accounting, payroll and procurement, is a 
key element in our strategic aim of increasing operational efficiency. 
From a standing start in August 2010, it is now issuing 17,700 
payslips per month, and providing transactional processing for 50% 
of UK revenue and supply chain management for £300m of spend. 
The implementation of Oracle was successfully completed in the 
fourth quarter. The savings realised are summarised on page 19.
Operating review continued
Infrastructure Investments
What do we do? 
•	 Operate a portfolio of long-term PPP concessions in the UK, 
primarily in the education, health, roads/street lighting and 
renewables sectors
•	 Operate a portfolio of long-term military accommodation 
PPP concessions in the US
•	 Have interests in non-PPP assets at Blackpool and Exeter 
International airports
What’s happened?
•	 Disposal of a 60% interest in the A50 road and our stake in 
Blackburn hospital, realising £20m of disposal gains 
•	 Disposal of Barking power station
•	 Award of all three remaining military housing projects in the US 
•	 Developments in energy with preferred bidder positions won 
for the Greater Gabbard OFTO and an energy-from-waste project
What’s next?
•	 Diversify into new geographies such as Canada 
•	 Broaden into new sectors such as energy
•	 Continue with the developer model by crystallising value in the 
current portfolio and investing in new projects  
We invest principally in infrastructure, and in 
geographies where the Group has a presence. 
We apply skills available within the Group to 
make investments that deliver superior returns; 
our strength lies in being a knowledgeable and 
intelligent owner.
How we performed
Revenue including JVs and associates*
10
09
11
£682m*
£744m*
£756m
+11%
Pre-tax result before non-underlying items*
#
10
09
11
£30m*
£29m*
£71m
+137%
KPI
Directors’ valuation
While there are numerous factors that contribute to the 
movement in Director’s valuation of PPP concessions it 
is a good indicator of the value we create in our portfolio.
10
09
11
£671m
£605m
£743m
 
*  Re-presented to reflect the classification of Barking Power Ltd as a discontinued 
operation from 2 March 2011.
#
  Including subordinated debt interest income and net interest income from 
PPP subsidiaries (see Notes 6 and 7).
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 40
Our business Our strategy
We started our investments business some 15 years ago in 
response to opportunities in the UK public sector. Over time 
the business has become a major value generator for the Group.
Our strategy is to earn fees and returns from activities that 
complement and integrate with other Group activities. So we invest 
principally in infrastructure, and in geographies where the Group 
has a presence. We apply skills available within the Group to make 
investments that deliver superior returns: our strength lies in being 
a knowledgeable and intelligent owner.
We seek projects where we have the asset knowledge to 
determine and influence asset performance, and hence to control 
costs and service delivery. We focus on projects where income is 
based on availability – taking demand risk only when we are well 
placed to assess demand, as with our investments in airports. 
In November 2010 we announced our intention to recycle our 
portfolio on a active basis and use the proceeds to help fund future 
investment. These more regular asset disposals will release some 
of the accumulated value in our portfolio, generating additional 
income and cash for the Group. We sold interests in two PPP 
assets in 2011 in excess of Directors’ valuation.
Our marketplace
UK
Our principal market remains the UK. In 2010 a change of 
government led to a re-examination of the role of private finance 
in UK infrastructure development. The UK Chancellor has since 
reaffirmed the importance of public private partnership (“PPP”) and 
other forms of private finance, but we recognise that priorities may 
change and we will adjust our focus accordingly.
We see opportunities both in social and civil infrastructure projects. 
We look forward to an announcement from the Government for the 
PFI Priority Schools Programme and expect continued focus on 
renewable and sustainable energy, particularly offshore, where 
we have already achieved considerable success. 
Although there is plenty of equity financing looking to invest in 
infrastructure assets, debt financing is more constrained than in 
the recent past. Against this background, we remain confident that 
there is sufficient liquidity to finance our investments going forward.
Secondary markets remain strong and we expect to continue our 
programme of selective UK PPP asset disposals this year.
North America
In the US we have been among the most successful participants in 
the privatisation of military housing. The family housing programme 
is now in its final stages although we hope that opportunities will 
open up in single soldier housing in the next few years. The wider 
PPP/P3 environment remains fragmented, although there are signs 
that a number of transportation projects will emerge at state level 
over the coming year. We do not expect accommodation projects 
to emerge along UK lines, but do see scope to apply our military 
housing skills in other markets, including student accommodation.
In Canada, where the procurement model more closely 
resembles the UK’s, the market remains buoyant. We are currently 
pursuing accommodation opportunities in Ontario, Alberta and 
British Columbia.
Rest of the world
In line with the Group’s strategy of expansion into new markets, 
we are actively looking at projects in Australia and India, where we 
anticipate significant future opportunities.
Financial performance
At 31 December 2011, Balfour Beatty had 64 PPP projects, eight 
of which were at preferred bidder stage.
Infrastructure Investments delivered a sharply increased underlying 
pre-tax result from continuing operations up to £71m (2010: £30m), 
including net interest income. The growth in the portfolio in recent 
years has started to provide increased returns in the PPP operating 
profit results but also in the subordinated debt interest income, 
reflecting the increased investment. In addition to this, the more 
active recycling of the portfolio delivered disposal gains of £20m. 
Bid costs were down in the year, partly reflecting a move away 
from the more complex bids, such as hospitals, but also reflecting 
increased crystallised bid cost recoveries. 
We sold two mature assets in line with our strategy of realising 
value from the PPP portfolio. The disposal of a 60% interest in 
Connect A50, reducing our holding to 25%, yielded proceeds of 
£16m. The sale of our 50% stake in Blackburn Hospital yielded 
proceeds of £12m. Both interests realised proceeds in excess of 
Directors’ valuation. The total £20m book gain has been accounted 
for as part of our underlying profits and supports our progressive 
dividend policy.
Following our previously announced decision to dispose of our 
25.5% effective interest in Barking Power, we sold the asset 
to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund at its £55m book value in 
December 2011. 
Overall, despite the sale of assets, the Directors’ valuation of the 
PPP portfolio rose in the year to £743m (2010 restated: £671m). 
 
Go to P44 – P45 for the Directors’  
valuation of PPP concessions
Operational performance
The division had an excellent year in 2011 – in business wins, 
project completions and progress towards its strategic goals. The 
projects won in 2011 secured future investment of £70m, as well 
as generating around £700m of construction work and a number 
of FM contracts.
One of our strategic goals is to generate more income from the 
skills accumulated in the Investments business – and the asset 
knowledge in the Group, which has been significantly enhanced 
by the addition of Parsons Brinckerhoff. To that end we have 
established an infrastructure funds management business, 
which made good progress in the year. 
UK 
In education, despite the Government’s abandonment of the 
Building Schools for the Future (“BSF”) programme, projects we 
have secured continued into the next stages of development. 
Hertfordshire Schools BSF reached financial close and four schools 
across Islington, Southwark and Blackburn were completed and 
handed over. 
In February 2012, we disposed of our 50% interest in the North 
Lanarkshire schools PPP concession for £18m, resulting in a 
disposal gain of £8m.
In the healthcare market we completed four hospitals – 
Pinderfields, Pontefract, Salford and Fife – on time and to budget. 
The buildings have been handed over to clients, with our Support 
Services division taking responsibility for maintenance and operation.
41 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business  
Operating review continued
Northwest Fire and Rescue and street lighting projects in 
Cambridgeshire and Northamptonshire also reached financial close. 
The latter brought our total of PPP street lighting concessions to 
six: the four existing projects in Sunderland, South Tyneside, Derby 
and Coventry are all proceeding successfully.
In 2010 we were chosen as preferred bidder to acquire the 
transmission assets of the Thanet offshore wind farm, the last and 
largest of nine lots in the UK’s first competitive tender of Offshore 
Transmission Owner (“OFTO”) licences. In 2011 we were also 
named as preferred bidder for Greater Gabbard, the last and largest 
project in this round. Combined with Thanet, Greater Gabbard 
makes us the leading investor by value in this new and growing 
market, with responsibility for £480m of OFTO transmission 
assets. The UK regulator, Ofgem, has also selected us to 
participate in the next round of bidding for three further OFTO 
assets with a combined capital value of around £1bn.
Energy-from-waste is another growth area we have been targeting 
in the last two years. It fits with the Group’s strategic focus on 
power and plays to the investment strengths we have been 
developing in renewables. We have been selected as preferred 
bidder for an energy-from-waste project for Gloucestershire 
Council as well as a waste treatment project for Essex Council. 
North America
In 2011 we were chosen as “highest-ranked offeror” (preferred 
bidder) for three more family housing projects for the US Air Force: 
Western Group; Northern Group; and ACC Group. With these, the 
final projects in the military housing privatisation programme, we 
will have reinforced our market leadership and broadened our 
footprint across the US to 55 military installations in 25 states. 
While the ending of the programme makes it unlikely that we will 
add any further bases, we will be managing the development, 
construction, renovation, operation and maintenance of the assets 
in this portfolio for many years to come.
Our responsibilities extend beyond the bricks and mortar to the 
residents. Our exclusive LifeWorks @Balfour Beatty Communities 
programme – an important differentiator for us in the US military 
housing market – helps military personnel and their families to get 
fit, live healthily, develop their mental skills and share social activities.
In 2011 we made significant progress in transferring our successful 
military housing model to other accommodation investments. We 
are pleased to have attracted experienced and skilled people to 
help us address the higher education market. With work now 
completed on our first student accommodation project in Florida, 
we are bidding for further projects and expect these efforts to bear 
fruit in 2012.
More power,  
less landfill
Using waste to generate power brings local 
authority clients a double benefit: less 
landfill and a cut in the use of fossil fuels. 
Balfour Beatty’s approach to the waste sector is a great 
example of how we harness knowledge and skills from 
different parts of the Group to meet our customers’ 
requirements – and break into a key target area for new 
business. But we can’t do it all on our own despite project 
capabilities which include development and investment 
support; management and planning services; as well as 
engineering, construction and supply chain expertise. Our 
strategy recognises the importance of partnering to create 
a winning offer. So we’ve teamed up with waste specialist 
Urbaser and, together, we have won preferred bidder status 
on two waste projects in England: a major waste treatment 
scheme in Essex, and Gloucestershire’s ambitious scheme 
to generate energy from waste, while recovering recyclable 
materials such as aggregates and metals. The energy 
generated from this project alone is sufficient to power 
25,000 homes in the community. 
We see these wins as forerunners of things to come. 
Balfour Beatty is already working in partnership on other 
exciting opportunities such as power generation projects 
which use renewable biomass fuels to deliver green energy.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 42
Our business  
Looking forward
Our focus for the future is on diversification. We operate in 
complex markets and are continually developing our skills to 
address them effectively. 
We aim to generate an increasing proportion of income outside 
the public sector and to partner with a wider range of organisations 
to meet increasingly complex client demands. University 
accommodation is a good example of this strategy both in the 
US and the UK. Over time, we expect this broadening of horizons 
to reduce our reliance on traditional sectors such as education, 
health and transportation. 
In line with overall Group strategy we are also broadening our 
geographical reach. Our ability to manage and invest in PPP 
projects is an increasingly valuable differentiator for the Group 
in many of the markets it is now targeting.
The success of our disposal programme so far and the active 
secondary markets we are currently experiencing have led to 
the decision to accelerate our disposal programme with a target 
of £40m of gains on disposals in 2012.
Founded  
on respect
We’re building a reputation for the way we 
engage with local communities. And in US 
military housing, where we’re one of the 
market leaders, that’s been recognised 
– and welcomed.
Our LifeWorks programme makes a significant contribution 
to the wellbeing of service families. And our non-profit 
Balfour Beatty Communities Foundation is dedicated to 
honouring military personnel – active, disabled and fallen. 
We do this because we feel it is the right thing to do. 
At Fort Bliss, for example, the new Field of Honor Memorial 
has become a focal point for reflection – marking a lasting 
tribute to soldiers from the base killed in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The Foundation supports military personnel and their 
families in practical ways, reflecting the wider engagement 
across the military housing estate we manage.
43 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business 1
2
3
4
5
1
2
3
In the UK we have built a leading position in the 
Private Finance Initiative (PFI) and public private 
partnerships (PPPs). In 2008 we acquired a 
US business, now renamed Balfour Beatty 
Communities, giving us a strong position in 
privatised military housing, America’s most 
developed PPP market. Building on this platform, 
we have also invested in student housing 
in Florida. 
The Directors’ valuation is intended to illustrate movements in 
underlying values in our PPP investment portfolio between periods 
and highlight the impact of intervening transactions through the 
application of a consistent methodology. It does not set out to 
estimate the market value of the investments in the portfolio. 
“Value” is based on the forecast investments and returns of the 
projects based on current projections, and may differ significantly 
from the book value of the investments shown in the accounts.
The values are calculated on a discounted cash flow basis, 
discounting all future cash flows to Balfour Beatty at a fixed rate. 
This rate is 9.5% before shareholder tax for the UK portfolio and 
12% before shareholder tax for the US portfolio. This is a change 
from previous years, when we applied an after-tax rate of 8% 
across both portfolios. The move to a pre-tax basis for the valuation 
is in line with the methodology used by the market to value such 
assets and more accurately reflects the portfolio’s potential market 
value. The pre-tax rates used this year are broadly consistent with 
the effective pre-tax rates used in 2010; nevertheless, the 2010 
values have been restated in order to aid comparison.
As the chart below left shows, we promote, develop and invest in 
assets in three main sectors. We construct new roads, upgrade 
and maintain existing roads and replace and maintain street lighting. 
We build hospitals and provide them with non-medical facilities 
management services. And we design, and build or refurbish 
schools, and provide them with non-educational services. 
We have a number of concessions in other sectors such as energy 
and are actively looking to transfer our experience from the more 
traditional PPP sectors into other sectors.
Directors’ valuation of PPP concessions
No. of 
projects
2011
£m
2010
restated
£m
2010
£m
1 Roads 13 239 233 240 
2 Hospitals 8 202 185 190 
3 Schools 14 86 81 75 
4 Other 8 42 26 28 
5 BB Communities 21 174 146 146 
Total 743 671 679 
No. of 
projects
2011
£m
2010
restated 
£m
2010 
£m
1 Operations 45 538 469 476
2 Construction 11 166 193 193
3 Preferred bidder 8 39 9 10
Total 743 671 679 
Portfolio valuation: December 2011
Value by sector Value by phase
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 44
Our business The table above shows the changes in the value of our portfolio 
over the past year, based on:
•	 the 2010 valuation, and the restated values calculated with the 
2011 discount rates
•	 PLUS equity invested during the year
•	 LESS distributions received during the year
•	 LESS the sale value of disposals during the year. During the year 
we sold our stakes in two projects: a 60% interest in the A50 
project and a 50% interest in Blackburn Hospital
•	 PLUS the “discount unwind” – the increase in value as time 
passes, bringing future distributions closer
•	 together, these changes give us the “rebased” figure
•	 PLUS new project wins during the year – five in Balfour Beatty 
Capital and three in Balfour Beatty Communities. So far, only one 
of these contracts has reached financial close and little of the 
equity has been invested – so their valuation is still relatively low
•	 PLUS the gains we made from disposals during the year, 
over and above the Directors’ valuation of those projects 
•	 PLUS operational performance gains, which reflect 
improvements or reductions in the performance of the 
investments – these may be due to higher inflation, better 
performance, changes in demand, revisions to costs and other 
factors. Balfour Beatty Capital is showing a small net gain on 
performance this year with increases due to higher inflation and 
lower tax. Balfour Beatty Communities is also showing a net 
increase; the movements include increases in project scope, 
changes to rental rates and underlying cost movements
•	 PLUS the effect of foreign exchange movements on our 
portfolio value
•	 together, these give us the valuation of the 64 projects in our 
portfolio at the end of 2011.
These graphs give the value of the portfolio over a range of pre shareholder tax discount rates enabling the reader to revalue the 
US and UK portfolios at a discount rate of their choice.
Balfour Beatty PPP concessions’ valuation range
Balfour Beatty Capital Balfour Beatty Communities
Movement in value £m
2010
2010 
restated
Equity 
invested
Distri-
butions 
received
Disposal 
proceeds
Unwind 
of 
discount Rebased
New 
project 
wins
Gain on 
disposals
Operational 
perfor-
mance 
gains
FX 
translation 2011
BB Capital 533 525 42 (44) (28) 52 547 13 4 5 – 569 
BB Communities 146 146 10 (26) – 17 147 19 – 7 1 174
Total 679 671 52 (70) (28) 69 694 32 4 12 1 743 
0
100
200
300
500
400
700
600
900
800
638 
6.5% 7 .0% 7 .5% 8.0% 8.5% 9.0% 9.5% 10.0% 10.5% 11 .0% 11 .5%
569 
525
510
Directors’ valuation £m
Balfour Beatty Capital portfolio 2011       
Balfour Beatty Capital portfolio 2010
Discount rate
591
470
0
50
100
150
300
250
200
Directors’ valuation £m
9.0% 9.5% 10.0% 10.5% 11.0% 11.5% 12.0% 12.5% 13.0% 13.5% 14.0%
Balfour Beatty Communities portfolio 2011       
Balfour Beatty Communities portfolio 2010
Discount rate
194
174
146
157
161
134
45 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business from
olympic needs
Zaha Hadid’s Aquatics Centre design certainly met the  
“iconic structure” brief for London 2012. Our job was to bring it to life 
sustainably and on time. Integrating Parsons Brinckerhoff’s design 
expertise with our core engineering and construction skills 
transformed the environmental footprint, meaning less hardwood, 
while saving 1,600 metres of steelwork.
46 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 to 
future needs
The true value of London 2012 will be judged by what it leaves behind. 
Stadia like the Aquatics Centre will be a facility for the capital, with 
community use at its heart. We’re now tasked with helping transform the 
wider area into the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park. Our goal is to create a 
special place for generations to come, built on social responsibility. 
Read more: case study on page 39.
Our business
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 47 1. Ethics and values
Our values
We have embedded our values across the business to ensure that 
all our people act consistently and make the right decisions, day in 
day out. Integrity requires us to be honest and transparent and 
always do what is right. Teamwork means seeing ourselves as 
part of a bigger picture in the way we work with colleagues across 
the Group – and with customers and suppliers. Respect shapes 
the way we treat people inside and outside the business – and the 
wider community and environment. Excellence is the standard 
of performance people are entitled to expect from a leader.
Our commitment to integrity
Our ethics, values and compliance programme is designed to 
embed ethics and integrity across our business. It covers not only 
bribery, fraud and competition law, but also data protection, human 
rights and other areas addressed in our Code of Conduct. To earn 
the confidence and trust of clients and other stakeholders, and 
to support our business strategy, we must conduct our business 
ethically and with integrity across all these activities and at all 
times. We must play our part in helping to eradicate corruption 
and uphold good business practices wherever we work. And we 
must ensure that, wherever we operate, we comply with local 
and applicable international laws – or our own ethical standards, 
if higher.
In 2009 we published our comprehensive Code of Conduct. 
During 2011 we continued to embed this, building on the two 
online training modules that all office-based and supervisory staff 
are required to take. We also continued a series of visits to our 
business units to assess and raise awareness of ethical risks 
associated with specific sectors and countries. To date 30,000 
employees have completed the first module of the training and 
we will report on completion of the second module in next year’s 
report. In 2012 we are also rolling-out an ethical training programme 
for site operatives.
We continue to encourage employees and others to report actual 
or suspected unethical behaviour to their managers or via our 
Ethics Helpline or other channels. As expected, last year we saw 
another significant increase in the number of cases of potential 
breaches of the Code of Conduct (whether reported or through 
such channels or detected by management), from 176 in 2010 
to 284 in 2011.
We have many thousands of subcontractors and suppliers, 
consultants, and joint venture and consortium partners. To reduce 
third-party risk and protect both suppliers and ourselves, we 
launched a new Code of Conduct for Subcontractors, Suppliers 
and Partners in 2011. 
Our priorities for 2012 and beyond are to continue embedding 
appropriate procedures and controls for managing the supply chain 
and other third-party risks to support our growth strategy in new 
and often higher-risk markets. 
Independent review of anti-corruption measures
During 2011, the Global Infrastructure Anti-Corruption Centre 
(“GIACC”) continued its detailed review of the anti-corruption 
compliance programme across our operating companies. This 
included sample risk and commercial management assessments, 
and interviews with senior management and compliance officers.
 
Trust in business has declined in recent times. At Balfour Beatty we are committed to operating 
responsibly and have developed significant programmes of activity in five key areas which are 
embedded across our whole organisation. 
The way we work
1. 
Ethics and values
Values-based businesses are high 
performing businesses, and our 
values underpin everything we do. 
We live by these values.
2.
Sustainability
We have a clear vision for operating 
sustainably, with specific goals. You 
will find evidence of this throughout 
this report and in more detail within 
our sustainability report 2011 at 
www.balfourbeatty.com/sr11.
3.
People
Our business is a people business. 
Recruiting and retaining the best 
people is a key focus for us.
4.
Health and safety
We passionately believe that every 
employee has the right to go home 
without injury and that no member 
of the public should be harmed as a 
result of our work. Our Zero Harm 
programme has delivered good 
results, but as ever, we must 
continuously seek out improvements 
across the business.
5.
Respecting our communities
We touch many communities all 
over the world, wherever we 
operate. We engage directly with 
those communities and in particular 
have a strong commitment to get 
young people into the job market 
through skills training. Our charitable 
activities are geared towards this goal.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 48
Our business This is a natural field for collaboration between our businesses 
and we have been strengthening the teamwork involved in our 
approach to winning new business. During the year we held 
workshops in Atlanta and London for our business development 
and sustainability teams to share best practice and experience in 
exploiting these new growth opportunities. 
Our Group-wide approach is enabling us to develop innovative new 
tools that sharpen our competitive edge. For example, we have 
developed a cutting-edge water footprinting tool to measure the 
amount of water embedded in building materials, and a climate 
change adaptation framework which allows us to assess adaptation 
measures right across the infrastructure lifecycle.
We are also applying our expertise to play a more influential role 
in heightening market awareness of sustainability issues. Examples 
in 2011 included responding to the UK Government’s Natural 
Environment White Paper to encourage biodiversity enhancement 
through better infrastructure procurement, and our involvement in 
the Strategic Forum for Construction and UK Contractors’ Group 
to disseminate best practice on saving water in construction 
and piloting the Environment Agency’s carbon calculator on 
building projects.
GIACC’s main conclusions in its 2011 report are as follows:
•	 overall, Balfour Beatty has developed and is implementing a best 
practice anti-corruption compliance programme throughout the 
organisation
•	 the leadership from the Board and senior management in relation 
to the importance of ethical compliance is clear and unequivocal
•	 major steps have been taken during 2011 to improve the 
compliance programme, and good momentum is being maintained
•	 there are differences in the strength and level of implementation 
of the programme between different operating companies. 
However, these have been identified, and appropriate action 
is being taken
•	 GIACC believes that Balfour Beatty is committed to continuing 
to implement and improve its compliance programme on a 
long-term basis.
At the end of 2011 GIACC completed its detailed review of all our 
operating companies apart from Parsons Brinckerhoff, whose 
review will be complete at the end of 2012.
2. Sustainability
Sustainability – respecting the bigger picture
As a business we have set out a clear path to embed sustainability 
into everything we do by 2020. Our Vision and Roadmap defines 
where we want to be in 10 key focus areas: customers, influence, 
our people, our supply chain, the communities we serve, climate 
change, waste, water, materials and ecology, and how we intend 
to get there. We have made significant progress in 2011.
Assessing our progress
During the year KPMG completed its independent review of our 
operating companies’ progress in implementing their sustainability 
action plans. Its consultants visited more than 20 operating 
companies in seven countries. They interviewed 380 managers and 
senior leaders, and identified 180 examples of good practice which 
we shared across the Group. Parsons Brinckerhoff completed and 
launched its own action plan during the year.
We continued our programme to engage employees on 
sustainability through awareness training and appraisals. Over 
17,000 employees completed our comprehensive e-learning 
module in 2011. We also received over 60,000 pledges of personal 
commitment to change behaviour for more sustainable outcomes.
To be considered a leader in sustainability we need to be seen to 
be benchmarked against other companies. To that end we will 
participate in the Business in the Community Corporate 
Responsibility Index in 2012.
Delivering sustainability for our customers
For us, sustainability is not only a business goal. It is also a product 
that we can offer our customers, by helping them to make more 
sustainable choices. 
The “green economy” presents growing opportunities for us. Our 
capabilities across the infrastructure lifecycle mean we are well 
positioned to provide more sustainable solutions for our customers, 
and we are winning increasing amounts of business in this area.
We are making particular progress in three areas:
•	 renewable energy infrastructure, particularly offshore wind 
•	 municipal waste management facilities
•	 greening existing buildings through energy consulting services 
and retrofitting low-carbon technologies.
“ Balfour Beatty are to be commended on 
their approach to stakeholder engagement 
and the reporting of sustainability 
performance. They have set out a 
challenging roadmap on sustainability and 
are clearly committed to open dialogue 
with their stakeholders on their 
sustainability journey. There is always 
more that can be done and the 
stakeholder panel have set out further 
recommendations on where Balfour 
Beatty can improve. This is timely given 
the revision process underway to develop 
new roadmap targets for 2015.” 
Paul Edwards, 
Head of Sustainability, Hammerson plc  
(and chair of the 2011 stakeholder panel)
49 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Already, our commitment to individual and team development 
has enabled us to share a range of efficiency improvements 
with customers, introduce more flexible working arrangements, 
promote transparency in the way we work, understand our 
customers and develop innovative, value-add solutions. Our focus 
on the whole picture, the full lifecycle of the asset, means we can 
deliver more complete and sustainable solutions for our customers 
and we intend to take this further. In the future, we want all our 
people to understand that they are part of a broad community 
of interest across the Group, unconstrained by the boundaries of 
our existing business and ways of working. We are committed 
to evolving a culture in which everyone actively promotes the free 
exchange of knowledge and openly demonstrates collaboration 
with colleagues and customers. And we will support this with 
technology, implementing an integrated platform that allows the 
Group to share information across the business and work together 
effectively to common goals.
Supporting our people in realising their potential and maximising 
the know-how, skills and capability available to the organisation is 
central to the delivery of our growth strategy. Our demonstrable, 
ongoing commitment to high-quality development and leadership 
will help us to attract and retain the high-quality skills and attributes 
we need in the business.
Unlocking this potential and realising the value of our people also 
requires a more progressive approach to diversity and inclusion. 
Building on a strong platform of local activities and accreditation, 
the Group is now looking to define its standing as an employer and, 
working with partners like Opportunity Now and Global Diversity 
Practice, to promote our strong commitment to diversity internally 
and in the market. We recently approved a broad range of measures 
covering the way in which we attract, recruit, develop and promote 
people to support the progression of under-represented groups 
in the organisation. The global scale and scope of our business 
creates a growing range of exciting opportunities for personal and 
career development for our people, offering more of them the 
chance to work across industry, geographic and cultural boundaries.
In 2011, we continued to enhance our graduate proposition and 
development programmes (and improved our standing as a Times’ 
best graduate employer from 69th to 66th). We also refreshed our 
suite of management and leadership development programmes to 
support a more integrated approach to career development. Finally, 
we improved our comprehensive annual Group-wide Succession 
and Talent Review clarifying the link between identifying potential 
and the provision of opportunities for development. The application 
of a broad “diversity lens” to the review is just one of the measures 
in place to both accelerate the progression of our most talented 
people and ensure appropriate and tailored support is in place.
4. Health and safety
Ensuring people’s health and safety
The health and safety of all our people and everyone affected by 
our activities is fundamental. 
Our vision is to achieve Zero Harm with zero deaths, zero injuries 
to the public and zero ruined lives among all our people. This means 
no seriously disabling injuries, no long-term harm to health and the 
goal of a zero accident frequency rate by the end of 2012.
A bold vision like Zero Harm does not come easily; it demands real 
leadership, a consistent focus on risk elimination and unrelenting 
attention to detail.
The way we work continued
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
0
07 08 09 10 11
39.1
2012 target 2020 target
33.9
36.3
41.7
41.4
Global equivalent tonnes CO 2 per £m revenue 
(excluding air travel data)
Environmental performance
We have made good progress against a number of environmental 
targets in our roadmap. We reduced our use of water, are on track 
to halve our waste to landfill by 2012 and in the UK procured 34% 
of our major materials from recognised responsible sourcing 
schemes. Reducing our energy consumption continues to be 
challenging, but overall in 2011 our CO
2
 emissions decreased 
slightly to 41.4 tonnes/£m (2011: 41.7 tonnes/£m following 
restatement due to more comprehensive data). Improvements in 
our UK businesses were partially offset by a growth in more 
energy-intensive projects in Hong Kong. Further details are 
available in our sustainability report 2011 online.
Environmental governance and compliance
Strategic environmental issues are reviewed by the sustainability 
working group. An environmental managers’ forum also reviews 
key topics and shares best practice across the Group. 
Environmental performance is audited regularly. 
Six minor environmental incidents resulted in enforcement action 
and fines in 2011 across the Group (2010: five) totalling £18,800 
equivalent. These ranged from exceeding noise limits, to waste 
violations and a minor oil spill. Corrective actions have been 
completed for each violation.
We are currently developing our approach to responsible 
procurement, and intend to implement a global procurement model 
in 2012. During the year we also intend to finish refreshing our 
sustainability roadmap with new targets for 2015, to embed 
sustainability into our leadership framework, and to introduce a 
measurement tool for assessing the impact of our community 
investment programme.
We will also be able to report progress against the key safety and 
environmental targets set for 2012 in the roadmap and our Zero 
Harm vision.
3. People
Working together, fulfilling potential and enhancing 
capabilities
At the heart of our strategy is recognition that the skills and 
potential of our people and their ability to team effectively with 
each other, our customers and the supply chain will be a crucial 
differentiator for the Group. As well as enhancing the quality of the 
solutions we develop, building and sustaining strong relationships 
will help us improve our services and drive operational efficiency.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 50
Our business  
For the most part the campaign made good progress in 2011. 
Our overall Group performance improved, with most businesses 
making further strides towards Zero Harm. 
Of the 189 major injuries reported in 2011, five were permanently 
disabling, compared with two in 2010. The Group Accident 
Frequency Rate (“AFR”) increased to 0.17 in 2011 from 0.16 in 2010 
which is disappointing but driven by the particular safety challenges 
in Gammon. There were significant improvements in many parts 
of the Group with 16 out of 27 businesses showing either an 
improved AFR or remaining at zero AFR in 2011 compared with 
2010 and the overall Group AFR has reduced by 67% since 2001.
There were 158 injuries to members of the public in 2011, 
compared with 159 in 2010. 
However, we regret that, tragically, there were five worker fatalities 
during the year, all in our Hong Kong joint venture business, 
Gammon Construction. Every fatal accident is subject to a thorough 
investigation and review by the Balfour Beatty Board. A detailed 
plan is in place. Further details are available in our sustainability 
report 2011 online.
In 2012 we are re-energising our approach to ensure that we 
achieve our Zero Harm vision. This will include a focus on planning 
work through a Zero Harm lens – Zero Harm thinking needs to 
permeate all aspects of design and planning well before work 
starts onsite. We seek to eliminate risk early in the design and 
planning process as only then can we be sure that people will not 
be harmed.
Leadership
Zero Harm has brought some encouraging results – and this is 
always where individuals at any level have gone the extra mile to 
make Zero Harm a reality on their patch. They take real ownership, 
live Zero Harm and actively drive out risks. Our priority is to 
re-energise our leadership of Zero Harm and focus on risk 
elimination. We will also extend our Leading Change: Driving the 
Safety Agenda programme to the next layer of management.
5. Respecting our communities
Respecting the communities around us
By its nature, our business is centred on communities and brings 
them significant benefits: we improve people’s everyday lives 
around the world by creating and caring for efficient, high-quality 
civil and social amenities.
However, we also recognise the importance of engaging more 
directly with the communities where we operate. Because our 
operations are so widely dispersed, we do this in a decentralised 
way through local initiatives that fit with the individual objectives 
of our businesses and provide motivation and engagement for 
their employees. Across the Group there is a high degree of 
commitment to and activity in community investment. 
At Group level we work, often in partnership with customers, 
to support organisations and activities that aim to improve social 
cohesion and inclusion. These have included the London Youth 
Games and the Prince’s Trust with its Get Into Construction 
scheme. We also donate cash and the energies of our employees 
to selected charitable causes. In late 2008 we formed our own 
charitable trust, Building Better Futures, which has donated over 
£1.5m to disadvantaged young people’s charities.
In 2011 we carried out a strategic review of our community 
objectives and policies to take account of the Group’s increasing 
size and geographical spread and to fulfil our desire to align our 
community programmes more closely with key social issues and 
our core business activities. As a result of this we are developing 
a Group-wide programme branded as Balfour Beatty – Building 
Better Futures. It will focus on three themes: young people’s 
employability and employment; helping the most disadvantaged 
young people in society; and health, sport and wellbeing.
We also want to build a volunteering culture and will be conducting 
a Group-wide review to help us achieve this. This will include a 
review of divisional HR policies to encourage volunteering, as well 
as working with our business and charitable partners to identify 
opportunities for our staff to become involved.
Alison Rothnie – 
secondment to  
Hong Kong
As Balfour Beatty continues to grow and 
become more international, so do the 
opportunities for our employees to work 
in different countries and cultures. 
Alison has worked for Balfour Beatty for four years. 
During her “day job” on the M25, London’s orbital 
motorway, she is advising on the implementation of the 
2020 sustainability vision and roadmap in terms of its 
maintenance and operation.
Alison completed a four-month secondment during 2011 
working for Gammon Construction, our Hong Kong-based 
joint venture business. Not only was Alison able to work on 
some major road schemes on the other side of the world 
such as the Tolo Highway, she also shared some of the 
sustainability tools used in the UK such as carbon 
footprinting and CEEQUAL. 
“Working in Hong Kong was the experience of a lifetime. 
Opportunities such as this are a great way to share 
sustainability knowledge around the Group.” 
Alison Rothnie,  
Sustainability Manager, Connect Plus Services 
51 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business We have a long history of providing the assets needed to create and distribute power. 
Now climate change, energy costs and diminishing fossil fuel supplies are growing 
concerns for governments and our customers. Buildings generate over half of all 
greenhouse gas emissions, and our energy-efficiency expertise is already a powerful 
lever in winning new-build business. 
Read more: case study on page 31.
from
powering  
today
52 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Societies everywhere want to generate more power more 
sustainably. We are focusing on the segments where we can apply 
our skills in renewable energy infrastructure, particularly for onshore 
and offshore wind and municipal waste management facilities 
including waste-to-energy. 
to 
powering  
tomorrow
Our business
53 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Chief Financial Officer’s review
Twelve years 
of uninterrupted 
dividend growth
“ Despite difficult trading 
conditions we have delivered 
9% growth in underlying 
EPS and dividends. ”
Duncan Magrath
Chief Financial Officer
Results for the year
2011 2010
Percentage 
increase
Revenue including joint ventures and associates £11,035m £10,473m +5%
Group revenue £9,494m £9,236m +3%
Profit from continuing operations
– underlying £331m £325m +2%
– reported £242m £220m +10%
Pre-tax profit from continuing operations
– underlying £334m £306m +9%
– reported £246m £201m +22%
Earnings per share from continuing operations
– underlying 35.5p 32.7p +9%
– basic 26.7p 23.0p +16%
2010 accounts re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation.
For more information go online: 
http://annualreport11.balfourbeatty.com 
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 54
Our business Financial review
Revenue including joint ventures and associates increased 5% in the 
year to £11,035m (2010: £10,473m). The impact of acquisitions was 
relatively modest in the year, and was partially offset by the loss of 
revenue from the disposals of the UK specialist rail manufacturing 
business and PPP assets. Excluding the impact of currency and 
acquisitions and disposals, underlying revenue growth was 4% 
compared with the underlying decline of 11% experienced in 2010.
Our share of underlying post-tax profits from continuing joint 
ventures and associates increased to £75m from £72m last year, 
principally due to increased profits from our UK roads concessions 
offset by reduced profits from overseas rail joint ventures.
Underlying profit from continuing operations increased by 2% to 
£331m (2010: £325m), including the benefit of £20m of gains from 
PPP disposals.
Net finance income of £3m was up significantly on the prior year 
(2010: net cost £19m), largely as a result of an £18m reduction in 
the net finance cost on pension schemes. Additional investment 
into PPP projects resulted in a £6m increase in subordinated debt 
interest income. 
Underlying pre-tax profit from continuing operations therefore 
increased 9% to £334m (2010: £306m).
The underlying tax charge for continuing operations for the year 
of £91m (2010: £83m), excluding the Group’s share of the results 
of joint ventures and associates, equates to an effective tax rate of 
35.1% (2010: 35.5%). Eliminating the preference share dividends, 
which do not attract tax relief, the Group’s effective tax rate would 
have been 33.7% (2010: 33.9%). Adjusting further to include tax in 
associates and joint ventures, and comparing this to pre-tax profits 
for the continuing Group and associates and joint ventures, the 
effective tax rate was 29.2% (2010: 29.7%). 
Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items of £88m (2010: £105m) before tax were 
charged to the income statement for continuing operations. This 
comprised amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £62m 
(2010: £82m) and other items of £26m (2010: £23m). This 
amortisation charge declined in the year as some intangible assets 
became fully written down and more than offset the increase from 
new acquisitions. Other items comprised £7m for acquisition related 
costs (2010: £31m) and £12m for the cost of implementing the UK 
shared service centre (2010: £12m), which remains on track for 
annual gross savings of £30m by 2013 as forecast. In 2011 we also 
had a £7m loss on disposal of the UK specialist rail manufacturing 
business, including a goodwill write-off of £7m. In 2010 PPP 
disposal gains of £20m were included in non-underlying items.
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share for continuing businesses of 35.5p 
were up 9% on last year (2010: 32.7p).
Discontinued operations
The Group’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power was 
classified as a discontinued operation from 2 March 2011 and was 
sold in December 2011 to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund at its 
carrying value of £55m.
Cash flow performance
Cash generated from operations of £35m (2010: £169m) was 
impacted by a working capital outflow of £201m. Including the 
impact of acquisitions and exchange, negative working capital 
decreased from £1,248m at the end of 2010 to £1,085m at the end 
of 2011. Of this decrease of £163m, the two biggest components 
were reductions of £122m in Construction Services and £67m in 
Professional Services. In Construction the reduction in negative 
working capital was largely due to changes in the mix of business, 
away from larger more complex projects, which have the potential 
Group trading performance
2011 saw good operating and financial performance in a year 
impacted by cutbacks in government spending.
Professional Services performed well, managing to grow its order 
book from £1.5bn to £1.6bn, increase its revenue by 2% and 
increase its underlying profit by 2% to £87m. Indeed, if the 
unusually large incentive income from 2010 is excluded, profit 
growth was 13% and operating margin percentage improved from 
4.8% to 5.3%. Geographically, performance was good in the US 
despite continued delays in reauthorisation of the Highways Bill, 
weak in the UK, where government cuts continued to hamper 
recovery and further cost reductions were implemented, and 
strong in the rest of the world, particularly Australia.
2011 saw the anticipated reduction in underlying profitability of 
Construction Services, down to £169m (2010: £201m) largely on 
the back of reduced margin performance in the US and also within 
our European rail business. Strong order intake in 2010 in the US 
and Hong Kong, along with the impact of acquisitions, drove 2011 
revenue growth of 5%, or 2% excluding acquisitions and disposals. 
Order books declined by 8% to £8.5bn, with the UK down 25% 
since December 2010, and the US up 12% since December 2010 
as a result of acquisitions. However, this decline is compensated 
by the increase in orders we have won, but not yet signed, which 
are therefore excluded from our order book.
For Support Services 2011 was a year of good growth in order 
book, up 13% to £5.1bn, revenue, up 10%, and underlying profit, 
up 8%. At the same time we strengthened our service offering 
with the acquisition of Romec Services, which provides a national 
mobile FM capability, and Power Efficiency, which provides an 
increasingly important energy consulting capability.
Infrastructure Investments delivered a sharply increased underlying 
pre-tax profit from continuing operations up to £71m (2010: £30m). 
The growth in the portfolio in recent years has started to provide 
increased returns through both PPP results and also subordinated 
debt interest income, reflecting the increased investment. In addition 
to this, the more active recycling of the PPP portfolio delivered 
disposal gains of £20m. Bid costs were down in the year, partly 
reflecting a move away from the more complex bids, such as 
hospitals but also reflecting increased crystallised bid cost recoveries. 
See pages 28 to 45 for more detailed comments on performance 
by segment.
0.0p
2.5p
5.0p
7.5p
10.0p
12.5p
15.0p
Dividends per ordinary share restated for the bonus element of the 2009 
rights issue.
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Dividends per share
55 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Infrastructure investments
During 2011, the Group invested £52m (2010: £73m) in a 
combination of equity and shareholder loans to PPP project 
companies and at the end of the year had committed to provide 
a further £87m from 2012 onwards, with some £65m expected 
in addition for projects at preferred bidder stage. 
During the year total proceeds of £28m were received from 
the disposal of a 60% interest in Connect A50, and the Group’s 
50% interest in Blackburn Hospital, realising £4m in excess 
of Directors’ valuation.
At 31 December 2011, the Group’s share of non-recourse net debt 
within Balfour Beatty Capital’s continuing PPP project companies 
amounted to £2,127m (2010: £1,886m), comprising £1,795m (2010: 
£1,616m) in relation to joint ventures and associates as disclosed in 
Note 16.2 and £332m (2010: £270m) on the Group balance sheet in 
relation to wholly owned project companies as disclosed in Note 24.1.
The Directors have carried out a valuation of the Group’s PPP 
concessions, including the PPP concessions of Balfour Beatty 
Communities, and this is set out on pages 44 and 45. This shows 
that the value of the portfolio has increased during the year from 
a restated £671m to £743m, despite the £28m of disposals.
Working capital
Negative working capital reduced from £1,248m to £1,085m, 
so total working capital as a percentage of annualised revenue 
(“WCPR”) at the end of the year was (10.9)% (2010: (13.5)%). The 
most significant component of negative working capital relates to 
Construction Services, which ended the year with WCPR of (14.7)% 
(2010: (17.6)%). 
We have seen a shift of our business away from larger and more 
complex construction projects, many of which are project financed, 
to shorter-term smaller projects, which tend to have less scope for 
favourable payment terms. We anticipate this trend will continue in 
2012, and so expect the WCPR for Construction Services to reduce 
further by 1% to 2%.
In Professional Services we have seen a shift from a small negative 
WCPR of (2.4)% last year-end to a positive 1.9% at the end of 2011. 
This is due to the unwinding of some particularly favourable projects 
in the Asia Pacific region, anticipated at the time of acquisition. 
This segment is expected to trend toward a positive 5% working 
capital business over the next 18 months, which is the norm for 
a professional services business, where the largest element of 
cost is salaries.
for more favourable terms, to smaller projects. The Professional 
Services movement largely relates to a decrease in negative 
working capital on some Asian contracts, which was anticipated 
at the time of the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
Cash from operations was also impacted by the regular pension 
deficit payments of £58m (2010: £41m). 
As shown in the diagram below, average cash in the second 
half of the year was £104m, although the Group’s net cash at 
31 December 2011 was in excess of that at £340m (2010: £518m), 
before taking into account the consolidation of £332m (2010: 
£270m) of non-recourse net debt held in wholly owned PPP 
project companies.
More detailed analysis on the movements in net cash is shown 
in Note 36.
Goodwill and intangible assets
Total consideration for acquisitions in the year amounted to £120m. 
Goodwill arising on these acquisitions amounted to £87m and a 
further £34m of intangible assets were recognised. As a result, and 
after exchange adjustments, the goodwill on the Group’s balance 
sheet at 31 December 2011 increased to £1,279m (2010: £1,196m) 
and other intangible assets, net of amortisation of £66m (2010: 
£82m), reduced to £239m (2010: £251m). 
Impairment reviews have been carried out, and none of the 
goodwill has been impaired. Details of the calculations and 
assumptions are shown in Note 13.
Balance sheet and capital structure
Balfour Beatty has a somewhat unusual balance sheet structure 
which is further complicated by the varying characteristics of the 
businesses within the Group. The diagram below tries to give 
a visual representation of the major elements that we think of 
when considering the shape of the balance sheet.
Excluding intangible assets, there are two significant sources 
of asset strength, the Directors’ value of the PPP investments 
portfolio and net cash. These balance the liabilities of negative 
working capital and pensions. During 2011 there were a number 
of factors that affected the absolute levels of those balances, and 
despite a reduction in the absolute level of cash we consider the 
year-end position overall to be as strong as at the start of the year.
These items are considered further below. 
Chief Financial Officer’s review continued
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
£m
Net cash       Six-monthly average
June
2008
Dec
2008
June
2009
Dec
2009
June
2010
Dec
2010
June
2011
Dec
2011
 
†
 Excluding net debt of PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse).
Net cash balances
†
£(1,248)m
£(1,085)m
£671m
£743m
£518m
£340m
£(441)m
£(275)m
£1,160m
£1,263m
Investments
1
Working capital
Pension deﬁcit
Net assets
Net cash
2
¹  Directors’ valuation of PPP concessions.
²  Excluding net debt of PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse).
2010      2011
Balance sheet elements
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 56
Our business Banking facilities
The Group has no significant net debt, other than the non-recourse 
borrowings of companies engaged in PPP projects and 
infrastructure investments.
In November 2011 the Group’s existing bilateral committed facilities 
were replaced by a five-year revolving syndicated facility at £850m 
with similar covenants. The purpose of this facility, and other small 
facilities, is to provide liquidity from a group of core relationship 
banks to support Balfour Beatty in its current and future activities. 
In the normal course of its business, the Group arranges for financial 
institutions to provide customers with guarantees in connection 
with its contracting activities (commonly referred to as “bonds”). 
Such bonds provide a customer with a level of financial protection 
in the event that a contractor fails to meet its commitments under 
the terms of a contract. In return for issuing the bonds, the financial 
institutions receive a fee and a counter-indemnity from Balfour 
Beatty plc. As at 31 December 2011, contract bonds in issue by 
financial institutions under uncommitted facilities covered £3.7bn 
(2010: £3.8bn) of contract commitments of the Group.
Financial risk factors and going concern
The financial risk factors for the Group remain largely unchanged, 
with one exception noted below, and are discussed in Note 21 
along with details of financial instruments. The one exception is the 
increased risk of economic events in Europe leading to a disruption 
to the euro, possible sovereign default, banking instability and the 
impact that these events could have on economic growth rates. A 
relatively small part of our Group operates in countries at the centre 
of the euro crisis. We currently have no activity in Greece, and 
aggregate revenue in 2011 across Portugal, Spain, Italy and Ireland 
was less than 1%. Our cash deposits are well diversified, and our 
new five-year bank facility provides us with significant headroom, 
such that we are able to cope with at least two banks being unable 
to satisfy committed facilities. As such we assess the risk to the 
Group in the short term from these events does not impact the 
views on going concern noted below. Whilst infrastructure spending 
tends to be relatively resilient to economic downturns, a sustained 
crisis would likely lead to reduced growth rates in Europe and also 
probably the UK, and this would likely lead to reduced growth rates 
for our business. As identified in Note 13, the carrying value of the 
goodwill in our European rail business could be impaired if the 
growth rates fall 100bp below our assumptions.
The Directors have acknowledged the guidance “Going Concern 
and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009” 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009. In 
reviewing the future prospects of the Group, the following factors 
are relevant:
•	 the Group has a strong order backlog, and good forward visibility 
•	 there continues to be underlying demand in infrastructure 
markets in the countries in which the Group operates
•	 the Group has an increasingly diversified business model that 
gives resilience to the business and
•	 the Group had £340m net cash at 31 December 2011, and was 
strongly supported by the banking market in November 2011 when 
a new five-year £850m syndicated credit facility was put in place.
Based on the above, and having made appropriate enquiries and 
reviewed medium-term cash forecasts, the Directors consider 
it reasonable to assume that the Group and the Company have 
adequate resources to continue for the foreseeable future and, 
for this reason, have continued to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the accounts.
Pensions – balance sheet movement
The Group’s balance sheet includes aggregate deficits of £275m 
(2010: £441m) for the Group’s pension funds. Note 26 sets out the 
assumptions used and a sensitivity analysis which identifies the 
impact on the balance sheet from changes in those assumptions. 
The Group recorded net actuarial gains for 2011 on those funds 
totalling £60m (2010: £86m), with the effects of the lower discount 
rates applied to the funds’ liabilities more than offset by better than 
expected returns on the assets held by the funds and the rebasing 
of some benefits from RPI to CPI. Movements in the pension 
deficit are illustrated in the diagram below.
A formal actuarial valuation of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund 
(“BBPF”) was carried out at 31 March 2010 and showed a funding 
position of 85%. A funding plan was agreed to eliminate that deficit 
over eight years, comprising an initial one-off payment of £40m, 
which was paid in December 2010, and regular monthly payments 
of £4.0m starting from April 2010. The monthly payments increase 
each April by the growth in CPI up to a cap of 5%, plus 50% of any 
increase in the Company’s dividend in excess of CPI. Monthly 
deficit payments from April 2011 were £4.2m, and an additional 
one-off contribution of £55m was made in December 2011.
During 2011, various measures were taken within the BBPF asset 
portfolio to improve the matching of changes in interest rates and 
inflation rates on the value of the assets with corresponding changes 
in the value of the liabilities, with a consequent improvement in the 
resilience of the funding level of the BBPF. It is estimated that in 
the absence of these measures the BBPF deficit at 31 December 
2011 would have been some £25m higher.
Dividends
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 8.5p in respect of 
2011, giving a full-year dividend of 13.8p (2010: 12.7p), up 9% on 
last year. This will be the 12th year in a row that the dividend will 
have increased. Underlying dividend cover, taking into account PPP 
disposal profits, for 2011 is 2.6 times, slightly lower than last year’s 
cover of 2.7 times, but the Board believes that this is reasonable 
given the strength of the Group’s cash reserves and future prospects.
To appreciate the prospects for the Group as a whole, the complete 
annual report and accounts 2011 needs to be read.
Pension deﬁcits, net of tax      Deferred tax assets
Dec
2009
Dec
2010
Service
cost
Company
contri-
butions
Actuarial
gain
assets
Actuarial
loss
liabilities
Other
move-
ments
Dec
2011
£586m
£441m
£71m
£275m
£52m
£151m
£132m
£6m
£166m
£420m
£120m
£321m
£200m
£75m
Cumulative contributions for deficit funding since December 2009 of £194m.
Pensions – balance sheet movement 
57 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Risk management
Effective risk management is fundamental to 
how we run our business and underpins the 
delivery of the Group’s objectives. It is essential 
in helping us achieve sustainable shareholder 
value and in protecting our reputation.
The Group’s approach to risk management is to identify, at an 
early stage, key risks and then to develop actions to eliminate 
or mitigate, to an acceptable level, the impact and likelihood of 
those risks.
Risk management processes are embedded throughout the 
Group, at all levels, and assist management in identifying and 
understanding the risks they face in delivering business 
objectives and the status of the key controls they have in place 
to manage those risks. These processes form an integral part 
of the day-to-day business activities of the Group.
Roles and responsibilities
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control. 
The Board determines and sets the degree of risk which is 
considered appropriate and acceptable in pursuit of the Group’s 
strategic objectives and the level of risk which can be taken by 
Group, divisional and operating company management without 
specific Board approval. This is managed through a small number 
Managing risk
of Group policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board. 
These delegated policies and authorities provide the means by 
which risks are reviewed and escalated to the appropriate level 
within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration 
and approval.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, 
divisional and operating company management are set out below 
with details of how those roles and responsibilities are discharged.
1. 
Board
2. Divisional 
management
Risks
3. Operating company 
management
Information and risk reporting
Policy and review
Roles and responsibilities
Responsibilities Actions undertaken
1. Board •	 Responsible for the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal control
•	 Determining the nature and extent of the 
significant risks the Group is willing to take 
in achieving its strategic objectives
•	 Issue and review the Group’s risk management policy
•	 Annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management and internal control systems
•	 Review and consideration of the Group’s key risks 
and responses thereto
Audit Committee •	 To review the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls, including systems established 
to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks
•	 Receive regular reports on the results of internal 
and external audit and other assurance activities
•	 Annual assessment of the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control
•	 Review of risk management and assurance 
activities and processes
 B u s i n e s s P r a c t i c e s 
Committee
•	 Review the Group’s performance in managing 
risks associated with health and safety, 
sustainability, employee engagement, 
corporate values, ethics and the Group’s 
Code of Conduct
•	 Receive regular reports on the implementation of the 
Group’s health and safety, sustainability and ethics 
and compliance programmes as well as the Group’s 
HR policies
•	 Review the effectiveness of the Group’s helpline 
procedures and other mechanisms for raising concerns
2 .  D i v i s i o n a l 
management
•	 Responsible for risk management and internal 
control systems within their division
•	 Ensure that operating companies’ 
responsibilities are discharged
•	 Monthly review of key risks and mitigation plans
•	 Review and challenge of operating company 
assurance plans
•	 Review of results of assurance activities
•	 Elevating key risks to Group management and Board
3.  Operating company 
management
•	 Maintain an effective system of risk 
management and internal control within 
their businesses
•	 Maintain and regularly review project, functional 
and strategic risk registers
•	 Review of mitigation plans
•	 Planning and executing assurance activities
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 58
Our business Risk management process
Identification 
•	 Identify business 
objectives 
•	 Risks identified at Group, 
divisional, operating 
company, functional and 
project level 
•	 Financial and non-
financial risks recorded 
in risk registers 
•	 Risk owners identified
Analysis & evaluation
•	 Risks analysed as to 
likelihood and impact
•	 Risk evaluation recorded 
in risk register
Reporting &  
monitoring
•	 Risk and mitigation 
plans subject to regular 
and rigorous review
•	 Key issues elevated, 
as appropriate, 
through management 
reporting structures 
Mitigation
•	 Action plans 
developed and 
implemented to  
mitigate/eliminate risks
•	 Action owners and 
timescales defined
Risk management process
The Group’s risk management policy requires all divisions and the 
operating companies within them to identify and assess the risks 
to which they are exposed and which could impact their ability to 
deliver their and the Group’s objectives.
Risk registers are used to record the risk events identified, their 
causes and possible consequences. Risks are then analysed as 
to the likelihood of occurrence and also the potential impact on 
the business.
Actions are then developed and put in place to mitigate or eliminate 
unwanted exposures. Individuals are allocated responsibility for 
evaluating and managing risks identified to an agreed timescale.
Risk registers and relevant action plans are regularly reviewed, 
at various levels throughout the business, to identify new risks 
as they arise, update mitigation plans, and to remove risks that 
are no longer relevant.
Reporting structures ensure that risks are continually monitored 
and that mitigation plans are subject to review within the Group. 
Established business reporting systems ensure that significant risk 
exposures are escalated from project level to operating company 
management to divisional management and ultimately to the Chief 
Executive and the Board, as appropriate, via monthly/quarterly 
performance and operational reviews.
The Company’s risk management policy and standards also require 
all divisions and operating companies to have in place appropriate 
assurance mechanisms to ensure that the controls and actions put 
in place to mitigate and eliminate risks are operating effectively. 
A range of procedures are used to monitor the effective application 
of internal controls and these include management assurance, risk 
management processes and independent assurance provided by 
internal audit reviews and other specific reviews conducted by 
specialist third parties.
The Board has concluded that the Group maintained sound risk 
management and internal control systems throughout the year 
and has reviewed their effectiveness. 
Principal risks
The Group operates in many business environments and across 
a number of territories in which risks and uncertainties exist, not all 
of which are necessarily within its control. Whilst acknowledging that 
it is not possible to eliminate such risks and uncertainties completely, 
established risk management and internal control systems and 
procedures exist within the Group to mitigate their impact.
The Board recognises that there may be other risks and 
uncertainties which are currently unknown to it or which could 
become material in the future. However, it believes that the Group’s 
established risk management and internal control systems have 
helped and will continue to help it in identifying and responding 
to such risks and to the changing business environment and 
challenges it faces. 
The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties which are 
common to many companies, for example, financial and treasury 
risks, information technology and information security risks and the 
management of pension liabilities, which are significant. The Group 
has established controls and systems in place to manage such risks. 
Set out on pages 60 to 62 is a description of those principal risks 
facing the Group which could adversely impact its profitability and 
its ability to achieve its strategic objectives. The Group operates 
predominantly in the UK and North America with significant 
operations in Australasia and the Middle East and is seeking 
to expand into new territories.
59 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Managing risk continued
Economic environment
The continued effect of the global economic downturn may cause the Group’s customers to cancel, postpone or reduce spending on 
existing or future infrastructure projects. This is particularly relevant in certain key markets where many of our clients are in the public 
or regulated sectors. The current economic conditions also increase the Group’s exposure to counterparty credit risk of its customers, 
subcontractors, joint venture partners, financial institutions and other suppliers. 
Impact
Any significant changes in the level or timing of 
customer spending or investment plans could 
adversely impact the Group’s order book. Such 
changes could arise from a change in government 
policy or from a failure of customers to secure 
financing for future projects.
Mitigation
The Group has a broad exposure to various infrastructure markets across the 
globe. This and the continued need for infrastructure spending mitigates 
the effect of changes in spending in any one market. The Group maintains 
a high level of engagement with its customers to understand and respond 
effectively to their evolving requirements at all phases of the infrastructure 
lifecycle. The Group has identified and continues to identify new 
infrastructure markets as they develop (eg power, mining, Brazil and India).
Failure of a customer, including any government or 
public sector body, could result in non-collection of 
amounts owed.
The financial solvency and strength of counterparties is always considered 
prior to the signing of contracts and is a specific focus in the current 
economic climate. During the life of a contract such assessments are updated 
and reviewed whenever possible. The Group seeks to ensure that it is not 
over-reliant on any one counterparty.
Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in 
the Group having to find a replacement or undertaking 
the task itself which could result in time delays and 
additional costs.
The Group seeks to develop long-term relationships with a number of key 
subcontractors by understanding their operations and working with them. 
Contingency plans are developed to address the eventuality of the failure of 
a subcontractor. In addition, project retentions, bonds and/or letters of credit 
will be obtained, where appropriate, from subcontractors to mitigate the 
impact of any insolvency.
Reporting and monitoring
•	 Monthly/quarterly finance and performance review
•	 Strategic roadmap process
•	 Budgetary process
Expansion into new territories and by acquisition
The Group, in pursuit of its strategic objectives, will seek to enter into new territories and continue to make acquisitions. Failure to identify 
and manage the risks associated with either of these could impact the ability of the Group to meet its strategic objectives and result in 
loss and reputational damage.
Impact
Failure to identify, understand and evaluate the 
risks of conducting business in a new territory 
could lead to significant financial loss and 
reputational damage.
Mitigation
As part of the decision making process to enter into a new territory, a detailed 
country risk assessment will be undertaken. These will consider and assess 
the prevailing economic, political, regulatory, ethical, health, safety and 
sustainability conditions to ensure that the Group is able to operate in that 
territory consistent with its own values and standards.
Failure to realise the expected benefits from 
acquisitions and to integrate successfully the 
businesses acquired into the Group’s processes 
could result in an adverse impact on the Group’s 
strategic objectives, future prospects, financial 
conditions and profitability.
Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all potential acquisitions to ensure that the 
acquired businesses’ values and their approach to health, safety and sustainability 
aligns with those of the Group. In addition, valuation models are prepared on all 
potential acquisitions drawing upon both internal and external resources. Due 
diligence also includes an assessment of the ability to integrate the acquired 
businesses successfully into the Group. When a business is acquired, detailed 
integration plans are developed and monitored to ensure the successful 
integration of the business into the Group and its internal control framework.
Reporting and monitoring
•	 Board/divisional review and approval
•	 Monthly/quarterly finance and performance reviews
•	 Board review and approval of initiatives involving entering a new country
Legal and regulatory
The Group operates in a number of diverse territories and its businesses are subject to a number of complex, demanding and evolving 
legal, tax and regulatory requirements. Such requirements will only increase in complexity as the Group enters new countries.
Impact
A breach of these local laws and regulations could 
lead to legal proceedings, investigations or disputes 
resulting in a disruption of business, ranging from 
additional costs incurred on a project, to potential 
debarment and reputational damage.
Mitigation
The Group monitors and responds to legal and regulatory developments in 
the territories in which it operates. A country’s legal and regulatory 
framework is considered as part of any Group decision to conduct business 
in a new country.
Reporting and monitoring
•	 Monthly/quarterly performance reviews •	 Strategic roadmap process
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 60
Our business Business conduct
The Group operates in various international markets with partners and supply chains which may have inherent risks relating 
to business conduct including but not limited to fraud, bribery and corruption.
Impact
Failure by the Group and its employees to observe 
the highest standards of integrity and conduct in 
dealing with customers, suppliers and other 
stakeholders could result in civil and/or criminal 
penalties, debarment and reputational damage.
Mitigation
Throughout the Group there is a vigorous approach to assessing corruption 
risks. The Group has a number of programmes dealing with compliance 
with the Group’s Code of Conduct, competition law, data protection etc. 
E-learning courses have been developed and are used throughout the Group 
to raise awareness of and to embed many of those compliance programmes. 
Each operating company has appointed a compliance officer who is 
responsible for ensuring the application and monitoring of these programmes.
Reporting and monitoring
•	 Business Practices Committee •	 Monthly/quarterly performance and operations reviews
People
The success of the Group depends on its ability to recruit and retain the best management and employees who have the appropriate 
competencies and also share the Group’s values and behaviours.
Impact
Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled 
people could have an adverse impact on the 
Group’s ability to deliver specific contracts and 
its future growth.
Mitigation
All key roles in the organisation have a competency and leadership framework 
against which potential recruits are measured. Organisation and people 
reviews are undertaken by each division and its operating companies to review 
the role, competencies, performance and potential of personnel. A well-
developed succession planning process exists within the Group to identify and 
develop high-potential/calibre personnel to fill key roles that arise. These plans 
are reviewed and discussed at all levels within the organisation and by the 
Board on a regular basis. Appropriate remuneration and incentive packages 
are in place to assist in the attraction and retention of key employees.
Reporting and monitoring
•	 Monthly operations and performance reviews
•	 Annual succession planning review
•	 Board review
•	 Remuneration Committee
•	 Nominations Committee
Bidding
The Group, through its operating companies, seeks to win work through a large number of bids each year. In executing certain of 
these bids the Group may seek to engage in joint ventures with carefully selected partners especially in those instances where the 
Group may not possess the necessary expertise or knowledge of the territory.
The Group also invests in a number of PPP and infrastructure investments, the success of which are dependent on a number of 
assumptions made, at the time of investment, on future revenues and costs.
Impact
Failure to estimate accurately risks, costs, the impact 
of inflation and the contractual terms being entered 
into and how best to manage them could have an 
adverse impact on the profitability of such contracts.
Mitigation
All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering processes within 
a defined framework.
Defined delegated authority levels exist for the approval of all tenders and 
infrastructure investments, with all major and significant contracts in excess 
of those authority levels being subject to Group review and approval by the 
Group Tender and Investment Committee (“GTIC”).
In the event of a disagreement with, or the failure, 
or poor performance of a joint venture partner to 
deliver, the Group could be exposed to financial 
and reputational damage.
The Group has procedures in place to review the relevant skills, experience, 
resources and values of joint venture partners to understand how they 
complement those of the Group. The performance of joint ventures and joint 
venture partners is monitored throughout the life of the project.
If any of the assumptions made on investment 
decisions prove to be incorrect it could have an adverse 
impact on the profitability of those investments.
Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed by experienced 
professionals. The risks associated with revenues and costs are analysed 
and, where appropriate, contractual and other risk mitigations are established.
Reporting and monitoring
•	 Monthly/quarterly operations, performance 
and financial reviews
•	 Board review of GTIC activities 
61 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our business Project execution
The Group is engaged in a number of complex design, engineering, construction, facilities management and asset management 
projects. The successful delivery of many of these projects is dependent on the combined availability and effective management 
of subcontractors and other service providers.
The Group’s ability to execute these projects to its customers’ requirements and on a timely basis exposes it, in the event it were 
to fail to do so, to the risk of financial loss and reputational damage. 
Impact
Failure to manage or deliver against contracted 
customer requirements to an appropriate quality and 
on a timely basis could result in a number of issues 
(ie contract disputes, unagreed claims, design issues, 
cost overruns, failure to achieve customer savings) 
which could adversely impact the profitability and 
reputation of the Group.
Mitigation
Each operating company has a number of defined operating procedures 
designed to address the risks inherent in project delivery. In addition, the 
Group’s risk management framework facilitates the identification of specific 
risks on projects and the mitigating actions required. Projects are subject to 
management review at all levels to monitor progress and to review steps put 
in place to address specific risks identified on those projects.
The failure of a subcontractor to perform to an 
appropriate standard and quality could result in 
delays to a project and adversely impact the ability 
of the Group to meet its contractual commitments 
and damage its reputation.
The Group seeks to develop long-term relationships with a number of its key 
subcontractors whilst at the same time not becoming over-reliant on any one.
As part of its selection criteria, the Group seeks to partner with subcontractors/
suppliers which share its values. 
Reporting and monitoring
•	 Monthly/quarterly operations and performance review
Health, safety and sustainability
Further information on the Group’s health, safety and sustainability activities are given on pages 48 to 51.
The Group is involved in significant and complex projects which require the continuous monitoring and management of health and 
safety risks. A major catastrophic incident in relation to one of the Group’s projects (eg structural collapse or accident arising from 
work performed) could result in harm to the public or workforce and partners and could expose the Group to significant losses and 
reputational damage.
The Group, through its activities, is aware of the impact it can have on the world in which it operates and the communities with which 
it comes into contact. In addition, for a number of its customers the impact of projects on communities during their execution and 
operation in both the short term and the long term is a key consideration when evaluating bids. A failure to meet these requirements 
could result in a loss of work, reputational damage or financial loss.
Impact
Failure to manage these risks could expose the 
public or our people to injury/harm and the Group to 
significant potential liabilities and reputational damage.
Mitigation
Detailed health and safety policies and procedures exist to minimise such 
risks and are subject to review and monitoring by both operating companies 
and divisional management. Within each operating company there are 
experienced health and safety advisers who provide advice and support 
to line management and also undertake regular reviews.
Failure to execute projects in a sustainable manner 
could result in significant potential liabilities, 
reputational damage and not being able to win 
future work.
The Group has developed and implemented a sustainability strategy covering 
its operations until 2020 in terms of profitable markets, healthy communities 
and environmental limits. Sustainability issues (eg specific customer 
requirements, climate change adaptation) are considered in risk management 
activities undertaken at an operating company as well as project level.
Reporting and monitoring
•	 Monthly/quarterly operations reviews
•	 Business Practices Committee
•	 Sustainability working group
•	 Executive Committee
•	 Board review
Managing risk continued
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 62
Our business 64 Chairman’s introduction
66  Board of Directors
68 Directors’ report
82 Remuneration report
Our governance
63 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 64
Our governance
Chairman’s introduction
“ Formulating the Group’s 
strategy, monitoring the financial 
performance of the Group, and 
setting the values and ethical 
standards of the organisation are 
key areas of focus for the Board. ”
Areas of focus  
in 2011
Board composition, 
evaluation and continuous 
improvement
Enhanced investor relations 
programme
Areas of focus  
in 2012
Succession planning and 
diversity
Strategy implementation
Operational delivery and 
performance
We are committed to 
the highest standards 
of corporate governance
Steve Marshall
Chairman 65 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
women who should become members of the Board by 2013. 
However, every effort will be made to increase the level of 
diversity on the Board, and in particular, the representation 
of women over that period. The Board also believes that 
the Davies Report’s longer-term objectives can only be met 
and sustained if the proportion of women occupying senior 
executive positions throughout corporate life can be 
substantially increased. In this context, the Company is 
redoubling its efforts to encourage more women to stay 
within its workforce and progress through the ranks to senior 
positions. In relation to the pipeline of women to the Board, as 
a percentage of our workforce, women make up approximately 
28%, whilst at junior managerial level women make up 
approximately 50% of employees. At the more senior 
managerial levels, women comprise 12% of senior managers 
and 8% of executives (our most senior management level).
Accountability – During 2011, the Board has spent 
considerable time in developing the Group’s strategy. Directors 
have engaged in discussions both at Board meetings and in 
smaller working groups and I would like to thank the non-
executive Directors, in particular, for the significant commitment 
they have shown in steering management through this important 
phase. The output from the strategy review has been referred 
to on pages 12 to 21. The Company’s policies and procedures 
are all geared towards enabling the Board to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the Group’s position 
and prospects. 
Remuneration – Our last strategic review of executive 
remuneration was carried out in 2010 in recognition of the 
significant changes which have occurred in the scale, scope 
and complexity of our business. The acquisition of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff also provides the Group with a presence across the 
whole lifecycle of major infrastructure assets on a global basis. 
The proposals arising from this review were approved by 
shareholders at the 2011 AGM and the Remuneration Committee 
will continue to monitor the policy and its constituent elements 
to ensure they remain appropriate as the organisation continues 
to evolve. For more details on the new policy, please refer to the 
remuneration report on pages 82 to 92.
Relations with shareholders – Engagement with our 
investors, amongst other stakeholders, is critically important 
and we have continued to focus on this through 2011. Further 
information on our investor relations programme is given on 
page 79.
We are taking initiatives to build the level of shareholding 
amongst US investors in recognition that a significant 
proportion of our overall business is conducted in the US, or is 
driven from the US, through our Professional Services division 
headquartered in New York and our Construction Services US 
division based in Dallas. At December 2011, nearly 15% of the 
Company’s issued share capital was held by US investors 
compared with around 9% at December 2010. To add further 
momentum, we are planning to launch an ADR programme in 
the US in 2012.
Following an invitation issued to our largest shareholders, I have 
had the opportunity to meet with several of them over the past 
few months on matters of governance and strategy.
Steve Marshall
Chairman
Dear Shareholder
Balfour Beatty is committed to applying the very highest 
standards of corporate governance in whichever jurisdiction 
the Group is operating.
The UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010 
was welcomed by your Board, who decided to implement all 
the provisions immediately, including putting forward all the 
Directors for annual re-election at our Annual General Meeting in 
May 2011. The Code’s change of tone, signalling the importance 
of general principles guiding boardroom behaviours, was 
particularly welcomed, as was the continuing validation of the 
“comply or explain” principle.
Turning to each of the main principles of the Code, I wanted 
to highlight how these are being applied in practice.
Leadership and effectiveness – The formulation of the 
Group’s strategy, monitoring the financial performance of the 
Group, and health and safety are key areas of focus for the 
Board during each annual meeting cycle. In addition, the Board 
undertakes a pivotal role in setting the values and the ethical 
standards the organisation employs. Further information on 
these values and ethical standards is set out on pages 48 to 51 
and is also contained in the Company’s sustainability report 
2011 at www.balfourbeatty.com/sr11.
In pursuing the principle that non-executive Directors should 
constructively challenge and help in the development of 
strategy, we have continued to encourage our non-executive 
Directors to obtain in-depth knowledge of the key strategic 
imperatives facing the organisation. We provided them with 
the opportunity throughout the year to meet with the senior 
management teams in the Group’s strategically important 
businesses, to gain knowledge of the sectors and markets in 
which they are operating and gain a thorough understanding 
of these businesses’ key priorities. We believe this leads to 
enhanced debate and ultimately to better and more informed 
decision making. For further information on this, I refer you 
to page 71 of this report.
Having served as chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
for eight years, Robert Walvis retired as chairman in July 2011 
and was succeeded by Iain Ferguson. I would like to thank 
Robert for his leadership of the Committee over this time and 
for steering it through review cycles culminating in the 2011 
remuneration review. Robert continues as Senior Independent 
Director having now served on the Board for over ten years. 
I would like to draw your attention to the deliberations of his 
colleagues on the Board concerning his continuing 
independence, which is set out on page 68.
Turning to the report by Lord Davies on Women on Boards, 
published in June, the Board considered the issues raised 
and published its diversity statement in September 2011. The 
Directors strongly support greater diversity in all its forms, not 
least gender diversity, as an important objective for the Group. 
Throughout the business, this needs to be achieved whilst also 
retaining the overall balance of essential skills and experience. 
The Davies Report is right to challenge the historic basis of 
these. For example, at Board level, less weight can reasonably 
be given to prior listed company boardroom experience, and 
more to a candidate’s intrinsic personal characteristics. Equally, 
commercial, operational and functional expertise in depth must 
continue to be fully represented within the Company’s non-
executive Director ranks. Given the uncertain supply of external 
candidates, and the Company’s business sector, the Board does 
not believe it is appropriate to target the precise percentage of  Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 66
Our governance
Board of Directors
a senior assistant director at Morgan Grenfell. He was appointed 
a non-executive director of Colt Group S.A. in July 2011. He is a 
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and a barrister.
4 Andrew McNaughton
Chief Operating Officer
Age 48. Appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer in 
2009. He joined Balfour Beatty in 1997, having spent 12 years 
with the Kier Group, and held the position of managing director 
of Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering from 2004 to 2007, when 
he became Group managing director with responsibility for civil 
engineering in the UK and the Group’s interests in the Middle East. 
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers, a Liveryman in 
the Worshipful Company of Engineers and a Vice-President of the 
Institution of Civil Engineers.
5 Duncan Magrath
Chief Financial Officer
Age 47. Appointed to the Board in 2008 as Finance Director. 
He joined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as Deputy Finance Director from 
Exel. He spent 13 years at Exel in a number of senior finance roles 
in both the UK and US, latterly as director of investor relations and 
financial strategy. Prior to this he worked at Price Waterhouse. 
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, and was 
appointed a non-executive director of Brammer plc in March 2012.
6 Peter Zinkin
Planning and Development Director
Age 58. Joined the Group in 1981 and became Planning and 
Development Director in 1991 after a series of senior positions 
in the finance function. He is responsible for the Group’s merger, 
acquisition and divestment activities as well as the development 
of Group strategy. Previously, he worked at the London Business 
School and UMIST. He is a governor of Birkbeck College, 
University of London.
1 Steve Marshall
Non-executive Chairman
Age 55. Appointed a Director in 2005 and Chairman in May 
2008. He is a non-executive director of Halma p.l.c., and 
was appointed non-executive chairman of Wincanton plc in 
December 2011. He is a former chairman of Delta, Torex Retail 
and Queens’ Moat Houses. He was chief executive of Thorn 
and of Railtrack Group, having also served as group finance 
director at each company. His earlier career included a wide 
range of corporate and operational roles at Grand Metropolitan, 
Black & Decker, BOC and Burton Group. He is a Fellow 
of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
2 Ian Tyler
Chief Executive
Age 51. A Director since 1999, he became Chief Executive in 
January 2005, having been Chief Operating Officer since 2002 
and prior to that, Finance Director. He joined Balfour Beatty in 
1996 from the Hanson Group where he was finance director 
of ARC, one of its principal subsidiaries. A former non-executive 
director of VT Group, he is a non-executive director of Cable & 
Wireless Communications Plc and president of Construction 
Industry Relief, Assistance and Support for the Homeless Ltd, 
the construction and property industry charity for the homeless. 
He is a chartered accountant.
3 Anthony Rabin
Deputy Chief Executive
Age 56. A Director since 2002, he became Deputy Chief 
Executive in 2008, having previously been Finance Director. 
He is responsible for the Group’s worldwide infrastructure 
investments business, and before 2002 had been managing 
director of Balfour Beatty Capital. Prior to joining the Group in 
1995, he was a partner at Coopers & Lybrand and before that, 
Chairman and executive Directors 
1 2 3
4 5 6 67 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
Non-executive Directors 
7 8 9
10 11 12
10 Hubertus Krossa
Non-executive Director
Age 64. Appointed a Director in 2008. Until 2008, he was chief 
executive officer of KION Group GmbH, a leading international 
material handling equipment manufacturer. Prior to that, he spent 
seven years on the main board of Linde AG, the worldwide 
producer and supplier of industrial and medical gases. He was 
previously a member of the European management board of 
Whirlpool Europe and was also chairman of its German operating 
company, and has previously held non-executive directorships 
in the UK for Wassall and Thorn Lighting Group. He is currently 
chairman of the supervisory boards of Eckelmann AG and 
Bauknecht Hausgeraete GmbH and deputy chairman of United 
Power Technology AG.
11 Graham Roberts
Non-executive Director
Age 53. Appointed a Director in 2009. He was finance director 
of The British Land Company between 2002 and 2011. Prior 
to that, he spent eight years at Andersen, latterly as a partner 
specialising in the real estate and government services sectors. 
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
12 Robert Walvis
Senior Independent Director
Age 65. Appointed a Director in 2001. He was previously with 
the Royal Dutch Shell Group, latterly as chairman of the Global 
Corporate Centre. He is a non-executive director of Associated 
British Ports Holdings Limited, and chairman of the supervisory 
board of Allianz Nederland Groep NV.
7 Robert Amen
Non-executive Director
Age 62. Appointed a Director in 2010. Until 2009, he was 
chairman and chief executive officer of International Flavors & 
Fragrances Inc (“IFF”). Prior to joining IFF in 2006, he spent 
over 25 years at International Paper Company in a succession 
of roles culminating in his appointment as president and 
member of the board. He was also a director of Wyeth, the 
US pharmaceutical and healthcare company, until its acquisition 
by Pfizer in October 2009. A US national, he currently serves 
as an executive-in-residence at Columbia Business School.
8 Mike Donovan
Non-executive Director
Age 58. Appointed a Director in 2006. He was chief operating 
officer of Marconi from 2001 to 2005. Prior to that, he was 
chief executive officer of Marconi Systems and was previously 
responsible for managing major divisions of British Aerospace, 
Vickers and the Rover Group.
9 Iain Ferguson CBE
Non-executive Director
Age 56. Appointed a Director in 2010. Until 2009, he was chief 
executive of Tate & Lyle. Prior to joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, he 
spent 26 years at Unilever in a succession of roles culminating 
in his appointment as senior vice-president, corporate 
development. He is a non-executive director of Greggs plc 
and also Berendsen plc, where he will become non-executive 
chairman in April 2012, and is chairman of Wilton Park, an 
independent and non-profit making Executive Agency of the 
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office. He is also lead 
independent director at the Department for Environment, 
Food and Rural Affairs. He was formerly a non-executive 
director of Sygen International. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 68
Our governance
Shareholding
At 31 December 2011, Mr Walvis held 14,285 Balfour Beatty 
ordinary shares, and this interest is not considered substantial.
Conflicting interest
None of his disclosed interests were thought to conflict with 
his role as a member of the Balfour Beatty Board.
Other
None of the other independence measures listed in the Code, 
other than his term of office, were considered relevant by the Board.
At its Board meeting in March 2012, as part of its annual audit 
of corporate governance, the Board considered the independence 
of the non-executive Directors against the criteria specified in 
the Code and determined that each of them, including Mr Walvis, 
continues to be independent.
The Board
The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, of whom seven, 
including the Chairman, are non-executive. There were no changes 
to the composition of the Board during the year. The Directors 
believe that the Board continues to include an appropriate balance 
of skills and retains the ability to provide effective leadership to 
the Group.
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the 
Company and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for 
its decision which includes the matters summarised below:
•	 determining the Group’s strategic direction
•	 approving annual budgets and financial reporting, including the 
annual and half-year results and interim management statements
•	 approving interim, and recommending final, dividends
•	 approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure
•	 ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in 
place to achieve objectives and reviewing management 
performance
•	 setting the Company’s values and ethical standards
•	 approving policies and systems for risk management 
and assurance.
The Board reviewed its list of reserved matters in 2011 and, most 
recently, at its meeting in March 2012. The terms of reference of 
the Board and the Board Committees are available on request 
from the Company Secretary and are also displayed on the 
Company’s website www.balfourbeatty.com. Descriptions of the 
specific responsibilities which have been delegated to the principal 
Board Committees are also provided on pages 72 to 77.
Compliance with the Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 (the “Code”) took 
effect from 29 June 2010, replacing the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance 2008 as the standard of good corporate 
governance practice in the UK. The Financial Services Authority 
requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied 
with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year. 
Further information on the Code is publicly available on the 
Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk. The 
Company has complied with the requirements of the Code 
throughout the accounting period, other than in respect of:
The effectiveness of the Group’s whistleblowing procedures is 
kept under review by the Business Practices Committee and not 
by the Audit Committee. The principal reason for this is that the 
Business Practices Committee, in particular, focuses on the 
Company’s business conduct, its ethics and values, ensuring 
that procedures exist for employees to raise concerns in 
confidence and is an integral element in its overall remit. However, 
the Audit Committee is kept informed of any allegations of fraud 
or poor financial controls and internal audit participates in the 
investigations into such claims and reports to the Audit Committee 
on the outcome.
Director’s independence
Having considered the position of Robert Walvis, who has 
completed more than 10 years on the Board, the Directors 
specifically considered those factors which they believed were 
relevant in determining whether Mr Walvis should continue to be 
regarded as being independent. The following factors were taken 
into consideration.
Constructive challenge
The Board considered the strength of his engagement and the 
robustness of his challenge and critique around the boardroom 
table. As Senior Independent Director, Mr Walvis has provided an 
effective sounding board for the Chairman and the other Directors 
who value the insight he brings to a range of topics.
During his period as chairman of the remuneration committee, 
Mr Walvis also displayed independent leadership in the development 
of the executive remuneration policy and in its application on a fair 
and consistent basis. 
Remuneration
Mr Walvis’s fees as a Director are disclosed in the remuneration 
report on page 88 and his remuneration is not considered excessive 
in the context of directors’ fees paid in FTSE 250 companies.
Directors’ report 69 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
Chief Executive
•	 Strategy development and the stewardship of physical, 
financial and human resources
•	 Group operational and financial performance
•	 Executive leadership
•	 Health, safety and environmental performance
•	 Corporate values and ethics
•	 Objective setting for the senior management team
•	 Organisational structure and talent management
•	 Major capital expenditure prioritisation
•	 Consideration of acquisitions, disposals and financing
•	 Stakeholder management
Senior Independent Director
Robert Walvis is the Senior Independent Director, and his principal 
responsibilities are to ensure that the views of the other non-
executive Directors are properly considered and to provide an 
additional communication channel between the non-executive 
Directors and the shareholders and other stakeholders, as 
required. Mr Walvis meets with the other non-executive Directors 
without the Chairman or executive Directors being present at least 
once a year.
Directors’ interests
No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance 
with the Group during the period under review. The Directors have 
put in place procedures to ensure the Board collectively and the 
Directors individually comply with the disclosure requirements 
on conflicts of interest set out in the Companies Act 2006. At its 
meeting each January, a formal declaration of interests is reviewed 
by the Board.
The interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company and 
its subsidiary undertakings and their interests under the long-term 
incentive scheme (the Performance Share Plan), the deferred 
bonus plan and share options, are set out in the tables in the 
remuneration report commencing on page 82.
There have been no changes in their respective interests since 
31 December 2011.
Board composition
The names of the Directors at the year-end are shown on pages 66 and 67 together with brief biographical details. Full details 
of Directors’ service agreements, emoluments and share interests are shown in the remuneration report starting on page 82.
The following blend of skills is exhibited by the Directors through their respective professional backgrounds:
Chairman and Chief Executive
The two roles are complementary. The Chairman is responsible for 
managing the business of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive 
actually runs the business. As the senior executive officer of the 
Company, the Chief Executive is responsible to the Chairman and 
Board for directing and prioritising the profitable operation and 
development of the Group. The Chairman and Chief Executive keep 
each other appropriately informed on the other’s current activities.
Specifically, their roles comprise the following principal 
responsibilities:
Chairman
•	 Ensuring effective strategic planning is undertaken by the 
executive Directors
•	 Ensuring corporate governance is properly maintained
•	 Formally appraising the performance of the Chief Executive 
and reviewing with the Chief Executive his views on the 
performance of the other executive Directors
•	 Providing leadership to the Board
•	 Acting as senior ambassador for the Company
•	 Considering Board balance, composition and succession
•	 Ensuring the smooth operation of the Board and 
its Committees
•	 Providing effective communication between the Board and 
its shareholders
Steve Marshall spends an average of two days a week on the 
business of the Company. The Board is satisfied that his recent 
appointment as non-executive chairman of Wincanton plc, and his 
other commitments, can be accommodated without hindering his 
ability to carry out his duties as Chairman. 
Strategic 
development
Ethics, values 
and culture
Stakeholder 
engagement
HR 
management
Risk 
management 
and assurance 
Health and 
safety
Experience of 
international 
markets
Financial 
management 
and planning
Operating 
performance 
and delivery
Mergers and 
acquisitions
Business 
integration Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 70
Our governance
Finance
•	 Budget 2011
•	 Annual and half-year results
•	 Corporate broking review
•	 Pensions
•	 Tax and treasury policies
Operational performance
•	 Business reviews, including:
 − Infrastructure Investments (UK and US)
 − Construction Services UK
 − Support Services including the UK shared service centre 
in Newcastle
Strategy
•	 Group strategy development (a recurring topic 
throughout 2011)
•	 Offshore wind
Mergers, acquisitions and divestments
•	 Acquisition of Howard S. Wright in the US
•	 Sale of UK specialist rail manufacturing business
•	 Disposal of interest in Barking Power to Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund
Corporate governance
•	 HR planning, talent and succession management
•	 Re-election of Directors at 2011 AGM
•	 Board Committees’ terms of reference
•	 Board evaluation
•	 Diversity and the Davies Report
•	 Legal matters including litigation and the UK Bribery Act
Directors’ indemnities
The Company grants an indemnity to all of its Directors to the 
extent permitted by law. These indemnity amounts are uncapped 
in relation to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to 
third parties in the course of acting as a Director of the Company, 
or in any office where such duties are performed at the request 
of the Board, or as a result of their appointment as Directors.
Board meetings
Procedures for Board meetings remain largely unchanged from 
previous years. Since the beginning of 2011, the Board has 
been using an electronic portal to receive papers and to share 
information. The Company Secretary is responsible for advising 
the Board on appropriate governance matters, ensuring good 
information flow and for ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed. He also provides updates on legal matters of relevance 
to the Group and is available to individual Directors for advice 
on Board procedures.
2011 meeting programme
In 2011 nine Board meetings were held at the Company’s head 
office, whilst two meetings were held outside London. These 
latter meetings provided the Directors with the opportunity to 
meet management and other staff at Balfour Beatty WorkSmart’s 
offices in Newcastle and at Balfour Beatty Capital. Included during 
each visit were presentations on each of these businesses and the 
principal strategic issues they were facing. In the case of Balfour 
Beatty Capital, the Board also visited one of the Building Schools 
for the Future projects in west London, which was then under 
construction, to see the integrated capability of the various Balfour 
Beatty businesses who were engaged in the delivery of this project. 
Each Board meeting normally lasts four to five hours but can 
be longer.
On the evening preceding a Board meeting, the Directors generally 
meet for dinner and sometimes take the opportunity to discuss 
predetermined developmental themes, led by one of the 
executive Directors, other senior managers or a specialist external 
speaker. For example, in 2011, the themes included public affairs, 
the Balfour Beatty infrastructure fund and investor relations. One 
of the dinners each year is attended by the Chairman and the 
non-executive Directors only, whilst a second includes the Chief 
Executive, but none of the other executive Directors. 
Each meeting addresses two or more key strategic topics which 
enable the Directors to engage in in-depth reviews. The Board also 
reviews at each of its meetings monthly updates from the Chief 
Executive, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. 
Regular reports are also provided on health, safety and 
environment, risk management and assurance and investor 
relations. The following topics were also addressed by the Board 
during 2011 under each of the themes shown opposite.
Directors’ report continued 71 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
Professional development
In discussion with the Directors each year, the Chairman 
determines whether there are any specific training needs 
identified by the Directors which can be addressed either by the 
topic being included at a future Board meeting or on a one-to-one 
basis. Directors are also automatically enrolled in the Deloitte 
Academy, a seminar-led programme which provides regular 
updates throughout the year on the principal governance and 
other matters of which directors of a listed company should be 
fully aware.
The Directors’ induction programme also provides the foundation 
for continuing professional development. This takes place 
throughout the year by way of a series of internal and external 
updates, including visits to operating companies to meet local 
management and visits to Balfour Beatty projects, both in the 
UK and overseas.
Normally, such meetings take place for each non-executive 
Director four times each year, although some Directors have not 
been able to attend all the sessions whilst others have been able 
to participate in more meetings.
During 2011, the non-executive Directors visited the following 
businesses and undertook detailed strategic business reviews of:
•	 Rail International including Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH, Germany
•	 Parsons Brinckerhoff International including the power market
•	 Construction Services US including US Rail and Infrastructure 
strategic reviews
•	 Construction Services UK incorporating a focus on Balfour Beatty 
Major Civil Engineering and Balfour Beatty Construction 
Scottish & Southern
•	 Support Services including Balfour Beatty Living Places and its 
partnership with North East Lincolnshire Council.
Board evaluation
Introduction
In keeping with the Code, the Board receives external evaluations 
normally every three years with internal evaluations in the 
intervening two years. The last external evaluation was carried 
out in 2010.
2011 evaluation
For 2011, the Board conducted its own internal evaluation using 
an online structured questionnaire covering the operation of the 
Board and its principal Committees. Questionnaires were also 
issued, in the case of each of the Board Committees, to those 
other participants who regularly attend these meetings. The 
questionnaires were supplemented by individual interviews 
with the Directors carried out by the Company Secretary, where 
appropriate, and the findings were summarised and presented 
to the Board in March 2011.
2011 Board and Board Committee meetings
Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board 
meetings and meetings of the Audit, Business Practices, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are 
set out in the following table:
Name of Director Board Audit
Business
Practices Nomination Remuneration
R M Amen 11 (11) 4 (4) 2 (2) 3 (3)
M J Donovan 11 (11) 4 (4) 2 (2) 3 (3)
I G T Ferguson 11 (11) 2 (2) 3 (3) 4 (4)
G E H Krossa 11 (11) 4 (4) 2 (2) 3 (3) 4 (4)
D J Magrath 11 (11)
S Marshall 11 (11) 2 (2) 3 (3) 4 (4)
A J McNaughton 10 (11)
A L P Rabin 10 (11)
G C Roberts 11 (11) 4 (4) 3 (3) 4 (4)
I P Tyler 11 (11) 3 (3)
R J W Walvis 11 (11) 4 (4) 3 (3) 4 (4)
P J L Zinkin 10 (11)
 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could 
attend during the year (including as a result of changes to Committee memberships).
Non-attendance at meetings was due to illness and prior business 
commitments. In each case, where the Directors have not been 
able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed 
the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments 
directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chairman, as appropriate.
Any Director who is not a Committee member has an open 
invitation to attend any Committee meeting and a number of the 
Directors take this opportunity.
Further information about the work of each of the Board’s 
Committees may be found on pages 72 to 77 and 82 to 92.
Board portal
Since the beginning of 2011, Board papers have been distributed 
by way of a secure electronic portal. Documents are made 
available on the portal at least three business days in advance of 
the meeting. The portal has helped to improve Board operating 
efficiencies by enabling the Directors to receive papers quickly 
and to review these at any time convenient to them. It houses a 
secure reading room in which key data and documents are kept. 
This reading room is maintained by the Company Secretary and 
regularly updated. Information held in the reading room includes 
audit, market and competitor data, strategy papers, investor 
relations and analysts’ reports, as well as the Group’s principal 
policies relating to HR, legal, and health and safety.
Board development
Induction
Directors undertake a thorough induction programme and receive 
a range of information about the Company when they join the 
Board, including access to the Board portal, which includes 
Balfour Beatty’s Code of Conduct and ethics, processes for 
dealing in Balfour Beatty shares and Board procedures, as well 
as the minutes and papers of past Board and Board Committee 
meetings. In addition, they also take part in a series of one-to-one 
meetings with other members of the Board and senior executives 
which include briefings on the Company’s business strategy, 
financial procedures, business development, legal and other 
key issues. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 72
Our governance
Board Committees
Audit Committee
“ This year, the Committee has focused on 
risk management and assurance in the 
divisions. Our programme of in-depth 
reviews has started and will be continued 
through 2012.”
Graham Roberts – chairman
Meetings in 2011: 4
Members
•	 Graham Roberts – chairman
•	 Robert Amen
•	 Mike Donovan
•	 Hubertus Krossa 
•	 Robert Walvis 
Responsibilities
•	 Financial statements
•	 Financial controls
•	 External audit 
•	 Internal audit
•	 Risk management and assurance
The terms of reference for the Committee are based on the 
Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council. The terms of reference were updated in December 2011. 
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are 
summarised below:
•	 monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Group and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s 
financial performance
•	 review the Group’s internal controls established to identify, 
assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from 
management on the effectiveness of the systems they have 
established and the conclusions of any testing carried out by 
the internal and external auditor
The principal themes arising from the 2011 evaluation comprised:
•	 Board size and composition
Marginally on the large size, but this was not thought to be an 
issue. From the mix of skills currently represented on the Board, 
a background in infrastructure and professional or support 
services could be useful adjuncts, as would more significant 
emerging markets experience. Introducing greater diversity 
on to the Board would be addressed when a vacancy occurred. 
Status: These points would be considered when the next 
non-executive director recruitment was under way. The 
Board’s diversity statement was published in September 
2011 and incorporated into Board succession plans.
•	 Board papers
The agenda and supporting papers were judged to be 
appropriate although in some instances these could be made 
more concise, focused on key issues and oriented towards 
action points. There were no deficiencies highlighted in the 
advisory support received by the Board. 
 Status: In progress.
•	 Strategy
A focus on developing the Group strategy through 2011. 
 Status: Completed.
•	 Committees
Committee chairmen should be provided with a regular 
opportunity to feed back to the other Directors on 
recent meetings.
 Status: Completed – standing Board agenda item.
Conclusions
Board strategy meetings allow Directors to receive in-depth 
reviews on topics crucial to the development of the business and 
organisation. The non-executive Director visit programme focused 
on the principal strategic issues, was considered to be a positive 
development.
The output from the evaluation also revealed that, in the opinion 
of the Directors, the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff had been 
well handled by management, as had the introduction of the new 
divisional structure.
The following matters were identified where Directors believed 
a different approach could have been followed and possibly where 
more progress could have been made: the development of the 
Group strategy after the Parsons Brinckerhoff acquisition and 
Board diversity.
The top three priorities identified for 2011 were Group strategy 
development, succession planning and people development (in 
particular around diversity in its broadest sense), and embedding 
the divisional organisation structure.
During the course of 2011, each of the three priorities was 
addressed. The Board has received regular progress updates 
and is satisfied significant progress has been made.
For each of the Board Committees a list of emerging key themes 
was discussed at the Board meeting in March 2011 and although 
none of these were significant in themselves, each of the 
Committee chairmen have determined to address the matters 
during the year. For example, the Audit Committee identified 
the need to gain greater insight into the risk management and 
assurance policies and procedures within each of the new divisions. 
This process has already started with Rail and Support Services.
Directors’ report continued 73 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
August
•	 2011 half-year financial report
•	 The UK shared service centre in Newcastle and the operation 
of accounts payable
December
•	 Group litigation and insurance
•	 External audit plan for 2012 and audit fees
•	 Internal audit plan for 2012
•	 Risk management and assurance review: Support Services division
•	 Committee terms of reference
Although the above provides an outline of the topics on which the 
Committee focused its attention during the year, at its meetings 
the following topics were reviewed in detail:
•	 Goodwill
A comprehensive assessment of the composition of goodwill 
across the Group.
•	 Significant contracts
The key contract valuations and judgements including 
monitoring progress of the principal projects, as well as 
accounting controls and territory risks.
•	 Revenue recognition
The Group’s approach which was in line with market 
practice and the impact of the IASB’s revenue recognition 
accounting standard.
•	 Pensions
IAS19 accounting assumptions survey, benchmarking the 
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund against a significant number 
of other pension schemes and valuation judgements.
Throughout 2011, the Committee has continued to review the 
Group’s risk management and internal control systems and 
processes. As a result, the Committee recommended to the Board 
that it could properly conclude that the Group continued to maintain 
sound systems of risk management and internal control and that a 
review of the effectiveness of these systems had been completed.
External auditor independence and effectiveness
The Committee carries out a formal review each year to assess 
the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, 
Deloitte LLP. The Committee has recommended that the Board 
proposes to shareholders that Deloitte LLP continue as the 
Company’s external auditor having satisfied itself of their 
independence. In reaching its conclusion, the Committee took 
into consideration the following matters:
Non-audit work
Compliance with the Company’s policy is tested each year. At 
each meeting, the Committee also reviews the non-audit work 
which has been carried out by the external auditor and that 
planned, together with the associated fees. The objective set out 
in the Company’s policy is to ensure that the external auditor is not 
placed in a position where its independence is, or might be seen 
to be, compromised. Under no circumstances will any assignment 
be given to the external auditor, when the result is that:
•	 as part of the statutory audit, it is required to report directly 
on non-audit work
•	 it makes management decisions on behalf of the Group
•	 it acts as advocate for the Group
•	 the level of non-audit fees is such, relative to audit fees, as to 
raise concerns about its ability to form objective judgements.
•	 monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function including its work programme
•	 make recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment of the external auditor and approve the 
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor
•	 assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of 
the external auditor and develop and implement policy on the 
engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Graham Roberts, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
and a former finance director of The British Land Company PLC, 
has been identified by the Board as having recent and relevant 
financial experience. At the Board meeting following each meeting 
of the Committee, the Committee chairman provides an oral 
report on the work of the Committee and any significant issues 
that may have arisen. The minutes of Committee meetings are 
circulated to all members of the Board.
At the invitation of the Committee, partners from the external 
auditor, the Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance, the 
Deputy Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer regularly 
attend each meeting. In addition, any independent non-executive 
Director who is not a Committee member has an open invitation 
to attend meetings. The Committee also invites other executives 
from within the Group to participate in Committee discussions, 
most notably in 2011 the Chief Executive and Finance Director 
of each of the Rail and Support Services divisions.
In 2011, the Committee’s work programme included the following 
principal topics in addition to the standing agenda items which 
comprise reports on:
•	 accounting, financial and regulatory issues
•	 review of non-audit work carried out by the external auditors, 
and their fees
•	 risk management activities and compliance
•	 implementation and progress against the Group assurance plan.
February
•	 2010 annual report and accounts and preliminary results 
announcement
•	 Key contract valuation and accounting judgements
•	 Quality of earnings review
•	 Directors’ valuation of PPP concessions
•	 Going concern review
•	 Commissions report
•	 Incidents of dishonest acts
•	 Annual review of internal audit work and findings
•	 Impact of the new divisional structure on the internal 
audit function
•	 Directors’ expenses
June
•	 External audit and interim review plan for 2011, audit fees, 
assessment of 2010 audit process
•	 Risk management and assurance review: Rail division
•	 Results of the external review of the effectiveness and 
resourcing of the internal audit function (conducted by a third 
party) which confirmed that the function was fit for purpose Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 74
Our governance
Nomination Committee
“ Diversity has been on the Committee’s 
agenda this year and will remain so as 
the composition of the Board continues 
to be assessed.”
Steve Marshall – chairman
Meetings in 2011: 3
Members
•	 Steve Marshall – chairman
•	 Robert Amen
•	 Mike Donovan
•	 Iain Ferguson
•	 Hubertus Krossa
•	 Graham Roberts
•	 Ian Tyler
•	 Robert Walvis
Responsibilities
•	 Structure and composition of Board
•	 Appointment of non-executive Directors
•	 Succession planning and talent management
In 2011, the Committee’s work programme comprised the 
following principal topics:
•	 review of the skills and experience requirements for non-
executive Directors, including developing an approach to 
diversity, in light of the Davies Report
•	 assessment of the current status and internal succession 
options for executive Directors and senior operational and 
functional leaders, including external benchmarking.
The Company’s policy identifies the various types of non-audit 
services and determines the analysis to be undertaken and level 
of authority required before the external auditor can be considered 
to undertake such services. Included within such analysis is 
consideration of the cost and efficiency benefits as well as the 
real or perceived threats to auditor independence.
There is no inconsistency between the Accounting Practices 
Board (“APB”) standards and the Company’s policy. The Committee 
considered the changes to the APB’s ethical standards for auditors 
published in 2010 and concluded that no adjustments were 
required to the existing policy and that there were appropriate 
checks and balances in place.
In 2011 the external auditor was appointed to carry out various 
non-audit related work, including the provision of tax and compliance 
advice in Australia, Europe, India and the US, together with advice on 
fiscal restructuring following the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff.
The Committee considers that the Company receives particular 
benefits, including those relating to cost, quality and consistency, 
from the advice provided by its external auditor, given its wide and 
detailed knowledge of the Group and its international operations. 
There can also be savings in management time and accelerated 
delivery of work in situations where rapid turnaround is required. 
The majority of non-audit related work was carried out using the 
services of other major international audit firms.
Annual internal assessment 
A detailed internally prepared assessment of the previous year’s 
external audit process, together with any identified improvement 
recommendations. In carrying out this assessment, each division 
and operating company within the Group is required to evaluate 
the performance of the assigned external audit team and to 
compare that performance against the previous year.
External auditor’s assessment 
An assessment was carried out by the external auditor in 
consultation with the operating companies using a structured 
questionnaire.
The external auditor’s annual transparency report for the year 
ended 31 May 2011 was reviewed. This was prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of the Statutory Auditors 
(Transparency) Instrument 2008 made by the Professional 
Oversight Board (POB) of the Financial Reporting Council. The 
report addresses all the elements contained in the POB’s audit 
quality framework.
External auditor rotation
Audit partners are rotated every five years. The advisory partner 
changed in 2010 and the audit engagement partner changed 
in 2011.
A number of circumstances would lead to consideration being 
given to carrying out an audit tender review. For example:
•	 in circumstances where the external auditor’s performance had 
been called into question, or where, through the audit partner 
rotation process, no suitable replacement had been identified
•	 where value for money considerations had arisen
•	 where there was a real or perceived threat to independence
•	 where conflict of interests had been identified
•	 where issues had been raised about audit quality by a regulator.
Directors’ report continued 75 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
Business Practices Committee
“ Corporate reputation is a precious asset 
and maintaining it is a key obligation of 
the Directors and management alike.” 
Mike Donovan – chairman
Meetings in 2011: 2
Members
•	 Mike Donovan – chairman
•	 Robert Amen
•	 Iain Ferguson
•	 Hubertus Krossa
•	 Steve Marshall
Responsibilities
•	 Corporate values, ethics and Code of Conduct
•	 Health and safety
•	 Stakeholder management
•	 Sustainability
•	 Whistleblowing
•	 Community engagement
The Committee focuses significant attention on health and safety, 
values, ethics and compliance. The Committee also addresses the 
Group’s Code of Conduct and the training which ensures that the 
Group’s business principles are properly embedded throughout 
the business. In addition, a review of stakeholder and community 
engagement and operational excellence was a particular area of 
focus for the Committee in 2011.
At each of its meetings, the Committee receives detailed updates 
on health and safety performance and specifically the current 
status of the Group’s Zero Harm initiative, including statistical data 
and trends, accident reporting, and high-potential incidents as well 
as occupational health. The Committee also reviews the output 
from the independent health and safety audit carried out across 
the Group.
Remuneration Committee
“ Embedding the new remuneration policy 
has been a key agenda topic for the 
Committee. Ensuring the policy (and the 
underlying incentive arrangements) 
continue to do their job as the organisation 
develops will remain a focal point.”
Iain Ferguson – chairman
Meetings in 2011: 4
Members
•	 Iain Ferguson – chairman (from 14 July 2011)
•	 Hubertus Krossa
•	 Steve Marshall
•	 Graham Roberts
•	 Robert Walvis – chairman (to 14 July 2011)
Responsibilities
•	 Remuneration strategy and policies
•	 Remuneration packages
•	 Incentive plans
Information about the work of the Committee during the financial 
year is set out in the remuneration report starting on page 82. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 76
Our governance
Group Tender and Investment Committee
“ Key considerations typically include 
programme and resources, risks (including 
ethical conduct), safety, joint venture 
arrangements, cash flows and margins.”
Ian Tyler – chairman
Meetings in 2011: Numerous
Members
•	 Ian Tyler – chairman
•	 Duncan Magrath
•	 Andrew McNaughton
•	 Anthony Rabin
•	 Peter Zinkin
•	 Kevin Craven
•	 Manfred Leger
•	 John Moore  
(from 1 February 2012)
•	 Brian Osborne
•	 Mike Peasland
•	 George Pierson
•	 Robert Van Cleave
Responsibilities
•	 Major contract approvals
•	 Acquisitions and disposals
•	 Capital expenditure
This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his 
absence by one of the other executive Directors. Its main purpose 
is to review all major proposed contracts with projected values 
above specified levels. The Committee also has authority to 
approve capital expenditure applications and any proposed 
acquisitions or disposals over certain specified limits determined 
by the Board. For example, currently the Committee’s terms of 
reference require contracts for construction or services in the UK 
of a value exceeding £100m to be submitted for review, whilst 
other limits vary according to geography and nature of the 
contract. In addition, irrespective of the financial scale of the 
contract, the Committee also reviews tenders in territories which 
are classified as high risk (above 35) in Transparency International’s 
Corruption Perceptions Index or where there may be a security 
risk to employees in that territory. Minutes of Committee 
meetings are made available to all the Directors.
In addition to the standing agenda items, the following principal 
topics were considered at Committee meetings during the year:
March
•	 Consideration of the fatality review carried out in 2010, 
lessons learned and actions taken
•	 An update on the UK Bribery Act, a review of the external 
monitor’s anti-corruption compliance report for 2010 and 
embedding the Code of Conduct
•	 Reputational risk issues and the relationship between the 
Company and its key stakeholders
•	 A review of the draft sustainability report 2010
October
•	 High-potential incidents and the associated reporting procedures
•	 Zero Harm progress and plans to expand beyond 2012
•	 Progress on the 2020 Sustainability Vision and the 2012 workplan
•	 A review of the assurance processes and the findings of the 
external monitor on the output of his monitoring activities across 
each of the businesses
•	 Consideration of the role of the Committee in relation to the 
policies, processes and behaviours exhibited across the Group 
and their consistency with the Group strategy
•	 Approval of the charity and community engagement proposals 
for 2012 following an in-depth review during 2011
The Committee will continue to monitor its terms of reference 
to determine whether it should expand its remit.
Directors’ report continued 77 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
The Group’s systems of internal control operate through a number 
of different processes, some of which are interlinked. These include:
•	 the annual review of the strategy and plans of each division 
and of the Group as a whole in order to identify the risks to 
the Group’s achievement of its overall objectives and, where 
appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions
•	 monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review 
of results and forecasts by executive Directors and line 
management, including particular areas of business or project 
risk. This is used to update management’s understanding of 
the environment in which the Group operates and the methods 
used to mitigate and control the risks identified
•	 individual tender and project review procedures starting at 
operating company and divisional levels, progressing to Board 
Committee level if value, or perceived exposure, exceeds 
certain thresholds
•	 regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety 
and environmental matters
•	 the review and authorisation of proposed investment, 
divestment and capital expenditure through the Board’s 
Committees and the Board itself
•	 the review of specific material areas of Group-wide risk and 
the formulation and monitoring of risk mitigating actions
•	 the formulation and review of properly documented policies 
and procedures, updated to address the changing risks of 
the business
•	 specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, 
covering the financial management of the Group, including 
arrangements with the Group’s bankers and bond providers, 
controls on foreign exchange dealings and management of 
currency and interest rate exposures, insurance, capital 
expenditure procedures, application of accounting policies 
and financial controls
•	 a Group-wide risk management framework which is embedded 
throughout the Group. Under it, key risks are identified and 
assessed and action plans are developed to mitigate or eliminate 
unwanted exposures. The results of these reviews are placed 
on risk registers and are subject to regular review
•	 reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business 
financial processes and controls and specific reviews in areas 
of perceived high business risk
•	 the Group’s policy in relation to staff being able to raise 
concerns, in confidence, about possible improprieties on 
matters of financial reporting and other issues.
These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as 
appropriate, to all companies joining the Group.
The Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance is 
responsible for ensuring that a comprehensive framework 
of assurance (including internal audit) exists within operating 
companies and for co-ordinating the risk management activities 
across the Group. No significant failings or weaknesses have 
been identified by the Board in carrying out its review of the 
effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
Finance and General Purposes Committee
Meetings in 2011: Numerous
Members
•	 Ian Tyler – chairman
•	 Duncan Magrath
•	 Andrew McNaughton
•	 Anthony Rabin
•	 Peter Zinkin
Responsibilities
•	 Banking facilities and other treasury matters
•	 Share options
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his 
absence by one of the other executive Directors. Its principal 
purpose is to approve various routine banking and treasury 
matters, grants and exercises of employee share options and 
other matters relating to share capital. A summary of the business 
conducted at the meetings is provided to all the Directors.
Risk management and assurance
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of risk management and internal control and reviews their 
effectiveness. The Group’s principal risks and how they are 
mitigated are summarised on pages 58 to 62. The Board continued 
to assess the effectiveness of the risk management processes and 
internal controls during 2011 and to the date of this report. Such 
assessment is based on reports made to the Board, the Audit 
Committee and the Business Practices Committee, including:
•	 the results of internal audit’s reviews of internal financial controls
•	 a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had 
been maintained, or, where any significant non-compliance or 
breakdown had occurred with or without loss, the status of 
corrective action
•	 a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent 
and mitigation of significant risks and on the systems of 
internal controls.
The Group’s systems and controls are designed to ensure that the 
Group’s exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the 
Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. In addition, not 
all the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are 
treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group. Where they are 
not, systems of internal control and risk management are applied 
as agreed between the parties to the venture.
Central to the Group’s systems of internal control are its processes 
and framework for risk management. These accord with the 
Turnbull Guidance on internal controls and were in place 
throughout the year and up to the date of signing this report. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 78
Our governance
Share capital and shareholders
Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2011, 
including the rights attaching to each class of share, are set out in 
Note 28 on pages 143 and 144. During the year to 31 December 
2011 no ordinary or preference shares were repurchased for 
cancellation. 665,516 ordinary shares were issued following the 
exercise of options held under the Company’s savings-related share 
option scheme and 302,586 ordinary shares were issued following 
the exercise of options held under the Company’s executive share 
option scheme.
At 31 December 2011, the Directors had authority under 
shareholders’ resolutions approved at the AGM and at the Class 
Meeting of preference shareholders held in May 2011 to purchase 
through the market 68,649,797 ordinary shares and 16,775,968 
preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions. This 
authority expires at the conclusion of the Class Meeting of 
preference shareholders which will follow the 2012 AGM or 
on 1 July 2012 whichever is earlier.
Throughout the year, all the Company’s issued share capital was 
publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so as 
at the date of this report. There are no specific restrictions on the 
size of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both 
governed by the Articles of Association and the prevailing law. The 
Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the 
Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of shares or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in the 
remuneration report starting on page 82. Shares held by the 
Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust are not voted.
No person has special rights of control over the Company’s share 
capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
As at 31 December 2011, the Company had been notified in 
accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority of the following interests in its 
ordinary share capital:
Number
of ordinary
shares held
Percentage
of ordinary
shares held
Standard Life Investments Limited 41,130,821 5.98
Prudential plc 35,103,707 5.11
BlackRock, Inc 33,808,307 4.92
Legal & General Group plc 26,889,659 3.91
Since 1 January 2012, the Company has received further 
notifications advising that the interest of Standard Life 
Investments Limited has reduced to 4.94%.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as auditors 
to the Company and a resolution for its re-appointment will be 
proposed at the AGM.
Honorary President
Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company. He was 
appointed to this position in May 2003, following his retirement 
as Chairman after 26 years on the Board.
Other disclosures
Business and financial review
The Chairman’s message on pages 10 and 11, the Chief Executive’s 
strategic review on pages 12 to 21, the Chief Operating Officer’s 
review on pages 24 to 27, the operating review on pages 28 to 45, 
“the way we work” on pages 48 to 51 and the Chief Financial 
Officer’s review on pages 54 to 57 are incorporated by reference 
into the Directors’ report.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are shown in the audited financial 
statements presented on pages 95 to 161 and are explained 
more fully in the Chief Executive’s and Chief Operating Officer’s 
reviews, the operating review and the Chief Financial Officer’s 
review. An interim dividend payment of 5.3p (net) per ordinary 
share was approved by the Board on 16 August 2011 and a final 
dividend of 8.5p (net) per ordinary share will be recommended 
at the Annual General Meeting giving a total of 13.8p (net) per 
ordinary share, which compares with a total dividend per ordinary 
share of 12.7p (net) in 2010. Preference dividends totalling 10.75p 
(gross) per preference share were paid in 2011 (2010: 10.75p 
(gross) per preference share).
The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan, 
which allows holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their cash 
dividends in the Company’s shares through a specially arranged 
share dealing service.
Innovation, research and development
The Group remains committed to enhancing stakeholder value 
through thought leadership and innovation. Developed with our 
strategic partner, Imperial College, a co-ordinated and strategic 
innovation approach directs investment to meet our customers’ 
needs, encourages a culture of entrepreneurship and knowledge 
sharing and leverages our relationships with partners and 
suppliers. The growing importance of integrated design, 
construction and operation and Building Information Modelling 
is at the heart of the Group’s innovation strategy, as evidenced 
by its relationships with the University of Bristol and the University 
of Salford, as well as the Group’s success on the Heathrow 
Terminal 2B project.
The Group’s innovation forum will continue to evolve through 2012 
into targeted centres of excellence, developing thought leadership 
and building on the existing integration between operating 
companies. An innovation outreach programme will engage our 
customers, equipping the Group with the deep understanding of 
the issues they face, to better meet their current and future needs. 
This will be underpinned by a single technology platform that will 
provide the Group with the channels it needs to access its 
comprehensive lifecycle knowledge of infrastructure assets.
Details of the Group’s 2011 research and development expenditure 
are given in Note 4.1 on page 110.
Directors’ report continued 79 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
The website www.balfourbeatty.com is an important source 
of information on the Group, including financial press releases, 
shareholder documentation, annual and half-year results 
presentations and the terms of reference of the principal Board 
Committees. The website was relaunched in the third quarter 
of 2011 to enable it to become an even more effective source 
of information for investors.
Political donations
At the AGM held on 12 May 2011, shareholders gave authority for 
the Company and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political 
organisations up to a maximum aggregate amount of £25,000 in 
the European Union. This approval is a precautionary measure in 
view of the broad definition of these terms in the Companies Act. 
No such expenditure or donations were made during the year and 
shareholder authority will be sought again at the 2012 AGM.
In the US and Canada, donations totalling £182,000 were made by 
operating companies during 2011. Most of these donations were 
made by Parsons Brinckerhoff Group Inc; they were small and all 
were permitted by law. In the main, they relate to support given 
for local campaigns, public bond financing or similar referenda to 
promote investment in infrastructure. Any political contributions or 
donations are tightly controlled and must be approved in advance 
in accordance with the Company’s internal procedures and must 
also adhere strictly to the Company’s policies on probity set out 
in its Code of Conduct. A review of existing practices was 
undertaken during 2011.
Parsons Brinckerhoff Group Inc sponsors a Political Action 
Committee (“PAC”). A PAC is an independently administered 
committee which receives voluntary contributions from Parsons 
Brinckerhoff’s US employees and allocates the funds received, 
whatever they may be, to US political candidates and other eligible 
stakeholders who support investment in infrastructure markets 
generally. Contributions are entirely voluntary from employees and 
are kept completely separate from company funds. Decisions 
taken by the PAC are independent of influence by Balfour Beatty. 
Total PAC contributions in 2011 were £79,062.
Corporate responsibility
A full description of our approach to sustainability, including 
information on the Group’s community engagement programme, 
appears on pages 48 to 51.
The Group’s published policies on health and safety, the 
environment, business conduct and ethics remain in place and 
are subject to regular reviews. 
Further information on each of these policies and the progress 
which has been made during the year is provided in the 
sustainability report 2011 at www.balfourbeatty.com/sr11.
Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good 
relationships with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders 
are kept informed of significant Company developments.
The Company has continued its long-established programme of 
communication with institutional investors and brokers throughout 
2011. Presentations of the half-year and annual results were made 
in accordance with the practice of previous years. Through the 
year 220 meetings were held at regular intervals (2010: 
approximately 200) with institutional shareholders, brokers and 
analysts including five hosted events. These comprised:
•	 a presentation to analysts on Support Services at the National 
Operations Centre in Manchester
•	 an informal meeting in the UK with US management for 
investors and analysts
•	 a site visit to the ongoing Heathrow Terminal 2B project to 
which analysts and major investors were invited
•	 two conferences for existing and prospective investors.
The Chairman held three meetings with major investors on 
corporate governance matters and five further meetings were 
held with major shareholders by senior executives as part of our 
ongoing engagement.
We will maintain this communications programme and expand 
it where appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and 
practice. The 2012 investor programme will focus on ensuring 
our investors and the analyst community fully understand the 
strategic direction of the Group following completion of the 
Board’s strategy review.
Given the recent growth of the Group and the broadening 
shareholder base, the Board reviewed the Company’s broking 
arrangements in order to evaluate the qualifications of other 
brokers in the market alongside the corporate brokers with whom 
the Company had enjoyed an excellent relationship over many 
years. At the conclusion of the process in June, the Board decided 
to appoint Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs 
International as joint corporate brokers.
Care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is 
released to all shareholders at the same time in accordance with 
UK Listing Authority requirements.
Executive Directors report regularly to the Board on meetings or 
other contact with shareholders or their representatives. The 
non-executive Directors continue to believe that, through their 
direct and ready access to, and contact with, the Chairman and 
the Senior Independent Director and through the regular reports 
to the Board, they are kept fully aware of the views of the 
larger shareholders in the Company and the investment 
community generally.
The Board continues to retain the services of independent external 
corporate and investor relations consultants who provide advice on 
the relationship between the Company and its institutional investors.
The Board regards the Company’s general meetings as an 
opportunity to communicate directly with private investors and 
actively encourages participative dialogue with all the Company’s 
shareholders. The chairmen of the Board Committees attend the 
AGM each year as well as the other Directors and are available to 
answer questions from shareholders. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 80
Our governance
Change of control provisions
The Group’s bank facility agreements contain provisions that, on 
30 days’ notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise 
its discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of 
control and cancel all commitments under the agreement concerned. 
A number of significant joint venture and contract bond 
agreements include provisions which become exercisable by 
a counterparty on a change of control of the Company. These 
include the right of a counterparty to request additional security 
and to terminate an agreement.
Some other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal 
course of business, include change of control provisions.
The Group’s share and incentive plans include usual provisions 
relating to change of control.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for the 
Directors or employees on a change of control.
Payment of creditors
In the UK, the Company’s policy is to settle the terms of payment 
with suppliers when agreeing the terms for each transaction or 
series of transactions; to seek to ensure that suppliers are aware 
of the terms of payment; and to abide by these terms of payment 
as and when satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or 
services in accordance with the agreed terms. At 31 December 
2011, the year-end creditors’ days of the Company were 28 
(2010: 27).
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies and 
its exposure to the following risks – foreign exchange, interest 
rate, price and credit – are detailed in Note 21 on pages 124 to 130.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted 
by the European Union (“EU”) and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation 
and they have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial 
statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU. Under company 
law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for 
that period. In preparing these financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
Employment
As the Group operates across a number of business sectors 
in different environments, it has evolved a decentralised 
management structure, with employment policies designed to 
suit the needs of individual businesses. However, each employing 
company is expected to comply with certain key principles in 
its design and practice of employment policy.
These are:
•	 to provide an open, challenging and participative environment
•	 to enable all employees to use their talents and skills to the full, 
through appropriate encouragement, training and development
•	 to communicate a full understanding of the objectives and 
performance of the Group and the opportunities and challenges 
facing it
•	 to provide pay and other benefits which reflect good local 
practices and reward individual and collective performance
•	 to ensure that all applicants receive equal treatment regardless 
of age, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital 
status, religion or belief
•	 to ensure that all employees similarly receive equal 
treatment particularly in relation to training, development 
and career progression.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully 
considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant 
concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled 
every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the 
Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is 
the policy of the Group that the training, career development 
and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, 
be identical to that of other employees.
Throughout the Group we use a variety of methods to 
communicate key business goals and issues to employees and 
also consult and involve employees through local publications, 
briefing groups, consultative meetings, training programmes and 
working groups to assist the process of continuous improvement 
in the way business is conducted. Regular publications inform 
employees of major business and technical achievements.
Events after the reporting date
Details of events after the reporting date are set out in Note 35 
on page 151.
Contractual arrangements
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third 
parties in support of its business activities. Disclosure in this 
report of information about any of those third parties is not 
considered necessary for the understanding of the development, 
performance or position of the Group’s business.
Directors’ report continued 81 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
•	 properly select and apply accounting policies
•	 present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information
•	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the Company’s and the Group’s financial 
position and financial performance
•	 make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and for taking reasonable steps for preventing and 
detecting fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
•	 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole
•	 the operating review and Chief Financial Officer’s review, which 
are incorporated into the Directors’ report, include a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Statements of Directors as to disclosure 
of information to auditors
Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
•	 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware
•	 the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors’ report
By order of the Board
Chris Vaughan
Chief Corporate Officer and Company Secretary
7 March 2012
Registered Office:
130 Wilton Road
London SW1V 1LQ
Registered in England Number 395826 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 82
Our governance
Introductory letter
Dear Shareholder 
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee’s report on Directors’ remuneration for 2011.
As you are aware, the Committee carried out a comprehensive review of the Company’s remuneration arrangements 
during 2010 and a number of important changes were implemented in 2011 following shareholder consultation and 
approval. These were set out in last year’s report, which received a strong vote in favour at the 2011 AGM. 
Whilst we will continue to monitor our remuneration practice to ensure we have the correct alignment with the business 
strategy, Company performance and shareholder interests, the Committee does not envisage making any further changes 
at this stage. 
This year’s report sets out the proposed policy for 2012, together with the required disclosures on payments made in 
2011. In this context I would like to stress that we are committed to ensuring that rewards for executives are closely 
aligned to the interests of shareholders through having share price performance reflected clearly in our long-term incentive 
programmes. Also, that all our incentive arrangements are underpinned by challenging performance targets, which are 
reviewed annually, to ensure that there is a transparent link between performance and reward. 
We have also endeavoured to reflect the economic background in which the Company operates and the approach taken 
on pay for employees across the Group. With challenging conditions in many of our markets and cost pressures impacting 
many of our businesses, there is an inevitable focus on remuneration budgets. However, it is important to strike the right 
balance between ensuring that the level of remuneration is market competitive and motivational and, at the same time, 
ensuring it is affordable. I believe we have set that balance correctly. 
As the incoming Committee chairman, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Robert Walvis, who stepped down as 
chairman in July, for his contribution over the past eight years. During this time significant changes have taken place in the 
scale and geographical reach of the Company’s operations, the pay market and the scope of governance responsibilities. 
Throughout this period, the Company has maintained a balanced and measured approach to pay which has meant that we 
have been able to recruit and retain the senior management talent we need to successfully achieve our strategy, whilst at 
the same time maintaining remuneration levels well within market norms. As the new Committee chairman, my intention 
is to maintain this philosophy.
I hope you will support the resolution at the AGM seeking approval of this remuneration report.
Yours sincerely
Iain Ferguson 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration report  83 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
issue for the Company, particularly in relation to the type of 
work the Group is engaged in and the need to ensure that in 
all of its systems and working practices, the highest safety and 
ethical standards are maintained. As a result, we take particular 
care to ensure that the targets and objectives which are set do 
not compromise that goal
•	 In rewarding performance, the emphasis should be on clear and 
verifiable “output” measures, in particular profit measured over 
annual and longer-term performance periods. Other performance 
goals including those relating to social, environmental and 
governance responsibilities are assessed through the normal 
management review process. Overall, the RemCo maintains 
its commitment to performance measures which are objective, 
transparent and easy to understand so that they remain 
motivational to participants 
•	 Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) and relative Total Shareholder Return 
(“TSR”) remain the most appropriate “output”-based measures 
of longer-term performance. Executives should be motivated 
and rewarded in relation to the earnings performance of the 
Group. However, it is also appropriate that executives should be 
incentivised to achieve strong stock market performance to align 
their interests with those of shareholders. The continued use 
of EPS and TSR meets both these goals. The share-based 
elements of the package, including share ownership guidelines 
and the significant deferral of the annual bonus in shares, drive 
performance over the longer term and align the interests of 
senior management with those of shareholders
•	 General trends in pay and conditions throughout the Group are 
taken into account when setting the pay of the executive Directors.
Basic salaries
The policy is to set basic salaries at levels which are competitive 
given the size and complexity of the Group, as well as the broad 
business sectors in which it operates. To assist in market 
comparisons, NBS provides data and independent advice on 
remuneration levels in companies considered to be comparable 
in terms of market capitalisation, industry sector and revenue. 
The RemCo aims to position basic salaries around mid-market 
levels, taking into account the performance of the Group’s business 
and individual Directors.
The basic salaries for the executive Directors are reviewed 
annually on 1 July. 
At the review in 2011, the salaries of Duncan Magrath and Andrew 
McNaughton were increased by 5.2% and 4.9% respectively. 
These increases continue the process whereby the salaries for the 
more recent appointments to the Board are progressively aligned 
over time with the other executive Directors and the external 
market. The basic salaries of Ian Tyler, Anthony Rabin and Peter 
Zinkin were increased in line with the general level of awards 
across the Group in 2011 and normal market movement at this 
level. The salary increase for all executive Directors in July 
averaged 3.7%.
Name of Director
Salary at
1 July 2011
Salary at
1 July 2010
D J Magrath £405,000 £385,000
A J McNaughton £430,000 £410,000
A L P Rabin £450,000 £437,000
I P Tyler £668,000 £648,000
P J L Zinkin £430,000 £417,000
Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with Section 420 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Schedules 5 and 8 of the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008. The report also meets the relevant requirements 
of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and 
describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to 
Directors’ remuneration in the Combined Code. As required by 
the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the 
AGM of the Company.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee of the Board (“RemCo”) is primarily 
responsible for determining the remuneration policy and conditions 
of service for executive Directors and the Chairman of the 
Company. It also reviews and monitors the level and structure of 
remuneration for certain senior managers immediately below the 
level of the Board. The terms of reference of the RemCo, which 
were last reviewed in January 2012, can be found on the 
Company’s website www.balfourbeatty.com.
The RemCo has been chaired by Iain Ferguson since July 2011. 
Its other members during the year were Hubertus Krossa, 
Steve Marshall, Robert Walvis (the previous Committee chairman) 
and Graham Roberts. No member of the RemCo has conflicts 
of interest arising from cross-directorships and no member is 
involved in the day-to-day executive management of the Group.
During 2011, the Chief Executive, Ian Tyler, and the Human 
Resources director, Paul Raby, were invited to join meetings 
of the RemCo, when appropriate. The role of secretary of the 
RemCo is fulfilled by the Head of Secretariat. No Director has 
any involvement in any decisions relating to his own remuneration.
The RemCo is responsible for appointing external independent 
consultants to advise on executive remuneration matters. This 
advice and assistance has been provided throughout the year 
by New Bridge Street (“NBS”). The Human Resources director 
has also provided advice to the RemCo.
Remuneration policy and Company strategy 
The RemCo pays particular attention to ensuring that the 
remuneration policy, as summarised below, continues to be 
closely aligned to the business strategy. 
•	 Remuneration levels must be positioned to provide a competitive 
level of remuneration that enables the recruitment and retention 
of high-calibre management. It is vital that we continue to be 
able to attract, retain and motivate those individuals who can 
lead the business so as to achieve its short- and long-term goals. 
To meet this objective we need to ensure that remuneration 
levels are appropriately positioned against the external market 
and that compensation packages are seen as fair and reasonable. 
The Committee is, however, aware of the risk of an upward 
ratchet in remuneration levels through over-reliance on 
comparative survey data
•	 The commercial environment is a demanding one and it is 
critical that incentives are in place for executives to be rewarded 
for the achievement of specific and measurable performance 
goals. Where these goals are not met, it is also appropriate 
that this is recognised in a considerably reduced level of 
remuneration received. Accordingly, the annual bonus and 
long-term incentives make up a significant part of each 
executive Director’s compensation package
•	 Incentive arrangements are structured so as to motivate 
participants to deliver high standards of performance, without 
encouraging excessive risk-taking. Managing risk is a critical  Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 84
Our governance
If Balfour Beatty’s TSR is equivalent to the company whose TSR 
performance is at the median, 25% of the award will vest, with full 
vesting if Balfour Beatty’s TSR is equivalent to, or above, that of 
the company whose TSR performance is at the upper quartile. 
The scale of vesting is shown in the table below:
TSR comparison over three years Proportion of award vesting
Below median Zero
Median 25%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 
100% pro-rata
Details of outstanding awards and the performance conditions are 
contained later in this report under the table headed Directors’ 
long-term incentives: the Performance Share Plan.
TSR and EPS performance will be independently verified and 
approved by the RemCo.
The awards vest, subject to the achievement of performance 
conditions, three years after the date of grant, together with an 
additional award of shares in lieu of the value of dividends on the 
vested shares.
EPS and TSR performance conditions continue to provide a good 
blend of performance metrics, with EPS growth rewarding strong 
financial performance and TSR rewarding stock market out-
performance, which aligns strongly with shareholder interests. 
Performance-related remuneration 
In line with the intention of motivating the executive Directors 
to deliver high levels of performance, the proportion of overall 
compensation that is performance related increased in 2011 with 
the change in levels of bonus and share awards. Under the new 
incentive arrangements, if target performance is achieved, basic 
salary will represent around 40% of total earnings. If maximum is 
achieved, which would involve a superior level of performance, 
significantly in excess of the business plan, basic salary will 
represent just over 20% of total earnings. 
Clawback
In line with best practice, a clawback provision is included in the 
annual incentive plan (including the deferred element) and the PSP. 
This provision enables the Company to reduce unvested awards, 
or reclaim payments made, in the event of a material misstatement 
or error in the financial results, or where the participant has 
engaged in misconduct leading to a higher award or payment 
than would otherwise have been made. 
Annual incentive plan
Each executive Director participates in an annual incentive plan, 
under which predetermined financial targets must be achieved 
before any payment is earned. The maximum potential bonus 
which could have been earned by executive Directors for 2011 
was 120% of basic salary and the performance indicator chosen 
was profit before tax and non-underlying items. A bonus of 60% 
of basic salary would have been earned for the achievement of 
performance in line with target. One-half of any bonus achieved 
for 2011 is payable in cash, whilst the remaining half is deferred 
in the form of ordinary shares in the Company under the Deferred 
Bonus Plan (“DBP”). These shares, along with shares awarded in 
lieu of dividends paid during the deferral period, will be released 
to the Directors after three years, providing they are still employed 
by the Company at that time. Bonuses are non-pensionable. The 
profit for the year ended 31 December 2011 resulted in a bonus of 
78.4% of basic salary for each executive Director. Further details 
on the actual result in relation to the targets set and the bonus 
payouts for 2011 are shown in Note (iii) to the Directors’ 
remuneration table on page 88.
Long-term incentive scheme
During 2011, awards were made under the Performance Share 
Plan (“PSP”) approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM. Award 
levels were 175% and 150% of salary for the Chief Executive and 
other executive Directors respectively. These awards are subject 
to two performance conditions, each applying to separate halves 
of the award and each measured over a period of three financial 
years. One half of the award is subject to an EPS growth range, 
as set out in the table below.
EPS growth over three years Proportion of award vesting
Less than 15% Zero
15% 25%
45% 100%
Between 15% and 45% Between 25% and 
100% pro-rata
The RemCo believes that the proposed range is appropriately 
stretching, providing a balance between a requirement for 
outstanding performance and ensuring that undue risk-taking 
is not encouraged.
The EPS target range will be reviewed carefully for each 
subsequent award.
The other half of the award is subject to a performance condition 
measuring the Company’s TSR compared to a comparator group 
of UK listed companies ranked 51–150 by market capitalisation 
in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding Investment Trusts) on 
1 January 2011. 
Remuneration report continued 85 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
Share options 
The Executive Share Option Scheme expired in 2011 and the 
scheme was not renewed. 
The Company has previously operated an HMRC approved 
savings-related share option scheme (“SAYE”) under which 
executive Directors and employees are granted an option to 
purchase ordinary shares in the Company in either three or five 
years’ time. This scheme reached the end of its 10-year life in 
2011 and a new SAYE scheme was approved by shareholders at 
the 2011 AGM. No SAYE offer was made to employees in 2011. 
Pensions
The Company provides pension benefits to eligible UK employees 
principally through the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (the Fund), 
which has both defined benefit (“DB”) and defined contribution 
(“DC”) sections. The various DB sections provide for the build-up 
of pension benefits based on different accrual rates (typically 
determined by legacy factors such as date of joining the Fund or 
historic membership of an acquired company’s pension scheme 
or as required by contractual terms and conditions) and offers life 
cover, disability and spouse/dependants pension benefits. The DC 
section is the default arrangement for newly eligible employees 
and provides money purchase pension benefits based on a range 
of three contribution rates from which members can choose.
A range of liability mitigation measures have been introduced 
within the Fund. The most significant is that basic salary used 
for calculating DB benefits was frozen in many of the DB sections 
with effect from January 2011. All DB members have the option 
of opting out of their DB section of the Fund and joining the DC 
section of the Fund if they wish.
A Fund-specific earnings cap has been maintained for those 
members who were previously subject to the HMRC earnings 
cap in order to control defined benefit pension liabilities. This cap 
applies to members of the DB and the DC sections of the Fund. 
A discretionary cash supplement is paid in lieu of pension provision 
above the earnings cap. 
The Company is not compensating any member of the Fund 
(or any other pension scheme operated by the Company) for 
any additional tax which is payable as a result of changes to 
government policy. However, since the lowering of the Annual 
Allowance threshold in April 2011 members do have the 
opportunity to voluntarily give up some of their pension benefits 
in order to avoid incurring Annual Allowance tax charges. To the 
extent that benefits are given up voluntarily the Company will 
pay a discretionary cash supplement in lieu of pension provision 
given up.
A salary sacrifice arrangement for the payment of employee 
pension contributions (called SMART pensions) was introduced 
in November 2009 in order to reduce National Insurance 
contributions payable by the Company and the members.
The specific pension arrangements for executive Directors are 
outlined in more detail in the Directors’ pensions section on 
pages 91 and 92. 
Remuneration and risk
As part of the remuneration review, the RemCo also considered 
the relationship between remuneration and risk, and remains 
satisfied that the policies operated are appropriate and do not 
encourage undue risk taking as:
•	 total remuneration is appropriately balanced between fixed 
elements (eg basic salary and pension contribution) and 
incentive pay. Basic salary levels are targeted at around 
mid-market levels and are reviewed annually. As described 
earlier in the report, variable pay does not represent a 
disproportionately high level of overall remuneration 
•	 annual bonuses are capped and targeted to ensure that 
performance incentives and rewards are set at an 
appropriate level
•	 a significant proportion of annual bonus is deferred in shares 
for three years, thereby providing a longer-term performance 
horizon for the annual bonus
•	 PSP awards are granted annually, rather than on a one-off 
basis, meaning that no undue emphasis is placed on 
performance in any one particular financial year 
•	 sliding scale performance targets are used for all 
performance pay, providing incremental awards for 
additional performance delivered 
•	 clawback provisions are included in the annual incentive plan 
(including the deferred element) and the PSP.
Share ownership guidelines
To further align the interests of senior management with those 
of shareholders, executive Directors and certain other senior 
managers are subject to share ownership guidelines. Executive 
Directors are required to accumulate a holding of ordinary shares 
in the Company to the value of 100% of their basic salary at a 
reference date, with other senior managers at 50% of basic salary. 
In order to achieve this, those subject to the share ownership 
guidelines will be expected to retain at least half of the shares 
(after payment of any taxes due) which vest from awards made 
under the PSP and the DBP, until the required level of ownership 
has been reached. 
Share Incentive Plan 
A Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”) was approved by shareholders 
at the 2011 AGM. The first offer under this new scheme will be 
effective in March 2012. The SIP will allow employees, including 
executive Directors, to purchase Company shares from pre-tax 
salary subject to a limit of the lower of £1,500 pa or 10% of salary, 
in line with HMRC rules. It is not currently the intention to make 
awards of matching or free shares under the SIP. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 86
Our governance
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are appointed by the full Board following 
recommendations from the Nomination Committee. The Chairman’s 
remuneration falls within the remit of the RemCo and is approved 
by the Board. The Board determines the terms on which the 
services of other non-executive Directors are provided. All 
non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years. In 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors 
submit themselves for re-election at the AGM. The non-executive 
Directors are not eligible to join any pension scheme operated by 
the Company and cannot participate in any of the Company’s 
share plans or annual incentive schemes. None of the appointment 
letters for non-executive Directors contain provision for specific 
payment in the event of termination for whatever cause.
The dates of the letters of appointment or re-appointment of the 
non-executive Directors are shown in the table below. 
Name of Director
Date of appointment 
or re-appointment
Unexpired 
period at 
December 
2011 
(months)
R M Amen 10 June 2010 17
M J Donovan 1 July 2009 6
I G T Ferguson 1 January 2010 12
G E H Krossa 9 September 2011 32
S Marshall 16 May 2011 28
G C Roberts 1 January 2012 36
R J W Walvis 26 September 2010 21
The fees of the non-executive Directors are reviewed from time 
to time; the last review took effect from 1 July 2011. The annual 
fee level for the non-executive Directors (excluding the Chairman) 
was increased from £52,000 to £54,000 and for Steve Marshall as 
Chairman from £250,000 to £258,000. The annual fee for chairing 
Board Committees is unchanged at £10,000. In addition, the 
annual fee for the Senior Independent Director (“SID”) remains 
at £10,000. Where the SID was also the chairman of a Board 
Committee, as was the case for part of the year for Robert Walvis, 
there is no additional fee. For non-executive Directors based 
outside Europe, an additional fee of £2,500 is paid for each visit 
made on Company business to the UK, or to any other country 
(excluding their home country).
An annual fee is payable to Hubertus Krossa for his chairmanship 
of the supervisory board of Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH. This fee 
was €34,000 in 2011 as set out in Note (iv) to the Directors’ 
remuneration table on page 88.
Service contracts
It remains the Company’s policy and practice to include in 
executive Directors’ contracts a 12-months’ rolling notice period 
from the Company and six-months’ notice on the part of the 
Director. This policy will continue.
Details of the service contracts of the executive Directors are 
shown in the table below.
Name of Director Date of contract
Notice 
period from 
Company
(months) 
D J Magrath 11 April 2008 12
A J McNaughton 15 December 2008 12
A L P Rabin 31 March 2008 12
I P Tyler 22 December 2004 12
P J L Zinkin 16 January 2004 12
Service contracts of executive Directors do not include provision 
for specific payment in the event of early termination, nor do they 
provide for extended notice periods or compensation in the event 
of a change of control. It is not the RemCo’s intention to introduce 
such provisions. If any existing contract of employment is breached 
by the Company in the event of termination, the Company would 
be liable to pay, as damages, an amount approximating to the net 
loss of salary and contractual benefits for the unexpired notice 
period. The RemCo would seek to ensure that the Director 
fulfils his obligation to mitigate his losses and would also 
give consideration to phased payments where appropriate. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
all Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
External appointments
The RemCo recognises that benefits can arise from allowing 
executive Directors to take a non-executive directorship elsewhere. 
With the approval of the Board in each case, executive Directors 
may therefore accept one external appointment and retain any 
related fees. Ian Tyler was appointed as a non-executive director 
of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, effective 1 January 2011 
and Anthony Rabin was appointed as a non-executive director 
of Colt Group S.A. effective 20 July 2011. The fees that each 
Director received in 2011 for these roles are set out in Note (v) 
to the Directors’ remuneration table on page 88. On 1 March 2012 
Duncan Magrath was appointed as a non-executive director of 
Brammer plc.
Remuneration report continued 87 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
Performance graph
The graph below shows Balfour Beatty’s TSR performance compared to the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) TSR over 
the five financial years ended 31 December 2011. 
20
Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11
0
40
60
80
100
120
140
Value (£)
Balfour Beatty plc Source: Thomson Reuters FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)
This graph shows the spot value by 31 December 2011 of £100 invested in Balfour Beatty plc on 31 December 2006 compared with the value of £100 invested in the 
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Index. The intermediate points are the spot values on the Company’s ﬁnancial year-ends.
As in previous reports, the RemCo has chosen to compare the TSR on the Company’s ordinary shares against the FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding investment trusts) principally because this is a broad index of which the Company is a constituent member. The values 
indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends from a £100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares 
in Balfour Beatty plc and in the index, and have been calculated using 30 trading-day average values.
The detailed information about the Directors’ remuneration, set out below and on pages 88 to 92 has been audited by the Company’s 
independent auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Directors’ interests
The interests of the Directors and connected persons (including, amongst others, members of the Director’s immediate family) in the 
share capital of Balfour Beatty plc and its subsidiary undertakings during the year are set out below. 
Number of ordinary shares
Name of Director
At 
1 January 
2011* 
At
31 December
2011
R M Amen 5,000 10,000
M J Donovan 10,000 10,000
I G T Ferguson 25,000 25,000
G E H Krossa 7,142 7,142
D J Magrath 84,258 102,579
S Marshall 7,142 7,142
A J McNaughton 91,253 100,601
A L P Rabin 258,651 183,651
G C Roberts 7,142 15,000
I P Tyler 354,096 376,156
R J W Walvis 14,285 14,285
P J L Zinkin 286,359 301,751
* or date of appointment, if later.
Notes:
(i)  All interests at the dates shown are beneficial and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. There were no changes between 31 December 2011 and 
7 March 2012.
(ii) Peter Zinkin was also interested at 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 in 325 cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each of Balfour Beatty plc. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 88
Our governance
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2011
Name of Director
Basic 
salary
£
Fees
£
Pension 
supplement 
£
Benefits 
in kind
£
Annual 
bonus
£
Total 
remuneration 
2011 
£
Total 
remuneration 
2010 
£
R M Amen – 73,000 – – – 73,000 39,000
M J Donovan – 63,000 – – – 63,000 59,000
I G T Ferguson – 57,451 – – – 57,451 50,000
G E H Krossa – 82,565 – – – 82,565 79,310
D J Magrath 395,000 – 53,380 15,550 158,760 622,690 580,781
S Marshall – 254,000 – – – 254,000 245,000
A J McNaughton 420,000 – 43,401 15,550 168,560 647,511 605,035
A L P Rabin 443,500 – 77,391 20,301 176,400 717,592 689,783
G C Roberts – 63,000 – – – 63,000 59,000
I P Tyler 658,000 – 78,236 26,298 261,856 1,024,390 979,994
R J W Walvis – 63,000 – – – 63,000 59,000
P J L Zinkin 423,500 – 59,080 10,146 168,560 661,286 584,027
Former Director – – – – – – 50,000
Total 2,340,000 656,016 311,488 87,845 934,136 4,329,485 4,079,930
Notes:
(i)  Basic salary and fees were those paid in respect of the period of the year during which individuals were Directors. In practice, the basic salaries paid to Andrew 
McNaughton and Peter Zinkin have been reduced due to their participation in the Company’s SMART Pensions salary sacrifice arrangement. The salary reductions in 2011 
were £1,545 and £6,405 for Andrew McNaughton and Peter Zinkin respectively. These correspond to their contributions to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund, which are now 
met directly by the Company as part of this arrangement. 
(ii)  All executive Directors received taxable cash supplements in lieu of some pension provision. Further details are set out in the section on Directors’ pensions on pages 
91 and 92. 
(iii)  The performance measure for annual bonus was profit before tax and non-underlying items. The targets were set at the start of the year ended 31 December 2011, based 
on a sliding scale from threshold to target profit and from target profit to maximum. The performance scale is reviewed annually to ensure that it remains stretching, with 
60% of salary paid for achieving target profit. The profit for the year ended 31 December 2011 resulted in a bonus of 78.4% of basic salary for each executive Director. 50% 
of this bonus is payable in cash and these are the amounts shown in the table above. The remaining 50% is deferred in the form of ordinary shares in the Company which 
will be released to the Director on 30 March 2015, providing he is still employed by the Company at that time. The number of shares comprising the deferred element will 
be determined based on the share price at the award date of 30 March 2012. 
(iv)   Hubertus Krossa received a fee of €34,000 (included above) for his chairmanship of the supervisory board of Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH. 
(v)   In addition, Ian Tyler received a fee of £68,000 for his services as a non-executive director of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Anthony Rabin received a fee 
of €33,750 for his services as a non-executive director of Colt Group S.A.
(vi)  Benefits in kind are calculated in terms of UK taxable values. All executive Directors receive private medical insurance for the Director and his immediate family. Ian Tyler 
and Anthony Rabin receive a fully expensed car and a fuel card. Peter Zinkin receives a fully expensed car only. Duncan Magrath and Andrew McNaughton receive a car 
allowance of £14,000 pa. 
(vii)  No Director receives any expense allowance. 
(viii)  Awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2008 to Ian Tyler, Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton, Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin vested during the year. At the 
date of vesting on 15 April 2011 the closing market price was 330.0p and the total values of the awards which vested, including shares received in lieu of dividends, were 
£151,668, £74,085, £62,093, £82,804 and £82,804 respectively.
(ix)  Awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2008 to Ian Tyler, Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton, Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin vested during the year. At the 
date of vesting on 31 March 2011 the closing market price was 343.8p and the total values of the awards which vested were £144,860, £52,938, £67,808, £94,903 and 
£94,903 respectively.
(x)   Peter Zinkin exercised savings-related share options during the year. The closing market price on the date of exercise was 312.0p and the value realisable on exercise 
was £382.
Remuneration report continued 89 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
Directors’ long-term incentives: the Performance Share Plan
Maximum number of shares subject to award
Name of Director Date granted
At 
1 January 
2011
Awarded 
during 
the year
Vested 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At 
31 December 
2011
Exercisable 
from
D J Magrath 15 April 2008 108,646 – 19,990 88,656 – April 2011
15 April 2009 124,069 – – – 124,069 April 2012
15 April 2010 133,826 – – – 133,826 April 2013
1 June 2011 – 181,729 – – 181,729 June 2014
A J McNaughton 15 April 2008 91,070 – 16,756 74,314 – April 2011
15 April 2009 135,017 – – – 135,017 April 2012
15 April 2010 143,120 – – – 143,120 April 2013
1 June 2011 – 193,530 – – 193,530 June 2014
A L P Rabin 15 April 2008 121,428 – 22,342 99,086 – April 2011
15 April 2009 155,087 – – – 155,087 April 2012
15 April 2010 157,989 – – – 157,989 April 2013
1 June 2011 – 206,274 – – 206,274 June 2014
I P Tyler 15 April 2008 222,406 – 40,922 181,484 – April 2011
15 April 2009 275,874 – – – 275,874 April 2012
15 April 2010 281,036 – – – 281,036 April 2013
1 June 2011 – 356,850 – – 356,850 June 2014
P J L Zinkin 15 April 2008 121,428 – 22,342 99,086 – April 2011
15 April 2009 147,789 – – – 147,789 April 2012
15 April 2010 150,555 – – – 150,555 April 2013
1 June 2011 – 196,834 – – 196,834 June 2014
Notes:
(i)  All awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be satisfied 
by shares purchased in the market.
(ii)  For the awards in April 2009, April 2010 and June 2011, the performance periods are the three years ending 31 December 2011, 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 
respectively. 50% of each award is subject to an EPS growth target. The maximum number of shares subject to this performance condition will only vest if EPS growth 
exceeds the retail prices index (“RPI”) by 39% for the April 2009 award and 36% for the April 2010 award and if EPS growth exceeds 45% for the June 2011 award. If EPS 
growth exceeds RPI by 9% for the April 2009 award and 6% for the April 2010 award and if EPS growth exceeds 15% for the June 2011 award, then 25% of this part of 
the awards will vest. For growth in EPS between these points, vesting will be on a pro-rata basis. No shares will vest from this part of the award if EPS growth exceeds RPI 
by less than 9% and 6% for the April 2009 and April 2010 awards respectively or if EPS growth is less than 15% for the June 2011 award. The other 50% of each award 
is subject to a total shareholder return (“TSR”) target under which the TSR of the Company is compared to a comparator group at the start of the performance period. For 
the 2009 and 2010 award, the comparator group was based on a bespoke group of companies (as previously disclosed). For the 2011 award, the comparator group was 
the FTSE 51-150 (excluding investment trusts). The maximum number of shares subject to this performance condition will only vest if the Company’s TSR is in the upper 
quartile of the comparator group. If the Company’s TSR is equal to that of the median of the comparator group, then 25% of this part of the award will vest. No shares 
from this part of the award will vest if the Company’s TSR is below that of the median of the comparator group. For TSR performance between median and upper quartile, 
vesting will be on a pro-rata basis. There is no provision for re-testing of either of the performance conditions. 
(iii)  The average middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company for the three dealing dates before the award dates, which was used for calculating the number of 
awards granted, was 449.17p for the 2008 award, 354p for the 2009 award, 302.63p for the 2010 award and 317.78p for the 2011 award. The closing middle market price 
of ordinary shares on the date of the awards was 450p, 352.25p, 302.8p and 312.4p respectively.
(iv)  The performance period for the awards made in April 2009 was completed on 31 December 2011. The growth in EPS for this period did not exceed the RPI + 9% required 
for threshold vesting. The Company’s TSR for this period ranked below the median of the comparator group. The combined effect of these performance measures is that 
each participant’s conditional award will lapse on 15 April 2012. 
(v)  The performance period for the awards made in April 2008 was completed on 31 December 2010. The growth in EPS for this period (with adjustments in relation to the 
rights issue for EPS in 2007 and PPP asset disposals and the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff for EPS in 2010) exceeded RPI by 19.75%, exceeding the RPI + 15% 
required for threshold vesting. The Company’s TSR for this period ranked just below the median of the comparator group. The combined effect of these performance 
measures is that 18.4% of each participant’s conditional award vested on 15 April 2011. Ian Tyler, Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton, Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin 
also received 5,038, 2,460, 2,060, 2,750 and 2,750 shares respectively in lieu of the dividends which would have been payable on the shares which vested. The closing 
middle market price of ordinary shares on the vesting date was 330.0p. The monetary values of the PSP award which vested in 2011 are disclosed in Note (viii) to the 
Directors’ remuneration table on page 88. 
(vi) On 1 June 2011 for all participants in the PSP, a maximum of 3,235,874 conditional shares were awarded which are normally exercisable in June 2014. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 90
Our governance
Directors’ Deferred Bonus Plan awards
Name of Director Date of initial award
Number of shares awarded
Vesting date
At
1 January 
2011
Awarded 
during 
the year
Awarded during the year 
in respect of dividends
Exercised 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At 
31 December 
2011
Final 
2010
Interim 
2011
D J Magrath 31 March 2008 15,398 – – – 15,398 – – 31 March 2011
31 March 2009 31,170 – 752 676 – – 32,598 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 20,719 – 500 449 – – 21,668 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 – 20,814 494 430 – – 21,738 31 March 2014
A J McNaughton 31 March 2008 19,723 – – – 19,723 – – 31 March 2011
31 March 2009 27,962 – 675 607 – – 29,244 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 22,158 – 535 481 – – 23,174 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 – 22,166 526 458 – – 23,150 31 March 2014
A L P Rabin 31 March 2008 27,604 – – – 27,604 – – 31 March 2011
31 March 2009 38,964 – 941 845 – – 40,750 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 24,460 – 590 531 – – 25,581 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 – 23,626 561 488 – – 24,675 31 March 2014
I P Tyler 31 March 2008 42,135 – – – 42,135 – – 31 March 2011
31 March 2009 57,760 – 1,395 1,254 – – 60,409 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 36,260 – 875 787 – – 37,922 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 – 35,033 832 724 – – 36,589 31 March 2014
P J L Zinkin 31 March 2008 27,604 – – – 27,604 – – 31 March 2011
31 March 2009 37,132 – 896 806 – – 38,834 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 23,310 – 563 506 – – 24,379 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 – 22,544 535 465 – – 23,544 31 March 2014
Notes:
(i)  All awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be satisfied 
by shares purchased in the market.
(ii)  The initial awards made in 2009, 2010 and 2011 will vest on 31 March 2012, 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 respectively, providing the Director is still employed by the 
Company at the vesting date (unless specified leaver conditions are met, in which case early vesting may be permitted). 
(iii)  The initial awards made in 2008 vested on 31 March 2011. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company on the vesting date was 343.8p. The monetary 
values of the Deferred Bonus Plan award which vested in 2011 are disclosed in Note (ix) to the Directors’ remuneration table on page 88.
(iv)  The shares awarded on 31 March 2008, 31 March 2009, 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2011 were purchased at average prices of 476.454p, 365.801p, 300.32p and 
343.417p respectively.
(v)  For the initial awards made in 2009 and 2010, the shares awarded on 5 July 2011 and 9 December 2011 in lieu of the final 2010 and interim 2011 dividends respectively 
were allocated at average prices of 316.73p and 250.0p respectively. For the initial awards made in 2011, the shares awarded on 5 July 2011 and 12 October 2011 (in lieu 
of the final 2010 and interim 2011 dividends respectively), were allocated at average prices of 322.0p and 262.5p respectively. 
(vi)  On 31 March 2011, for all participants in the Deferred Bonus Plan, a maximum of 738,975 conditional shares were awarded which will normally be released on 31 March 
2014. On 5 July 2011 a further 54,862 conditional shares were awarded in lieu of entitlements to the final 2010 dividend and on 9 December 2011 a further 46,804 
conditional shares were awarded in lieu of entitlements to the interim 2011 dividend.
Remuneration report continued 91 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our governance
Directors’ Savings-Related Share Option Scheme grants
Name of Director Date granted
Number of options
Exercise
price
Exercisable
At 
1 January
2011
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At
31 December 
2011 From To
D J Magrath 7 May 2008 1,073 – – – 1,073 315.2p July 2013 December 2013
18 May 2009 628 – – – 628 249.0p July 2014 December 2014
11 May 2010 1,291 – – – 1,291 236.0p July 2015 December 2015
A L P Rabin 3 May 2006 1,114 – – 1,114 – 265.6p July 2011 December 2011
2 May 2007 1,140 – – – 1,140 338.7p July 2012 December 2012
7 May 2008 368 – – 368 – 315.2p July 2011 December 2011
I P Tyler 7 May 2008 762 – – 762 – 315.2p July 2011 December 2011
18 May 2009 439 – – – 439 249.0p July 2012 December 2012
11 May 2010 676 – – – 676 236.0p July 2013 December 2013
P J L Zinkin 3 May 2006 823 – 823 – – 265.6p July 2011 December 2011
2 May 2007 1,352 – – – 1,352 338.7p July 2012 December 2012
7 May 2008 804 – – – 804 315.2p July 2013 December 2013
18 May 2009 366 – – – 366 249.0p July 2012 December 2012
11 May 2010 246 – – – 246 236.0p July 2013 December 2013
Notes:
(i) All options are granted for nil consideration on grant and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc.
(ii)  The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 December 2011 was 264.8p. During the year the highest and lowest closing market prices were 357.3p 
and 214.6p respectively.
(iii)  Options granted to Anthony Rabin in May 2006 and May 2008, exercisable at 265.6p and 315.2p respectively, and Ian Tyler in May 2008 exercisable at 315.2p, lapsed 
unexercised in December 2011.
(iv) The monetary values realisable from options exercised are disclosed in Note (x) to the Directors’ remuneration table on page 88.
Directors’ pensions
Executive Directors participate in the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (the “Fund”). The Fund provides for a pension at a normal retirement 
age of 62 for pension purposes and each Director pays an annual contribution equal to 5% of contributory salary except where the 
Director participates in the Company’s SMART Pensions salary sacrifice arrangement as outlined in Note (iii) to the second table on 
page 92. The defined benefit pension for a Director who can complete 20 or more years’ pensionable service at normal retirement age 
is targeted at two-thirds of final pensionable salary, subject to Fund limits which have their origin in the former HMRC limits. Peter Zinkin 
opted out of the Fund on 31 December 2010 and started to receive his pension benefits from 1 January 2011, and has therefore not 
accrued any further defined benefit pension in the Fund during 2011. He has however participated in the defined contribution section of 
the Fund since 1 January 2011, and the Company’s contributions to this arrangement are shown in Note (iii) to the first table on page 92.
The Fund operates a Fund-specific earnings cap for pension purposes. The pensionable earnings of each Director were subject to the 
Fund-specific earnings cap and details of the Company’s allowances paid in lieu of pension contributions on earnings above the Fund-
specific earnings cap are noted in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 88. Andrew McNaughton elected to have his pensionable 
earnings restricted further to a personal earnings cap and details of the Company’s allowance paid in lieu of pension contributions on 
earnings above his personal earnings cap are noted in the Directors’ remuneration table.  Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 92
Our governance
The table below sets out the accrued deferred pension which would be paid annually from the Fund at normal retirement age based on 
each Director’s service to 31 December 2011 as well as the additional pension benefit secured in respect of service during the year 
(where applicable – see Note (iii) below). 
Name of Director
Age at 
31 December 
2011
Years
Pensionable 
service at 
31 December 
2011
Years 
Accrued 
deferred 
pension at 
31 December 
2010
£ pa
Increase in accrued deferred 
pension during the year
Transfer value 
corresponding 
to increase 
in excess of 
inflation at 
31 December 
2011 less 
Director’s 
contributions 
(Note i)
£
As a 
result of 
inflation
£ pa
Increase in 
excess of 
inflation
£ pa
Accrued 
deferred 
pension at 
31 December 
2011
£ pa
D J Magrath 47 5 19,688 906 4,331 24,925 62,205
A J McNaughton 48 14 36,639 1,685 3,138 41,462 44,124
A L P Rabin (see Note ii) 56 18 71,089 3,270 6,431 80,790 140,139
I P Tyler 51 15 46,275 2,129 3,407 51,811 59,007
P J L Zinkin (see Note iii) 58 29 225,949 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Notes:
(i)  These amounts represent the value at 31 December 2011 of the increase in excess of inflation (where inflation is measured using the Retail Prices Index between 
September 2009 and 2010) of each Director’s deferred pension and associated benefits over the period calculated in accordance with the transfer value regulations, 
using the transfer value basis then stipulated by the Trustee of the Fund, less the value of any Directors’ contributions. 
(ii)  Anthony Rabin’s pensionable service includes nine years of transferred-in service from previous pension arrangements.
(iii)  Peter Zinkin started to receive his defined benefit pension from the Fund on 1 January 2011 and has not accrued any further defined benefits in the Fund during 2011. 
The period of pensionable service shown for Mr Zinkin is for the period prior to 31 December 2010 only. The Company has however paid £21,603 into the defined 
contribution section of the Fund for Mr Zinkin during the year, in addition to his SMART Pensions salary sacrifice of £6,405. 
The table below sets out the transfer value at 31 December 2011 of each executive Director’s accrued deferred pension at that date 
(where applicable – see Note (vii) below) as well as the movement in that transfer value over the period. The transfer values represent the 
cash equivalent values that would have been payable from the Fund had the Directors left service on the dates shown, and reflect each 
Director’s age and benefit entitlement. The Trustees of the Fund increased the level of prudence in the transfer value basis during 2011 
which served to increase transfer values, all other things being equal. The table below illustrates the impact of the change in the transfer 
value basis.
Name of Director
Age at
31 December
2011
Years
Pensionable 
service at 
31 December 
2011
Years
Transfer 
value at 
31 December 
2010
(Note i)
£
Transfer value 
reflecting 
change in 
status at 
1 January 2011
(Note ii)
£
Contributions 
made by 
Director during 
the year
(Note iii)
£
Increase in 
transfer value 
during the year 
using previous 
Trustee basis
(Note iv)
£
Increase in 
transfer value 
as a result 
of new 
Trustee basis 
(Note v)
£
Transfer 
value at 
31 December 
2011
(Note i)
£
D J Magrath 47 5 239,119 – 6,638 75,815 57,390 378,962
A J McNaughton 48 14 441,896 – 6,275 82,884 90,792 621,847
A L P Rabin (Note vi) 56 18 1,240,145 – 6,638 292,442 233,941 1,773,166
I P Tyler 51 15 666,494 – 6,638 136,677 136,360 946,169
P J L Zinkin (Note vii) 58 29 4,295,588 4,530,870 n/a 19,578 702,809 5,253,257
Notes:
(i)  These amounts represent the present value of the accrued deferred pension and associated benefits at the relevant date, calculated using the transfer value basis then 
in force. All benefits shown exclude the value of Directors’ AVC benefits in the Fund.
(ii)  This amount represents the value of Peter Zinkin’s immediate pension in payment of £192,565 pa from 1 January 2011 after drawing a lump sum benefit and having 
a Lifetime Allowance tax charge paid to HMRC by the Fund (see Note vii below).
(iii)  Andrew McNaughton has participated in the Company’s SMART Pensions salary sacrifice arrangement during 2011. His contributions figure includes £1,545 paid via 
this arrangement.
(iv)  These amounts represent the difference between the transfer value of each Director’s accrued benefits at the end and the beginning of the period ignoring the change 
in transfer value basis adopted by the Trustee during the year, less the value of the Director’s contributions paid during the period.
(v)  These amounts represent the difference between the transfer value of each Director’s accrued benefits at the end of the period using the new transfer value basis in force 
at the end of the period and the transfer value of the accrued benefits at the end of the period using the transfer value basis in force prior to the Trustee’s change.
(vi)  Anthony Rabin’s pensionable service includes nine years of transferred-in service from previous pension arrangements.
(vii)  Peter Zinkin had drawn a lump sum benefit of £300,000 from the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund on 1 January 2011 and also elected to have a Lifetime Allowance tax 
charge of £142,279 paid to HMRC by the Fund. He has received a pension of £192,565 pa from the Fund since 1 January 2011. The period of pensionable service shown 
for Mr Zinkin is for the period prior to 31 December 2010 only. The transfer value at 31 December 2011 represents the value at that date using assumptions which are 
consistent with the Trustees’ more prudent transfer value basis then in force of his pension of £192,565 pa payable from that date. The increase of £702,809 is entirely as 
a result of this increase in prudence in the Trustees’ transfer value basis. He has participated in the defined contribution section of the Fund since 1 January 2011, and the 
Company paid £21,603 into this arrangement during the year, in addition to his SMART Pensions salary sacrifice of £6,405.
Remuneration report
By order of the Board
Iain Ferguson 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 March 2012
Remuneration report continued 94 Independent auditor’s report
95  Financial statements
95  Group income statement 
95  Group statement of comprehensive income 
96  Group statement of changes in equity 
97  Company income statement 
97  Company statement of comprehensive income 
97  Company statement of changes in equity 
98  Statements of financial position 
99  Statements of cash flows
100  Notes to the accounts
Our accounts
93
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 94
Independent auditor’s report to the  
members of Balfour Beatty plc
We have audited the financial statements of Balfour Beatty plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Group and 
Company income statements, the Group and Company statements 
of comprehensive income, the Group and Company statements of 
financial position, the Group and Company statements of changes 
in equity, the Group and Company statements of cash flows, 
and the related Notes 1 to 38. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To 
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we 
read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual 
report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2011 and of the Group’s and the Company’s profit for the year 
then ended;
•	 the financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	 the Directors’ statement, contained within the Directors’ Report, 
in relation to going concern; 
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration.
John Adam
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
7 March 2012 95 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
Group income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2011
2011 2010 
2
Notes
Underlying
items
1
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
items
1
 
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue including share of joint ventures  
and associates 11,035 – 11,035 10,473 – 10,473
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 16.2 (1,541) – (1,541) (1,237) – (1,237)
Group revenue 2 9,494 – 9,494 9,236 – 9,236
Cost of sales (8,358) – (8,358) (8,132) – (8,132)
Gross profit 1,136 – 1,136 1,104 – 1,104
Net operating expenses
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets – (62) (62) – (82) (82)
– other (880) (26) (906) (851) (23) (874)
Group operating profit/(loss) 256 (88) 168 253 (105) 148
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 16.2 75 – 75 72 – 72
Profit/(loss) from operations 4 331 (88) 243 325 (105) 220
Investment income 6 57 – 57 46 – 46
Finance costs 7 (54) – (54) (65) – (65)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 334 (88) 246 306 (105) 201
Taxation 9 (91) 27 (64) (83) 39 (44)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 243 (61) 182 223 (66) 157
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operation 10 – 4 4 13 (27) (14)
Profit for the year 243 (57) 186 236 (93) 143
Attributable to
Equity holders 243 (57) 186 236 (93) 143
Non-controlling interests – – – – – –
Profit for the year 243 (57) 186 236 (93) 143
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
Notes
2011 
Pence
2010 
2 
Pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 11 26.7 23.0
– discontinued operation 11 0.6 (2.0)
11 27.3 21.0
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 11 26.7 22.9
– discontinued operation 11 0.6 (2.0)
11 27.3 20.9
Dividends per ordinary share proposed for the year 12 13.8 12.7
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
Group statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Notes
2011
£m
2010
 £m
Profit for the year 186 143
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Currency translation differences 4 43
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit obligations 53 87
Fair value revaluations – PPP financial assets 204 61
 – PPP cash flow hedges (239) (67)
 – other cash flow hedges – (2)
 – available-for-sale investments in mutual funds 17.1 (2) 4
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (12) (25)
Total other comprehensive income for the year 8 101
Total comprehensive income for the year 29.1 194 244
Attributable to 
Equity holders 194 244
Non-controlling interests – –
Total comprehensive income for the year 29.1 194 244
  Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 96
Our accounts
Group statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Called-up
share 
capital
Share 
premium
account
Equity
component
of
preference
shares
Special 
reserve
Share 
of joint 
ventures’ 
and 
associates’
reserves
(Note 16.5)
Other
reserves
(Note 29.1)
Retained 
profits
Non- 
controlling 
interests Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 343 57 16 32 157 288 102 4 999
Total comprehensive
income for the year 29.1 – – – – 53 46 145 – 244
Ordinary dividends 12 – – – – – – (84) – (84)
Joint ventures’ and
associates’ dividends 16.1 – – – – (62) – 62 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 28.1 – 2 – – – – – – 2
Recycling of revaluation reserves to  
the income statement on disposal 29.1 – – – – (4) – – – (4)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest – – – – – – (1) – (1)
Movements relating to
share-based payments – – – – – – 4 – 4
Transfers – – – (2) – – 2 – –
At 31 December 2010 343 59 16 30 144 334 230 4 1,160
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 
for the year 29.1 – – 1 – 60 (18) 151 – 194
Ordinary dividends 12 – – – – – – (88) – (88)
Joint ventures’ and
associates’ dividends 16.1 – – – – (54) – 54 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 28.1 1 2 – – – – – – 3
Recycling of revaluation reserves to  
the income statement on disposal 16.5 – – – – (6) – – – (6)
Movements relating to 
share-based payments – – – – – (5) 5 – –
Transfers – – – (3) – – 3 – –
At 31 December 2011 344 61 17 27 144 311 355 4 1,263 97 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
2011 2010
2
Notes
Underlying
items
1
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
items
1
 
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 2 13 – 13 22 – 22
Net operating expense (21) (1) (22) (23) (8) (31)
Loss from operations (8) (1) (9) (1) (8) (9)
Investment income 6 6 – 6 6 – 6
Finance costs 7 (29) – (29) (28) – (28)
Loss before taxation (31) (1) (32) (23) (8) (31)
Taxation 9 5 – 5 7 1 8
Loss for the year from continuing operations (26) (1) (27) (16) (7) (23)
Profit for the year from discontinued operation 10 – 59 59 9 – 9
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to equity holders (26) 58 32 (7) (7) (14)
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
Company statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Notes
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year 32 (14)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit obligations 6 5
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 25.3 (2) –
Total other comprehensive income for the year 4 5
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year attributable to equity holders 29.2 36 (9)
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Notes
Called-up 
share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
account
£m
Equity
component
of
preference
shares
£m
Special 
reserve 
£m
Other 
reserves
(Note 29.2)
£m
Retained 
profits
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 343 57 16 32 317 473 1,238
Total comprehensive expense for the year 29.2 – – – – – (9) (9)
Ordinary dividends 12 – – – – – (84) (84)
Issue of ordinary shares 28.1 – 2 – – – – 2
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – 4 – 4
Transfers – – – (2) – 2 –
At 31 December 2010 343 59 16 30 321 382 1,151
Total comprehensive income for the year 29.2 – – 1 – – 35 36
Ordinary dividends 12 – – – – – (88) (88)
Issue of ordinary shares 28.1 1 2 – – – – 3
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – 2 1 3
Transfers – – – (3) – 3 –
At 31 December 2011 344 61 17 27 323 333 1,105
Company income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2011 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 98
Our accounts
Statements of financial position
At 31 December 2011
Group Company
Notes
2011
£m
2010
3
£m 
2011
£m
2010
3
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 13 1,279 1,196 – –
 – other 14 239 251 – –
Property, plant and equipment 15 288 320 – –
Investments in joint ventures and associates 16 466 488 – –
Investments 17 96 95 1,742 1,742
PPP financial assets 18 457 327 – –
Deferred tax assets 25 105 163 – 2
Derivative financial instruments 21 – – 1 1
Trade and other receivables 22 87 70 25 30
3,017 2,910 1,768 1,775
Current assets
Inventories 19 140 89 – –
Due from customers for contract work 20 604 591 – –
Derivative financial instruments 21 1 4 2 6
Trade and other receivables 22 1,410 1,197 1,295 1,114
Current tax assets 5 4 – 14
Cash and cash equivalents – PPP subsidiaries 24 18 18 – –
 – other 24 577 566 – –
2,755 2,469 1,297 1,134
Total assets 5,772 5,379 3,065 2,909
Current liabilities
3
Trade and other payables 23 (2,426) (2,232) (1,594) (1,562)
Due to customers for contract work 20 (576) (651) – –
Derivative financial instruments 21 (10) (2) (2) (6)
Current tax liabilities (30) (29) – –
Borrowings – PPP non-recourse loans 24 (21) (8) – –
 – other 24 (231) (37) (236) (55)
Provisions
3
27 (107) (135) – (1)
(3,401) (3,094) (1,832) (1,624)
Non-current liabilities
3
Trade and other payables 23 (142) (144) (25) (25)
Derivative financial instruments 21 (120) (45) (1) (1)
Borrowings  – PPP non-recourse loans 24 (329) (280) – –
 – other 24 (6) (11) – –
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (15) (8) (1) –
Liability component of preference shares 28 (91) (89) (91) (89)
Retirement benefit obligations 26 (275) (441) (4) (13)
Provisions
3
27 (130) (107) (6) (6)
(1,108) (1,125) (128) (134)
Total liabilities (4,509) (4,219) (1,960) (1,758)
Net assets 1,263 1,160 1,105 1,151
Equity
Called-up share capital 28 344 343 344 343
Share premium account 29 61 59 61 59
Equity component of preference shares 29 17 16 17 16
Special reserve 29 27 30 27 30
Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves 29 144 144 – –
Other reserves 29 311 334 323 321
Retained profits 29 355 230 333 382
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,259 1,156 1,105 1,151
Non-controlling interests 29 4 4 – –
Total equity 1,263 1,160 1,105 1,151
3
 Re-presented to reflect the disclosure of provisions between current liabilities and non-current liabilities (Note 38.2).
On behalf of the Board
Steve Marshall  Duncan Magrath
Director    Director
7 March 2012 99 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
Statements of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2011
Group Company
Notes
2011
£m
2010 
2
£m
2011
£m
2010
2
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) underlying operations 36.1 54 212 (99) (56)
Cash used in non-underlying operations 36.1 (19) (43) (1) (8)
Income taxes (paid)/received (18) (21) 9 (6)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 17 148 (91) (70)
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 54 53 12 21
Dividends received from discontinued operation 5 9 5 9
Dividends received from subsidiaries – – 1 1
Interest received 23 19 6 6
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 30.1 (100) (44) – –
Purchase of intangible assets – other 14 (19) (14) – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15 (77) (85) – (1)
Purchase of other investments 17 (21) (13) – –
Investments in and loans made to joint ventures and associates (41) (56) – –
Investments in PPP financial assets (40) (22) – –
Disposal of investments in joint ventures 28 24 – –
Disposal of other business 30.4 37 – – –
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 21 13 – –
Disposal of other investments 19 7 – –
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (111) (109) 24 36
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 28 3 2 3 2
Purchase of ordinary shares (4) (3) – (3)
Proceeds from new loans 36.3 282 49 212 –
Repayment of loans 36.3 (8) (30) – –
Proceeds from new finance leases 36.3 – 4 – –
Repayment of finance leases 36.3 (4) (5) – –
Ordinary dividends paid 29 (88) (84) (88) (84)
Interest paid (44) (31) (18) (15)
Preference dividends paid (11) (11) (11) (11)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 126 (109) 98 (111)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 36.3 32 (70) 31 (145)
Effects of exchange rate changes 36.3 (2) 12 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 550 608 (55) 90
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 36.2 580 550 (24) (55)
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10). Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 100
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts
1 Principal accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of accounting
The annual financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis as discussed on page 57 and in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) adopted for 
use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 
of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies 
Act 2006 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee and 
adopted by the European Union relevant to its operations and 
effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2011.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention, except as described under Note 1.19. The 
functional and presentational currency of the Company and the 
presentational currency of the Group is sterling. 
Changes in accounting policies
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (revised 2009); IFRIC 19 
Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments; 
Improvements to IFRSs (issued May 2010); and the amendments 
to: IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 
Disclosures for First-time Adopters; IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets; and IFRIC 14 
Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement came into 
effect and were adopted in the current year but had no effect 
on the Group financial statements.
Accounting standards not yet adopted by the Group
The following accounting standards, interpretations and 
amendments have been released by the IASB but have either 
not been adopted by the European Union or are not yet effective 
in the European Union at 31 December 2011: IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments; IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements; IFRS 11 
Joint Arrangements; IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other 
Entities; IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement; IAS 27 Separate 
Financial Statements; IAS 28 Investments in Associates and 
Joint Ventures; IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase 
of a Surface Mine; and the amendments to: IFRS 1 Severe 
Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters; 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Offsetting Financial 
Assets and Financial Liabilities; IAS 1 Presentation of Items in 
Other Comprehensive Income; IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery 
of Underlying Assets; IAS 19 Employee Benefits; and IAS 32 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets 
and Financial Liabilities. Of these, IFRS 9 and IAS 19 are expected 
to have the most significant effect. 
IFRS 9 is expected to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement from 2015, subject to EU adoption. 
IFRS 9 in issue as at 31 December 2011 only concerns the 
classification and measurement of financial assets and financial 
liabilities. New requirements for de-recognition of financial 
instruments, impairment and hedge accounting are expected to 
be added to IFRS 9 in 2012. The requirements of IFRS 9 in issue 
as at 31 December 2011 would result in the Group’s PPP financial 
assets being reclassified from “available-for-sale”, which is a 
category that will no longer exist under the new standard, to a 
debt instrument measured either at amortised cost or at fair value 
through profit or loss. As a result, movements in the fair value 
of PPP financial assets would no longer be recognised in other 
comprehensive income. Retrospective application of this 
requirement would result in the closing balance of fair value 
movements recognised in PPP financial asset reserves being 
transferred to retained earnings. The effect within the Group’s 
reserves would be a transfer of £67m from PPP financial asset 
reserves to retained earnings. The effect within the share of joint 
ventures’ and associates’ reserves would be a transfer of £181m 
from PPP financial asset reserves to retained earnings.
Adopting amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits would have 
increased the 2011 net finance charge by £17m. The effect on 
2012 would be to increase the net finance charge by £13m. 
1.2 Re-presentation of comparative information
On 2 March 2011 the Directors resolved to dispose of the 
Group’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd (“Barking”), 
subject to receiving a satisfactory offer. Barking’s carrying 
value was expected to be recovered principally through a sale 
transaction within one year rather than through continuing use and 
accordingly the Group’s interest in Barking has been classified as a 
discontinued operation held for sale from 2 March 2011. The sale 
was subsequently completed on 21 December 2011. As a result 
the financial statements for the 2010 year-end have been re-
presented to show all amounts relating to Barking as a discontinued 
operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations. Refer to Note 10.
The income statement has been re-formatted to reflect the 
re-presentation of “Exceptional items” as “Non-underlying items” 
in order to clarify the nature of these items, resulting in “Before 
exceptional items” being classified as “Underlying items”. Refer 
to Note 8.
The statement of financial position has been re-formatted to 
reflect the disclosure of provisions between current and non-
current liabilities which was previously only shown within the 
provisions note.
Remuneration of key personnel has been restated to include 
non-executive Directors. Refer to Note 34.
Revision to segmentation
The Group’s segmentation was revised following a change in the 
Group management structure on 1 January 2011 when Balfour 
Beatty Plant and Fleet Services was transferred from Construction 
Services into Support Services. The information for the 2010 
year-end disclosed in Note 3 has been re-presented based on the 
new Group management structure as disclosed in Note 38.3.
1.3 Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements include the results of the Company 
and its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the results 
of joint ventures and associates, drawn up to 31 December 
each year.
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control, being the 
power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The results of 
subsidiaries acquired or sold in the year are consolidated from 
the effective date of acquisition to the effective date of disposal.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for 
the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. On acquisition, 
the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are 
measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess 
of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of 
the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any 
deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets acquired (discount on acquisition) is credited 
to the income statement in the period of acquisition. The interest 
of non-controlling shareholders is stated at the non-controlling 
shareholders’ proportion of the fair value of the assets and 
liabilities recognised.  101 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
1 Principal accounting policies continued
1.3 Basis of consolidation continued
a) Subsidiaries continued 
Any acquisition or disposal which does not result in a change in 
control is accounted for as a transaction between equity holders. 
The carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling 
interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative 
interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the fair value 
of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which the 
non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in 
equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where necessary 
to ensure consistency with those used by the Group. All intra-
group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated 
on consolidation.
b) Joint ventures and associates 
Joint ventures are those entities over which the Group exercises 
joint control through a contractual arrangement. Associates are 
entities over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant 
influence, but does not control or exercise joint control, through 
participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of 
the investee. 
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates 
are incorporated in the financial statements using the equity 
method of accounting except when classified as held for sale. 
The equity return from the military housing joint ventures of 
Balfour Beatty Capital US is contractually limited to a maximum 
pre-agreed level of return, beyond which Balfour Beatty Capital 
US does not share in any further return. 
Any excess of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over the 
Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of 
the joint venture or associate entity at the date of acquisition is 
recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the fair value of the 
cost of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets of the joint venture or associate at the date 
of acquisition (discount on acquisition) is credited to the income 
statement in the period of acquisition. 
Investments in joint ventures and associates are initially carried in the 
statement of financial position at cost (including goodwill arising on 
acquisition) and adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s 
share of net assets of the joint venture or associate, less any 
impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of joint 
ventures and associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those 
joint ventures and associates are only recognised to the extent that 
the Group is contractually liable for, or has a constructive obligation 
to meet, the obligations of the joint ventures and associates.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with joint ventures 
and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest 
in the relevant joint venture or associate.
c) Jointly controlled operations
The Group’s share of the results, assets and liabilities of contracts 
carried out in conjunction with another party are included under 
each relevant heading in the income statement and statement 
of financial position. 
1.4 Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of 
exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the 
rates of exchange at the reporting date. Significant exchange rates 
used in the preparation of these financial statements are shown 
in Note 1.28.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, 
the results of foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint venture 
entities are translated at average rates of exchange for the year, 
unless the exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that 
period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of 
transactions are used. Assets and liabilities are translated at the 
rates of exchange prevailing at the reporting date. Goodwill and fair 
value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are 
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated 
at the rates of exchange at the reporting date. Currency translation 
differences arising are transferred to the Group’s foreign currency 
translation reserve and are recognised in the income statement 
on disposal of the underlying investment. 
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, 
the Group may enter into forward exchange contracts. Refer to 
Note 1.20(c) for details of the Group’s accounting policies in 
respect of such derivative financial instruments. 
1.5 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable for goods and services provided, net of 
trade discounts, value added and similar sales-based taxes, after 
eliminating revenue within the Group. Revenue is recognised 
as follows:
•	 revenue from construction and service activities represents 
the value of work carried out during the year, including amounts 
not invoiced;
•	 revenue from manufacturing activities is recognised when title 
has passed;
•	 interest income is accrued on a time basis using the effective 
interest method by reference to the principal outstanding and 
the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying 
amount; and
•	 dividend income is recognised when the equity holder’s right 
to receive payment is established. 
1.6 Segmental reporting
The Group considers its Board of Directors to be the chief 
operating decision-maker and therefore the segmental disclosures 
provided in Note 3 are aligned with the monthly reports provided 
to the Board of Directors. The Group’s reporting segments are 
based on the types of services provided. Operating segments 
with similar economic characteristics have been aggregated 
into four reportable segments. A description of each reportable 
operating segment is provided in Note 3. Further information on 
the business activities of each reportable operating segment is 
set out on pages 106 to 109.
Working capital is the statement of financial position measure 
reported to the chief operating decision-maker. The profitability 
measure used to assess the performance of the Group is 
underlying profit from operations.
Segment results represent the contribution of the different 
segments after the allocation of attributable corporate overheads. 
Transactions between segments are conducted at arm’s-length 
market prices. Segment assets and liabilities comprise those 
assets and liabilities directly attributable to the segments. 
Corporate assets and liabilities include cash balances, bank 
borrowings, tax balances and dividends payable.
Major customers are defined as customers contributing more than 
10% of the Group’s external revenue. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 102
Our accounts
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
1.7 Construction and service contracts
When the outcome of individual contracts can be estimated 
reliably, contract revenue and contract costs are recognised as 
revenue and expenses respectively by reference to the stage 
of completion at the reporting date. The stage of completion is 
measured by the proportion of the value of work done to the total 
value of work under the contract. Full provision is made for all 
known or expected losses on individual contracts once such 
losses are foreseen. Revenue in respect of variations to contracts, 
claims and incentive payments is recognised when it is probable it 
will be agreed by the client. Profit for the year includes the benefit 
of claims settled on contracts completed in previous years. 
1.8 Pre-contract bid costs and recoveries
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until it is virtually 
certain that a contract will be awarded, from which time further 
pre-contract costs are recognised as an asset and charged as an 
expense over the period of the contract. Amounts recovered in 
respect of pre-contract costs that have been written-off are 
deferred and amortised over the life of the contract.
For construction and services projects, the relevant contract is 
the construction or services contract respectively. With respect 
to PPP projects, there are potentially three contracts over which 
the recovered costs could be amortised, the concession itself, 
the construction contract or the services contract. An assessment 
is made as to which contractual element the pre-contract costs 
relate to, in order to determine which is the relevant period for 
amortisation. When PPPs were first evolving this was deemed to 
be the concession. Now that the PPP market is established, the 
relevant contract is either the construction contract that ultimately 
gives rise to a financial or intangible asset; or the services contract 
where there is no initial construction.
1.9 Profit from operations
Profit from operations is stated after the Group’s share of the 
post-tax results of equity accounted joint venture entities and 
associates, but before investment income and finance costs.
1.10 Finance costs 
Finance costs of debt, including premiums payable on settlement 
and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement on an 
accruals basis over the term of the instrument, using the effective 
interest method. 
1.11 Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which 
the Group believes should be separately identified on the face of 
the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying 
financial performance achieved by the Group. Such items will affect 
the absolute amount of the results for the period and the trend of 
results. Underlying items are items before non-underlying items.
Non-underlying items include gains and losses on the disposal 
of businesses, investments and property, plant and equipment, 
unless this is part of a programme of releasing value from the 
disposal of similar businesses or investments; costs of 
restructuring and reorganisation of existing businesses; costs 
of integrating newly acquired businesses; acquisition and similar 
costs related to business combinations; impairment and 
amortisation charges on intangible assets arising on business 
combinations (“amortisation of acquired intangible assets”); and 
impairment of goodwill. These are examples, however, from time 
to time it may be appropriate to disclose further items as non-
underlying items in order to highlight the underlying performance 
of the Group. From 1 January 2011, amortisation charges in 
respect of software are included in underlying items. 
1.12 Taxation
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax, calculated 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the reporting date. Current tax and deferred tax are charged 
or credited to the income statement, except when they relate to 
items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the 
relevant tax is also dealt with in equity. Current tax is based on 
the profit for the year.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. 
Deferred tax on such assets and liabilities is not recognised if 
the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of 
goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that 
affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount 
of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can 
be controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
1.13 Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and other 
businesses, joint ventures and associates and represents the 
excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill on acquisitions 
of subsidiaries and other businesses is included in non-current 
assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates 
is included in investments in joint ventures and associates. 
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and is carried at cost 
less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is included when 
determining the profit or loss on subsequent disposal of the 
business to which it relates.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to 
IFRS (1 January 2004) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP 
amounts subject to being tested for impairment. Goodwill written-
off or discount arising on acquisition credited to reserves under UK 
GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in 
determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
b) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. 
c) Research and development
Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group 
are recognised only if all the following conditions are met:
•	 an asset is created that can be identified;
•	 it is probable that the asset created will generate future 
economic benefits; and 
•	 the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Other research expenditure is written-off in the period in which 
it is incurred.
Notes to the accounts continued 103 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
1.14 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes 
expenditure associated with bringing the asset to its operating 
location and condition. Certain land and buildings were revalued 
under UK GAAP. On transition to IFRS, the Group has elected 
to use the revalued amount as deemed cost. 
1.15 Leasing
Leases which transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee are classified as finance leases. All other 
leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the 
Group at their fair value, or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, determined at the inception of the 
lease, and depreciation is provided accordingly. The liability to 
the lessor is included in the statement of financial position as 
a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned 
between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so 
as to achieve a constant effective rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on 
a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits 
received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating 
lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
1.16 Impairment of assets
Goodwill arising on acquisitions and other assets that have an 
indefinite useful life and are not subject to amortisation are 
reviewed at least annually for impairment. Other intangible assets 
and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment 
whenever there is any indication that the carrying amount of the 
asset may not be recoverable. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying 
amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. Value in use is assessed by discounting the estimated 
future cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. For this 
purpose assets, including goodwill, are grouped into cash-generating 
units representing the level at which they are monitored by the Board 
of Directors for internal management purposes. Goodwill impairment 
losses are not reversed in subsequent periods. Reversals of other 
impairment losses are recognised in income when they arise.
1.17 Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date 
where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract 
whose terms require delivery of the investment within the 
timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially 
measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Available-for-sale investments are measured at subsequent 
reporting dates at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes 
in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognised 
directly in equity, until the investment is disposed or is determined 
to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss is 
included in the net profit or loss for the period. Held to maturity 
investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at 
amortised cost.
1.18 Assets held for sale 
Non-current assets and groups of assets to be disposed of 
are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will 
be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. Held for sale assets are measured at the 
lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
1.19 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost includes an appropriate proportion of manufacturing 
overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their present location 
and condition and is determined using the first-in first-out method. 
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all 
estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in 
marketing, selling and distribution.
1.20 Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the 
Group’s statement of financial position when the Group becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
a) Classification of financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 
to the substance of the contractual arrangements. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in 
the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs. 
b) Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares
The Company’s cumulative convertible redeemable preference 
shares are a compound instrument, comprising a liability 
component and an equity component. The fair value of the liability 
component was estimated using the prevailing market interest 
rate at the date of issue for a similar non-convertible instrument. 
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the preference 
shares and the fair value assigned to the liability component, 
representing the embedded option to convert the liability into the 
Company’s ordinary shares, is included in equity. The interest 
expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the 
market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt prevailing at 
the date of issue to the liability component of the instrument. The 
difference between this amount and the dividend paid is added to 
the carrying amount of the liability component and is included in 
finance charges, together with the dividend payable. 
c) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage 
interest rate risk and to hedge exposures to fluctuations in foreign 
currencies and commodity prices in accordance with its risk 
management policy. The Group does not use derivative financial 
instruments for speculative purposes. A description of the Group’s 
objectives, policies and strategies with regard to derivatives and 
other financial instruments is set out in Note 21. 
Derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of financial 
position at fair value on the date the derivative transaction is 
entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair values. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and 
qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income 
statement together with any changes in the fair value of the 
hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk. 
Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of derivatives that 
are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in 
equity. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of cash 
flow hedges are recognised in the income statement. Amounts 
accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement 
when the underlying transaction occurs or, if the transaction 
results in a non-financial asset or liability, are included in the initial 
cost of that asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 104
Our accounts
1 Principal accounting policies continued
1.20 Financial instruments continued
c) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
continued
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until 
the hedged transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives and recorded on the 
statement of financial position at fair value when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract. 
Changes in the fair value of those embedded derivatives 
recognised in the statement of financial position are recognised 
in the income statement as they arise.
d) PPP concession companies
Assets constructed by PPP concession companies are classified 
principally as available-for-sale financial assets.
In the construction phase, income is recognised by applying an 
attributable profit margin on the construction costs representing 
the fair value of construction services. In the operational phase, 
income is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash 
received over the life of the project to service costs by means 
of a deemed constant rate of return on those costs. The residual 
element of projected cash is allocated to the financial asset using 
the effective interest rate method, giving rise to interest income. 
Due to the nature of the contractual arrangements the projected 
cash flows can be estimated with a high degree of certainty.
In the construction phase the fair value of the Group’s PPP 
financial assets is determined by applying an attributable profit 
margin on the construction costs representing the fair value of 
construction services performed. In the operational phase fair 
value is determined by discounting the future cash flows allocated 
to the financial asset using assumptions in respect of the discount 
rates which are based on long-term gilt rates adjusted for the risk 
levels associated with the assets. The subsequent movements in 
the fair value are taken to equity. Amounts accumulated in equity 
are transferred to the income statement upon disposal of 
the asset.
1.21 Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recorded at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost as reduced by 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
1.22 Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal 
value. Advance payments on contracts are included in trade payables 
and relate to advances received on contracts which are in progress.
1.23 Borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are charged to income on an accruals basis 
using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying 
amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled 
in the period in which they arise.
1.24 Retirement benefit costs
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined benefit 
and defined contribution retirement and other long-term employee 
benefit schemes the majority of which are of the defined benefit 
type and are funded. Defined benefit contributions are determined 
in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice. 
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of 
providing benefits recognised in the income statement and the 
defined benefit obligations are determined at the reporting date 
by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. 
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position 
comprises the present value of the defined benefit pension 
obligation, determined by discounting the estimated future cash 
flows using the market yield on a high-quality corporate bond, 
less the fair value of the plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses 
are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside 
the income statement in the statement of comprehensive income.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are 
charged to the income statement as they fall due.
1.25 Provisions 
Provisions for legal claims, faults and warranties, environmental 
restoration, onerous leases, and other onerous commitments are 
recognised at the best estimate of the expenditure required to 
settle the Group’s liability. Provisions are recognised when the 
Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle the obligation; and the amount of the obligation 
can be estimated reliably.
1.26 Share-based payments
Employee services received in exchange for the grant of share 
options, performance share plan awards and deferred bonus 
plan awards since 7 November 2002 are charged in the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based 
on the fair values of the options or awards at the date of grant 
and the numbers expected to become exercisable. The credits 
in respect of the amounts charged are included within separate 
reserves in equity until such time as the options or awards are 
exercised, when the proceeds received in respect of share options 
are credited to share capital and share premium or the shares held 
by the employee trust are transferred to employees in respect of 
performance share plan awards and deferred bonus plan awards. 
1.27 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under 
IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect amounts recognised for assets and 
liabilities at the reporting date and the amounts of revenue and 
expenses incurred during the reporting period. Actual outcomes 
may therefore differ from these judgements, estimates and 
assumptions. The judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
have the most significant effect on the carrying value of assets 
and liabilities of the Group within the next financial year are 
discussed below. 
a) Revenue and margin recognition
The Group’s revenue recognition and margin recognition policies, 
which are set out in Notes 1.5 and 1.7, are central to how the 
Group values the work it has carried out in each financial year. 
These policies require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of 
long-term professional services, construction services and support 
services contracts, which require assessments and judgements to 
be made on recovery of pre-contract costs, changes in work scopes, 
contract programmes, maintenance liabilities and changes in costs. 
b) Recoverable value of recognised receivables
The Group has recognised trade receivables with a carrying value 
of £1,065m (2010: £893m). The recoverability of trade receivables 
is regularly reviewed and specific provisions are recognised for 
balances considered to be irrecoverable in the light of the available 
economic information specific to each receivable.
Notes to the accounts continued 105 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
1 Principal accounting policies continued
1.27 Judgements and key sources of estimation  
uncertainty continued 
c) Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation 
of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the 
goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires 
an estimate to be made of the timing and amount of future cash 
flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and the 
application of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the 
present value. The discount rates used are based on the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital adjusted to reflect the specific 
economic environment of the relevant cash-generating unit. The 
carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2011 was £1,279m 
(2010: £1,196m).
d) Available-for-sale financial assets 
Assets constructed by the Group’s PPP subsidiary, joint venture 
and associate companies are classified as “available-for-sale 
financial assets” and at 31 December 2011 had a value of 
£1,897m. The fair value of these financial assets is measured at 
each reporting date by discounting the future value of the cash 
flows allocated to the financial asset. A range of discount rates, 
varying from 4.83% to 7.83%, is used which reflects the prevailing 
risk-free interest rates and the different risk profiles of the various 
concessions. A £204m gain was taken to equity in 2011 and a 
cumulative fair value gain of £342m had arisen on these financial 
assets as a result of movements in the fair value of these financial 
assets at 31 December 2011.
e) PPP derivative financial instruments
The Group’s PPP subsidiary, joint venture and associate 
companies use derivative financial instruments, principally swaps, 
to manage the interest rate and inflation rate risks to which the 
concessions are exposed by their long-term contractual 
agreements. These derivatives are initially recognised as assets 
and liabilities at their fair value and subsequently remeasured at 
each reporting date at their fair value. The fair value of derivatives 
constantly changes in response to prevailing market conditions. 
A loss of £239m was taken to equity in 2011 and a cumulative 
fair value loss of £449m had arisen on these financial instruments 
at 31 December 2011. 
f) Impairment of investments in joint ventures and associates 
Investments in joint ventures and associates are reviewed for 
impairment at the reporting date. Determining whether an 
investment balance is impaired requires an estimation of the value 
in use of the joint venture or associate. The value in use calculation 
requires an estimate to be made of the timing and amount of future 
cash flows expected to arise from the joint venture or associate 
and the application of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate 
the present value. The discount rates used are based on the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted to reflect the 
specific economic environment of the joint venture or associate.
g) Retirement benefit obligations
Details of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are set 
out in Note 26, including tables showing the sensitivity of the 
Group pension scheme obligations and assets to different actuarial 
assumptions. At 31 December 2011, the defined benefit liability 
recognised on the Group’s statement of financial position was 
£275m (2010: £441m). Effects of changes in the actuarial 
assumptions underlying the benefit obligation, discount rates 
and the differences between expected and actual returns on 
the schemes’ assets are classified as actuarial gains and losses. 
During 2011 the Group recognised net actuarial gains of £53m in 
equity (2010: £87m), including its share of the actuarial gains and 
losses arising in joint ventures and associates.
h) Taxation
The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions and 
judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for 
income taxes. The Group provides for future liabilities in respect of 
uncertain tax positions where additional tax may become payable 
in future periods and such provisions are based on management’s 
assessment of exposures.
As set out in Note 1.12 above, deferred tax is accounted for on 
temporary differences using the liability method, with deferred 
tax liabilities generally being provided for in full and deferred tax 
assets being recognised to the extent that it is judged probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised. 
i) Provisions
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and 
therefore in making a reliable estimate of the quantum and timing 
of liabilities judgement is applied and re-evaluated at each 
reporting date. The Group has recognised provisions at  
31 December 2011 of £237m (2010: £242m).
1.28 Exchange rates 
The following key exchange rates were applied in the preparation 
of these financial statements.
Average rates
£1 buys 2011 2010 Change
US$ 1.60 1.55 3.2%
EUR 1.15 1.16 (0.9)%
Closing rates
£1 buys 2011 2010 Change
US$ 1.55 1.56 (0.6)%
EUR 1.20 1.16 3.4%
2 Revenue
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
2
£m
Revenue from the provision 
of services
*
9,460 9,148 – –
Revenue from 
manufacturing activities 33 87 – –
Proceeds from sale 
of development land 1 1 – –
Dividends from subsidiaries – – 1 1
Dividends from joint 
ventures and associates – – 12 21
Total revenue 9,494 9,236 13 22
Investment income (Note 6) 57 46 6 6
Total revenue and 
investment income 9,551 9,282 19 28
*
 Includes IAS 11 construction contract revenue of £8,098m (2010: £7,034m)
2
  Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation 
(Note 10). Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 106
Our accounts
3 Segment analysis 
Reportable segments of the Group
•	 Professional Services – the provision of project management, architectural, design or other technical services performed by the 
Group as a consultant.
•	 Construction Services – activities resulting in the physical construction of an asset.
•	 Support Services – activities which support existing assets or functions such as facilities management, asset maintenance and 
refurbishments.
•	 Infrastructure Investments – acquisition, operation and disposal of infrastructure assets such as PPP concessions, airports and 
power stations.
3.1 Total Group
Performance by activity
Professional
Services
2011
£m
Construction
Services
2011
£m
Support
Services
2011
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
2011
£m
Corporate
activities
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 1,645 7,050 1,584 756 – 11,035
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (1) (849) (140) (551) – (1,541)
Group revenue 1,644 6,201 1,444 205 – 9,494
Underlying group operating profit/(loss)
1
87 141 63 – (35) 256
Share of results of joint ventures and associates – 28 4 43 – 75
Underlying profit/(loss) from operations
1
 87 169 67 43 (35) 331
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (30) (17) (4) (11) – (62)
Other non-underlying items (1) (11) (14) – – (26)
Profit/(loss) from operations 56 141 49 32 (35) 243
Investment income 57
Finance costs (54)
Profit before taxation 246
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
Assets and liabilities
Due from customers for contract work 165 412 27 – – 604
Due to customers for contract work (151) (415) (10) – – (576)
Inventories 1 69 69 – 1 140
Trade and other receivables – current 309 794 233 49 25 1,410
Trade and other payables – current (272) (1,679) (355) (52) (68) (2,426)
Provisions (22) (156) (36) (2) (21) (237)
Working capital 30 (975) (72) (5) (63) (1,085)
Total assets 858 2,519 581 1,041 773 5,772
Total liabilities (566) (2,414) (430) (249) (850) (4,509)
Net assets/(liabilities) 292 105 151 792 (77) 1,263
Other information
Capital expenditure 9 31 34 2 1 77
Depreciation 12 29 26 2 1 70
Gain on disposals of interests in PPP joint ventures – – – 20 – 20
Performance by geographic destination
United
Kingdom
2011
£m
United
States
2011
£m
Rest of
world
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 5,700 3,413 1,922 11,035
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (675) (112) (754) (1,541)
Group revenue 5,025 3,301 1,168 9,494
Non-current assets excluding financial assets and deferred tax assets 999 882 396 2,277
Major customers
Included in Group revenue are revenues of £2,626m (2010: £2,811m) from the UK Government and £2,093m (2010: £1,940m) 
from the US Government, which are the Group’s two largest customers. These revenues are included in the results across all four 
reported segments.
Notes to the accounts continued 107 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
3 Segment analysis continued
3.1 Total Group continued
Performance by activity
Professional
Services
2010
£m
Construction
Services
4
2010
£m
Support
Services
4
2010
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
2
2010
£m
Corporate
activities
2010
£m
Total
2
2010
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 1,613 6,734 1,443 682 1 10,473
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (4) (616) (131) (486) – (1,237)
Group revenue 1,609 6,118 1,312 196 1 9,236
Underlying group operating profit/(loss)
1
84 170 57 (23) (35) 253
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 1 31 5 35 – 72
Underlying profit/(loss) from operations
1
 85 201 62 12 (35) 325
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (50) (18) (1) (13) – (82)
Other non-underlying items (25) (6) (12) 20 – (23)
Profit/(loss) from operations 10 177 49 19 (35) 220
Investment income 46
Finance costs (65)
Profit before taxation 201
Assets and liabilities 
Due from customers for contract work 148 389 54 – – 591
Due to customers for contract work (187) (453) (11) – – (651)
Inventories 1 48 39 – 1 89
Trade and other receivables – current 275 695 161 45 21 1,197
Trade and other payables – current (244) (1,628) (246) (48) (66) (2,232)
Provisions (30) (148) (44) (1) (19) (242)
Working capital (37) (1,097) (47) (4) (63) (1,248)
Total assets 842 2,339 469 934 795 5,379
Total liabilities (579) (2,454) (428) (171) (587) (4,219)
Net assets/(liabilities) 263 (115) 41 763 208 1,160
Other information 
Capital expenditure 13 37 32 1 2 85
Depreciation 11 34 26 2 1 74
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
4
 Re-presented to reflect the change in the group management structure (Notes 1.2 and 38.3).
Performance by geographic destination
United
Kingdom
2
2010
£m
United
States
2010
£m
Rest of
world
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 5,602 3,090 1,781 10,473
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (611) (18) (608) (1,237)
Group revenue 4,991 3,072 1,173 9,236
Non-current assets excluding financial assets and deferred tax assets* 1,018 827 411 2,256
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
* Re-presented for goodwill segment allocation (Note 13). Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 108
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
3 Segment analysis continued
3.2 Infrastructure Investments (Balfour Beatty Capital UK and Balfour Beatty Capital US)
Underlying profit from operations
1
Group
2011
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 16.2)
5
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 16.2)
2,5
2010
£m
Total
2
2010
£m
PPP UK
^
21
*
37 58 1
*
30 31
PPP US 12 7 19 14 6 20
Infrastructure (3) (1) (4) (4) (1) (5)
30 43 73 11 35 46
Bidding costs and overheads (30) – (30) (34) – (34)
– 43 43 (23) 35 12
*
 Includes gains on the disposals of interests in PPP joint ventures of £20m (2010: £nil). 
^
 Including Singapore.
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
5
 The Group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates is disclosed net of investment income, finance costs and taxation.
Net assets
Group
2011
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 16.2)
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 16.2) 
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
PPP UK
^
329 299 628 278 274 552
PPP US 144 56 200 163 45 208
Infrastructure 3 5 8 6 62 68
476 360 836 447 381 828
Infrastructure investments central functions (44) – (44) (65) – (65)
Total infrastructure investments net assets 432 360 792 382 381 763
Net borrowings in relation to PPP subsidiaries (332) – (332) (270) – (270)
100 360 460 112 381 493
^
 Including Singapore. 109 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
3 Segment analysis continued
3.3 PPP concession subsidiaries 
The Group has a 100% interest in nine UK PPP concessions through its shareholdings in Connect Roads Sunderland Holdings Ltd, 
Connect Roads South Tyneside Holdings Ltd, Connect Roads Derby Holdings Ltd, Transform Schools (Knowsley) Holdings Ltd, 
Connect CNDR Holdings Ltd, Connect Roads Coventry Holdings Ltd, Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Holdings Ltd, Connect 
Roads Cambridgeshire Holdings Ltd, and Connect Roads Northamptonshire Holdings Ltd. The performance of the wholly owned 
PPP concessions and their statements of financial position are summarised below.
2011
£m
2010
£m
Income statement
Group revenue 90 68
Profit from operations 1 1
Investment income 25 19
Finance costs (25)
*
(20)
Profit before taxation 1 –
Taxation – –
Profit for the year 1 –
Statement of cash flows
Profit from operations 1 1
(Increase)/decrease in working capital (1) 4
Income taxes paid – –
Net cash inflow from operating activities – 5
Net cash outflow from investing activities (40) (22)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (22) (5)
Net cash outflow (62) (22)
Net borrowings at beginning of year (270) (248)
Net borrowings at end of year (332) (270)
Statement of financial position
PPP financial assets (Note 18) 457 327
Derivative financial instruments (128) (44)
Other net current liabilities – (5)
329 278
Cash and cash equivalents 18 18
Non-recourse term loans (350) (288)
Net (liabilities)/assets (3) 8
*
 Includes £3m subordinated debt interest payable by PPP subsidiaries to their holding companies.  Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 110
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
4 Profit/(loss) from operations
4.1 Profit/(loss) from operations is stated after charging/(crediting)
2011
£m
2010
£m
Research and development costs 6 4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 70 74
Amortisation of intangible assets 66 82
Impairment of trade receivables – 9
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (4) (2)
Gain on disposals of interests in PPP joint ventures (20) –
Loss on disposal of UK specialist rail manufacturing business 7 –
Cost of inventory recognised as an expense 172 156
Exchange gains (2) (1)
Auditor’s remuneration 6 7
Hire charges for plant and equipment 114 94
Other operating lease rentals 113 120
4.2 Analysis of auditor’s remuneration 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Services as auditor to the Company 0.8 0.8
Services as auditor to Group subsidiaries 4.3 4.3
Total audit fees 5.1 5.1
Audit related assurance fees 0.5 0.4
Taxation compliance fees 0.3 0.3
Taxation advisory fees 0.4 0.9
Other services 0.1 0.6
Total non-audit fees 1.3 2.2
Total fees in relation to audit and other services 6.4 7.3
5 Employee costs
5.1 Group
Employee costs during the year
2011
£m
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 2,121 2,064
Redundancy 17 33
Social security costs 214 195
Pension costs (Note 26.2) 105 105
Share-based payments (Note 31) 6 8
 2,463 2,405
 
Average number of Group employees
2011
Number
2010
4
Number
Professional Services 13,819 13,642
Construction Services 18,292 19,387
Support Services 16,534 15,923
Infrastructure Investments 1,337 1,359
Corporate 213 213
 50,195 50,524
4
 Re-presented to reflect the change in the group management structure (Notes 1.2 and 38.3).
At 31 December 2011, the total number of Group employees was 50,301 (2010: 50,042).
5.2 Company
The average number of employees of Balfour Beatty plc was 125 (2010: 156). Total employee costs of Balfour Beatty plc were £22m 
(2010: £27m). Total employee costs comprise wages and salaries £17m (2010: £19m), social security costs £2m (2010: £2m), pension 
costs £1m (2010: £3m) and share-based payments £2m (2010: £3m). 111 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
6 Investment income
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
PPP subordinated debt interest receivable 25 19 2 2
PPP interest on financial assets 25 19 – –
Interest receivable from subsidiaries – – 3 3
Other interest receivable and similar income 7 8 1 1
57 46 6 6
7 Finance costs
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
Preference shares – finance cost 12 12 12 12
PPP non-recourse – bank loans and overdrafts 22 20 – –
Net finance cost on pension scheme assets and liabilities (Note 26.2) 3 21 – 1
Interest payable to subsidiaries – – 9 10
Other interest payable – bank loans and overdrafts 9 7 4 1
 – commitment fees 4 4 4 4
 – other loans 4 1 – –
54 65 29 28
A preference dividend of 5.375p gross (4.8375p net) per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share of 1p was paid on 1 July 
2011 in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2011 to holders of these shares on the register on 27 May 2011. A preference dividend 
of 5.375p gross (4.8375p net) per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share was paid on 1 January 2012 in respect of the six 
months ended 31 December 2011 to holders of these shares on the register on 25 November 2011.
8 Non-underlying items
Group
2011
£m
Group
2
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
8.1 Operating expenses (charged against)/credited to profit 
Continuing operations 
8.1.1 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (62) (82) – –
8.1.2 Other non-underlying items
 – cost of implementing UK shared service centre (12) (12) (1) –
 – loss on disposal of UK specialist rail manufacturing business (7) – – –
 – post-acquisition integration, reorganisation and other costs (4) (29) – (8)
 – acquisition related expenses (3) (2) – –
 – gain on disposal of investments in joint ventures – 20 – –
Total other non-underlying items (26) (23) (1) (8)
Charged against profit before taxation (88) (105) (1) (8)
8.2 Tax on items above 27 39 – 1
Non-underlying items charged against profit for the year from  
continuing operations (61) (66) (1) (7)
Discontinued operation
8.3 Barking
 – dividends received 5 – 5 –
 – (loss)/gain on disposal of Barking (1) – 54 –
 – share of joint ventures and associates – impairment of Barking Power Station – (27) – –
4 (27) 59 –
(Charged against)/credited to profit for the year (57) (93) 58 (7)
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10). Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 112
Our accounts
8 Non-underlying items continued
In addition to the items included above during the year, a net £nil non-underlying item arose in respect of Romec Services Ltd comprising: 
revaluation of the existing 49% stake on step acquisition £13m; service credit (£4m); and preference dividend to Royal Mail Group (£9m). 
Refer to Note 30.1.2.
8.1.1 The amortisation of acquired intangible assets comprises: customer contracts £24m (2010: £34m); customer relationships £27m 
(2010: £34m); and brand names £11m (2010: £12m). 
8.1.2 The UK specialist rail manufacturing business was sold during the first half of 2011. A loss of £7m arose on the sale which 
comprises: a loss on the disposal of the rail business operations of £4m, including writing-off £7m goodwill; and an onerous lease liability 
of £3m due to a property becoming vacant. Refer to Note 30.4.1.
During 2011, the implementation of the UK shared service centre in Newcastle-upon-Tyne led to incremental costs of £12m (2010: £12m) 
being incurred, of which £1m (2010: £nil) were incurred by the Company. 
Reorganisation and integration costs of £4m (2010: £29m) have been incurred: £1m (2010: £23m) relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff; £1m 
(2010: £1m) relating to SpawMaxwell; £1m (2010: £3m) relating to Rok; £1m (2010: £nil) relating to various other acquisitions; and £nil 
(2010: £2m) relating to Schreck-Mieves. 
During 2011, costs of £1m directly attributable to the acquisition of Romec Services Ltd, £1m directly attributable to the acquisition 
of Fru-Con, and £1m directly attributable to the acquisition of Howard S. Wright were incurred. During 2010, costs of £2m directly 
attributable to the acquisition of Halsall were incurred.
During 2010, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Aberdeen Environmental Services (Holdings) Ltd and a 23.9% interest in Consort 
Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Holdings Ltd. The Group retains a 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) 
Holdings Ltd following the transaction. The aggregate consideration received was £24m. The disposals resulted in a total gain of £20m being 
realised, comprising £16m in respect of gains on disposal of the investments in the joint ventures and £4m in respect of revaluation reserves 
recycled to the income statement. Subsequent to these transactions, and following the development of the Group’s strategy to release regularly 
the value contained in the PPP portfolio, from 2011 gains or losses from disposals of PPP investments are treated as part of underlying profits.
8.2 The non-underlying items charged against Group operating profit have given rise to a tax credit of £27m, comprising: £23m on 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets; and £4m on other non-underlying items (2010: £39m comprising: £27m on amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets; and £12m on other non-underlying items). 
8.3 On 2 March 2011 it was resolved to dispose of the Company’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd (“Barking”), which 
became a discontinued operation with all items from this date classified as non-underlying items. Subsequent to 2 March 2011, dividends 
of £5m were received by the Company. On 21 December 2011 the Company disposed of its interest in Barking which resulted in a loss 
on disposal of £1m for the Group after transaction costs and a gain of £54m for the Company. Refer to Note 10. In 2010, a post-tax 
impairment charge of £27m was incurred in respect of writing-down the value of the assets held by Barking. 
9 Taxation
9.1 Taxation charge
Group
Underlying
items
1
 
2011 
£m 
Non-
underlying 
items
(Note 8)
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
Total UK tax 31 (6) 25 21 (5) (8)
Total non-UK tax 60 (21) 39 23 – –
Total tax charge/(credit) 91 (27) 64 44 (5) (8)
Comprising
UK current tax
– corporation tax for the year at 26.5% (2010: 28%) – – – 4 (10) (13)
– adjustments in respect of previous periods – – – 3 4 3
– – – 7 (6) (10)
Non-UK current tax
– non-UK tax on profits for the year 24 – 24 34 – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods (8) – (8) 3 – –
16 – 16 37 – –
Total current tax 16 – 16 44 (6) (10)
UK deferred tax
– current year charge/(credit) 28 (6) 22 14 3 2
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 1 – 1 (1) (2) –
– rate change 2 – 2 1 – –
31 (6) 25 14 1 2
Non-UK deferred tax
– current year charge/(credit) 33 (19) 14 1 – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 11 (2) 9 (15) – –
44 (21) 23 (14) – –
Total deferred tax 75 (27) 48 – 1 2
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
Notes to the accounts continued 113 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
9 Taxation continued
9.1 Taxation charge continued
The Group tax charge above excludes amounts for joint ventures and associates (refer to Note 16.2), except where tax is levied at the 
Group level. 
In addition to the Group tax charge above is £12m of tax charged (2010: £25m charged) directly to equity, comprising a deferred tax 
charge of £12m (2010: £28m charge), a current tax charge of £1m (2010: £nil) and a tax credit in respect of joint ventures and associates 
of £1m (2010: £3m credit).
In addition to the Company tax credit is £2m of deferred tax charged (2010: £nil) directly to equity.
The weighted average applicable tax rate is 29% (2010: 35%) based on underlying profit before taxation, excluding the results of joint 
ventures and associates. 
9.2 Taxation reconciliation
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
2
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
2
£m
Profit/(loss) before taxation 246 201 (32) (31)
Less share of results of joint ventures and associates (75) (72) – –
Profit/(loss) before taxation 171 129 (32) (31)
Add non-underlying items charged excluding share of joint ventures and associates 88 105 1 8
Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation and the results of joint ventures and associates
1
259 234 (31) (23)
Tax on profit/(loss) before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 26.5% (2010: 28%) 69 66 (8) (6)
Effects of
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 4 11 2 –
Dividend income not taxable – – (4) (7)
Non-taxable disposals (5) – – –
Tax on share of joint ventures’ and associates’ profits levied at Group level 7 3 – –
Preference share dividends not deductible 3 3 3 3
Losses not available for offset 6 3 – –
Recognition of losses not previously recognised (1) (3) – –
Higher tax rates on foreign earnings 2 9 – –
Statutory rate change 2 1 – –
Adjustments in respect of previous periods 4 (10) 2 3
Total tax charge/(credit) on underlying profit/(loss) 91 83 (5) (7)
Less tax credit on non-underlying items (27) (39) – (1)
Total tax charge/(credit) on profit/(loss) 64 44 (5) (8)
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
10 Discontinued operation
On 2 March 2011 the Directors resolved to dispose of the Company’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd (“Barking”) and 
accordingly, from 2 March 2011, the Company’s interest in Barking was classified as a discontinued operation held for sale. 
Barking was previously accounted for as an associate using the equity method. Subsequent to classification as a discontinued operation, 
equity accounting was no longer applied and all income and expenses relating to Barking were classified as non-underlying items.
On 21 December 2011 the Company disposed of its effective 25.5% interest in Barking to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund for its 
carrying value of £55m. Transaction costs of £1m were incurred in respect of the disposal resulting in a £1m loss on disposal for the 
Group and a £54m gain for the Company.
The £55m proceeds from the disposal of Barking to the BBPF and the £55m one-off BBPF deficit contribution were net settled. 
Barking was part of the Infrastructure Investments segment.
Barking results included in the income statement
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 8 68 – –
Underlying operating profit
1
 – 18 – 9
Taxation – (5) – –
Share of underlying results of joint ventures and associates/profit from operations
1
 – 13 – 9
Non-underlying items – impairment of Barking Power Station (Note 8) – (27) – –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates/profit from operations – (14) – 9
Non-underlying items – dividends received (Note 8) 5 – 5 –
Non-underlying items – (loss)/gain on disposal (Note 8) (1) – 54 –
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operation 4 (14) 59 9
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8). Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 114
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
11 Earnings per ordinary share
Basic
2011 
£m
Diluted
2011 
£m
Basic
2010
2
 
£m
Diluted
2010
2
 
£m
Continuing operations
Earnings 182 182 157 157
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £23m (2010: £27m) 39 39 55 55
Other non-underlying items – net of tax credit of £4m (2010: £12m) 22 22 11 11
Underlying earnings 243 243 223 223
Discontinued operation
Earnings 4 4 (14) (14)
Other non-underlying items – net of tax of £nil (2010: £nil) (4) (4) 27 27
Underlying earnings – – 13 13
Total operations
Earnings 186 186 143 143
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £23m (2010: £27m) 39 39 55 55
Other non-underlying items – net of tax credit of £4m (2010: £12m) 18 18 38 38
Underlying earnings 243 243 236 236
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
Basic
2011 
£m
Diluted
2011 
£m
Basic
2010 
£m
Diluted
2010 
£m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 683 684 682 683
Basic
2011 
Pence
Diluted
2011
Pence
Basic
2010
2
Pence
Diluted
2010
2
Pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per ordinary share 26.7 26.7 23.0 22.9
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 5.7 5.7 8.1 8.1
Other non-underlying items 3.1 3.1 1.6 1.6
Underlying earnings per ordinary share 35.5 35.5 32.7 32.6
Discontinued operation
Earnings per ordinary share 0.6 0.6 (2.0) (2.0)
Other non-underlying items (0.6) (0.6) 4.0 4.0
Underlying earnings per ordinary share – – 2.0 2.0
Total operations
Earnings per ordinary share 27.3 27.3 21.0 20.9
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 5.7 5.7 8.1 8.1
Other non-underlying items 2.5 2.5 5.6 5.6
Underlying earnings per ordinary share 35.5 35.5 34.7 34.6
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
12 Dividends on ordinary shares
Per share
2011
Pence 
Amount 
2011 
£m
Per share
2010
Pence 
Amount 
2010 
£m
Proposed dividends for the year
Interim – current year 5.30 36 5.05 35
Final – current year 8.50 58 7.65 52
13.80 94 12.70 87
Recognised dividends for the year
Final – prior year 52 49
Interim – current year 36 35
88 84
The interim 2011 dividend was paid on 9 December 2011. Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2012, the final 
2011 dividend will be paid on 6 July 2012 to holders on the register on 27 April 2012 by direct credit or, where no mandate has been 
given, by cheque posted on 5 July 2012 payable on 6 July 2012. The ordinary shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 25 April 2012. 115
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
13 Intangible assets – goodwill
Cost
£m
Accumulated
impairment
losses
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
At 1 January 2010 1,189 (44) 1,145
Currency translation differences 21 (2) 19
Businesses acquired 32 – 32
At 31 December 2010 1,242 (46) 1,196
Currency translation differences 1 – 1
Businesses acquired (Notes 30.1.1 and 30.3) 89 – 89
Business disposed (Note 30.4.1) (7) – (7)
At 31 December 2011 1,325 (46) 1,279
 
Carrying amounts of goodwill by segment
United
Kingdom
2011
£m
United
States
2011
£m
Rest of
world
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
United
Kingdom
2010
£m
United
States
2010
£m
Rest of
world
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Professional Services 10 166 61 237 10 165 59 234
Construction Services 329 379 162 870 330 326 166 822
Support Services 125 – – 125 93 – – 93
Infrastructure Investments 4 43 – 47 4 43 – 47
Group 468 588 223 1,279 437 534 225 1,196
The 2010 segment analysis has been re-presented.
The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value in use. Cash flow forecasts are based on the expected workload of each cash-
generating unit (CGU) giving consideration to the current level of confirmed orders and anticipated orders. Cash flow forecasts for the 
next four years (2010: three years) are based on the Group’s 2012 budget and strategic road map. The other key inputs in assessing each 
CGU are its revenue growth rate and discount rate. The revenue growth rate has been applied to cash flows after four years (2010: three 
years) into perpetuity and reflects published GDP growth rates for the economic environment of each CGU. The cash flows assume a 
residual value based on a multiple of earnings before interest and tax. 
The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate in the range of 10.3% to 13.4% (2010: 11.0% to 11.7%). The discount 
rates are revised annually applying updated market inputs to the capital asset pricing model.
2011 2010
United
 Kingdom 
United
States 
Rest of
world
United
 Kingdom
United
States
Rest of
world
Inflation rate 2.0% 1.7% 2.0% 2.9% 2.5% 2.0%
GDP growth rate 1.7% 2.4% 0.5% 1.3% 1.7% 1.0%
Nominal long-term revenue growth rate applied 3.7% 4.1% 2.5% 4.2% 4.2% 3.0%
Sensitivities
The Group’s impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used. The major assumptions that result in significant 
sensitivities are the discount rate and the revenue growth rate. 
Except as noted below, a reasonably possible change in a single assumption will not give rise to impairment in any of the Group’s CGUs. 
The Balfour Beatty Capital US goodwill is £43m and the key assumption is the discount rate of 10.3%, at which the fair value of the CGU 
exceeds the carrying value by £49m or 25%. The fair value is equal to the carrying value at a discount rate of 11.9%. The Rail Power 
Systems Europe goodwill is £165m and the key assumption is the revenue growth rate of 2.5%, at which the fair value of the CGU 
exceeds the carrying value by £26m or 10%. The fair value is equal to the carrying value at a revenue growth rate of 1.5%. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 116
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
14 Intangible assets – other
Customer
contracts
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
Brand
names
£m
Software
*
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2010 216 114 49 6 385
Currency translation differences 8 5 1 – 14
Additions – – – 14 14
Businesses acquired 3 5 1 – 9
At 31 December 2010 227 124 51 20 422
Currency translation differences 2 1 – – 3
Additions – – – 19 19
Businesses acquired (Note 30.1) 7 20 7 – 34
At 31 December 2011 236 145 58 39 478
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2010 (61) (17) (8) (1) (87)
Currency translation differences (2) – – – (2)
Charge for the year (34) (34) (12) (2) (82)
At 31 December 2010 (97) (51) (20) (3) (171)
Currency translation differences (1) (1) – – (2)
Charge for the year (24) (27) (11) (4) (66)
At 31 December 2011 (122) (79) (31) (7) (239)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2011 114 66 27 32 239
At 31 December 2010 130 73 31 17 251
*
 Includes internally generated software with a cost and carrying value of £3m (2010: £2m) and accumulated amortisation of £nil (2010: £nil).
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, which are one to four years for customer 
contracts, three to 10 years for customer relationships, three to seven years for software, and up to five years for brand names, except 
for customer contracts and relationships relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff, Barnhart and Balfour Beatty Capital US which are amortised 
on a basis matching the returns earned over the life of the underlying contracts and relationships. These contracts have a duration of up 
to eight years for customer contracts and relationships relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff and Barnhart and up to 50 years for customer 
contracts relating to Balfour Beatty Capital US. The software for the UK shared service centre and the operating companies is amortised 
on a basis matching its usage profile over its seven-year life. 117
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
15 Property, plant and equipment
15.1 Movements
Group Company
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Assets in
course of
construction
£m
Total
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2010 122 541 3 666 4
Currency translation differences 2 4 – 6 –
Additions 10 74 1 85 1
Disposals (3) (41) – (44) (4)
Transfers 1 – (1) – (1)
Businesses acquired – 2 – 2 –
At 31 December 2010 132 580 3 715 –
Currency translation differences – (2) – (2) –
Additions 7 69 1 77 –
Disposals (2) (54) – (56) – 
Businesses disposed (17) (34) – (51) –
Businesses acquired (Note 30.1) 2 3 – 5 –
At 31 December 2011 122 562 4 688 –
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2010 (27) (324) – (351) (3)
Currency translation differences – (2) – (2) –
Charge for the year (10) (64) – (74) –
Disposals – 32 – 32 3
At 31 December 2010 (37) (358) – (395) –
Currency translation differences – 1 – 1 –
Charge for the year (12) (58) – (70) –
Disposals 1 38 – 39
Businesses disposed 3 22 – 25 –
At 31 December 2011 (45) (355) – (400) –
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2011 77 207 4 288 –
At 31 December 2010 95 222 3 320 –
The carrying amount of the Group’s land and buildings and property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was £9m 
(2010: £12m). The Company has no land and buildings and no property, plant and equipment held under finance leases.
Except for land and assets in the course of construction, the costs of property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their expected 
useful lives, on a straight-line basis at rates of 2.5% for buildings or over the term of the lease, and on a straight-line basis at rates of 4% 
to 33% for plant and equipment.
15.2 Analysis of carrying amount of land and buildings
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Freehold 40 58
Long leasehold – over 50 years unexpired 5 4
Short leasehold 32 33
77 95 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 118
Our accounts
16 Investments in joint ventures and associates
16.1 Movements 
Net assets Loans Provisions Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 349 202 (100) 451
Currency translation differences 5 – – 5
Income recognised 58 – – 58
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets 36 – – 36
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash flow hedges (47) – – (47)
Fair value revaluation of other cash flow hedges (3) – – (3)
Actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations 1 – – 1
Tax on items taken directly to equity 3 – – 3
Dividends (62) – – (62)
Additions 3 – – 3
Disposals (5) (5) – (10)
Loans advanced – 55 – 55
Loans repaid – (2) – (2)
Provisions utilised – (9) 9 –
At 31 December 2010 338 241 (91) 488
Currency translation differences 3 – – 3
Income recognised 75 – – 75
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets 140 – – 140
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash flow hedges (154) – – (154)
Fair value revaluation of other cash flow hedges 2 – – 2
Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations (7) – – (7)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 – – 1
Dividends (54) – – (54)
Additions 10 – – 10
Barking disposal (55) – – (55)
Other disposals (6) (8) – (14)
Loans advanced – 32 – 32
Loans repaid – (1) – (1)
At 31 December 2011 293 264 (91) 466
Principal joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 37. The original cost of the Group’s investments in joint ventures and associates 
was £187m (2010: £177m). The Group’s share of borrowings of joint ventures and associates is shown in Note 16.2. The amount which 
was supported by the Group and the Company was £1m (2010: £2m), relating to the Group’s share of guaranteed borrowings. The 
borrowings of Regional & City Airports (Exeter) Ltd and the PPP joint venture and associate entities are repayable over periods extending 
up to 2044. As disclosed in Note 32, the Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding of joint ventures and 
associates in PPP projects and military housing concessions. Further, in respect of a number of these investments the Group has 
committed not to dispose of its equity interest until construction has been completed. As is customary in such projects, dividend 
payments and other distributions are restricted to ensure certain banking covenants are met.
Notes to the accounts continued 119
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
16 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
16.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates
Infrastructure Investments
Professional
Services
2011
£m
Construction
Services
2011
£m
Support
Services
2011
£m
UK PPP
^
2011
£m
US PPP
6
2011
£m
Infrastructure
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Revenue 1 849 140 536 2 13 551 1,541
Underlying operating profit
1
– 31 4 12 7 1 20 55
Investment income – 1 – 184 – – 184 185
Finance costs – – – (148) – (3) (151) (151)
Profit/(loss) before taxation – 32 4 48 7 (2) 53 89
Taxation – (4) – (11) – 1 (10) (14)
Profit/(loss) after taxation – 28 4 37 7 (1) 43 75
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill – 31 – – – 24 24 55
 – PPP concession assets – – – 19 – – 19 19
 – other – – – 1 – – 1 1
Property, plant and equipment – 42 1 – – 11 11 54
PPP financial assets – – – 2,481 – – 2,481 2,481
Military housing projects – – – – 55 – 55 55
Other non-current assets – 13 – 41 – 11 52 65
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 3 193 9 199 – 2 201 406
Other current assets 3 360 42 96 1 2 99 504
Total assets 6 639 52 2,837 56 50 2,943 3,640
Current liabilities
Borrowings – (47) – (79) – – (79) (126)
Other current liabilities (3) (285) (41) (187) – (8) (195) (524)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings – (1) – (1,915) – (37) (1,952) (1,953)
Other non-current liabilities (2) (212) – (357) – – (357) (571)
Total liabilities (5) (545) (41) (2,538) – (45) (2,583) (3,174)
Net assets 1 94 11 299 56 5 360 466
^
 Including Singapore.
1
  
Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
6
  The Group’s investment in military housing projects is recognised at the initial equity investment plus the value of the Group’s accrued preferred return from the underlying projects. 
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted which has not been provided for in the financial statements of the joint ventures and 
associates amounted to £2m (2010: £4m). The military housing joint ventures and associates have total non-recourse net borrowings 
of £1,717m (2010: £1,603m). Note 37(e) details the Group’s military housing projects. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 120
Our accounts
16 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
16.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates continued
Infrastructure Investments
Professional
Services
2010
£m
Construction
Services
2010
£m
Support
Services
2010
£m
UK PPP
^
2010
£m
US PPP
6
2010
£m
Infrastructure
2
2010
£m
Total
2
2010
£m
Total
2
2010
£m
Revenue 4 616 131 473 1 12 486 1,237
Underlying operating profit
1
1 35 6 11 6 1 18 60
Investment income – – – 159 – – 159 159
Finance costs – – – (128) – (3) (131) (131)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 1 35 6 42 6 (2) 46 88
Taxation – (4) (1) (12) – 1 (11) (16)
Profit/(loss) after taxation 1 31 5 30 6 (1) 35 72
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill – 31 – – – 24 24 55
 – PPP concession assets – – – 21 – – 21 21
 – other – – – 1 – – 1 1
Property, plant and equipment – 36 2 – – 68 68 106
PPP financial assets – – – 2,121 – – 2,121 2,121
Military housing projects – – – – 45 – 45 45
Other non-current assets – 4 – 30 – 2 32 36
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 4 176 5 196 – 19 215 400
Other current assets 9 364 28 90 – 19 109 510
Total assets 13 611 35 2,459 45 132 2,636 3,295
Current liabilities
Borrowings – (38) – (69) – (4) (73) (111)
Other current liabilities (9) (296) (25) (134) – (28) (162) (492)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings – (3) – (1,743) – (38) (1,781) (1,784)
Other non-current liabilities (3) (178) – (239) – – (239) (420)
Total liabilities (12) (515) (25) (2,185) – (70) (2,255) (2,807)
Net assets 1 96 10 274 45 62 381 488
^
 Including Singapore.
1
  
Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
6
  The Group’s investment in military housing projects is recognised at the initial equity investment plus the value of the Group’s accrued preferred return from the underlying projects. 
Notes to the accounts continued 121
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
16 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
16.3 PPP investments
Net
investment
2011
£m
Reserves
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Net
investment
2010
£m
Reserves
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Roads 99 (15) 84 87 13 100
Hospitals 80 75 155 88 45 133
Schools 47 5 52 39 (3) 36
Other concessions 2 6 8 2 3 5
PPP UK
^
228 71 299 216 58 274
PPP US (military housing) 45 11 56 48 (3) 45
PPP investments 273 82 355 264 55 319
^
 Including Singapore.
16.4 Cash flow from/(to) joint ventures and associates
Cash flows from investing activities
UK PPP
^
2011
£m
US PPP
2011
£m
Other
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
UK PPP
^
2010
£m
US PPP
2010
£m
Other
2010
£m
Total
2
2010
£m
Dividends from joint
ventures and associates
26 6 22 54 27 9 17 53
Subordinated debt interest received 18 – – 18 9 – – 9
Investments in and loans to joint ventures 
and associates (31) (10) – (41) (54) – (2) (56)
Disposal of joint ventures 28 – – 28 24 – – 24
Net cash flow from/(to)
joint ventures and associates 41 (4) 22 59 6 9 15 30
^
 Including Singapore.
2
  Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
Investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates
UK PPP 
^
2011
£m
US PPP
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
UK PPP
^
2010
£m
Other
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Investments in
– equity – (10) (10) – (3) (3)
– subordinated debt (32) – (32) (55) – (55)
– subordinated debt repaid 1 – 1 1 – 1
– other loans – – – – 1 1
Total investments in joint ventures and associates (31) (10) (41) (54) (2) (56)
^
 Including Singapore. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 122
Our accounts
16 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
16.5 Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves
Accumulated
profit/(loss)
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
PPP
financial
 assets
£m
Currency
translation
reserve
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 January 2010 162 (87) 68 14 157
Currency translation differences – – – 5 5
Income recognised 58 – – – 58
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets – – 36 – 36
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash flow hedges – (47) – – (47)
Fair value revaluation of other cash flow hedges – (3) – – (3)
Actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations 1 – – – 1
Tax on items taken directly to equity – 13 (10) – 3
Dividends paid (62) – – – (62)
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal – 11 (15) – (4)
Balance at 31 December 2010 159 (113) 79 19 144
Currency translation differences – – – 3 3
Income recognised 75 – – – 75
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets – – 140 – 140
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash flow hedges – (154) – – (154)
Fair value revaluation of other cash flow hedges – 2 – – 2
Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations (7) – – – (7)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 32 (32) – 1
Dividends (54) – – – (54)
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal – – (6) – (6)
Balance at 31 December 2011 174 (233) 181 22 144
17 Investments
17.1 Group
Held to
 maturity
 bonds
£m
Available-
for-sale
investments
in mutual
funds
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 January 2010 42 41 83
Currency translation differences – 3 3
Fair value movements – 4 4
Additions 7 5 12
Maturities/disposals (3) (4) (7)
Balance at 31 December 2010 46 49 95
Currency translation differences – 1 1
Fair value movements – (2) (2)
Additions 14 7 21
Maturities/disposals (14) (5) (19)
Balance at 31 December 2011 46 50 96
The held to maturity bonds are held by Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, the Group’s captive insurance company, and comprise fixed rate 
bonds or treasury stock with an average yield to maturity of 2.08% (2010: 2.25%) and weighted average life of 3.2 years (2010: 2.7 years). 
The fair value of the bonds is £48m (2010: £45m), determined by the market price of the bonds at the reporting date. The maximum 
exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2011 is the carrying amount. These bonds have been pledged as security for letters of credit 
issued in respect of Delphian Insurance Company Ltd. 
The available-for-sale investments in mutual funds comprise holdings in a number of funds in respect of the deferred compensation 
obligations of the Group as disclosed in Note 26. Investments are made based on employees’ investment elections. The fair value 
of the available-for-sale investments is £50m (2010: £49m), determined by the market price of each fund at the reporting date. 
17.2 Company
2011
£m
2010
£m
Investment in subsidiaries 1,877 1,871
Investment in joint ventures and associates 3 14
Provisions (138) (143)
1,742 1,742
Notes to the accounts continued 123
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
18 PPP financial assets
Schools 
£m 
Roads
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 January 2010 175 85 – 260
Income recognised in the income statement
– construction contract margin – 1 – 1
– interest income 11 8 – 19
Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
– fair value movements 13 12 – 25
Other movements
– cash expenditure 7 50 – 57
– cash received (16) (19) – (35)
Balance at 31 December 2010 190 137 – 327
Income recognised in the income statement
– construction contract margin – 1 – 1
– interest income 11 13 1 25
Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
– fair value movements 22 42 – 64
Other movements
– cash expenditure 8 47 24 79
– cash received (16) (23) – (39)
Balance at 31 December 2011 215 217 25 457
Assets constructed by PPP subsidiary concession companies are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and are denominated in 
sterling. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the PPP financial assets. There were no disposals 
or impairment provisions in 2011 or 2010.
19 Inventories
2011
£m
2010
£m
Unbilled work in progress 47 27
Raw materials and consumables 62 45
Manufacturing work in progress 6 5
Finished goods and goods for resale 8 6
Development and housing land and work in progress 17 6
140 89
20 Construction contracts
Contracts in progress at reporting date
2011
£m
2010
£m
Due from customers for contract work 604 591
Due to customers for contract work (576) (651)
28 (60)
The aggregate amount of costs incurred; plus recognised profits; less recognised losses; for all contracts in progress that had not reached 
practical completion at the reporting date was £16,910m (2010: £18,839m). Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 124
Our accounts
21 Financial instruments
21.1 Capital risk management
The Group and Company manage their capital to ensure their ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital. The capital structure of the Group and Company comprises: equity attributable to equity holders of 
Balfour Beatty plc, consisting of issued ordinary share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 28 and 29; preference 
shares as disclosed in Note 28; and cash and cash equivalents and borrowings as disclosed in Note 24.
The Group and Company maintain or adjust their capital structure through the payment of dividends to equity holders, issue of new shares 
and buy-back of existing shares, and issuing new borrowings or repaying existing borrowings. The Group’s and Company’s policy is to carry 
no significant net debt, other than the non-recourse borrowings of companies engaged in PPP projects and infrastructure investments.
The Group’s and Company’s overall capital risk management strategy remains unchanged from 2010.
21.2 Group
Categories of financial instruments
Group
Loans and
receivables
at
amortised
cost, cash
and cash
equivalents
2011
£m
Financial
liabilities 
at
amortised
cost
2011
£m
Available-
for-sale
financial
assets
2011
£m
Held to
maturity
financial
assets
2011
£m
Derivatives
2011
£m
Loans and
receivables
at
amortised
cost, cash
and cash
equivalents
2010
£m
Financial
liabilities at
amortised
cost
2010
£m
Available-
for-sale
financial
assets
2010
£m
Held to
maturity
financial
assets
2010
£m
Derivatives
2010
£m
Financial assets
Fixed rate corporate bonds and gilts – – – 46 – – – – 46 –
Mutual funds – – 50 – – – – 49 – –
PPP financial assets – – 457 – – – – 327 – –
Cash and cash equivalents 595 – – – – 584 – – – –
Trade and other receivables 1,434 – – – – 1,179 – – – –
Derivatives – – – – 1 – – – – 4
Total 2,029 – 507 46 1 1,763 – 376 46 4
Financial liabilities
Liability component
of preference shares – (91) – – – – (89) – – –
Trade and other payables – (2,326) – – – – (2,139) – – –
Unsecured borrowings – (229) – – – – (36) – – –
Secured borrowings – (8) – – – – (12) – – –
PPP non-recourse term loans – (350) – – – – (288) – – –
Derivatives – – – – (130) – – – – (47)
Total – (3,004) – – (130) – (2,564) – – (47)
Net 2,029 (3,004) 507 46 (129) 1,763 (2,564) 376 46 (43)
Current year comprehensive income/
(expense) 19 (38) 221 – (237) 7 (33) 80 – (68)
Derivatives
Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities
Current
2011
£m
Non-
current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Current
2011
£m
Non-
current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Current
2010
£m
Non-
current
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Current
2010
£m
Non-
current
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Foreign currency 
contracts
At fair value through 
profit and loss – 
held for trading 1 – 1 (1) – (1) 2 – 2 (2) – (2)
Designated as
cash flow hedges – – – (1) – (1) 2 – 2 – (1) (1)
Interest rate 
swaps
Designated as
cash flow hedges – – – (8) (120) (128) – – – – (44) (44)
1 – 1 (10) (120) (130) 4 – 4 (2) (45) (47)
Notes to the accounts continued 125 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
21 Financial instruments continued
21.2 Group continued
Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities. The table has been drawn 
up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial liabilities including interest that will accrue to those liabilities except 
where the Group is entitled to and intends to repay the liability before its maturity. The discount column represents the possible future 
cash flows included in the maturity analysis, such as future interest, that have not been included in the carrying value of the financial liability.
Maturity profile of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December 
PPP
non-recourse
project
finance
2011
£m
Other
borrowings
2011
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
2011
£m
Total
non-
 derivative
financial
liabilities
2011
£m
Total
discount
2011
£m
Carrying
value
2011
£m
Due on demand or within one year (24) (231) (2,204) (2,459) 14 (2,445)
Due within one to two years (16) (1) (43) (60) 15 (45)
Due within two to five years (65) – (65) (130) 62 (68)
Due after more than five years (610) (5) (224) (839) 393 (446)
(715) (237) (2,536) (3,488) 484 (3,004)
Discount 365 – 119 484
Carrying value (350) (237) (2,417) (3,004)
PPP
non-recourse
project
finance
2010
£m
Other
borrowings
2010
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
2010
£m
Total
non-
derivative
financial
liabilities
2010
£m
Total
discount
2010
£m
Carrying
value
2010
£m
Due on demand or within one year (12) (38) (2,024) (2,074) 13 (2,061)
Due within one to two years (23) (3) (47) (73) 18 (55)
Due within two to five years (49) (1) (58) (108) 58 (50)
Due after more than five years (490) (6) (231) (727) 329 (398)
(574) (48) (2,360) (2,982) 418 (2,564)
Discount 286 – 132 418
Carrying value (288) (48) (2,228) (2,564)
Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its derivative financial liabilities. The table has been drawn up based on the 
undiscounted net cash inflows/(outflows) on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis (interest rate swaps) and undiscounted 
gross inflows/(outflows) for those derivatives that require gross settlement (foreign exchange contracts). When the amount payable or 
receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates, using the yield curves 
existing at the reporting date.
Maturity profile of the Group’s derivative financial liabilities at 31 December 
Payable
2011
£m
Receivable
2011
£m
Net payable
2011
£m
Payable
2010
£m
Receivable
2010
£m
Net payable
2010
£m
Due on demand or within one year (89) 75 (14) (81) 68 (13)
Due within one to two years (22) 7 (15) (13) 3 (10)
Due within two to five years (51) 4 (47) (23) 2 (21)
Due after more than five years (124) – (124) (24) – (24)
Total (286) 86 (200) (141) 73 (68) Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 126
Our accounts
21 Financial instruments continued
21.2 Group continued 
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s financial risk 
management strategy seeks to minimise the potential adverse effect of these risks on the Group’s financial performance.
Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board. Group Treasury liaises with 
the Group’s operating companies to identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks. The Board provides written principles for overall financial 
risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of 
derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies 
and exposure limits is monitored through the Group’s internal audit and risk management procedures. The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The Group does not trade in financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, 
for speculative purposes.
(a) Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and 
commodity prices. The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate, foreign 
currency and commodity price risk, including:
•	 forward foreign exchange contracts and options to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities transacted in a currency 
that is not the functional currency of the operating company;
•	 commodity forward contracts to manage the commodity price risk associated with the Group’s operational requirements for certain 
commodities, such as fuel; and
•	 interest rate swaps to mitigate the cash flow variability associated with variable interest rates on borrowings in PPP concessions.
There has been no material change to the Group’s exposure to market risks and there has been no change in how the Group manages 
those risks since 2010.
(i) Foreign currency risk management
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from exposure to various currencies, primarily to US 
dollars, euros, Australian dollars, Hong Kong dollars and United Arab Emirate dirhams. Foreign exchange risk arises from future trading 
transactions, assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy requires operating companies to manage their transactional foreign exchange risk against their functional currency. Group 
Treasury enters into forward contracts on behalf of operating companies to cover 100% of foreign exchange risk above pre-set materiality 
levels determined by the Chief Financial Officer whenever a current or future foreign currency exposure is identified with sufficient 
reliability. Hedge accounting is applied to these transactions. 
Details of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the reporting date in respect of foreign currency transactional exposures are 
set out on page 124. 
As at 31 December 2011, the notional principal amounts of foreign exchange contracts in respect of foreign currency transactions where 
hedge accounting is not applied was £116m (2010: £151m). The period during which the cash flows are expected to occur is up to three 
years. This will affect the income statement throughout the same periods.
The Group has designated forward exchange contracts against highly probable capital expenditure which is expected to occur in up to 
three years with a notional principal amount of £26m (2010: £23m) as cash flow hedges. Fair value gains of £nil (2010: £2m gains) have 
been taken to hedging reserves within equity in relation to these contracts. The cumulative amounts deferred in the hedging reserves 
relating to cash flow hedges at year-end is £nil (2010: £2m). 
The Group’s investments in foreign operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risks. These were previously managed by 
hedging significant net assets denominated in currencies other than sterling principally using forward foreign exchange contracts. The 
Group’s policy was amended in prior years and the Group currently no longer enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge 
foreign currency denominated assets. There has been no change to the hedging policies since 2010.
The hedging policy is reviewed periodically. 
No significant amounts in relation to hedge ineffectiveness have been charged or credited to the income statement in relation to any 
foreign exchange cash flow hedges. 
Notes to the accounts continued 127 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
21 Financial instruments continued
21.2 Group continued 
(a) Market risk continued
(ii) Interest rate risk management
Interest rate risk arises in the Group’s PPP concessions which borrow funds at both floating and fixed interest rates and hold available-for-
sale financial assets.
Floating rate borrowings expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. Group policy is to swap floating rate interest to fixed rate, 
using interest rate swaps, to hedge the cash flow variability of the interest.
Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated 
on agreed notional principal amounts. The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the 
applicable yield curve at the reporting date. The net effect of a movement in interest rates on income would therefore be immaterial.
During 2011 and 2010, the Group’s PPP subsidiaries’ borrowings at variable rates of interest were denominated in sterling.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding PPP subsidiaries’ interest rate swaps outstanding at 31 December 2011 were £365m 
(2010: £297m) with maturities that match the maturity of the underlying borrowings ranging from one year to 25 years. At 31 December 
2011, the fixed interest rates range from 4.2% to 5.1% (2010: 4.5% to 5.1%) and the principal floating rates are LIBOR plus a fixed margin.
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate in which financial instruments are held would lead to a £19m (2010: £6m) increase 
and a £21m (2010: £6m) decrease in amounts taken directly by the Group to equity in relation to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on 
the available-for-sale financial assets and cash flow hedges of its PPP subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk also arises on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and non-PPP borrowings. A 50 basis point increase/
decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which these financial instruments are held would lead to a £1m (2010: £3m) increase and 
a £nil (2010: £3m) decrease in the Group’s net investment income.
(iii) Price risk management
The Group’s principal price risk exposure arises in its PPP concessions. At the commencement of the concession an element of the 
unitary payment by the client is indexed to offset the effect of inflation on the concession’s costs. To the extent that inflation differs from 
the index used, the Group is exposed to a price risk.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in financial loss. Credit risk arises from cash 
and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed 
transactions. The Group has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of potential customers before entering into transactions. 
For cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments the Group has a policy of only depositing funds with independently 
rated counterparties with a minimum long-term credit rating of A. At 31 December 2011 £32m (2010: £37m) did not meet this criterion 
due to the operational and relationship difficulties in transferring certain balances. No losses are anticipated from non-performance of 
these counterparties. The credit rating of a financial institution will determine the amount and duration for which funds may be deposited 
under individual risk limits set by the Board for the Group and subsidiary companies. Management monitors the utilisation of these credit 
limits regularly. 
For trade and other receivables credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable using independent ratings 
where available or by assessment of the customer’s credit quality based on its financial position, past experience and other factors. 
The Group’s most significant customers are public or quasi-public sector entities which generally have high credit ratings or are of a high 
credit quality due to the nature of the customer.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of the above at 31 December is the carrying value of financial assets recorded in the 
financial statements, net of any allowance for losses.
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash balances and banking facilities, continuously monitoring forecast and 
actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 
are set out in Note 24.1. The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities is set out on page 125. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 128
Our accounts
21 Financial instruments continued
21.2 Group continued 
Fair value estimation
The Group holds a number of financial instruments on the statement of financial position at their fair values. The following hierarchy 
classifies each class of financial asset or liability depending on the valuation technique applied in determining its fair value.
Level 1 – The fair value is calculated based on quoted prices traded in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Group holds 
available-for-sale investments in mutual funds which are traded in active markets and valued based on the closing market price at 
31 December. 
Level 2 – The fair value is based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows utilising 
applicable year-end yield curves. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates 
at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts. 
Level 3 – The fair value is based on unobservable inputs. The fair value of the Group’s PPP financial assets is determined in the construction 
phase by applying an attributable profit margin that reflects the fair value of construction services performed. In the operational phase it is 
determined by discounting the future cash flows allocated to the financial asset at a discount rate which is based on long-term gilt rates 
adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets. The subsequent movement in the fair value is taken to equity.
There have been no transfers between these categories in the current or preceding year.
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Fair value measurement 2011 Fair value measurement 2010
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Available-for-sale mutual fund financial assets 50 – – 50 49 – – 49
Available-for-sale PPP financial assets – – 457 457 – – 327 327
Financial assets – foreign currency contracts – 1 – 1 – 4 – 4
Total assets measured at fair value 50 1 457 508 49 4 327 380
Financial liabilities – foreign currency contracts – (2) – (2) – (3) – (3)
Financial liabilities – interest rate swaps – (128) – (128) – (44) – (44)
Total liabilities measured at fair value – (130) – (130) – (47) – (47)
In respect of the Level 3 PPP financial assets, a change in the discount rate would have a significant effect on the value of the asset and 
a 50 basis points increase/decrease, which represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in the risk adjusted 
discount rate, would lead to a £16m (2010: £14m) change in the fair value of the assets taken through equity. Refer to Note 18 for a 
reconciliation of the movement of the opening balance to the closing balance.
The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables and payables approximate their fair values due to their 
short-term nature. The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash 
flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Notes to the accounts continued 129 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
21 Financial instruments continued 
21.3 Company
Categories of financial instruments
Company
Loans and
receivables
at amortised
cost, cash
and cash
equivalents
2011
£m
Financial
liabilities
at
amortised
cost
2011
£m
Available-
for-sale
financial
assets
2011
£m
Held to
maturity
financial
assets
2011
£m
Derivatives
2011
£m
Loans and 
receivables
at amortised
cost, cash
and cash
equivalents
2010
£m
Financial
liabilities at
amortised
cost
2010
£m
Available-
for-sale
financial
assets
2010
£m
Held to
maturity
financial
assets
2010
£m
Derivatives
2010
£m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 1,313 – – – – 1,141 – – – –
Derivatives – – – – 3 – – – – 7
Total 1,313 – – – 3 1,141 – – – 7
Financial liabilities
Liability component of preference 
shares – (91) – – – – (89) – – –
Trade and other payables – (1,603) – – – – (1,571) – – –
Unsecured borrowings – (236) – – – – (55) – – –
Derivatives – – – – (3) – – – – (7)
Total – (1,930) – – (3) – (1,715) – – (7)
Net 1,313 (1,930) – – – 1,141 (1,715) – – –
Derivatives
Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities
Current
2011
£m
Non-
current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Current
2011
£m
Non-
current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Current
2010
£m
Non-
current
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Current
2010
£m
Non-
current
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
At fair value through
profit and loss
– held for trading 2 1 3 (2) (1) (3) 6 1 7 (6) (1) (7)
The Company is responsible for executing all of the Group’s external derivative contracts, except for those in relation to PPP concessions. 
The Company’s external derivative contracts are matched with derivative contracts issued by the Company to the Group’s operating 
companies. The Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value are the foreign currency contracts shown in the 
table above. The fair value of these foreign currency contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date 
and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.
The Company’s derivatives are classified as Level 2 in the fair value estimation hierarchy detailed above. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 130
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
21 Financial instruments continued
21.3 Company continued
Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
Maturity profile of the Company’s non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December
Borrowings
2011
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
2011
£m
Total
non-
derivative
financial
liabilities
2011
£m
Total
discount
2011
£m
Carrying
value
2011
£m
Due on demand or within one year (236) (1,591) (1,827) 13 (1,814)
Due within one to two years – (11) (11) 11 –
Due within two to five years – (34) (34) 32 (2)
Due after more than five years – (173) (173) 59 (114)
(236) (1,809) (2,045) 115 (1,930)
Discount – 115 115
Carrying value (236) (1,694) (1,930)
Borrowings
2010
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
2010
£m
Total
non-
derivative
financial
liabilities
2010
£m
Total
discount
2010
£m
Carrying
value
2010
£m
Due on demand or within one year (55) (1,558) (1,613) 13 (1,600)
Due within one to two years – (11) (11) 11 –
Due within two to five years – (33) (33) 33 –
Due after more than five years – (186) (186) 71 (115)
(55) (1,788) (1,843) 128 (1,715)
Discount – 128 128
Carrying value (55) (1,660) (1,715)
Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
Maturity profile of the Company’s derivative financial liabilities at 31 December 
Payable
2011
£m
Receivable
2011
£m
Payable
2010
£m
Receivable
2010
£m
Due on demand or within one year (132) 130 (169) 163
Due within one to two years (10) 9 (3) 3
Due within two to five years (6) 6 (3) 2
Total (148) 145 (175) 168
Financial risk factors
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign currency risk management
For the Company, there would be no material effect of any strengthening/weakening in US dollar, euro, Australian dollar, Hong Kong 
dollar or United Arab Emirates dirham exchange rates against sterling. The Company’s external forward foreign exchange contracts 
hedge the currency risk on foreign currency loans entered into with Group companies or are offset by forward foreign exchange contracts 
with the Group’s operating companies where Group Treasury is hedging the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities on their behalf.
(ii) Interest rate risk management
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which financial instruments are held would lead to a £5m 
(2010: £3m) decrease/increase in the Company’s investment income. This is mainly attributable to the Company’s exposure to UK 
interest rates on its cash and cash equivalents and term deposits and amounts due to and from its subsidiaries. There would be no effect 
on amounts taken directly by the Company to equity.
(b) Credit risk
The Company bears credit risk in respect to trade receivables and payables due from/to subsidiaries. There were no amounts past due 
at the reporting date. The maximum exposure is the carrying value of the financial assets recorded in the financial statements. 131 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
22 Trade and other receivables
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
Current
Trade receivables 1,094 928 8 5
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (46) (48) – –
1,048 880 8 5
Due from subsidiaries – – 1,285 1,106
Due from joint ventures and associates 24 25 – –
Due from jointly controlled operations 2 4 – –
Contract retentions 244 176 – –
Accrued income 34 25 – –
Prepayments 58 87 2 3
1,410 1,197 1,295 1,114
Non-current
Trade receivables 17 13 – –
Due from joint ventures and associates 2 1 20 30
Contract retentions 47 39 – –
Prepayments 5 1 5 –
Due on acquisitions 16 16 – –
87 70 25 30
Total trade and other receivables 1,497 1,267 1,320 1,144
Comprising
Financial assets 1,434 1,179 1,313 1,141
Non-financial assets – prepayments 63 88 7 3
1,497 1,267 1,320 1,144
Based on prior experience, an assessment of the current economic environment and a review of the financial circumstances of individual 
customers, management believe no further credit risk provision is required in respect of trade receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current trade and other receivables approximate their fair values. The fair value of 
non-current trade and other receivables amounts to £83m (2010: £68m) and has been determined by discounting future cash flows using 
yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 132
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
22 Trade and other receivables continued
Movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables 
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Balance at 1 January (48) (41)
Currency translation differences – (1)
Credited/(charged) to the income statement
– additional provisions (11) (15)
– unused amounts reversed 11 6
Used during the year 2 3
Balance at 31 December (46) (48)
Maturity profile of impaired receivables
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Up to three months 2 3
Three to six months 1 1
Six to nine months 1 2
Nine to 12 months 5 6
More than 12 months 37 36
46 48
At 31 December 2011, trade receivables of £194m (2010: £155m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of individual 
customers where there is no reason to believe that the receivable is not recoverable. 
Maturity profile of trade receivables past due but not impaired
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Up to three months 137 95
Three to six months 27 26
Six to nine months 13 14
Nine to 12 months 11 12
More than 12 months 6 8
194 155
The Company had no provision for impairment of trade receivables and no trade receivables that were past due but not impaired in 
either year. 133 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
23 Trade and other payables
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
Current
Trade and other payables 1,183 992 8 8
Accruals 1,052 1,010 7 15
Deferred income 32 35 1 1
Advance payments on contracts
*
18 68 – –
VAT, payroll taxes and social security 114 98 15 15
Due to subsidiaries – – 1,558 1,518
Due to joint ventures and associates 8 17 – –
Dividends on preference shares 5 5 5 5
Due on acquisitions 14 7 – –
2,426 2,232 1,594 1,562
Non-current
Trade and other payables 69 70 – –
Accruals 19 18 – –
Deferred income 6 7 – –
Advance payments on contracts 2 2 – –
Due to joint ventures and associates 25 25 25 25
Due on acquisitions 21 22 – –
142 144 25 25
Total trade and other payables 2,568 2,376 1,619 1,587
Comprising
Financial liabilities 2,326 2,139 1,603 1,571
Non-financial liabilities
– accruals not at amortised cost 90 97 – –
– deferred income 38 42 1 1
– VAT, payroll taxes and social security 114 98 15 15
2,568 2,376 1,619 1,587
* Includes £12m (2010: £66m) advances on construction contracts.
Maturity profile of the Group’s non-current trade and other payables at 31 December 
Trade
and other
payables
2011
£m
Due on 
acquisitions
2011
£m
Accruals
2011
£m
Deferred
income
2011
£m
Due to
joint
ventures
and 
associates
2011
£m
Advance
payments
on
contracts
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Trade
and other
payables
2010
£m
Due on 
acquisitions
2010
£m
Accruals
2010
£m
Deferred
income
2010
£m
Due to
joint
ventures
and 
associates
2010
£m
Advance
payments
on
contracts
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Due within 
one to two 
years 23 3 6 1 – 2 35 23 3 8 1 – 2 37
Due within 
two to five 
years 13 7 10 3 1 – 34 9 7 4 4 – – 24
Due after 
more than
five years 33 11 3 2 24 – 73 38 12 6 2 25 – 83
69 21 19 6 25 2 142 70 22 18 7 25 2 144
Fair values 57 21 16 5 17 1 117 50 22 16 6 13 2 109
The fair value of non-current trade and other payables has been determined by using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the 
reporting date and discounting future cash flows at interest rates prevailing at the reporting date. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 134
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
24 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 
24.1 Group
Current
2011
£m
Non-current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Current
2010
£m
Non-current
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
– bank overdrafts (15) – (15) (34) – (34)
– other loans (212) (2) (214) – (2) (2)
Secured borrowings at amortised cost
– finance leases (4) (4) (8) (3) (9) (12)
 (231) (6) (237) (37) (11) (48)
Cash and deposits at amortised cost 574 – 574 518 – 518
Term deposits at amortised cost 3 – 3 48 – 48
Non-PPP cash and cash equivalents 577 – 577 566 – 566
 346 (6) 340 529 (11) 518
PPP non-recourse term loans at amortised cost
– sterling floating rate term loan (2008–2027) – (22) (22) (1) (22) (23)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2011–2030) (1) (24) (25) (3) (22) (25)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2012–2031) (3) (21) (24) – (19) (19)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2010–2034) (6) (161) (167) (4) (158) (162)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2016–2035) – (7) (7) – (3) (3)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2016–2035) – (3) (3) – – –
– sterling floating rate term loan (2016–2036) – (3) (3) – – –
– sterling floating rate term loan (2012–2037) (11) (65) (76) – (56) (56)
– sterling floating rate term loan (2013–2037) – (23) (23) – – –
(21) (329) (350) (8) (280) (288)
PPP cash and cash equivalents 18 – 18 18 – 18
(3) (329) (332) 10 (280) (270)
Net cash/(borrowings) 343 (335) 8 539 (291) 248
The PPP project finance sterling term loans arise under non-recourse facilities in the subsidiary concession companies. The borrowings 
are secured by fixed and floating charges over each concession company’s right, title and interest in certain assets and/or revenues and 
over each concession company’s shares held by their immediate parent companies detailed in Note 3.3. 
A significant part of the PPP non-recourse project finance floating rate term loans has been swapped into fixed rate debt by the use 
of interest rate swaps.
Restricted cash included in cash and cash equivalents amounts to £10m (2010: £8m) held by the Group’s captive insurance company 
Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, which is subject to Isle of Man insurance solvency regulations, and £18m (2010: £18m) relating to 
amounts held by certain PPP concession subsidiaries.
Cash, deposits and term deposits include the Group’s share of amounts held by jointly controlled operations of £243m (2010: £221m).
The Group’s undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent were satisfied at 31 December
PPP
non-recourse
project
finance
2011
£m
Other
borrowings
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
PPP
non-recourse
project
finance
2010
£m
Other
borrowings
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Expiring in one year or less 64 20 84 33 165 198
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 42 154 196 18 197 215
Expiring in more than two years 91 670 761 38 246 284
197 844 1,041 89 608 697 135 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
24 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings continued
24.1 Group continued
Maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December
PPP
non-recourse
project
finance
2011
£m
Finance
leases
2011
£m
Other
borrowings
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
PPP
non-recourse
project
finance
2010
£m
Finance
leases
2010
£m
Other
borrowings
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Due on demand or within one year (21) (4) (227) (252) (8) (3) (34) (45)
Due within one to two years (12) (1) – (13) (17) (3) – (20)
Due within two to five years (36) – – (36) (24) (1) – (25)
Due after more than five years (281) (3) (2) (286) (239) (5) (2) (246)
(350) (8) (229) (587) (288) (12) (36) (336)
The book values of the Group’s borrowings are equal to the fair values at 31 December 2010 and 2011. The fair values are determined by 
using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date and discounting future cash flows at interest rates prevailing at the 
reporting date.
24.2 Company
Current
2011
£m
Non-current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Current
2010
£m
Non-current
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
– bank overdrafts (24) – (24) (55) – (55)
– other loans (212) – (212) – – –
Net borrowings (236) – (236) (55) – (55)
The bank overdrafts are sterling denominated, variable rate instruments and repayable on demand. Other loans comprise £180m 
(2010: £nil) sterling denominated borrowings and US$50m borrowings (2010: US$nil) which are variable rate instruments repayable 
within one year.
25 Deferred tax
25.1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends 
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
The net deferred tax position at 31 December 
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
Deferred tax assets 105 163 – 2
Deferred tax liabilities (15) (8) (1) –
 90 155 (1) 2
Movement for the year in the net deferred tax position 
Group
£m
Company
£m
At 1 January 2010 182 4
Currency translation differences 2 –
Charged to income statement – (2)
Charged to equity (28) –
Businesses acquired (1) – 
At 31 December 2010 155 2
Charged to income statement
7
(48) (1)
Charged to equity
7
(12) (2)
Businesses acquired (5) –
At 31 December 2011 90 (1)
7
  Group includes £2m charged (2010: £1m) to the income statement and £4m charged (2010: £3m) to equity in relation to the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate. 
The Company includes £1m credited (2010: £nil) to equity in relation to the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 136
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
25 Deferred tax continued 
25.2 Group
The major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised and the movements thereon during the year
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Retirement
benefit
obligations
£m
Unrelieved
trading 
losses
£m
Share-
based
payments
£m
Provisions
£m
Derivatives
£m
Total
£m
Deferred tax assets
At 1 January 2010 14 166 3 3 40 5 231
Currency translation differences – – – – 3 – 3
Reclassifications/transfers (1) – 12 – (3) – 8
(Charged)/credited to income statement
7
– (17) (1) – 7 – (11)
(Charged)/credited to equity
7
– (29) – 2 – (1) (28)
Businesses acquired – – – – (1) – (1)
At 31 December 2010 13 120 14 5 46 4 202
Currency translation differences – – – – (1) – (1)
Reclassifications/transfers (1) – 1 – (3) 1 (2)
Credited/(charged)to income statement
7
5 (28) – – (26) – (49)
(Charged)/credited to equity
7
– (17) – (2) 1 5 (13)
At 31 December 2011 17 75 15 3 17 10 137
7
  Group includes £2m charged (2010: £1m) to the income statement and £4m charged (2010: £3m) to equity in relation to the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate. 
The Company includes £1m credited (2010: £nil) to equity in relation to the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate.
Revaluation
of properties
£m
Goodwill
£m
Preference
shares
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Loss
of IBAs
£m
Total
£m
Deferred tax liabilities
At 1 January 2010 (1) (9) (7) (29) (3) (49)
Currency translation differences – – – (1) – (1)
Reclassifications/transfers – – – (8) – (8)
(Charged)/credited to income statement – (1) – 12 – 11
At 31 December 2010 (1) (10) (7) (26) (3) (47)
Currency translation differences – – – 1 – 1
Reclassifications/transfers – – – 2 – 2
Credited to equity – – 1 – – 1
Credited to income statement – – – – 1 1
Businesses acquired – – – (5) – (5)
At 31 December 2011 (1) (10) (6) (28) (2) (47)
 
Total net deferred tax asset 90
The Finance Act 2011 was enacted on 19 July 2011 implementing a reduction to the main UK corporation tax rate from 27% to 25% 
effective from 1 April 2012. The effect of the reduction in the UK tax rate reduced the Group’s net deferred tax asset by £6m with £2m 
being charged to the income statement and £4m being charged to equity. 
In the 2011 Budget it was announced, although not enacted, that there will be a further 1% reduction in the main corporation tax rate in 
each of the two subsequent years to bring the rate down to 23% from 1 April 2014. Should the future UK corporation tax rate reductions 
be enacted, based on the latest forecasts, this will give rise to a further reduction in the Group’s net deferred tax asset of £6m by 2014 
with £2m being charged to the income statement and £4m being charged to reserves.
At the reporting date, the Group had unused tax losses that arose over a number of years of approximately £273m (2010: £240m) which are 
available for offset against future profits. £26m (2010: £31m) will expire 20 years after the year in which they arose, using losses incurred in 
earlier years before those incurred in later years, with the first expiry in 2021. The remaining losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the reporting date, the undistributed reserves of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £924m 
(2010: £850m) and for joint ventures and associates was £110m (2010: £95m). No liability has been recognised in respect of these 
differences because either no temporary difference arises or the timing of any distribution is under the Group’s control and no distribution 
which gives rise to taxation is contemplated. 137 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
25 Deferred tax continued
25.3 Company
The major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Company and the movements thereon during the year
Deferred tax
liability
Deferred tax
assets
Preference
shares
£m
Share-
based
payments
£m
Retirement
benefit
obligations
£m
Provisions
£m
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Total
£m
Net deferred
tax assets/
(liability)
£m
At 1 January 2010 (7) 2 5 3 1 11 4
Charged to income statement – – (1) – (1) (2) (2)
Credited/(charged) to equity – 1 (1) – – – –
At 31 December 2010 (7) 3 3 3 – 9 2
Charged to income statement – – – (1) – (1) (1)
Credited/(charged) to equity 1 (1) (2) – – (3) (2)
At 31 December 2011 (6) 2 1 2 – 5 (1)
26 Retirement benefit obligations
26.1 Group
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. 
Defined contribution schemes are those where the Group’s obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme and the 
scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks. 
Defined benefit schemes are schemes other than defined contribution schemes and provide benefits based on employees’ pensionable 
service and their pensionable salary. The majority of the Group’s defined benefit schemes are funded.
Defined benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
The Group’s main scheme is the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (“BBPF”), which includes defined contribution and defined benefit sections. 
The defined benefit sections are closed to new members with the exception of employees transferring under certain agreed arrangements.  
On 21 December 2011, the BBPF acquired the Group’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd at its carrying value of £55m. 
Refer to Note 10.
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group made a pension increase exchange (“PIE”) offer to certain current pensioners, 
widows and widowers of the BBPF to forego their entitlement to future non-statutory inflationary increases in return for a higher pension 
than their current entitlement. At 31 December 2011, 509 members had accepted the PIE offer, resulting in a £2m reduction in liabilities 
and a consequential past service cost credit of £2m.
During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Group offered certain deferred members of the BBPF enhanced benefits to leave the 
BBPF and transfer to a freestanding defined contribution scheme. 1,641 deferred members took up the option of the enhanced benefits, 
resulting in a £42m reduction in assets, a £50m reduction in liabilities and a settlement gain of £8m. A net gain of £2m was recognised 
after payments of £6m of enhancements and other expenses.
A formal funding valuation of the BBPF was carried out as at 31 March 2010. As a result of the funding valuation the Group agreed to an 
additional one-off deficit funding contribution of £40m, paid in December 2010, and to increase the amount of ongoing deficit payments 
to the BBPF to £48m per annum from April 2010, increasing each year by CPI (capped at 5%) plus 50% of any increase in the Company’s 
dividend in excess of capped CPI. A further one-off deficit funding contribution of £55m was made in December 2011.
The investment strategy of the BBPF is to hold assets of appropriate liquidity and marketability to generate income and capital growth 
to meet, together with any contributions from the Group, the cost of current and future benefits. The BBPF invests partly in a diversified 
range of assets including equities and hedge funds in anticipation that, over the longer term, they will grow in value faster than the 
liabilities. The equities are in the form of pooled funds and are a combination of UK, other developed market and emerging market 
equities. The remaining BBPF assets are principally fixed and index-linked bonds and swaps in order to match the duration and inflation 
exposure of the liabilities and enhance the resilience of the funding level of the scheme. The performance of the assets is measured 
against market indices.  Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 138
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
26 Retirement benefit obligations continued
26.1 Group continued 
Certain Group employees are members of the Balfour Beatty Shared Cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme (“Railways Pension 
Scheme”), which is closed to new members with the exception of employees transferring under certain agreed arrangements. The 
economic interest of the Group in this shared cost scheme is approximately 60% of the scheme’s assets and liabilities, based on the 
relevant provisions of the trust deed and rules and trustee guidelines regarding future surplus apportionments and deficit financing. 
Parsons Brinckerhoff Ltd operates a defined benefit scheme, which is closed to new members (“Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme”). 
The Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme has a legal charge over a Group leasehold property with a book value of £4m (2010: £4m). 
With the exception of the Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme, active members continue to accrue benefits for future service. Other schemes 
comprise funded and unfunded post-retirement benefit obligations in Europe and North America, the majority of which are closed to 
new entrants, and deferred compensation schemes in the US, where an element of employees’ compensation is deferred and invested 
in available-for-sale assets (as disclosed in Note 17.1) for the ultimate benefit of the employees in a trust, the assets of which are available 
to the Group’s creditors in the event of insolvency. 
On 30 November 2010 the UK Government published the Occupational Pensions (Revaluation) Order 2010 which, with effect from 
1 January 2011, changed the basis of UK general statutory pension indexation from the retail prices index (“RPI”) to the consumer prices 
index (“CPI”). The benefits of certain members of the Group’s schemes are defined by reference to the statutory measure of inflation 
rather than being specifically linked by the scheme rules to RPI. In the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group reassessed the difference 
between the RPI and CPI measures of price inflation from 0.50% to 0.90%. The increase was applied following consideration of research 
published by the Office for National Statistics and independent advice received from the Group’s actuaries. These changes in assumptions 
gave rise to a £35m (2010: £52m) actuarial reduction in liabilities which is credited to equity in the statement of comprehensive income.
Membership of the principal schemes
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
2011
Railways
Pension Scheme
2011
Parsons
Brinckerhoff Scheme
2011
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
2010
Railways
Pension Scheme
2010
Parsons
Brinckerhoff Scheme
 2010
Number of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Number of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Number of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Number of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Number of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Number of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Defined benefit
– active members 3,892 587 287 45 – – 4,494 579 314 48 – –
– deferred 11,105 600 1,514 47 998 95 11,198 543 1,550 47 1,075 85
pensioners
– pensioners,
widow(er)s
and dependants 20,882 1,278 1,436 82 1,192 92 20,685 1,223 1,387 80 1,149 91
Defined 
contribution 8,953 – – – 1,735 – 7,985 – – – 1,781 –
Total 44,832 2,465 3,237 174 3,925 187 44,362 2,345 3,251 175 4,005 176
IAS 19 prescribes the accounting for defined benefit schemes in the Group’s financial statements. Obligations are calculated using the 
projected unit credit method and discounted to a net present value using the market yield on a high-quality corporate bond. The pension 
expense relating to current service cost is charged to contracts or overheads based on the function of scheme members and is included 
in cost of sales and net operating expenses. The net finance cost arising from the expected return on plan assets and the interest on 
scheme obligations is included in finance charges. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in full in the statement of comprehensive 
income. The IAS 19 accounting valuation is set out in 26.2.
A different calculation is used for the regular valuations undertaken by the scheme trustees to determine the future company contribution 
level necessary so that over time the scheme assets will meet the scheme liabilities. The principal difference between the two methods 
is that under the funding basis the liabilities are discounted using a rate of return reflecting the composition of the assets in the scheme, 
rather than the rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond as required by IAS 19 for the financial statements. Details of the latest 
formal funding basis valuations are set out in 26.3.
The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Group’s financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other 
assets of the Group. The Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme has an interest in a property under an operating lease that is occupied under an 
operating sublease by a Group company which pays an annual rental of £0.2m (2010: £0.2m).  139 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
26 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
26.2 IAS 19 accounting valuation
Principal actuarial assumptions for the IAS 19 accounting valuations of the Group’s principal schemes
 
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
%
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
%
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff 
Scheme
2011
%
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension 
Fund
2010
%
Railways 
Pension
Scheme
2010
%
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2010
%
Discount rate on obligations 4.85 4.85 4.85 5.45 5.45 5.45
Expected return on plan assets 5.20 5.85 5.30 6.10 7.10 6.45
Inflation rate – RPI 2.95 2.95 2.95 3.40 3.40 3.40
 – CPI 2.05 2.05 2.05 2.90 2.90 2.90
Future increases in pensionable salary
–  certain members of the BBPF whose increase in pensionable 
pay is limited – – – – – –
– other members 4.45 3.95 – 4.90 4.90 –
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (or such other rate as 
is guaranteed) 2.85 2.05 3.00 3.30 2.90 3.00
The BBPF actuary undertakes regular mortality investigations based on the experience exhibited by pensioners of the BBPF and due to 
the size of the membership of the BBPF (44,832 members at 31 December 2011) is able to make comparisons of this experience with 
the mortality rates set out in the various published mortality tables. The actuary is also able to monitor changes in the exhibited mortality 
over time. This research is taken into account in the Group’s mortality assumptions across its various defined benefit schemes. 
The mortality tables adopted for the 2011 and 2010 IAS 19 valuations are the SAPS tables with a multiplier of 94% and an improvement 
rate of 1.5% pa from 2003 to 2010, plus future improvements from 2010 in line with the CMI core projection model applicable to each 
member‘s year of birth with a long-term rate of 1.5% pa. 
2011
Average life expectancy
at 65 years of age
2010
Average life expectancy
at 65 years of age
Male Female Male Female
Members in receipt of a pension 22.0 24.6 21.8 24.5
Members not yet in receipt of a pension (current age 50) 23.8 26.5 23.7 26.4
The demographic of the members of the Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme is different to the other schemes and allowance has been made 
for approximately three further years of life expectancy for members of this scheme compared to members of the other schemes.
The BBPF defined contribution employer contributions paid and charged to the income statement have been separately identified in the 
table below and the defined contribution section assets and liabilities amounting to £150m (2010: £124m) have been excluded from the 
tables on pages 139 to 142. Defined contribution charges for other schemes include contributions to multi-employer pension schemes.
Amounts recognised in the income statement
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2010
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2010
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2010
£m
Other
schemes
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Current service cost (42) (3) (1) (6) (52) (42) (3) (1) (7) (53)
Past service cost credit 2 – – – 2 – – – – –
Defined contribution 
charge (33) – (5) (17) (55) (30) – (5) (17) (52)
Included in employee 
costs (Note 5)
(73) (3) (6) (23) (105) (72) (3) (6) (24) (105)
Expected return 
on plan assets 126 9 8 – 143 112 9 8 1 130
Interest cost (124) (8) (10) (4) (146) (128) (9) (9) (5) (151)
Net investment income/
(finance cost) (Note 7)
2 1 (2) (4) (3) (16) – (1) (4) (21)
Total charged to income 
statement (71) (2) (8) (27) (108) (88) (3) (7) (28) (126) Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 140
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
26 Retirement benefit obligations continued
26.2 IAS 19 accounting valuation continued 
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2010
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2010
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2010
£m
Other
schemes
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Actuarial (losses)/gains on 
pension scheme obligations (68) 4 (10) 3 (71) (26) 7 (9) (5) (33)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on 
pension scheme assets 141 (8) (2) – 131 106 6 7 – 119
Total actuarial gains/(losses) 
recognised in the statement  
of comprehensive income  
(Note 29.1) 73 (4) (12) 3 60 80 13 (2) (5) 86
Cumulative (losses)/gains 
recognised in reserves (237) (24) (8) (3) (272) (310) (20) 4 (6) (332)
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of £274m (2010: £249m).
Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
†
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension 
Fund
2010
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2010
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2010
£m
Other
schemes
†
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
Present value of obligations (2,465) (174) (187) (89) (2,915) (2,345) (175) (176) (89) (2,785)
Fair value of plan assets 2,370 141 127 2 2,640 2,072 145 125 2 2,344
Liability in the statement  
of financial position (95) (33) (60) (87) (275) (273) (30) (51) (87) (441)
†
 Available-for-sale investments in mutual funds of £50m (2010: £49m) are held by the Group to satisfy the Group’s deferred compensation obligations (Note 17.1).
The defined benefit obligation comprises £87m (2010: £87m) arising from wholly-unfunded plans and £2,828m (2010: £2,698m) arising 
from plans that are wholly or partly funded.
Movement in the present value of obligations
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2010
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2010
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2010
£m
Other
schemes
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
At 1 January (2,345) (175) (176) (89) (2,785) (2,325) (177) (166) (89) (2,757)
Currency translation – – – 1 1 – – – (3) (3)
Service cost (42) (3) (1) (6) (52) (42) (3) (1) (7) (53)
Past service cost credit 2 – – – 2 – – – – –
Interest cost (124) (8) (10) (4) (146) (128) (9) (9) (5) (151)
Actuarial gains from  
rebasing certain pension 
obligations to CPI 23 10 2 – 35 35 13 4 – 52
Other actuarial (losses)/gains (91) (6) (12) 3 (106) (61) (6) (13) (5) (85)
Total actuarial (losses)/gains (68) 4 (10) 3 (71) (26) 7 (9) (5) (33)
Contributions from members (1) – – – (1) (1) – – – (1)
Benefits paid 113 8 10 6 137 127 7 9 6 149
Settlements – – – – – 50 – – 14 64
At 31 December (2,465) (174) (187) (89) (2,915) (2,345) (175) (176) (89) (2,785) 141 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
26 Retirement benefit obligations continued 
26.2 IAS 19 accounting valuation continued
Movement in the fair value of plan assets
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2010
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2010
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2010
£m
Other
schemes
2010
£m
Total
2010
£m
At 1 January 2,072 145 125 2 2,344 1,911 134 113 13 2,171
Currency translation – – – – – – – – 1 1
Expected return on plan 
assets 126 9 8 – 143 112 9 8 1 130
Actuarial gains/(losses) 141 (8) (2) – 131 106 6 7 – 119
Contributions from 
employer
– regular funding 37 2 – – 39 38 2 – – 40
– ongoing deficit funding 51 1 6 – 58 33 1 6 1 41
– one-off deficit funding 55 – – – 55 40 – – – 40
Contributions from 
members 1 – – – 1 1 – – – 1
Benefits paid (113) (8) (10) – (131) (127) (7) (9) – (143)
Settlements – – – – – (42) – – (14) (56)
At 31 December 2,370 141 127 2 2,640 2,072 145 125 2 2,344
Fair value and expected rates of return on the assets held by the schemes at 31 December
Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund
Railways Pension
Scheme
Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Scheme Other schemes Total
Expected
rate of 
return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Expected
rate of 
return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Expected
rate of
return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Expected 
rate of 
return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Expected 
rate of 
return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Return-seeking
(i)
8.34 835 7.14 92 7.30 69 – – 8.16 996
Liability matching bond- 
type assets
(ii)
3.69 1,273 2.90 35 2.92 54 – – 3.64 1,362
Property – – 4.90 14 – – – – 4.90 14
Other
(iii)
2.55 262 2.55 – 2.55 4 2.55 2 2.55 268
Rate of return/total 5.20 2,370 5.85 141 5.30 127 2.55 2 5.24 2,640
Expected 
rate
of return
2010
%
Value
2010
£m
Expected 
rate
of return
2010
%
Value
2010
£m
Expected 
rate
of return
2010
%
Value
2010
£m
Expected 
rate
of return
2010
%
Value
2010
£m
Expected 
rate
of return
2010
%
Value
2010
£m
Return-seeking
(i)
8.00 808 8.20 98 8.20 70 – – 8.03 976
Liability matching bond- 
type assets
(ii)
4.88 1,154 4.40 33 4.26 47 – – 4.84 1,234
Property – – 6.10 14 – – – – 6.10 14
Other
(iii)
3.90 110 3.90 – 3.90 8 3.90 2 3.90 120
Rate of return/total 6.10 2,072 7.10 145 6.45 125 3.90 2 6.13 2,344
(i) Includes investments in developed market equities; emerging market equities; debt and currency; and hedge funds.
(ii)
 
Includes investments in corporate bonds; fixed-interest gilts; and index-linked gilts.
(iii) Includes cash and net current assets.
The expected rates of return on scheme assets were determined as the average of the expected returns on the assets held by the 
scheme on 31 December.
Rates of return for each class
•	 Return seeking assets and property – the long-term rates of return on these assets are derived from current risk-free rates of return 
with the addition of an appropriate future risk premium from an analysis of historic returns, current market conditions and forward 
looking views from market participants.
•	 Bonds – the rate has been set to reflect the yields available on the gilts and corporate bond holdings held at 31 December.
•	 Cash and other net assets – the rate adopted reflects current short-term returns on cash deposits. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 142
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
26 Retirement benefit obligations continued
26.2 IAS 19 accounting valuation continued 
Estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the principal defined benefit schemes during 2012 
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2012
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2012
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Regular funding 35 2 – 37
Ongoing deficit funding 52 1 6 59
Total 87 3 6 96
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations at 31 December 2011 to different actuarial assumptions
Obligations
Percentage
points/years
(Decrease)/
increase
 in obligations
%
(Decrease)/
increase
 in obligations
£m
Increase in discount rate 0.5% (7.8) (221)
Increase in RPI inflation expectations 0.5% 6.5 183
Increase in salary above inflation 0.5% 0.2 7
Increase in life expectancy 1 year 3.3 92
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement benefit assets at 31 December 2011 to changes in market conditions
Assets
Percentage
points
(Decrease)/
increase
 in assets
%
(Decrease)/
increase
in assets
£m
Increase in interest rates 0.5% (5.9) (155)
Increase in market expectation of RPI inflation 0.5% 3.9 104
Year-end historical information for the Group’s post-retirement defined benefit schemes
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
Obligation at end of year (2,915) (2,785) (2,757) (2,102) (2,444)
Fair value of assets at end of year 2,640 2,344 2,171 1,841 2,158
Funded status at end of year (275) (441) (586) (261) (286)
Experience adjustment for liabilities (11) 62
*
(9) (17) (56)
Experience adjustment for assets 131 119 137 (432) (21)
*
 As re-presented.
26.3 Funding valuations
The latest formal funding valuations are detailed below. 
Balfour Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
£m
Date of last formal funding valuation 31/03/2010 31/12/2010 31/08/2008
Scheme deficit
Market value of assets 2,070 260 119
Present value of scheme liabilities (2,445) (268) (169)
Deficit in defined benefit scheme (375) (8) (50)
Funding level 84.6% 97.0% 70.6%
26.4 Company
Certain employees of the Company are members of the BBPF. Assets, liabilities, income and expenditure relating to this fund are 
allocated to Group companies participating in the scheme in proportion to pensionable payroll for the year. The Company’s share of the 
net IAS 19 deficit was £4m (2010: £13m). 143 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
27 Provisions
Group Company
Employee
provisions 
£m
Contract
provisions 
£m
Other
provisions 
£m
Total 
£m
Other
provisions 
£m
At 1 January 2010 36 123 68 227 9
Currency translation differences – 3 1 4 –
Charged to the income statement
– additional provisions 5 55 28 88 1
– unused amounts reversed (2) (23) (16) (41) (3)
Utilised during the year (10) (13) (13) (36) –
At 31 December 2010 29 145 68 242 7
Currency translation differences – – 1 1 –
Charged to the income statement
– additional provisions 8 42 12 62 –
– unused amounts reversed (2) (23) (11) (36) (1)
Utilised during the year (5) (16) (10) (31) –
Businesses disposed – (1) – (1) –
At 31 December 2011 30 147 60 237 6
Group Group Company Company
Employee
provisions
2011
£m
Contract
provisions
2011
£m
Other
provisions
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Employee
provisions
2010
£m
Contract
provisions
2010
£m
Other
provisions
2010 
£m
Total 
2010 
£m
Other
provisions
2011
£m
Other
provisions
2010 
£m
Due within one year 12 73 22 107 11 94 30 135 – 1
Due within one to 
two years 9 38 15 62 8 24 18 50 1 –
Due within two to 
five years 7 30 18 55 7 22 16 45 5 5
Due after more than 
five years 2 6 5 13 3 5 4 12 – 1
30 147 60 237 29 145 68 242 6 7
Employee provisions are principally liabilities relating to employers’ liability insurance retained in the Group’s captive insurance company. 
Contract provisions include construction insurance liabilities retained in the Group’s captive insurance company and construction fault 
and warranty provisions. Other provisions principally comprise environmental provisions, legal claims and costs and onerous lease and 
other commitments.
Provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress. The Group takes 
actuarial advice in respect of provisions in the Group’s captive insurance company.
28 Share capital
28.1 Ordinary shares of 50p each
Authorised Issued
Million £m Million £m
At 1 January 2010 996 498 685 343
Shares issued – – 1 –
At 31 December 2010 996 498 686 343
Shares issued – – 1 1
At 31 December 2011 996 498 687 344
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid. Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income, but each share carries the right to one vote at 
general meetings of the Company. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 144
Our accounts
28 Share capital continued
28.1 Ordinary shares of 50p each continued 
Ordinary shares issued during the year credited as fully paid
Ordinary
shares
 2011
Number
Consideration
2011
£m
Ordinary
shares 
2010
Number
Consideration
2010
£m
Savings-related share options exercised 665,516 2 657,138 1
Executive share options exercised 302,586 1 472,928 1
968,102 3 1,130,066 2
At 31 December 2011 there were 6,200,690 share options outstanding under the savings-related share option scheme (SAYE) which 
were granted between 2006 and 2010 (2010: 9,014,115 granted between 2005 and 2010). The weighted average exercise price is 263.5p 
(2010: 269.9p). No options were granted under the SAYE in 2011.
At 31 December 2011 there were 924,010 share options outstanding under the executive share options scheme (ESOS) which were 
granted between 2001 and 2004 (2010: 1,258,736 granted between 2001 and 2004). These options are normally exercisable between 
three and 10 years after the grant date. Performance conditions have been met for all outstanding options under the ESOS. The weighted 
average exercise price is 203.9p (2010: 200.6p). No options have been granted under the ESOS since 2004.
28.2 Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each
Authorised Issued
Million £m Million £m
At 31 December 2010 and 2011 177 2 112 –
All issued preference shares are fully paid. During the current and prior year, no preference shares were repurchased for cancellation by 
the Company.
Holders of preference shares are entitled to a preferential dividend equivalent to a gross payment of 10.75p per preference share per 
annum, payable half-yearly. Any preference shares still outstanding are redeemable on 1 July 2020 at £1 each, together with any arrears 
or accruals of dividend, unless the holder exercises any option granted by the Company to extend the redemption date. The maximum 
redemption value of all of the issued and outstanding preference shares, excluding any arrears or accruals of dividend, was £112m at  
31 December 2011 (2010: £112m).
At the option of the holder, preference shares are convertible on the first day of the next calendar month following receipt of the conversion 
notice into new Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares effectively on the basis of 24.69136 ordinary shares for every 100 preference shares, 
subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. The Company is entitled to convert all outstanding preference shares into ordinary shares if 
there are fewer than 44,281,239 preference shares in issue or if the average of the closing mid-market price for a Balfour Beatty plc ordinary 
share during a 30-day period exceeds 810p, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
The preference shares carry no voting rights at a general meeting of the Company, except where the dividend is six months or more 
in arrears, or where the business of the meeting includes a resolution which directly affects the rights and privileges attached to the 
preference shares or a resolution for the winding-up of the Company. On winding-up the Company, holders are entitled to receive the 
sum of £1 per preference share, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, in priority to any payment on any other class of shares.
The preference shares are a compound instrument, comprising an equity and a liability component. The fair value of the liability 
component at the date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 13.5% 
for a similar non-convertible instrument. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and the fair value 
assigned to the liability component, representing the value of the equity conversion component, is included in equity holders’ equity, 
net of deferred tax.
Liability component recognised in the statement of financial position
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Redemption value of shares in issue at 1 January 112 112
Equity component (17) (16)
Deferred tax and interest element (5) (8)
Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 90 88
Interest accretion 1 1
Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 91 89
The fair value of the liability component of the preference shares at 31 December 2011 amounted to £140m (2010: £147m). The fair value 
is determined by using the market price of the preference shares at the reporting date.
Interest expense on the preference shares is calculated using the effective interest method.
Notes to the accounts continued 145 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
29 Movements in equity
29.1 Group
Other reserves
Called-
up share
capital 
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Equity
component
of
preference
shares
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Share
of joint
ventures’
and
associates’
reserves
£m
Hedging
reserves
£m
PPP
financial
assets 
£m
Currency
translation
reserve 
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Other
£m
Retained
profits
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 343 57 16 32 157 (17) – 36 249 20 102 4 999
Profit for the year – – – – 58 – – – – – 85 – 143
Currency translation  
differences – – – – 5 – – 38 – – – – 43
Actuarial gains on retirement 
benefit obligations – – – – 1 – – – – – 86 – 87
Fair value revaluations
 – PPP financial assets – – – – 36 – 25 – – – – – 61
 – PPP cash flow hedges – – – – (47) (20) – – – – – – (67)
 –  other cash flow hedges – – – – (3) 1 – – – – – – (2)
 –  a vai l a b l e - f o r - s al e 
investments in mutual 
funds – – – – – – – – – 4 – – 4
Tax on items taken directly  
to equity – – – – 3 5 (6) – – (1) (26) – (25)
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year – – – – 53 (14) 19 38 – 3 145 – 244
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – – – – – (84) – (84)
Joint ventures’ and  
associates’ dividends – – – – (62) – – – – – 62 – –
Issue of ordinary shares – 2 – – – – – – – – – – 2
Recycling of revaluation 
reserves to the income 
statement on disposal – – – – (4) – – – – – – – (4)
Acquisition of non-controlling 
interest – – – – – – – – – – (1) – (1)
Movements relating to
share-based payments – – – – – – – – – – 4 – 4
Transfers – – – (2) – – – – – – 2 – –
At 31 December 2010 343 59 16 30 144 (31) 19 74 249 23 230 4 1,160
Profit for the year – – – – 75 – – – – – 111 – 186
Currency translation  
differences – – – – 3 – – 1 – – – – 4
Actuarial (losses)/gains on 
retirement benefit obligations – – – – (7) – – – – – 60 – 53
Fair value revaluations
 – PPP financial assets – – – – 140 – 64 – – – – – 204
 – PPP cash flow hedges – – – – (154) (85) – – – – – – (239)
 –  other cash flow hedges – – – – 2 (2) – – – – – – –
 –  a vai l a b l e - f o r - s al e 
investments in mutual 
funds – – – – – – – – – (2) – – (2)
Tax on items taken directly  
to equity – – 1 – 1 21 (16) – – 1 (20) – (12)
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year – – 1 – 60 (66) 48 1 – (1) 151 – 194
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – – – – – (88) – (88)
Joint ventures’ and  
associates’ dividends – – – – (54) – – – – – 54 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 1 2 – – – – – – – – – – 3
Recycling of revaluation 
reserves to the income 
statement on disposal – – – – (6) – – – – – – – (6)
Movements relating to
share-based payments – – – – – – – – – (5) 5 – –
Transfers – – – (3) – – – – – – 3 – –
At 31 December 2011 344 61 17 27 144 (97) 67 75 249 17 355 4 1,263 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 146
Our accounts
29 Movements in equity continued
29.2 Company
Other reserves
Called-up
share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Equity
component
of preference
shares 
£m
Special
reserve 
£m
Merger
reserve 
£m
Other 
£m
Retained
profits
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 343 57 16 32 249 68 473 1,238
Loss for the year – – – – – – (14) (14)
Actuarial gains on retirement benefit 
obligations – – – – – – 5 5
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – – (9) (9)
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – (84) (84)
Issue of ordinary shares – 2 – – – – – 2
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – – 4 – 4
Transfers – – – (2) – – 2 –
At 31 December 2010 343 59 16 30 249 72 382 1,151
Profit for the year – – – – – – 32 32
Actuarial gains on retirement benefit 
obligations – – – – – – 6 6
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – 1 – – – (3) (2)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 1 – – – 35 36
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – (88) (88)
Issue of ordinary shares 1 2 – – – – – 3
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – – 2 1 3
Transfers – – – (3) – – 3 –
At 31 December 2011 344 61 17 27 249 74 333 1,105
The retained profits of Balfour Beatty plc are wholly distributable. By special resolution on 13 May 2004, confirmed by the court on 
16 June 2004, the share premium account was reduced by £181m and the £4m capital redemption reserve was cancelled, effective on 
25 June 2004, and a special reserve of £185m was created. This reserve becomes distributable to the extent of future increases in share 
capital and share premium account, of which £3m occurred in 2011 (2010: £2m).
29.3 The retained profits in the Group and the retained profit of the Company are stated net of investments in Balfour Beatty plc ordinary 
shares acquired by the Group’s employee discretionary trust, the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust, to satisfy awards 
under the Balfour Beatty performance share plan and the Balfour Beatty deferred bonus plan. In 2011, 1.2m (2010: 0.9m) shares were 
purchased at a cost of £3.9m (2010: £2.6m). The market value of the 3.7m (2010: 3.7m) shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2011 
was £9.7m (2010: £11.6m). The carrying value of these shares is £12.3m (2010: £12.4m). Following confirmation of the performance 
criteria at the end of the performance period in the case of the performance share plan, and at the end of the vesting period in the case of 
the deferred bonus plan, the appropriate number of shares will be unconditionally transferred to participants. In 2011, 0.5m shares were 
transferred to participants in relation to the April 2008 awards under the performance share plan (2010: 0.9m shares for the April 2007 
awards), and 0.7m shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the deferred bonus plan. The trustees have waived 
the rights to dividends on shares held by the Trust. Other reserves in the Group and the Company include £4.8m relating to unvested 
performance share plan awards (2010: £6.4m), £4.3m relating to unvested share options (2010: £5.2m), and £4.2m relating to unvested 
deferred bonus plan awards (2010: £4.3m).
Notes to the accounts continued 147 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
30 Acquisitions and disposals
30.1 Current year acquisitions
Notes Acquisition date Subsidiary
Percentage
acquired
Cash
consideration
£m
Contingent
consideration
£m
Fair value of
net assets
acquired 
£m
Goodwill
arising on
acquisition
£m 
Costs (ii) 
£m
30.1.1 First half 2011 Various Rok contracts 
(iii)
– – (1) 1 –
30.1.2 30 March 2011 Romec Services Ltd 100% 29 – 5 24 1
30.1.3 7 April 2011 Power Efficiency Holdings Ltd 100% 18 – 10 8 –
30.1.4 15 June 2011 Fru-Con Construction LLC 
(i)(iii)
100% 14 – 6 8 1
30.1.5 30 June 2011 Howard S. Wright 
(i)(iii)
100% 44 7 10 41 1
30.1.6 22 August 2011 Office Projects Group Ltd 100% 8 – 3 5 –
113 7 33 87 3
(i)  As at 31 December 2011 the fair values of acquired assets, liabilities and goodwill for these businesses have been determined on a provisional basis, pending finalisation 
of the post-acquisition review of the fair value of the acquired net assets.
(ii) Costs directly attributable to each acquisition have been expensed within non-underlying items, refer Note 8.
(iii) Goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes in respect of Rok, Fru-Con, and the majority of Howard S. Wright. 
30.1.1 In the first half of 2011 additional contracts were transferred in respect of certain operations of Rok’s business which extend the 
Group’s capabilities in the affordable new-build housing market. In addition, management reassessed contracts that were acquired on  
19 November 2010, resulting in additional liabilities of (£3m), intangibles arising of £2m and goodwill of £1m. 
30.1.2 On 30 March 2011 an associate, Romec Ltd, in which Royal Mail Group (“RMG”) and the Group hold 51% and 49% respectively, 
agreed a new facilities management contract for a further 10 years whereby Romec Ltd will provide a wide range of technical and 
building services to RMG worth £0.9bn with further variable scope for works worth £0.9bn over the 10-year term. In addition Romec Ltd 
credited RMG with £10m in respect of the previous 10-year management contract and a special dividend of £19m was paid on a class 
of preference shares owned 100% by RMG. The Group’s share of these items is disclosed in non-underlying items.
On 30 March 2011, the Group acquired 100% of Romec Services Ltd (“RSL ”) from Romec Ltd for a cash consideration of £29m. 
RSL provides services to third-party customers and will enhance the Group’s mobile engineering and maintenance services capabilities. 
The fair value of net assets acquired was £2m, intangible assets arising net of deferred tax were £3m and goodwill of £24m has been 
recognised. A gain of £13m disclosed in non-underlying items arose on the revaluation of the Group’s existing 49% interest in RSL.
30.1.3 On 7 April 2011 the Group acquired 100% of Power Efficiency Holdings Ltd, a leader in the energy management market, for 
consideration of £18m, of which £14m was paid in cash to the vendors and £4m was paid into an escrow account distributable over two 
years subject to certain provisions of the purchase agreement. The acquisition strengthens the Group’s ability to maintain large complex 
energy portfolios and deliver end-to-end energy and carbon management services. The fair value of net assets acquired was £3m, 
intangible assets arising net of deferred tax were £7m and goodwill of £8m has been recognised. 
30.1.4 On 15 June 2011 the Group acquired 100% of Fru-Con Construction LLC (“Fru-Con”), a water and wastewater infrastructure 
contractor, for a cash consideration of £14m. The acquisition of Fru-Con enhances the Group’s expertise in water infrastructure projects. 
The provisional fair value of net assets acquired was £1m, intangible assets arising were £5m and goodwill of £8m has been recognised.
30.1.5 On 30 June 2011 the Group acquired 100% of Howard S. Wright (“HSW”) for a cash consideration of £44m with a further 
estimated £7m contingent consideration payable on the satisfaction of certain financial projections. HSW provides pre-construction, 
general contracting and construction management services and enhances the Group’s presence in Northern California and the US Pacific 
Northwest. The provisional fair value of net liabilities acquired was (£3m), intangible assets arising were £13m and goodwill of £41m has 
been recognised.
30.1.6 On 22 August 2011 the Group acquired 100% of Office Projects Group Ltd (“OPL ”) for a cash consideration of £8m of which £1m 
has been paid into an escrow account to be released after an 18-month retention period. OPL manages and delivers commercial interior 
and exterior fit-out and refurbishment projects for a range of blue-chip UK customers. The fair value of net assets acquired was £2m, 
intangible assets arising net of deferred tax were £1m and goodwill of £5m has been recognised. The acquisition extends the Group’s 
capabilities in the fit-out and refurbishment markets.
30.1.7 The following summary presents the Group as if the businesses acquired had been acquired on 1 January 2011. The amounts 
include the results of the acquired businesses, depreciation of the acquired net assets and amortisation of the intangible assets 
recognised on acquisition. The amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The results of acquired companies 
and contracts for the period before acquisition have not been adjusted to reflect the Group’s accounting policies nor to reflect the fair 
value adjustments made on acquisition. The information is provided for illustrative purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the 
actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of the future results of the combined companies and contracts.
Total* 
£m
Group revenue 10,016
Profit for the year 195
* Total Group figures had the acquisitions occurred on 1 January 2011.
The businesses acquired during the year contributed £255m to Group revenue and £4m to profit for the year in the current year. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 148
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
30 Acquisitions and disposals continued
30.1 Current year acquisitions continued
Recognised amounts 
of identifiable assets 
acquired and
liabilities assumed 
£m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – customer contracts 7
Intangible assets – customer relationships 20
Intangible assets – brand names 7
Property, plant and equipment 5
Deferred taxation (5)
*
Current tax –
Working capital (15)
 
Cash and cash equivalents 16
Other net liabilities (4)
Identifiable net assets 31
Goodwill 89
*
Total consideration 120
* Includes prior year amendments to Halsall’s acquisition fair values as detailed in Note 30.3.
Satisfied by
Cash consideration 113
Contingent consideration 7
Total consideration transferred 120
Net cash flow 
on acquisitions 
£m
Cash consideration 113
Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired (16)
Net cash outflow on acquisitions completed in 2011 97
Deferred consideration paid during 2011 in respect of acquisitions completed in earlier years 3
Net cash outflow on acquisitions 100
30.2 Contingent consideration arrangements
Contingent consideration (payable)/recoverable
SpawMaxwell
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Inc. 
£m
Howard
 S. Wright
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2010 (3) 16 – 13
Additions – – (7) (7)
At 31 December 2011 (3) 16 (7) 6
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangements is estimated by applying the provisions of the purchase agreement to 
management’s assessment of possible outcomes and discounting the expected contract costs and insurance claim proceeds to their 
present value. The maximum amount that the Group could be required to pay or receive under the terms of the contingent consideration 
arrangements is £11m payable or £16m receivable in respect of Parsons Brinckerhoff, £3m payable in respect of SpawMaxwell, 
and £15m payable in respect of Howard S. Wright. 
In addition to the amounts shown above, at 31 December 2011 £4m and £1m relating to the acquisitions of Power Efficiency and 
OPL respectively are held in escrow to be paid over two years and 18 months respectively subject to certain provisions of the 
purchase agreement.
30.3 Prior year acquisitions 
The fair values of acquired assets and liabilities, including goodwill, previously disclosed as provisional for Ethos56 Ltd (“Halsall”) have 
been finalised in the current year resulting in a £2m deferred tax liability and an increase in goodwill of £2m. These amounts are not 
considered material and are shown in the current year.
There are no other changes to the acquisition fair values disclosed in the 2010 financial statements. 
30.4 Current year disposals 
30.4.1 On 3 May 2011, the Group disposed of its UK specialist rail manufacturing business for £37m. The fair value of net assets 
disposed comprise property, plant and equipment £26m; and working capital £8m. No cash and cash equivalents was disposed. 
The business generated revenue of £55m in 2010 and had profit from operations of £4m. A total loss on disposal of £7m, including 
£7m goodwill written-off and an onerous lease provision of £3m, was recognised within non-underlying items.  149 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
30 Acquisitions and disposals continued 
30.4 Current year disposals continued
30.4.2 On 23 June 2011 the Group disposed of a 60% interest in its Connect Roads Ltd joint venture for a cash consideration of £16m. 
Connect Roads Ltd holds a 100% interest in Connect A50 Ltd. The disposal resulted in a total gain of £14m being recognised in underlying 
operating profit, comprising £8m in respect of the gain on disposal of the investment in the joint venture and £6m in respect of revaluation 
reserves recycled to the income statement. The Group retains a 25% interest in Connect Roads Ltd following the transaction.
30.4.3 On 7 November 2011 the Group disposed of its 50% interest in the shares and loan notes issued by Consort Healthcare Blackburn 
(Holdings) Ltd for a cash consideration of £12m. This resulted in a gain on disposal of £6m being recognised in underlying operating profit. 
There were no revaluation reserves relating to Consort Healthcare Blackburn (Holdings) Ltd.
30.4.4 On 21 December 2011 the Group disposed of its effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd at its carrying value of £55m. 
Transaction costs of £1m were incurred resulting in a £1m loss on disposal being recognised within non-underlying items.
31 Share-based payments
The Company operates four equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the savings-related share option scheme (SAYE), 
the executive share option scheme (ESOS), the performance share plan (PSP) and the deferred bonus plan (DBP). The Group recognised 
total expenses relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions since 7 November 2002 of £6.2m in 2011 (2010: £8.3m). 
Refer to the remuneration report for details of the various schemes and to Note 28.1. 
31.1 Movements in share options
SAYE options ESOS options
2011
Number
Weighted
average
exercise 
price 
2011
Pence
2010 
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
2010
Pence
2011 
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
2011
Pence
2010
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price
2010 
Pence
Outstanding at 1 January 9,014,115 269.9 8,901,502 287.0 939,706 201.6 1,244,920 198.9
Granted during the year – – 3,073,128 236.0 – – – –
Forfeited during the year (1,526,224) 280.1 (1,212,810) 282.0 (1,482) 189.0 (15,425) 196.3
Exercised during the year (665,516) 273.8 (657,138) 217.7 (183,000) 197.2 (289,789) 190.2
Expired during the year (621,685) 304.1 (1,090,567) 332.2 – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 6,200,690 263.5 9,014,115 269.9 755,224 203.2 939,706 201.6
Exercisable at 31 December 161,899 296.2 105,633 300.8 755,224 203.2 939,706 201.6
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those SAYE options exercised during the year was 309.6p (2010: 251.9p) 
and the weighted average remaining contractual life of SAYE options outstanding at 31 December 2011 is 2.1 years (2010: 2.7 years).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those ESOS options exercised during the year was 303.4p (2010: 284.5p) 
and the weighted average remaining contractual life of ESOS options outstanding at 31 December is 2.0 years (2010: 3.0 years).
31.2 Movements in share plans
PSP conditional awards DBP conditional awards
2011
Number 
2010
Number 
2011
Number 
2010
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 8,171,418 6,863,134 2,247,952 1,933,946
Granted during the year 3,235,874 2,982,241 738,975 769,581
Awards in lieu of dividends – – 101,666 106,024
Forfeited during the year (464,604) (105,633) (71,671) (47,321)
Exercised during the year (412,560) (784,170) (724,970) (514,278)
Expired during the year (1,829,804) (784,154) – –
Outstanding at 31 December 8,700,324 8,171,418 2,291,952 2,247,952
Exercisable at 31 December – – – –
The share price at the date of exercise for those PSP awards exercised during the year was 330.0p (2010: 293.2p) and the weighted 
average remaining contractual life of those PSP awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 is 1.4 years (2010: 1.4 years).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those DBP awards exercised during the year was 333.8p (2010: 290.4p) 
and the weighted average remaining contractual life of DBP awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 is 1.2 years (2010: 1.3 years).
The principal assumptions, including expected volatility determined from the historic weekly share price movements over the three-year 
period immediately preceding the award date, used by the consultants in the stochastic model for the 50% of the PSP awards in 2011 
subject to market conditions, were:
Award date
Closing
share
price before
award date
Pence
Expected
volatility of
shares 
%
Expected
term of
awards
Years
Risk-free
interest 
rate
%
Calculated
fair value 
of an
award 
Pence
1 June 2011 321.9 28.0 3.0 1.29 205.4
For the 50% of the PSP awards in 2011 subject to non-market conditions and for the DBP awards in 2011, the fair value of the awards is 
the closing share price before award date. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 150
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
32 Commitments
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for which has not been provided for in the financial statements amounted to £12m (2010: 
£31m) in the Group and £nil (2010: £nil) in the Company.
The Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding and subordinated debt of joint ventures and associates in PPP 
projects amounting to £34m (2010: £70m), £37m (2010: £21m) in respect of PPP subsidiaries and £15m (2010: £24m) in respect of the 
Balfour Beatty Capital US military housing concessions. The future cash flow profile of the Group’s share of further equity funding and 
subordinated debt is shown in Note 37(g).
The Group leases land and buildings, equipment and other various assets under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases 
have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The lease expenditure charged to the income statement is disclosed in Note 4.1.
Future operating lease expenditure commitments 
Land and
buildings
2011
£m
Other
2011
£m
Land and
buildings
2010 
£m
Other
2010
£m
Group
Due within one year 81 49 73 38
Due between one and five years 197 56 181 57
Due after more than five years 61 – 49 –
 339 105 303 95
Company
Due within one year 3 – 4 –
Due between one and five years 7 – 10 –
Due after more than five years – – – –
 10 – 14 –
Future committed operating lease income
Land and
buildings
2011
£m
Land and
buildings
2010
£m
Group
Due within one year 3 3
Due between one and five years 6 9
Due after more than five years – –
 9 12
Company
Due within one year 3 3
Due between one and five years 6 9
9 12
33 Contingent liabilities 
The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into counter-
indemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Group’s own contracts and given guarantees in respect of their share of certain contractual 
obligations of joint ventures and associates and certain retirement benefit obligations of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and the Parsons 
Brinckerhoff Pension Scheme. Where such agreements are entered into they are considered to be and are accounted for as insurance 
arrangements. Guarantees are treated as contingent liabilities until such time as it becomes probable payment will be required under the 
terms of the guarantee.
Provision has been made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress. The Group 
takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on 
that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed, or that the Group cannot make a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation.  151 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
34 Related party transactions
Joint ventures and associates
The Group has contracted with, provided services to, and received management fees from, certain joint ventures and associates 
amounting to £898m (2010: £972m). These transactions occurred in the normal course of business at market rates and terms. In addition, 
the Group procured equipment and labour on behalf of certain joint ventures and associates which were recharged at cost with no 
mark-up. The amounts due to or from joint ventures and associates at 31 December are disclosed within trade and other receivables 
and trade and other payables in Notes 22 and 23 respectively.
On 30 March 2011 the Group acquired Romec Services Ltd from its associate Romec Ltd for a cash consideration of £29m.  
Refer to Note 30.1.2.
Pension schemes
The Group recharged the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (“BBPF”) with the costs of administration and advisers’ fees borne by the Group 
amounting to £5.7m in 2011 (2010: £5.2m).
On 21 December 2011 the BBPF, acting through its Trustees, purchased the Group’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd at its 
carrying value of £55m which was considered to be its fair value. Refer to Note 10.
Key personnel
Remuneration of key personnel of Balfour Beatty plc
2011
£m
2010
7
 
£m
Short-term benefits 4.329 4.080
Post-employment benefits 0.305 0.427
Share-based payments 1.395 2.024
6.029 6.531
7
 Restated to include non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Key personnel comprise the executive Directors who are directly responsible for the Group’s activities and the non-executive Directors. 
The remuneration included above is that paid in respect of the period of the year during which the individuals were Directors. Further 
details of Directors’ emoluments, post-employment benefits and interests are set out in the remuneration report on pages 82 to 92.
35 Events after the reporting date
On 1 February 2012, the Group sold its 50% interest in Transform Schools (North Lanarkshire) Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration 
of £18m. The disposal resulted in a £8m gain being recognised within underlying operating profit. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 152
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
36 Notes to the statements of cash flows
Underlying
 2011
£m
Non-
underlying
2011
£m
Group 
2011
£m
Group
2010
2
£m
Underlying
 2011
£m
Non-
underlying
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
2
£m
36.1 Cash generated from/(used in) operations
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 331 (88) 243 220 (8) (1) (9) (9)
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operation – 4 4 (14) – 59 59 9
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 
– continuing operations (75) – (75) (72) – – – –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 
– discontinued operation – – – 14 – – – –
Dividends received – continuing operations – – – – (13) – (13) (22)
Dividends received – discontinued operation – (5) (5) – – (5) (5) (9)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 70 – 70 74 – – – –
Amortisation of other intangible assets 4 62 66 82 – – – –
Pension deficit payments 
– ongoing deficit funding (58) – (58) (41) (3) – (3) (1)
– one-off deficit funding – – – (40) – – – –
Past service cost credit (2) – (2) – – – – –
Movements relating to share-based payments 6 – 6 8 – – – 5
Profit on disposal of investments in joint ventures (20) – (20) (20) – – – –
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (4) – (4) (2) – – – –
Loss/(gain) on disposal of Barking – 1 1 – – (54) (54) –
Loss on disposal of business – 7 7 – – – – –
Other non-cash items 3 – 3 (8) – – – –
Operating cash flows before movements 
in working capital 255 (19) 236 201 (24) (1) (25) (27)
Increase in working capital (201) – (201) (32) (75) – (75) (37)
Cash (used in)/generated from operations 54 (19) 35 169 (99) (1) (100) (64)
2
 Re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (Note 10).
Group 
2011
£m
Group 
2010
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
36.2 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and deposits 574 518 – –
Term deposits 3 48 – –
PPP cash balances 18 18 – –
Bank overdrafts (15) (34) (24) (55)
580 550 (24) (55)
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of less than three months and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the 
statement of financial position.
PPP 
2011 
£m
Other 
2011 
£m
Group 
2011 
£m
Group 
2010 
£m
Company
2011
£m
Company
2010
£m
36.3 Analysis of movement in net cash/(borrowings)
Opening net cash (270) 518 248 324 (55) 90
Currency translation differences – (2) (2) 12 – –
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents – 32 32 (70) 31 (145)
Proceeds from new loans (70) (212) (282) (49) (212) –
Repayment of loans 8 – 8 30 – –
Proceeds from new finance leases – – – (4) – –
Repayment of finance leases – 4 4 5 – –
Closing net cash/(borrowings) (332) 340 8 248 (236) (55)
36.4 Borrowings 
During the year to 31 December 2011 the significant movements in borrowings were an increase of £70m (2010: £49m increase) in non-
recourse borrowings funding the development of financial assets in PPP subsidiaries, a draw down of other short-term loans of £212m 
(2010: £nil), a £19m net decrease (2010: £24m increase) in bank overdrafts and repayment of £8m (2010: £19m) non-recourse PPP loans. 153 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures  
and associates 
Country of
incorporation
or registration
(a) Principal subsidiaries
Professional, Construction and Support services
Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc US
Balfour Beatty Construction Northern Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction Scottish & Southern Ltd Scotland
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services Ltd Scotland
Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc US
Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH Germany
Balfour Beatty Rail Inc US
Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd
Balfour Beatty Rail SpA Italy
Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions Ltd
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace Ltd
Mansell plc
Parsons Brinckerhoff (Asia) Ltd Hong Kong
Parsons Brinckerhoff Group Inc US
Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc US
Parsons Brinckerhoff International Pte Ltd Singapore
Parsons Brinckerhoff Ltd
PB Australia Pty Ltd Australia
Infrastructure Investments
PPP (refer Note 37 (d) and (e))
Balfour Beatty Capital Ltd
Balfour Beatty Capital Group Inc US
Balfour Beatty Communities LLC US
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investments Ltd
*
Other
Balfour Beatty LLC US
Balfour Beatty Group Inc US
Balfour Beatty Investment Holdings Ltd
*
Delphian Insurance Company Ltd
*
Isle of Man
Country of
incorporation
or registration 
Ownership
interest
%
(b) Principal joint ventures and associates
Professional, Construction and Support services
BK Gulf LLC Dubai 49.0
Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC Dubai 49.0
Gammon China Ltd Hong Kong 50.0
Monteray Ltd 24.5
Romec Ltd 49.0
Refer to Note 37 (d), (e) and (f) for details of the Group’s Infrastructure Investments 
companies at 31 December 2011.
(c) Principal jointly controlled operations
The Group carries out a number of its larger contracts in joint 
arrangement with other contractors so as to share resources 
and risk. The principal joint construction projects in progress are 
shown below.
South-East England Roads 65.0
South-West England Roads 73.0
M25 DBFO 50.0
M25 Maintenance 52.5
M74 Motorway Scotland 25.0
Scotland Transerv Scotland 70.0
Gotthard Base Tunnel Switzerland 25.0
Fort Riley Replacement Hospital US 70.0
Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center US 50.0
Walter Reed Army Medical Center US 40.0
Parkland Acute Care Hospital US 40.0
Utah Data Center US 40.0
Notes
(i)  Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose results did not, in the opinion of 
the Directors, materially affect the results or net assets of the Group are not shown.
(ii)  Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the equity capital is owned and companies are 
registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are 
conducted in the country of incorporation.
* 
Indicates held directly by Balfour Beatty plc. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 154
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Capital UK PPP concessions
Roads
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 12 road and street lighting projects under Balfour Beatty’s Connect 
brand: to construct new roads; to upgrade and maintain existing roads; and to replace and maintain street lighting.
Project descriptions The road projects comprise the design, construction, operation, maintenance and associated financing of the 
following roads: the M1-A1 link road; A30 Honiton to Exeter and A35 Tolpuddle to Puddletown bypass; A50 Stoke-Derby; M77 Fenwick 
to Malletsheugh and the Glasgow Southern Orbital; the M25 Junction 16 to Junction 23, Junction 27 to Junction 30 and A1(M) Hatfield 
Tunnel and maintenance of the entire M25; and the Carlisle Northern Development Route (CNDR). The road concessions typically run 
for 30 years and reached financial close at various dates between March 1996 and July 2009. The street lighting projects are for the 
replacement, maintenance and associated financing over a 25-year period of the street lighting and highway signs in Sunderland, 
South Tyneside, Derby, Coventry, Cambridgeshire and Northamptonshire. All construction is new build rather than refurbishment 
except for the work undertaken on the M25 and A1(M) Hatfield Tunnel.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract in the roads concessions is the project agreement with the governmental highway 
authority setting out the obligations for the construction, operation and maintenance of the roads including lifecycle replacement by 
Connect for the life of the concession to specified standards. In the case of M1-A1, A30/A35 and A50 the inflation indexed payment is 
related to traffic volumes. In the case of M77/GSO and CNDR, the inflation indexed payment is partly based on availability and partly on 
traffic volumes, and is subject to any performance related deductions. In the case of M25, the inflation indexed payment is wholly based 
on availability and is subject to any performance related deductions. Construction of the roads was subcontracted to construction joint 
ventures in which Balfour Beatty had a 50% interest or, in the case of the M77/GSO and CNDR, 100% to Balfour Beatty subsidiaries. 
On the street lighting projects, payment is by a periodic inflation indexed availability payment subject to performance deductions and 
the replacement and maintenance obligations have been subcontracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. There are no provisions to reprice 
the contracts and all assets transfer to the client at the end of the concessions.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding
Financial
close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Connect M1-A1 Ltd M1-A1 30km road 290 50% March 1996 30 1999
Connect A50 Ltd A50 57km road 42 25% May 1996 30 1998
Connect A30/A35 Ltd (ii) A30/A35 102km road 127 85% July 1996 30 2000
Connect M77/GSO plc (ii) M77/GSO 25km road 167 85% May 2003 32 2005
Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd Street lighting apparatus 
in Sunderland
27 100% August 2003 25 2008
Connect Roads South 
Tyneside Ltd
Street lighting apparatus 
in South Tyneside
28 100% December 2005 25 2010
Connect Roads Derby Ltd Street lighting apparatus
 in Derby
36 100% April 2007 25 2012
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd M25 J16 – J23, J27 –J30 and 
A1(M) Hatfield Tunnel
1,309 40% May 2009 30 2012
Connect CNDR Ltd Carlisle Northern 
Development Route
176 100% July 2009 30 2012
Connect Roads Coventry Ltd Street lighting apparatus 
in Coventry
56 100% August 2010 25 2015
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Ltd Street lighting apparatus 
in Cambridgeshire
51 100% April 2011 25 2016
Connect Roads Northamptonshire Ltd Street lighting apparatus 
in Northamptonshire
64 100% August 2011 25 2016
Notes
(i)  Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Connect M77/GSO plc which conducts its principal 
operations in Scotland.
(ii)  Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the 
financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors are of the opinion that, as at the reporting date, the Group did not control this company and it has been 
accounted for as a joint venture. 155 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Capital UK PPP concessions continued
Hospitals
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in eight hospital projects, of which seven are under Balfour Beatty’s 
Consort Healthcare brand, comprising the building of hospital accommodation and the provision of certain non-medical facilities 
management services over the concession period.
Project descriptions The projects comprise: University Hospital of North Durham; Edinburgh Royal Infirmary; University College London 
Hospital; University Hospital Birmingham; Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospitals in mid-Yorkshire; Hope Hospital Salford; Tameside 
General Hospital; and Victoria Hospital in Kirkcaldy, Fife. Construction is new build rather than refurbishment.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the NHS Trust. 
An inflation indexed payment is primarily based upon availability of the hospital subject to any performance related deductions. 
Construction of the hospitals has been subcontracted to construction joint ventures in which Balfour Beatty subsidiaries participated 
100% (University Hospital of North Durham, University Hospital Birmingham, Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospitals, Hope Hospital 
Salford, Tameside General Hospital and Victoria Hospital Kirkcaldy), 85% (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary), and 50% (University College 
London Hospital). In the case of Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, University Hospital of North Durham, University Hospital Birmingham, 
Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospitals, Hope Hospital Salford, Tameside General Hospital and Victoria Hospital Kirkcaldy, facilities 
management has been subcontracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. The payments for the facilities management services are repriced 
every five years. All assets transfer to the client at the end of the concession, with the exception of Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, where 
the client has the option to terminate the arrangement for the provision of the hospital and services in 2028.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding
Financial 
close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Consort Healthcare (Durham) Ltd Teaching hospital 90 50% March 1998 30 2001
Consort Healthcare  
(Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Ltd
Teaching hospital and 
medical school
220 50% August 1998 30 2003
Health Management (UCLH) Ltd University College London 
teaching hospital
282 33.3% July 2000 40 2008
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Ltd Teaching hospital and mental 
health hospital
553 40% June 2006 40 2011
Consort Healthcare (Mid Yorkshire) Ltd Pinderfields and Pontefract 
general hospitals
311 50% June 2007 35 2010
Consort Healthcare (Salford) Ltd Teaching hospital and 
medical school
136 50% September 2007 35 2012
Consort Healthcare (Tameside) Ltd General hospital 77 50% September 2007 34 2011
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd General hospital 170 50% April 2009 30 2011
Notes
(i)  Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Ltd and 
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd which are registered in Scotland and conduct their principal operations in Scotland. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 156
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Capital UK PPP concessions continued
Schools
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 14 schools projects principally under Balfour Beatty’s Transform 
Schools brand to design, build or refurbish schools and to provide certain non-educational services over the concession period.
Project descriptions The projects comprise: 98 schools in the city of Stoke-on-Trent; 15 schools in Rotherham; 21 schools in North 
Lanarkshire; six new schools, two post-16 learning centres and two leisure centres in Bassetlaw, Nottinghamshire; 12 schools in 
Birmingham; 16 schools in the first two phases in Newcastle; seven learning centres in Knowsley; a total of six schools over two phases 
in Islington; a total of six schools over two phases in Southwark; 15 schools in Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton; one school in Derby; 
one school in Ealing and one school in Oldham. Construction in North Lanarkshire, Bassetlaw, Newcastle, Knowsley, Blackburn & Darwen, 
Ealing, Derby, Oldham and Southwark is all new build. On Stoke, construction comprises £16m of new build and £63m of refurbishment; 
on Rotherham, £78m of new build and £21m of refurbishment; on Birmingham, £69m of new build and £5m of refurbishment; on Islington, 
£93m of new build and £6m of refurbishment; and on Hertfordshire, £43m of new build.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the local authority 
that provides for an inflation indexed availability based payment subject to any performance related deductions. For projects other 
than Aura Newcastle Ltd, construction is subcontracted to construction joint ventures of Balfour Beatty subsidiaries and the facilities 
management services are subcontracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. Construction and facilities management services on Aura 
Newcastle are carried out by subsidiaries of other shareholders. The payments for the facilities management services are repriced 
every five years. All assets transfer to the client at the end of the concession.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Transform Schools (Stoke) Ltd Grouped schools project in
Stoke-on-Trent
84 50% October 2000 25 2005
Transform Schools (Rotherham) Ltd Grouped schools project in
Rotherham
113 50% June 2003 31 2006
Transform Schools 
(North Lanarkshire) Ltd (iii)
Grouped schools project in
North Lanarkshire
140 50% June 2005 32 2008
Transform Schools (Bassetlaw) Ltd Grouped schools project in
Bassetlaw, Notts
127 50% July 2005 27 2007
Transform Schools (Birmingham) Ltd Grouped schools project 
in Birmingham
89 50% March 2006 33 2009
Aura Newcastle Ltd BSF project in 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne
47 20% July 2007 25 2012
Transform Schools (Knowsley) Ltd BSF project in Knowsley 163 100% December 2007 27 2010
Transform Islington Ltd (ii) BSF project in Islington 77 80% July 2008 26 2013
4 Futures Ltd (ii) BSF project in Southwark 70 80% May 2009 26 2014
Blackburn with Darwen 
and Bolton LEP Ltd (ii)
BSF project in Blackburn 85 80% January 2010 25 2011
Derby City BSF Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF project in Derby 39 80% December 2010 25 2012
Future Ealing Ltd (ii) BSF project in Ealing 36 80% December 2010 25 2012
Oldham Education Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF project in Oldham 40 90% December 2010 25 2012
Hertfordshire Schools Building 
Partnership Ltd (ii)
BSF project in Hertfordshire 55 80% January 2011 25 2012
Notes
(i)   Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Transform Schools (North Lanarkshire) Ltd which conducts 
its principal operations in Scotland. 
(ii)  Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to 
the financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors are of the opinion that, as at the reporting date, the Group did not control this company and it has been 
accounted for as a joint venture.
(iii)  On 1 February 2012, the Group sold its 50% interest in Transform Schools (North Lanarkshire) Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration of £18m. The disposal resulted in a £8m 
gain being recognised within underlying operating profit.  157 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Capital UK PPP concessions continued 
Other concessions
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in a number of other concessions.
Project descriptions The Powerlink project comprises two companies: UK Power Networks Services Powerlink Ltd (“UKPNSPL ”), 
which operates the London Underground high voltage power system under a 30-year contract and was responsible for procuring various 
new power assets, and Power Asset Development Company Ltd (“PADCO”), which constructed the new-build power assets and is 
leasing them to UKPNSP. Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd (“PCDL ”) has a 25-year contract with the Environment Agency which requires 
PCDL to maintain sea defences consisting of a shingle bank that extends 9 km between Eastbourne and Bexhill-on-Sea in East Sussex. 
Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd has a contract to design, build and finance the new Institute of Technical Education (“ITE”) College West 
in Singapore and provide long-term facilities management services for the remainder of the 27-year project. Balfour Beatty Fire and 
Rescue NW Ltd is contracted to design, construct, fund and provide facilities for 16 community fire stations in Merseyside, Cumbria 
and Lancashire.
Contractual arrangements For the Powerlink project the principal project agreement is the power services contract between 
UKPNSPL and London Underground Ltd that provides for an inflation indexed availability payment subject to any performance 
deductions. UKPNSPL operates and maintains the power network using its own staff and is leasing the new power assets from PADCO, 
which subcontracted construction to a construction joint venture in which a Balfour Beatty subsidiary had a 40% interest. There are no 
provisions to reprice contracts and all assets transfer to the client at the end of the concession. PCDL’s principal contract is the flood 
defence services agreement with the Environment Agency that provides for an inflation indexed payment subject to any performance 
related deductions. For the Singapore project, the principal agreement is the project agreement with the ITE of Singapore that provides 
for an inflation indexed availability based payment subject to any performance deductions. Construction is subcontracted to Gammon 
Pte Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Gammon China Ltd in which the Group has a 50% interest. The facilities management services 
under the ITE agreement are provided by a third party. The principal contract for Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd is the project 
agreement between the concession company and Cumbria County Council, Lancashire Combined Fire Authority and Merseyside Fire 
and Rescue Authority. This agreement provides for an inflation indexed availability based payment subject to any performance related 
deductions. Construction and facility management services are subcontracted to Balfour Beatty subsidiaries.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
UK Power Networks Services Powerlink Ltd (ii) 
/Power Asset Development Company Ltd
London Underground
power system
184 10%/25% August 1998 30 2006
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd Flood defences 3 25% July 2000 25 n/a
Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd Technical education college 100 50% August 2008 27 2010
Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd Community fire stations 55 100% February 2011 25 2013
Notes
(i)  Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd which is registered in 
Singapore and conducts its principal operations in Singapore.
(ii)  The Group exercises significant influence through its participation in the management of UK Power Networks Services Powerlink Ltd and therefore accounts for its interest as 
an associate. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 158
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(e) Balfour Beatty Capital US PPP concessions
Military housing 
Summary Balfour Beatty through its subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities LLC is a manager, developer, and investor in a number 
of US military privatisation projects associated with a total of 43 military bases which includes 43 military family housing communities 
and one unaccompanied personnel housing community that provide speciality housing to US military personnel and their families.
Project descriptions The projects comprise 11 military family housing privatisation projects with the United States Department of the 
Army (Army), covering 16 Army bases; four projects with the United States Department of the Air Force (Air Force), covering nine Air 
Force bases and two projects with the United States Department of the Navy (Navy), covering 18 Navy bases. In addition, there is one 
unaccompanied personnel housing (UPH) project at Fort Stewart, located in Hinesville, Georgia. These projects in operation cover 43 
domestic bases located in 21 states and Washington, DC and Balfour Beatty Communities expects them to contain approximately 
33,000 end-state housing units once full development, construction and renovation have been completed. The first phase of the project, 
known as the initial development period, covers the period of initial construction or renovation of military housing on a base, typically 
lasting three to eight years. For each project, Balfour Beatty Communities creates a special purpose entity to serve as the owner of 
the project, which is typically either a limited liability company or general partnership. With respect to Army and Navy projects, the 
government becomes a member or partner of the project entity (Project LLC); and, whereas the Air Force is not a named partner or 
member in Balfour Beatty Communities’ Project LLCs, it contributes a commitment to provide a government direct loan to the Project 
LLC and has similar rights to share in distributions and cash flows of the Project LLC.
Contractual arrangements On each project, the Project LLC enters into a ground lease with the government, which provides the 
Project LLC with a leasehold interest in the land and title to the improvements on the land for a period of 50 years. Each of these military 
housing privatisation projects includes agreements covering the management, renovation, and development of existing housing units, 
as well as the development, construction, renovation and management of new units during the term of the project, which, in the case of 
the Army, potentially could extend for up to an additional 25 years. The 50-year duration of each project calls for continuous renovation, 
rehabilitation, demolition and reconstruction of housing units. At the end of the ground lease term the Project LLC’s leasehold interest 
terminates and all project improvements on the land generally transfer to the US Government.
Preferred returns The projects will typically receive, to the extent that adequate funds are available, an annual, minimum preferred 
rate of return. On most existing projects, this annual minimum preferred rate of return ranges from 9% to 12% of Balfour Beatty 
Communities’ initial equity contribution to the project. During the initial development period, the project is precluded from distributing 
funds to pay the minimum preferred rate of return. The unpaid amounts generally will accrue and accumulate, and can be used to fund 
renovation and construction costs, if necessary. If the accumulated funds are not needed to fund renovation and construction costs, at 
the end of the initial development period they are distributed to pay accrued preferred returns to Balfour Beatty Communities and the 
US Government in accordance with the terms of the project agreements.
Allocation of remaining operating cash flows Subsequent to the initial development period, any operating cash flow remaining after 
the annual minimum preferred rate of return is paid is shared between Balfour Beatty Communities and the reinvestment account held 
by the project for the benefit of the US Government. On most of the existing projects, the total amount that Balfour Beatty Communities 
is entitled to receive (inclusive of the preferred return) is generally capped at an annual modified rate of return, or cash-on-cash return, 
on its initial equity contribution to the project. Historically, these caps have ranged between approximately 9% to 18% depending on the 
particular project and the type of return (annual modified rates of return or cash-on-cash). However, in some of the more recent projects, 
there are either no annual caps or lower projected annual rates of return. The total capped return generally will include the annual 
minimum preferred return discussed above. The reinvestment account is an account established for the benefit of the military, but funds 
may be withdrawn for construction, development and renovation costs during the remaining life of a privatisation project upon approval 
by the applicable military branch. 
Return of equity Generally, at the end of a project term, any monies remaining in the reinvestment account are distributed to Balfour 
Beatty Communities and the Army, Navy or Air Force, as applicable, in a predetermined order of priority. Typically these distributions 
will have the effect of providing the parties with sufficient funds to provide a minimum annual return over the life of the project and 
a complete return of the initial capital contribution. After payment of the minimum annual return and the return of a party’s initial 
contribution, all remaining funds will typically be distributed to the Army, Navy or Air Force, as applicable. 159 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(e) Balfour Beatty Capital US PPP concessions continued
Military housing continued
Military privatisation project (i)(ii) Project
Total project
funding 
£m Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Fort Carson Army base 113 November 2003 46 2004
– Fort Carson expansion phase 82 November 2006 43 2010
– Fort Carson expansion phase II 66 April 2010 39 2013
Fort Stewart/Hunter Airfield Two army bases 241 November 2003 50 2012
– Fort Stewart UPH 20 January 2008 50 2010
Fort Hamilton Army base 35 June 2004 50 2009
Walter Reed Army Medical Center/Fort Detrick Two army bases 58 July 2004 50 2008
Navy Northeast Region Seven navy bases 311 November 2004 50 2010
Fort Eustis/Fort Story Two army bases 111 March 2005 50 2011
– Fort Eustis expansion 5 July 2010 45 2011
Fort Bliss/White Sands Missile Range Two army bases 269 July 2005 50 2011
– Fort Bliss expansion phase I 34 December 2009 46 2011
– Fort Bliss expansion phase II 102 July 2011 44 2014
Fort Gordon Army base 70 May 2006 50 2012
Carlisle/Picatinny Two army bases 53 July 2006 50 2011
AETC Group 1 Four Air Force bases 195 February 2007 50 2012
Navy Southeast Region 11 Navy bases 334 November 2007 50 2013
Vandenberg Air Force base 107 November 2007 50 2012
Fort Leonard Wood Army base 153 Acquired June 2008 47 2014
AMC West Three Air Force bases 264 July 2008 50 2015
West Point Army base 138 August 2008 50 2016
Fort Jackson Army base 109 October 2008 50 2013
Lackland Air Force base 125 Acquired December 2008 50 2013
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
(ii) The share of results of the military housing joint ventures of Balfour Beatty Communities is limited to a pre-agreed preferred return on funds invested. 
Student accommodation
Student accommodation project (i) Project
Total project
funding 
£m Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Florida Atlantic University Student housing 63 March 2010 30 2011
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 160
Our accounts
Notes to the accounts continued
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(f) Non-PPP infrastructure investments
Summary: Balfour Beatty is an investor in, and a promoter and developer of, non-PPP infrastructure investments.
Project descriptions: Exeter and Devon Airport Ltd owns and operates Exeter International Airport. Blackpool Airport Ltd owns and 
operates Blackpool International Airport.
Company (i) Project
Total project
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Exeter and Devon Airport Ltd Exeter International Airport £60m 60% January 2007
Blackpool Airport Ltd (ii) Blackpool International Airport £14m 95% May 2008
Notes
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conducted in England and Wales.
(ii) Shareholding quoted is economic interest.
(g) Total committed equity and debt funding
The future cash flow profile of committed equity and debt funding for the PPP concession companies listed above 
Concessions
2012 
£m
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
onwards 
£m
Total 
£m
Roads 25 – – 17 42
Hospitals – – – – –
Schools 18 3 4 – 25
Other – – 5 – 5
Military housing 8 2 3 2 15
Total 51 5 12 19 87 161 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Our accounts
38 Prior year comparisons
38.1 The 2010 income statement has been re-presented to reflect the classification of Barking Power Ltd as a discontinued operation 
from 2 March 2011. Refer to Note 10.
38.2 The 2010 statement of financial position has been re-presented to reflect the disclosure of provisions between current liabilities 
and non-current liabilities which was previously within the provisions note. This had the following effect.
As
re-presented
2010
£m
As
previously
reported 
2010
£m
Net effect
£m
Current liabilities (135) – (135)
Non-current liabilities (107) (242) 135
Total provisions (242) (242) –
38.3 On 1 January 2011 management responsibility for Balfour Beatty Plant and Fleet Services (“BBPFS”) was transferred from 
Construction Services to Balfour Beatty WorkPlace (“BBW”) in Support Services, to enhance its growth prospects utilising BBW’s 
customer base. Amounts in 2010 presented for Construction Services and Support Services have been re-presented accordingly.
Construction
Services as
re-presented
2010
£m
Construction
Services as
previously
reported 
2010
£m
 Support
Services as
re-presented
2010
£m
Support
Services as
previously
reported 
2010 
£m
Performance by activity
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 6,734 6,743 1,443 1,434
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (616) (616) (131) (131)
Group revenue 6,118 6,127 1,312 1,303
Underlying group operating profit 170 181 57 46
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 31 31 5 5
Underlying profit from operations 201 212 62 51
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (18) (18) (1) (1)
Other non-underlying items (6) (6) (12) (12)
Profit from operations 177 188 49 38
Assets and liabilities
Due from customers for contract work 389 389 54 54
Due to customers for contract work (453) (453) (11) (11)
Inventories 48 50 39 37
Trade and other receivables – current 695 720 161 136
Trade and other payables – current (1,628) (1,640) (246) (234)
Provisions (148) (148) (44) (44)
Working capital (1,097) (1,082) (47) (62)
Total assets 2,339 2,412 469 396
Total liabilities (2,454) (2,519) (428) (363)
Net (liabilities)/assets (118) (107) 41 33
Other information
Capital expenditure 37 52 32 17
Depreciation 34 48 26 12 Our accounts
162 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
163 Group five-year summary
164 Shareholder information
Shareholder  
information 163 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011
Shareholder information
Group five-year summary
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
Income
Revenue (including share of joint ventures and associates) 11,035 10,473 10,254 9,395 7,430
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (1,541) (1,237) (1,300) (1,134) (964)
Group revenue from continuing operations 9,494 9,236 8,954 8,261 6,466
Underlying profit from continuing operations 330 325 259 208 163
Underlying net investment income/(finance costs) 4 (19) (15) 19 23
Underlying profit before taxation 334 306 244 227 186
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (62) (82) (48) (27) (9)
Other non-underlying items (26) (23) 48 48 (35)
Profit from continuing operations before taxation 246 201 244 248 142
Taxation on profit from continuing operations (64) (44) (54) (74) 12
Profit from continuing operations after taxation 182 157 190 174 154
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations after taxation 4 (14) 21 19 (4)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders 186 143 211 193 150
Capital employed 
Equity holders’ funds 1,259 1,156 995 857 493
Liability component of preference shares 91 89 88 87 87
Net cash (8) (248) (324) (297) (313)
 1,342 997 759 647 267
2011 
Pence
2010 
Pence
2009 
Pence
2008 
Pence
2007 
Pence
Statistics  
Underlying earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations
*
35.5 32.7 30.7 30.6 27.0
Basic earnings per ordinary share 26.7 23.0 33.4 33.3 27.6
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 26.7 22.9 33.3 33.1 27.3
Proposed dividends per ordinary share 13.80 12.70 11.99 11.15 10.02
Underlying profit from continuing operations before net investment income/
(finance costs) including share of joint ventures and associates as a percentage 
of revenue (including share of joint ventures and associates) 3.0% 3.1% 2.5% 2.2% 2.2%
Notes
The comparative figures for the years 2007 to 2010 have been re-presented to reflect the classification of Barking Power Ltd as a discontinued operation from 2 March 2011. 
Refer to Note 10.
*
  Underlying earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations have been disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance. Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 164
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
2012
25 April Ex-dividend date for final 2011 ordinary dividend
27 April Final 2011 ordinary dividend record date
10 May Annual General Meeting
23 May Ex-dividend date for July 2012 preference dividend
25 May July 2012 preference dividend record date
6 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms
(see below)
1 July Preference dividend payable
6 July
*
Final 2011 ordinary dividend payable
15 August
*
Announcement of 2012 half-year results
7 December
*
Interim 2012 ordinary dividend payable
*
 Provisional dates.
Registrars
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests 
to receive corporate documents by email should, in the first 
instance, be directed to the Company’s Registrars and clearly 
state the shareholder’s registered address and, if available, the 
full shareholder reference number. Please write to:
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from the UK (calls cost 
10p per minute plus network extras) and +44 20 8639 3399 from 
outside the UK (Monday to Friday 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, UK time). 
Alternatively, you can email at: ssd@capitaregistrars.com.
They can help you to: check your shareholding; register a change 
of address or name; obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax 
voucher; record the death of a shareholder.
Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan
Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society 
account through the Bankers Automated Clearing System 
(“BACS”). The Registrars can provide a dividend mandate form. 
A dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) is offered which allows 
holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their cash dividends in the 
Company’s shares through a specially arranged share dealing 
service. Full details of the DRIP and its charges, together with 
mandate forms, are available at www.balfourbeatty-shares.com.
International payment service
Shareholders outside the UK may elect to receive dividends 
paid direct into their overseas bank account, or by currency draft, 
instead of by sterling cheque. For further information, contact 
the Company’s Registrars on +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside 
the UK) or 0871 664 0385 from the UK (calls cost 10p per 
minute plus network extras). Lines are open Monday to Friday 
9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time. Alternatively, you can log on to 
www.balfourbeatty-shares.com and click on the link for 
International Payment Service.
Shareholder information on the internet 
and electronic communications
Our website (www.balfourbeatty.com) provides a range of 
information about the Company, its people and businesses and its 
policies on corporate governance and corporate responsibility. The 
share price can also be found there. It should be regarded as your 
first point of reference for information on any of these matters.
In conjunction with Capita Registrars, you can create a Share 
Portal account, through which you will be able to access the 
full range of online shareholder services, including the ability to: 
view your holdings and indicative share price and valuation; view 
movements on your holdings and your dividend payment history; 
register a dividend mandate to have your dividends paid directly 
into your bank account; change your registered address; sign-up 
to receive e-communications or access the online proxy voting 
facility; download and print shareholder forms.
The Share Portal is easy to use. Please visit www.balfourbeatty-
shares.com. Alternatively, you can email: shareportal@capita.co.uk.
Gifting shares to your family or to charity
To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, 
please ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form. 
Alternatively, if you only have a small number of shares whose 
value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider 
donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift (registered 
charity no. 1052686), whose work Balfour Beatty supports. Any 
shares that you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when 
possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of 
other UK charities. Since ShareGift was launched, over £15m has 
been given to more than 1,750 charities. The relevant share 
transfer form may be obtained from the Registrars. For more 
information visit www.ShareGift.org.
Share dealing services
Capita Share Dealing Services (a trading name of Capita IRG 
Trustees Limited) provide a telephone and online share dealing 
service for UK and EEA resident shareholders. To use this service, 
telephone: 0871 664 0364 from the UK (calls cost 10p per minute 
plus network extras) and +44 20 3367 2686 from outside the UK 
(Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, UK time). Alternatively, 
you can log on to www.capitadeal.com.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited is authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Services Authority.
London Stock Exchange Codes
The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List (SEDOL) codes are: 
Ordinary shares: 0096162. Preference shares: 0097820.
The London Stock Exchange “ticker” codes are:  
Ordinary shares: BBY. Preference shares: BBYB.
Capital gains tax (CGT)
For CGT purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour 
Beatty plc’s ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p per share. 
This has been adjusted for the 1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, 
the 2 for 11 rights issue in September 1996 and the 3 for 7 rights 
issue in October 2009 and assumes that all rights have been 
taken up.
Enquiries
Enquiries relating to Balfour Beatty’s results, business and 
financial position should be made in writing to the Corporate 
Communications Department at the address shown below 
or by email to info@balfourbeatty.com.
Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 130 Wilton Road, London 
SW1V 1LQ Registered in England Number 395826 Annual report and accounts 201 1
Annual report and accounts 2011
Helping communities thrive
Balfour Beatty plc
130 Wilton Road
London SW1V 1LQ
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7216 6800
Facsimile: +44 (0) 20 7216 6950
www.balfourbeatty.com
Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark  
of Balfour Beatty plc
View our online report at: 
http://annualreport11.balfourbeatty.com Performance highlights
Pre-tax profit
1
Underlying earnings per share
1
Dividends per share
10
09
08
07
11
£306m
£244m
£227m
£186m
£334m
+9%
10
09
08
07
11
32.7p
30.7p
30.6p
27.0p
35.5p
+9%
10
09
08
07
11
12.7p
12.0p
11.15p
10.0p
13.8p
+9%
Financial summary
(£m unless otherwise specified) 2011 2010 Change (%)
Revenue including joint ventures and associates 11,035 10,473 +5
Group revenue 9,494 9,236 +3
Profit from continuing operations
– underlying
1
330 325 +2
– reported 242 220 +10
Pre-tax profit from continuing operations
– underlying
1
334 306 +9
– reported 246 201 +22
Earnings per share from continuing operations
– underlying
1
35.5p 32.7p +9
– basic 26.7p 23.0p +16
Dividends per share 13.8p 12.7p +9
Financing
– net cash before PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse) 340 518
– net borrowings of PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse) (332) (270)
2010 financial statements have been re-presented for the classification of Barking Power as a discontinued operation (see Note 10).
 
1
 Before non-underlying items.
Forward-looking statements
This document may include certain forward-looking statements, 
beliefs or opinions, including statements with respect to Balfour 
Beatty plc’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of 
forward-looking terminology, including the terms “believes”, 
“estimates”, “plans”, “anticipates”, “targets”, “aims”, “continues”, 
“expects”, ”intends”, ”hopes”, ”may”, ”will”, ”would”, ”could” 
or “should” or in each case, their negative or other various or 
comparable terminology. These statements are made by the 
Balfour Beatty plc Directors in good faith based on the information 
available to them at the date of this report and reflect the Balfour 
Beatty plc Directors’ beliefs and expectations. By their nature 
these statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate 
to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur 
in the future. A number of factors could cause actual results and 
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied 
by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, 
developments in the global economy, changes in UK and US 
government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, 
failure in Balfour Beatty’s health, safety or environmental policies 
and those factors set out under “managing risk” on pages 58 to 62 
of this document.
No representation or warranty is made that any of these 
statements or forecasts will come to pass or that any forecast 
results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements speak only 
as at the date of this document and Balfour Beatty plc and its 
advisers expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to 
release any update of, or revisions to, any forward-looking 
statements in this document. No statement in the document is 
intended to be, or intended to be construed as, a profit forecast 
or to be interpreted to mean that earnings per Balfour Beatty plc 
share for the current or future financial years will necessarily 
match or exceed the historical earnings per Balfour Beatty plc 
share. As a result, you are cautioned not to place any undue 
reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Designed and produced by C O N R A N D E S I GN GR O U P
Board and the executive leadership team photography by Andy Wilson
Photography on pages 22, 23, 42, 49, 51 and schoolchildren on the 
front cover by Andy Wilson
Printed in England by Pureprint
The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, of which 
100% is de-inked post-consumer waste. All of the pulp is bleached 
using an elemental chlorine free process (ECF). Printed in the UK by 
Pureprint using its  and environmental printing 
technology, with vegetable inks used throughout. Pureprint is a 
CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both the manufacturing mill and printer are 
registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and 
are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
