 Annual Report and Accounts 2012
for you Overview | Performance Highlights and Financial Summary
Balfour Beatty 
differentiates itself 
through strong local 
businesses, global 
sector expertise 
and end-to-end 
capabilities including 
the ability to develop 
and ﬁnance.
Ian Tyler
Chief Executive
Performance Highlights
Pre-tax proﬁt
1
 −7%
Underlying earnings per share
1
−1%
Dividends per share
+2%
Financial Summary
(£m unless otherwise speciﬁed) 2012 2011 Change (%)
Revenue including joint ventures and associates 10,896 11,035 (1)
Group revenue 9,483 9,494 –
Proﬁt from continuing operations
– underlying
1
309 331 (7)
– reported 74 243 (70)
Pre-tax proﬁt from continuing operations
– underlying
1
310 334 (7)
– reported 75 246 (70)
Earnings per share from continuing operations
– underlying
1
35.0p 35.5p (1)
– basic 6.5p 26.7p (76)
Dividends per share 14.1p 13.8p 2
Financing
– net cash before PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse) 35 340
– net borrowings of PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse) (368) (332)
 
1
 From continuing operations, before non-underlying items.
14.1p
13.8p
12.7p
2012
2011
2010
£310m
£334m
£306m
2012
2011
2010
35.0p
35.5p
32.7p
2012
2011
2010 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 01
Overview
We work Day in, day out around the world, 
Balfour Beatty teams are working with 
their clients and partners to fund, design, 
deliver, operate and maintain infrastructure 
efﬁciently and safely.
For you For everyone. Our business is 
creating the infrastructure assets that help 
communities, society and nations to live, 
thrive and grow.
For the future We are focused on 
geographical regions and key market sectors 
that will enable us to prosper today and 
grow sustainably for years to come.
Overview
IFC Performance Highlights
IFC Financial Summary
02 Group at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Welcome 
Our Business
06 Chief Executive’s Review
10 Market Overview
12 Our Strategy
16 Strategic Imperatives
24 Business Model
28 Operating Review
 28 Professional Services
 32 Construction Services
 37 Support Services
 41 Infrastructure Investments
 44  Directors’ Valuation of  
PPP Concessions
48 The Way We Work
54 Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s Review
58 Managing Risk
Our Governance
62 Chairman’s Statement
64 Board of Directors
66 Directors’ Report
82 Remuneration Report
Our Accounts
98 Independent Auditor’s Report
99 Financial Statements
104 Notes to the Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
163 Group Five-Year Summary
164 Shareholder Information
Case Studies
08  We hang overhead lines 
You hang ten
14 We hit the ground running 
 You get off to a ﬂying start
26  We worked together to  
deliver on schedule 
You get your perfect delivery  
on a welcoming ward
46  We catch more nutrients 
You catch more ﬁsh
52  We share knowledge 
You share power
Contents
Read more on p00
Key to further content:
Read more online
Watch ﬁlm online Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 02
Overview | Group at a Glance
Professional 
Services
Our Professional Services business 
is a global player in design, planning 
and programme management and 
a market leader in transportation 
and power.
What do we do
 Programme and project management
 Construction management
 Project design
 Technical services
 Planning
 Consultancy
Key highlights
 Increased transportation market 
share in Americas
 Signiﬁcant highways wins 
in US following approval of 
Transportation Bill
 Acquisition of Subsurface Group 
to expand energy storage capability
 Highways, rail and power 
transmission contract wins involving 
other Group businesses totalling 
£2 billion.
£1.6bn
Order book
£1,668m
Revenue
2
£98m
Proﬁt from operations
1
 
Group at a Glance
We draw on our global knowledge, 
across the infrastructure lifecycle 
to develop innovative assets to 
create and support tomorrow’s 
communities, today.
Balfour Beatty is a global infrastructure group that delivers world 
class services essential to the development, creation and care 
of infrastructure assets; from ﬁnance and development, through 
design and project management to construction and maintenance.
Our businesses draw on more than 100 years of experience to 
deliver the highest levels of quality, safety and technical expertise 
to our clients principally in the UK, the US, Southeast Asia, and the 
Middle East. We continue to develop our business in key growth 
markets in South Africa, Australia, Canada, Brazil and India. 
With proven expertise in delivering infrastructure critical to 
support communities and society today and in the future, our 
key market sectors include transportation (roads, rail and aviation), 
power and energy, mining, water and social infrastructure such 
as hospitals and schools.
£11trn
Estimated value of global 
infrastructure market in 
2013–2017
3
£11bn
Revenue
2
 generated this year
80+ 
Presence in over 80 countries
50,000
Employees worldwide
1
 Before non-underlying items.
2
 Including joint ventures and associates.
3
 Global Insight.
Professional Services p28 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 03
Overview
Construction 
Services
We manage market leading 
construction businesses in the 
UK, the US, Hong Kong and the 
Middle East.
What do we do
 Civil and ground engineering
 Rail engineering
 Building
 Refurbishment and ﬁt-out
 Mechanical and electrical services
Key highlights
 UK and US organisations 
streamlined and restructured
 US business recognised as a 
national leader in sustainable 
construction, with “green” 
sales of over US$2 billion
 Major wins for Hong Kong business, 
including biggest solo contract.
£8.0bn
Order book
£6,959m
Revenue
2
£122m
Proﬁt from operations
1
 
Support  
Services
Our Support Services business is 
focused on infrastructure and well 
established as a provider of facilities 
management, business services 
outsourcing, utility infrastructure, 
and rail renewals and highways 
management.
What do we do
 Upgrade and maintain water, 
gas and electricity networks
 Total facilities management, 
business services outsourcing 
and energy services
 Highways network management, 
operation and maintenance
 Rail renewals
Key highlights
 Continued growth across the 
majority of market segments
 Won new gas distribution contracts 
worth £1.1 billion in the UK and 
started work on ﬁrst contract 
in Ireland
 Further increase in share of UK 
highways maintenance market
 Major wins for local authority unit 
 Facilities management unit 
appointed to run services for 
the Olympic Park.
£5.7bn
Order book
£1,633m
Revenue
2
£52m
Proﬁt from operations
1
 
Infrastructure 
Investments
A leader in UK and US PPP, our 
Infrastructure Investments business 
has a strong track record of 
developing and ﬁnancing projects 
over the last 15 years.
What do we do
 Operate a UK portfolio of PPP 
concessions, mainly in education, 
health, roads/street lighting, 
renewables and student 
accommodation
 Operate a US portfolio of 
military housing and student 
accommodation PPP concessions
Key highlights
 Leveraged US military housing 
experience to establish a student 
accommodation portfolio in the 
US and UK
 Made signiﬁcant progress in 
UK waste and energy projects
 Successfully disposed of two 
assets, achieving £84 million of 
proceeds and £52 million of proﬁt
 Completed ﬁrst round of fundraising 
for managed investment fund.
£734m
Directors’ valuation
£636m
Revenue
2
£97m
Pre-tax result
1
Construction Services p32 Support Services p37 Infrastructure Investments p41
Overview | Group at a Glance Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 04
Overview | Chairman’s Welcome
We closed the year reporting 
revenue, including joint ventures 
and associates, of £10,896 
million, down 1%, and proﬁt 
from underlying operations 
of £309 million, down 7%. 
We retain a strong balance sheet 
with a neutral cash position, 
despite working capital 
impacts reﬂecting reduced 
volume and changing mix 
in Construction Services.
Our UK and US construction businesses 
were held back by tough economic 
conditions in 2012. But as a Group we 
were able to mitigate the impact through 
our diverse portfolio, ongoing operational 
efﬁciency and focus on new growth 
geographies and market sectors.
Tough trading conditions persisted in 
most of our major construction markets, 
particularly in the second half of the year. 
US construction markets remained 
depressed, the performance of our UK 
construction business was weaker than 
anticipated and structural problems in 
Mainland European rail markets added 
to the challenges. 
Against this challenging economic 
background, our Professional Services 
and Infrastructure Investments businesses 
demonstrated resilience and strength. 
Throughout the year, we maintained our 
relentless focus on operational efﬁciency. 
We have made progress in restructuring 
both the UK and US construction 
businesses, which helped to offset 
some of the impact of volume and 
margin pressure. We have concluded 
an operational and strategic review of our 
Mainland European rail business and will 
be divesting all of this business over time.
As you will read later in this report, in 
the near term we are addressing current 
market conditions by seeking additional 
efﬁciencies while continuing to focus on 
customer value. We expect this focus will 
also address some of the operational 
issues we have experienced in certain 
areas of the business. For mid to long 
term growth we are also stepping up 
implementation of our strategy to target 
growth geographies and market sectors. 
You can read more about this on pages 
10 and 11.
Board
We have made a number of boardroom 
changes over the past year. We 
announced in January 2013 that our Chief 
Executive, Ian Tyler, would hand over to 
Andrew McNaughton at the end of March 
2013. Over his eight-year tenure Ian led a 
transformation of the business: it has 
trebled in size, extended its global reach 
and capabilities, and in particular 
developed a strong professional services 
business following the acquisition of 
Parsons Brinckerhoff in 2009. He will 
remain with the Group until 30 April 2013 
to ensure a smooth transition.
Andrew McNaughton has an excellent 
understanding of all areas of the Group 
and is supported by a strong team. In 
his previous capacity as Deputy Chief 
Executive and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 
he has already shown that he has both 
the skills and the experience to take on 
the leadership of the business. Andrew 
has been instrumental in developing the 
strategy that we are now implementing. 
It is encouraging that Balfour Beatty has 
the depth of management talent to ensure 
a smooth succession with a high calibre 
internal candidate.
Chairman’s Welcome
Balfour Beatty’s success is very much dependent on its 
people, and never more so than in challenging times. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05
Overview
In the third quarter 
of 2012, we launched 
our global intranet. 
“360” is now 
available to over 
70% of our online 
employees worldwide 
and is designed to 
enable more effective 
collaboration and 
knowledge sharing. 
More employees 
will receive access 
during 2013.
Australia and one in Indonesia. Every 
fatal accident is subject to a thorough 
investigation and review by the Balfour 
Beatty Board. Lessons learnt are shared 
across the Group to help improve future 
performance and our focus in this area 
remains vigilant.
As a consequence, in 2013 and beyond 
we are reinvigorating our Zero Harm 
efforts, setting clear health and safety 
expectations for all of our businesses, 
redoubling our efforts to pursue the 
elimination of fatal risk and increasing the 
level of personal accountability for safety. 
Read more about this on page 48.
Dividend
The Board believes that it remains 
appropriate to retain our longer term policy 
of progressive dividends. In recognition of 
shorter term earnings pressure, we are 
proposing to hold the ﬁnal dividend at 
8.5p per ordinary share to give a total 
dividend for 2012 of 14.1p – an increase 
of 2% on 2011.
Looking forward
Looking forward we can point to a number 
of favourable dynamics. We expect to see 
the full impact of our efﬁciencies coming 
through in 2014. We believe our transition 
to focus on growth geographies and 
sectors will position us well for the 
mid term.
Steve Marshall
Chairman
During the year we also announced the 
retirement in June 2012 of Deputy Chief 
Executive Anthony Rabin, who had been 
with the Group for 17 years. And Senior 
Independent Director Robert Walvis 
retired from the Board at the end of 
the year after over 11 years’ service. 
We were pleased to welcome our ﬁrst 
female non-executive to the Board with 
the appointment of Maureen Kempston 
Darkes in May 2012. Until her retirement 
at the end of 2009, Maureen was group 
vice-president for General Motors’ 
Latin America, Africa and Middle East 
operations. After qualifying as a lawyer 
she joined General Motors in 1975 
and held a series of increasingly senior 
roles there.
Within the senior executive ranks, after 
almost 40 years of distinguished service, 
Brian Osborne retired from the Group at 
the end of 2012. Brian had worked in 
various parts of the business in roles that 
included managing director of Balfour 
Beatty Civil Engineering, Group managing 
director for civil engineering and most 
recently International Business director.
Our people and reputation
Balfour Beatty’s success is very much 
dependent on its people, and never more 
so than in challenging times. In some 
areas of the business, our people have 
had to contend with tough markets 
while adapting to ongoing internal 
change. I extend my thanks to all of 
them for their commitment, dedication 
and skill in helping us navigate today’s 
business environment.
As the Group embarks on its new 
strategic direction, collaboration and 
knowledge sharing assumes ever greater 
importance. Our capacity to harness the 
wide range of skills, knowledge and 
human potential across the business is 
key to securing competitive advantage. 
Another crucial concern is the safety of 
our people, our suppliers and the general 
public. In 2012, the Group Accident 
Frequency Rate (AFR) improved to 0.16 
(2011: 0.17), where the AFR is a ratio 
relating the number of major injuries to 
the total hours worked. There were 
signiﬁcant improvements in many parts of 
the Group in relation to safety, however it 
is with deep regret that there were eight 
employee fatalities during 2012 – three in 
the UK, two in North America, two in 
Overview | Chairman’s Welcome Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 06
Our Business | Chief Executive’s Review
For the past 15 years, we have 
been on a journey from a UK- 
based construction business to 
a leading, global infrastructure 
provider. This journey has had, 
and continues to have, a 
profound effect on how we 
deliver value to our clients 
when we operate in this way, 
and on our exposure to higher 
growth markets.
We have focused on economic 
infrastructure as we believe this will drive 
investment in the long term. Infrastructure 
markets are resilient because sustainable 
economic growth will always require 
infrastructure investment. In developed 
economies this will be driven by ageing 
infrastructure which needs replacing 
and the sustainability/carbon agenda; 
in emerging economies it will be driven 
by urbanisation and economic growth. 
Infrastructure is high on government 
policy agendas virtually everywhere.
Our long term vision
Our strategy for growth remains 
based on building a platform of asset 
knowledge and capabilities that span 
the infrastructure lifecycle with the ability 
to ﬁnance and develop projects, focusing 
on strategic market sectors. Our services 
are delivered via local country businesses, 
harnessed together to deliver value to 
infrastructure owners around the world. 
These asset owners are predominantly 
national or regional organisations that 
generally own assets in a single market 
sector. To deliver our strategic vision 
we must be structured better to suit 
their needs. So we are reshaping our 
operations into country led business 
units that deliver a full range of services 
in speciﬁc infrastructure market sectors. 
These business units will be able to 
put our global expertise at their clients’ 
disposal. We connect them through 
efﬁcient knowledge transfer and support 
them with the necessary specialist skills 
and resources from market sector 
experts: leadership for speciﬁc sectors 
is being provided on a global basis.
Focusing on growth markets
The reshaping of our business will 
continue through 2013 as we focus 
it more closely on our chosen growth 
geographies and industry sectors. We 
have already made good progress with 
building our credentials in these markets. 
Successes in 2012 included signiﬁcantly 
increased activity in the power and water 
sectors and in growth geographies such 
as Australia. 
Our traditional markets in the UK and 
the US remain a bedrock on which the 
business will be based. In these markets 
our construction businesses were 
impacted by the continuing economic 
downturn, which has reduced the 
number of larger, more complex and 
higher margin projects where we excel. 
But the impact was mitigated by the 
broadening of our capabilities beyond 
construction, and our Professional 
Services and Infrastructure Investments 
businesses ﬁnished the year with 
performance in line with expectations. 
This reinforces our view that our focus 
on infrastructure is sound even when 
markets become less buoyant; and 
that it will remain so as we expand into 
other geographies at different stages 
of the cycle.
In mature markets we are particularly 
targeting opportunities where we can 
provide end-to-end services rather than 
just being part of the value chain. In 
emerging markets where we anticipate 
signiﬁcant long term investment in 
infrastructure, such as India, Brazil 
and South Africa, we are establishing 
relationships and showcasing our skills 
to future clients, particularly in the 
transportation, mining, and power 
and energy markets.
The resilient performance of our 
Professional Services and Infrastructure 
Investments businesses gives us 
conﬁdence that over the medium to 
long term our position in infrastructure 
markets, our competitive advantage in 
our focus market sectors of transportation, 
power and energy, water and mining, 
and our initiatives to expand our current 
access in growing markets such as 
Australia, Canada, South Africa, Brazil 
and India will deliver sustainable growth 
and a more robust business base.
Chief Executive’s Review
We are realigning our business to sharpen our focus on growth 
markets in key geographies and industry sectors. Combined with 
our spread of capabilities across the lifecycle of the infrastructure 
asset, this will differentiate us from competitors and allow us to 
beneﬁt from markets where growth is buoyant.
For the past 15 years, 
we have been on a 
journey from a UK-
based construction 
business to a leading, 
global infrastructure 
provider. I am proud 
to have led the Group 
on this journey and I 
am conﬁdent Balfour 
Beatty will continue 
to go from strength 
to strength as it 
continues this journey 
in the future. Our Business
07 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Leading change
It has been my privilege to shape 
Balfour Beatty over the past few years. 
Andrew McNaughton has worked 
alongside me in developing our strategy 
and future business model. Now is the 
time for me to hand over to Andrew and 
let him continue to evolve the business 
to being a truly global organisation, 
recognised as one of the world’s 
leading infrastructure businesses and 
acclaimed for the quality of service that 
we deliver to our clients. The end-to-end 
knowledge that we have across the 
whole infrastructure lifecycle differentiates 
us from our competition. Our strength 
as an asset owner and in our developing 
country led organisations will allow us 
to build relationships with clients which 
will continue to change our industry.
It goes without saying that I have been 
proud to lead this business. I have worked 
with a great team of dedicated people at 
all levels of the business and a supportive 
Board and senior management team. I am 
conﬁdent the Group will continue to go 
from strength to strength in the future 
under Andrew’s leadership.
Ian Tyler
Chief Executive
Addressing short term pressures
Meanwhile, for the near term we have 
been managing our business on the basis 
that market conditions would be tough, 
and this has proved an effective strategy. 
We have concluded an operational and 
strategic review of our Mainland European 
rail business and we will be divesting all 
of this business over time. 
In August 2010, we announced the 
creation of a shared service centre in 
the UK, with a target of £30 million of 
annual savings by the end of 2012. This 
programme was realised as planned and 
has reached its targeted run rate at the 
end of 2012. The second phase of our 
cost efﬁciency activity was announced in 
March 2012. This programme is broader 
and deeper and targets an additional 
£50 million of annual savings by 2015.
We have already made good progress in 
Phase 2. The UK construction business 
has been rationalised into three business 
streams, with a structure of regional 
delivery units. We are gaining efﬁciency 
and ﬂexibility by reducing back ofﬁce 
support functions and the number of 
ofﬁces we occupy. 
The US construction business is 
moving to a uniﬁed operating model, 
encompassing buildings, rail and 
infrastructure operations. They have 
reorganised from ﬁve to three regional 
business streams. As part of the structural 
realignment, a national Capability Centre 
was also formed to harness expertise, 
capture best practices and deploy that 
knowledge across the national business. 
The new structure focuses on sharing 
resources and contributes savings.
Our Support Services business is 
currently implementing cost reduction 
measures and our Professional Services 
business is transferring its support 
functions from New York City to Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania to improve cost efﬁciency.
These initiatives have already reached 
£36 million of savings in 2012. We are 
aiming for a total of £80 million of savings 
by the end of 2015.
Our Business | Chief Executive’s Review 08 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Last year our Rail business in Australia strengthened 
our presence in Queensland by securing a contract 
with Bombardier Transportation to provide part of 
the state’s ﬁrst contemporary light rail network 
being delivered by the GoldLinQ consortium. 
The Gold Coast Light Rail system aims to reduce congestion and 
improve public transport at the Gold Coast – one of Australia’s 
fastest growing cities. Our Rail business working with Parsons 
Brinckerhoff will design, procure, construct and commission the 
750V overhead catenary system for Stage One of the system, 
which will be a key component of the transport network for the 
2018 Commonwealth Games.
 10,000
People an hour
 13km
Length of Stage One system
You hang ten
From 2014, you’ll be able to ride safely to Surfers 
Paradise from one of the 16 stations – with your 
surfboard onboard. The 14 new Bombardier Flexity 
trams can carry up to 10,000 people an hour, each 
carriage with 80 seats and dedicated space for 
wheelchairs and prams.
Gold Coast Light Rail will run 24 hours from Friday to Sunday 
night, with services every 7–8 minutes at peak times. Expected 
beneﬁts include fast, safe journeys, a 10% reduction in private 
vehicle trips, a boost to commerce and a 114,000 tonne cut in 
greenhouse gas emissions in the ﬁrst 10 years. 
309
Passengers per tram
 10%
Reduction in private vehicle trips
Our Business
09 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10
Our Business | Market Overview
build our infrastructure business in 
growth economies. Currently, a signiﬁcant 
proportion of our proﬁts come from our 
construction businesses in the UK and US 
markets; however both are feeling the 
effects of the current economic downturn. 
In the US, the building market has recently 
stabilised with more encouraging signs in 
economic infrastructure, where we have 
won signiﬁcant new business recently.
In UK construction, market volumes 
continue to be constrained by reductions 
in both public and private sector investment 
and delays in projects awaiting certainty 
on government policy in areas such as 
energy. These factors have particularly 
affected the ﬂow of large, technically 
complex and higher margin projects 
where we excel. 
In the long term, to be a leading player we 
have to expand our presence in emerging 
economies. Their infrastructure spending 
is growing faster than in developed 
economies, and by 2025 they are expected 
to account for the majority of global 
investment in economic infrastructure. 
Infrastructure is a good place to be
Infrastructure markets, particularly 
economic infrastructure, are relatively 
resistant to economic shocks and cycles. 
Governments recognise infrastructure 
investment as a prerequisite for 
sustainable economic growth – and by 
generating employment and economic 
activity helps create a virtuous circle in 
which increased government revenues 
help ﬁnance further investment. 
In developed economies, investment is 
being driven by the need to replace ageing 
infrastructure – ampliﬁed by concerns 
over sustainability and carbon reduction. 
In most emerging economies, such as 
India, Brazil and South Africa, infrastructure 
investment is accelerating and accounting 
for a growing proportion of construction 
expenditure. The key drivers include the 
need to support urbanisation and remove 
constraints on economic growth. Over the 
medium term we also expect growing 
commodity demand from emerging 
markets to stimulate investment in 
resource rich economies.
Going where the growth is
We are maintaining our strong foundation 
in the UK and US and using it as a basis to 
Focusing on Growth Markets
Balfour Beatty is an infrastructure player with capabilities  
in many geographies. Our distinctive combination of deep  
asset knowledge and broad local presence gives us particular 
competitive strength in infrastructure markets – notably  
transport, mining, water, power and energy. 
Where the money  
is being spent
Over the next ﬁve years 
(2013–2017) the global 
infrastructure market 
is estimated to be worth 
approximately £11 trillion
1
. 
85%
2
 of this spend will come 
from the transport, power and 
energy, and water sectors. 
Growth in these sectors 
continues to be stronger 
in emerging markets and 
resource rich economies, 
with spend from non-OECD 
markets rising from around 
35% today to 60% in 2025
1
.
1
 Global Insight. 
2
   Balfour Beatty Investor Day, 
December 2012. Rio de Janiero, Brazil.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
11
Key growth economies
2
Our sectors for growth
2
Australia’s economic infrastructure 
market is worth around £38 billion per 
annum and has been growing strongly 
for over a decade. It is underpinned by 
a large volume of work in the resources 
sector, where recent heady growth rates 
are now reaching more sustainable levels. 
Canada’s economic infrastructure spend 
closely matches Australia’s. Its economy 
was relatively unscathed by the banking 
crisis and it has a good spread of growth 
drivers, including population, economic 
growth, environmental pressures and a 
large, diverse resources sector. Canada 
has a functioning PPP market, on a very 
similar model to the UK’s, and we are 
seeing an increase in design-build projects.
South Africa has a signiﬁcant need for 
infrastructure, and the public sector’s 
need for assistance in managing large 
scale infrastructure programmes 
presents clear opportunities for 
companies such as Balfour Beatty.  
We see potential across the infrastructure 
Today, we have a good presence in a 
number of growth markets. In addition, 
we have identiﬁed target geographies 
offering particular opportunities for future 
development: Australia and Canada, 
where we already have a signiﬁcant 
presence through our Professional 
Services business, and South Africa, 
India and Brazil. 
In all ﬁve, economic infrastructure 
is a key sector where investment is 
gaining traction. All have the potential 
to be substantial infrastructure markets, 
most of them larger than the UK, 
in the next decade.
In these geographies we see 
opportunities across multiple 
infrastructure segments; this is key to 
creating scale, achieving efﬁciencies and 
building a strong, resilient business. In 
most of them, infrastructure investment 
is further underpinned by resource 
related spending and we anticipate a 
growing role for the PPP model, an area 
where we have extensive experience.
We are focusing our attention on four 
sectors: transport, power and energy, 
water and mining. 
These are characterised by strong 
growth drivers and large, complex 
projects that demand our broad range of 
knowledge and capabilities. Increasing 
project scale and complexity are driving 
new approaches to procurement, as 
clients seek greater efﬁciency through 
partnering with suppliers who can deliver 
a solution rather than just an asset.
The transport market – including 
highways, rail, ports and aviation – is 
worth around £710 billion per annum, 
globally. Strong growth drivers in 
both developed and emerging  
economies include capacity constraints, 
environmental targets and the poor  
state of existing networks. Procurement 
trends are positive, with growth 
in design-build and PPP contracts,  
more outsourcing of operations and 
spectrum – especially in power generation 
and transmission and the mining sector. 
India’s economic growth and relentless 
urbanisation provide strong long term 
growth drivers, with signiﬁcant 
opportunities coming through the 12th 
National Development Plan. We see 
particular potential in power transmission 
infrastructure, including PPPs, and the 
accelerating investment in oil and gas. 
In transportation, speciﬁcally rail, we 
see opportunities in urban transit due 
to India’s ambitious programme to build 
dedicated freight corridors to relieve 
pressure on its national rail network.
Brazil has all the infrastructure growth 
drivers associated with a rapidly 
developing and urbanising economy. 
Its Growth Acceleration Programme 
envisages US$526 billion of infrastructure 
investment between 2011 and 2014. 
Other signiﬁcant drivers include the next 
World Cup and Olympics, and a buoyant 
resources sector. 
maintenance, and increasingly 
sophisticated client-supplier relationships. 
Power is another large, sustainable 
market. It is worth around £440 billion 
per annum, split roughly equally between 
generation and transmission. Growth 
drivers are the carbon agenda and 
the need to replace ageing assets in 
developed markets, and economic 
and population growth in developing 
countries. Whatever the generation 
technology, demand for new and 
strengthened transmission networks 
will remain strong worldwide. 
Water abstraction, treatment and 
distribution projects are worth some 
£360 billion per annum. Growth is driven 
by urbanisation, demographics and rising 
environmental standards – and public 
providers are increasingly seeking private 
sector involvement. The UK beneﬁts 
from a mature regulatory regime and high 
visibility from ﬁve-year planning cycles, 
and US activity is beneﬁting from an 
upturn in residential building. Emerging 
markets are growing equally strongly 
as many developed and emerging 
economies face water shortages, which 
are driving demand for desalination.
The mining market is easing after a 
decade of very strong growth, but still 
has positive long term growth drivers. 
Large clients are typically multinationals 
that favour suppliers they can work with 
in multiple territories and most procure 
major projects under umbrella 
engineering, procurement and 
construction management (EPCM) 
contracts. This represents a signiﬁcant 
opportunity for us as we develop our 
EPCM capability – particularly since 
mining developments, notably for 
coal and iron, typically require major 
investment in power, rail, ports and 
water assets where we provide 
expertise and delivery capability.
Our Business | Market Overview Our Strategy
Having built a world class 
infrastructure business with global 
reach, we now aim to sustain this 
and grow it into new areas. 
Over the past 18 months we have been working 
to implement the strategy for growth, based on 
applying our knowledge across the lifecycle of 
infrastructure assets and harnessing the broad 
platform that we have evolved around the world 
to deliver greater value to infrastructure owners 
around the world.
Our vision is to become a truly global organisation, recognised 
as one of the world’s leading infrastructure businesses and 
acclaimed for the quality of service that we deliver to our clients. 
The end-to-end knowledge that we have accumulated across 
the whole infrastructure lifecycle differentiates us from our 
competition, which, added to our strength as an asset owner, 
will allow us to build relationships with, and offer leading 
services to clients.
Our clients are predominantly local or national organisations that 
own assets in a single market sector and rarely venture across 
borders. We recognise that we are at our best when we are 
involved with creating assets which are critical to the delivery 
of the service our clients provide in their community, and we are 
adapting our business to better support our clients in this respect.
Ian Tyler has positioned our business to take advantage 
of the opportunities we have in new growth markets. 
Over the next few years I will continue to pursue 
our strategy, which is built around operating across 
the lifecycle of infrastructure assets and focuses 
on key geographies and market sectors. Now 
is the time to inject even more pace into our 
strategic development.
Andrew McNaughton
Deputy Chief Executive  
and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Risk p58
Key to risk: 
Increased risk
No change to risk
Strategic Imperative 1 
 Grow in New  
Geographies and  
Market Sectors
We are already one of the largest 
global infrastructure players, but the 
growth opportunities in our traditional 
UK and US markets are currently 
limited. To achieve further growth we 
are looking to increase our footprint 
to faster growing geographies and 
sectors. We already have a signiﬁcant 
presence in the Middle East and Asia; 
now we are looking to expand our 
reach further into other growth 
economies – Australia and Canada, 
where we already have a presence 
through Professional Services, and 
South Africa, India and Brazil – and 
intensify our focus on the buoyant 
transport, power and energy, water 
and mining sectors.
In 2012, we have seen progress in 
these areas in line with our expectations.
Key Performance Indicators
 63%
Group order book in target market 
sectors (transport, power and energy, 
water, mining) as Group % (2011: 59%)
48%
Revenue
1
 from target market sectors 
(transport, power and energy, water, 
mining) as Group % (2011: 48%)
 14%
Revenue
1
 from higher growth  
markets (outside Europe and North 
America) as Group % (2011: 12%)
 
1
 Including joint ventures and associates.
2
 Before non-underlying items.
Risk
Economic environment
 Expansion into new territories  
and by acquisition
Legal and regulatory
Bidding
Strategic Imperatives p16
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12
Our Business | Our Strategy Strategic Imperative 2 Strategic Imperative 3 Strategic Imperative 4
 Deliver Greater  
Value to Clients
We deliver greater value to clients 
by leveraging our end-to-end asset 
knowledge. This allows us to better 
understand our clients’ own strategic 
objectives and contribute through the 
infrastructure solutions we create. 
It enables us to develop infrastructure 
solutions that are better value, better 
quality and faster and safer to create 
and maintain. It means we can offer 
a full range of services – from ﬁnance 
and development, through design and 
project management to construction 
and maintenance.
Every year, Roads and Bridges magazine 
in the US surveys 10,000 government 
ofﬁcials and asks them which design ﬁrm 
they prefer to work with. In the industry, 
this is called the Go-To List. 
While they only cover our professional 
services business, these rankings are a 
good example of the strength of our track 
record and reputation with our clients.  
Improve Operational  
Performance and  
Cost Effectiveness
In recent years, our unique breadth 
of capabilities and geographical reach 
has been a result of a sustained period 
of expansion including a number of 
successful acquisitions. In 2012, 
recognising the more difﬁcult 
macroeconomic conditions, we focused 
on generating efﬁciencies across all 
our operations and back ofﬁce support 
functions to ensure we operate as 
efﬁciently and as proﬁtably as possible.
We aim to increase Group operating 
margin to a level of 3.5–4% by 2015 – 
mainly through better utilisation of 
resources, efﬁciency savings and 
improved business mix.
Our cost reduction programmes remain 
on course, but margin progress in 2012 
was hindered by difﬁcult market 
conditions in our traditional UK and US 
markets and 2013 is expected to be 
similarly affected. We also experienced 
operational issues in some areas of the 
business which hindered progress.
 Continue to Show 
Leadership in Values 
and Behaviour
To be recognised as a global leader in 
infrastructure services we continue to 
focus on securing a sustainable, long 
term future for the Group and providing 
a legacy within the communities in 
which we serve. We must also be 
a leader in areas such as business 
ethics, talent management, safety 
and the environment.
The safety of our people and everyone 
we come into contact with remains a 
key imperative and is embedded across 
our business. However, whilst most 
areas of the business improved in 
relation to safety performance in 2012, 
we still have progress to make and 
our Zero Harm activity has been 
reinvigorated for 2013.
We have challenged ourselves to 
reduce our impact on the environment. 
In 2012, we made good headway in 
water and waste, but our target to 
reduce CO2 emissions made little 
progress due to the mix of energy 
intensive projects we have worked on.
Go-To List rankings for  
Parsons Brinckerhoff
No.1 
In the Road & Highway and  
Airport categories (2011: No.1)
No.2 
In the Bridge and Mass Transit  
categories (2011: No.2)
No.3 
In the Design-Build category (2011: No.4)
55 awards
During 2012 the Group received 
55 awards from customers and 
industry bodies in recognition  
of its achievements (2011: 29)
Key Performance Indicators
2.8%
Group operating margin
1,2
  
(2011: 3.0%)
£36m
Achieved in cost efﬁciencies  
by the end of 2012 (2011: £15m)
Key Performance Indicators
−6%
Accident Frequency Rate decreased  
by 6% to 0.16% (2011: AFR 0.17%)
−13%
Greenhouse gas emissions  
reduced by 13% 
Risk
Bidding
Project execution
Health, safety and sustainability
Risk
Economic environment
Bidding
Project execution
Health, safety and sustainability
Risk
Legal and regulatory
Business conduct
People
Project execution
Health, safety and sustainability
Strategic Imperatives p20 Strategic Imperatives p21 Strategic Imperatives p23
Our Business | Our Strategy
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
13 At Heathrow we are delivering Terminal 2b as a 
single point of service for Heathrow Airport Limited, 
combining design, construction, ground engineering, 
specialist mechanical and electrical expertise and 
Parsons Brinckerhoff’s professional services.
At £592 million, Terminal 2b is one of the largest airside projects 
in Heathrow’s history. Terminal 2b will provide pier served tunnel 
links to the main terminal. The result: Phase 1 was completed 
in November 2009 on time and on budget and our integrated 
approach on Phase 2 enabled our client to open three aircraft 
stands three months early, helping them to ease stand congestion.
£592m
Value of Terminal 2b contract
3
Months early
You get off to 
a ﬂying start
Airports must keep expanding and improving to 
meet increasing passenger demand. Integrated 
delivery, stakeholder and risk management are 
key to opening new capacity for airlines and their 
passengers with minimal disruption.
Through an integrated single point of service to our client we 
have successfully delivered Phase 1 and on Phase 2 we are on 
programme to deliver the completed project to Heathrow Airport 
Limited in October 2013, delivering 10 more new stands ready 
for operation in 2014. As a founding member of the Heathrow 
Sustainability Partnership we are working together to build 
a more sustainable Heathrow. 
40%
More carbon efﬁcient than  
the old building
 10
More aircraft stands  
under construction
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
15 Grow in New Geographies 
and Market Sectors
We are already one of the largest 
global infrastructure players, but the 
growth opportunities in our traditional 
UK and US markets are currently limited. 
To achieve further growth we are looking 
to increase our footprint to faster growing 
geographies and sectors. We already have 
a signiﬁcant presence in the Middle East 
and Asia where we are seeing growth; 
now we are looking to expand our reach 
further in growth economies – Australia 
and Canada, where we already have a 
presence through Professional Services 
and South Africa, India and Brazil – 
and intensify our focus on the buoyant 
transport, power and energy, water and 
mining sectors.
Why is this important?
We do not want our growth to be limited 
by the economic and cyclical constraints 
in our traditional markets. The breadth 
of our capabilities and the extent of our 
international reach give us access to 
an exceptionally broad range of markets 
and clients. Our aim is to focus more 
of our activity where there are medium 
to long term opportunities for global 
infrastructure. But to avoid spreading 
our resources too thinly we need to be 
selective. The rationale behind our choice 
of target geographies and sectors is set 
out in the market overview on pages 
10 and 11.
What are we doing in our target 
growth geographies?
Our chosen geographies are not virgin 
territory for us. They are all areas where 
Parsons Brinckerhoff has been active, or 
at least preparing the ground, for some 
years. Parsons Brinckerhoff’s presence, 
as well as our understanding of these 
markets, provides the platform for 
Group expansion in these regions. 
In each target geography, our Professional 
Services platform gives us a basis for 
development. It gives us in-depth client 
knowledge and intimacy, and an 
understanding of the local business 
environment and supply chain. Over time, 
we can broaden our Professional Services 
offering into new areas by transferring 
capability and knowledge from elsewhere 
across the Group. At the same time, we 
can capture progressively greater value 
from the local markets by drawing on the 
Group’s world class delivery capability 
to broaden our offering to those clients.
This approach ensures that, wherever 
we operate, we will be increasing the 
leverage from our existing businesses 
to maximise the value we can bring to 
each project. It also helps us manage risk 
effectively and allows us to target the 
opportunities where we can command 
higher returns more keenly. 
This is the strategy for all of our growth 
geographies, but we are at different stages 
of implementation. At one end of the scale 
is Australia, where we have a sizeable 
Professional Services platform and have 
been taking delivery risk selectively for 
some time; at the other is Brazil, where 
we are still seeking to establish a platform. 
In Australia, the majority of our 3,000 
employees work in Professional Services, 
where we are a top ﬁve player. The nature 
of engagement between clients and 
suppliers is sophisticated and plays to our 
strengths – especially given the strategic 
relationships Parsons Brinckerhoff has 
with many of its clients. Outsourcing 
opportunities are opening up in highways, 
rail and water – as we have seen in the UK 
– giving us the opportunity to transfer best 
practice between geographies.
Until recently our at-risk delivery work 
has been limited, with a small presence 
through our rail construction and power 
transmission businesses. Given the 
competition from large local general 
contracting groups in the broader 
construction market, we are initially 
targeting sectors where our existing 
presence and global capabilities will 
differentiate us. We are making signiﬁcant 
headway, leveraging the strong client 
relationships that Parsons Brinckerhoff 
has already built up and importing speciﬁc 
global capabilities that add value to the 
local market. 
For example, on our major Melbourne Rail 
project, Parsons Brinckerhoff held the 
local client relationship and its reputation 
won us the right local partner. We added 
to the mix our experience of delivery in 
complex rail environments – particularly 
the UK’s East London Line. In power 
transmission we partner with UGL as 
the local provider and draw on our 
international power transmission 
business; and in current power generation 
projects we are drawing on delivery skills 
from the US.
How are we performing?
 63%
Group order book in target market 
sectors (transport, power and energy, 
water, mining) as Group % (2011: 59%)
48%
Revenue
1
 from target market sectors 
(transport, power and energy, water, 
mining) as Group % (2011: 48%) 
 14%
Revenue
1
 from higher growth  
markets (outside Europe and North 
America) as Group % (2011: 12%)
What’s next?
In the year ahead, we aim to: 
 increase our revenues in target 
geographies
 increase our share of business 
in target sectors.
1 
Including joint ventures and associates.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16
Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Grow in New Geographies and Market Sectors Australian highways
Balfour Beatty has established 
a partnership in Australia with 
Transﬁeld Services to target 
state government outsourcing 
opportunities in highways 
maintenance on the east 
coast of Australia. Experience 
developed in the UK is being 
mobilised to develop best 
practice in Australia.
This approach is opening up a pipeline of 
opportunities. We are currently bidding 
new projects in power generation, expect 
to be bidding for a New South Wales 
outsourced highways contract, and 
see emerging opportunities in rail and 
end-to-end services for a number 
of mining companies.
In Canada, our professional services 
platform is based on a leading ﬁrm in the 
building sector, Halsall, which we acquired 
in 2010. The purpose of our acquisition 
of Halsall was to use this platform to grow 
in the Canadian market beneﬁting from 
knowledge transfer from elsewhere in 
the Group. 
We have already been able to broaden 
our local offering beyond buildings. 
By supplementing the original Halsall 
platform with Parsons Brinckerhoff 
expertise, we have secured several 
important transportation contracts, 
including the role of general engineering 
consultant on the CAN$818 million 
(£508 million) light rail transit in Waterloo, 
Ontario, one of the largest infrastructure 
projects ever undertaken in the Waterloo 
region – won by combining local 
knowledge with transport expertise 
from both the US and the UK. 
Having broadened and strengthened our 
Professional Services platform, we are 
now actively moving into at-risk delivery 
work, again combining local knowledge 
with global capability. We see 
downstream opportunities in power 
generation and transmission, as well 
as transportation. In recent months an 
increase in the number of PPP projects 
coming to market has allowed us to 
move into this area as well.
In South Africa, we have 400 people 
working in Professional Services, focused 
mainly on power and mining. The major 
opportunity is the country’s huge need 
for infrastructure and its public sector’s 
limited capacity to manage large scale 
infrastructure projects. For example, at 
Medupi we are on the team building the 
world’s fourth largest coal-ﬁred power 
station in partnership with local electricity 
utility Eskom – which last built a power 
station 20 years ago. Our role on this 
world scale project demonstrates the 
results we can achieve by importing 
delivery capability, whilst at the same time 
working alongside local non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs) to increase local 
capacity. We are targeting further 
opportunities in the management of large 
scale infrastructure programmes and in 
at-risk delivery across the infrastructure 
spectrum – particularly in our target 
market sectors. 
In India, we have an established 
professional services presence with 
300 people and eight ofﬁces in key cities. 
We have substantially enhanced our local 
connections and inﬂuence by forming 
a joint venture with the engineering 
procurement and construction business, 
Tata Projects, one of India’s leading 
companies. This will differentiate us 
further in pursuing urban infrastructure 
opportunities. We are focusing on 
opportunities in power transmission 
infrastructure, including PPP investment 
opportunities and rail development. 
In Brazil, we are at a very early stage 
of development. We established our 
São Paulo ofﬁce in 2012 and have ﬁve 
employees there. However, the massive 
investment in infrastructure envisaged 
by the country’s Growth Acceleration 
Programme is already well underway. 
To take full advantage of these 
opportunities we need to build scale 
quickly through joint venture or 
acquisition. We are actively investigating 
our options in both these respects. 
In South Africa, India and Brazil the ethical, 
social, and health and safety environments 
require careful attention and management. 
We will need to be selective in the work 
we undertake and be mindful of the 
potential risks in this respect. Despite 
this, we are convinced of the potential 
of these markets and our ability to grow 
successfully whilst offering our leadership 
standard for conduct and behaviour.
We emphasise that our drive into these 
growth geographies does not mean 
neglecting our more established “home” 
markets in the US, UK, Middle East and 
Hong Kong. The capabilities present in our 
core businesses in these “home” markets 
will be instrumental in accessing new 
territories, whether by organic growth 
or acquisition. 
Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Grow in New Geographies and Market Sectors
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
17 What are we doing in our target 
growth sectors?
Of the high growth markets that we are 
targeting, transportation and power and 
energy present particular opportunities 
because we already have substantial 
platforms and track records to build on.
In the transportation market, we are 
already a key player. It is a sector that 
engages the whole Group, in markets 
all round the world and in all stages 
of the asset lifecycle. We have deep 
understanding of the sector, its clients 
and asset types, particularly in highways, 
rail and aviation. 
Our strategy is to leverage this depth of 
knowledge, along with our local presence 
in speciﬁc geographies, to target major 
projects. In our more established ‘home’ 
markets in the UK, US, Middle East and 
Hong Kong – where we have a strong 
local construction presence – we offer 
a full service model embracing integrated 
projects and standalone services. In 
our “growth geographies”, we lead 
on professional services and take on 
selective delivery risk, drawing on our 
asset knowledge and delivery experience 
from our home markets. Increasingly we 
are concentrating on major projects and 
programmes, where our end-to-end 
expertise adds most value. 
In highways there are still signiﬁcant 
opportunities in integrated projects in 
the UK and US. In our growth geographies 
we are addressing opportunities where 
we have competitive advantage and 
avoiding smaller projects that are better 
served by local businesses. In particular 
we look to export our skills in operation 
and maintenance (O&M) and asset 
management as outsourcing gains 
momentum around the world. 
In aviation we have built a strong track 
record in integrated projects in the UK and 
US already and have the beneﬁts of best 
practice. We are also very well positioned 
in Hong Kong, with a sizeable project 
pipeline and have recently announced a 
£64 million contract at Dubai airport; over 
the coming years we aim to build on this 
to exploit aviation opportunities arising 
in other parts of Southeast Asia – initially 
through our Professional Services 
business. We have already had success 
in this area in Taiwan.
In rail, we are targeting integrated and 
complex projects in our home markets, 
and focusing our international activities 
on our target growth geographies.
The operational and strategic review 
of our Mainland European rail business, 
which we started in the fourth quarter, 
has concluded that maintaining a rail 
presence in Mainland Europe is not 
consistent with our strategy which calls 
for building a strong local presence in 
our geographies in a number of market 
sectors. In Mainland Europe, we 
essentially operate only in rail. Therefore, 
we will be divesting all of our Mainland 
European rail businesses through a 
process that ensures that the businesses 
and their customers continue to receive 
full support. 
These factors were offset by considerable 
success in major international projects 
where we have a strong specialist 
position that we can combine with our 
Professional Services design capability 
to differentiate our offering. 
Our strategy for the power and energy 
sector has a strong and well established 
international capability to build on. In 
professional services we are already a top 
10 global player. We have a strong track 
record in transmission projects, both in 
the UK, where we are market leader, and 
internationally, with current operations in 
the US, Indonesia, Hong Kong, Australia 
and New Zealand. Alongside this delivery 
capability we have been building an 
investment and development portfolio 
in the UK, notably in the biomass and 
energy -from-waste sectors and offshore 
transmission assets. 
As with transport, our strategy is to 
combine local presence with global 
expertise. In power we are using our 
engineering and procurement capability 
to take on, and manage more, delivery 
risk selectively. We also aim to extend 
our relationships with international power 
and natural resource clients, in particular 
by harnessing our experience in PPP 
investment, in tandem with our skills as 
a project developer. Global trends support 
this approach: private sector ownership is 
already widespread in the sector, and the 
use of PPP and concessions is increasing 
in both transmission and generation – 
especially in emerging market economies 
such as India and Brazil. 
Targeting waste 
projects
Building our capability in the 
waste sector, we have closed 
both Essex waste and 
Gloucestershire energy-from- 
waste projects. We have taken 
the expertise we learnt from 
these projects and are applying 
it to other waste projects.
 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 18
Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Grow in New Geographies and Market Sectors We have already made progress with this, 
and over the medium term we aim to 
bring our enhanced skills to bear on our 
target growth geographies, particularly 
Australia. Here, our experience of working 
within the UK regulatory framework gives 
us a distinctive edge as many clients seek 
to learn from, and adapt, the UK model. 
In mining we are building closer 
relationships with our international mining 
clients such as Xstrata, Anglo-American, 
BHP Billiton and Vale. We are responding 
to their needs by leveraging our local 
presence in the places where they operate 
– Australia, South Africa and, most recently, 
Brazil. We are also pursuing opportunities 
with smaller operators, where there is 
increasing use of end-to-end design build 
ﬁnance operate (DBFO) contracts for 
power generation and transmission assets, 
rail links and onsite miners’ housing.
In power generation the ubiquity of 
integrated engineering, procurement and 
construction (EPC) contracts allows us to 
leverage our existing US capability across 
the world. We aim to grow progressively 
– ﬁrst strengthening our international 
professional services offer and further 
developing our EPC activity in generation 
projects under 100MW, and ultimately 
increasing our EPC capability in the over 
100MW market. 
Our other two target growth sectors 
are water and mining. Here we have 
substantial platforms to build on and 
are making good progress, but are at 
an earlier stage. 
In water we have a good position in the 
UK and a signiﬁcant and growing business 
in the US – boosted by the Fru-Con 
acquisition in 2011. In the near term we 
want to grow in the US, where the water 
market is very localised, by leveraging our 
existing regional capabilities nationally. 
Creating a rail network  
from scratch
Opportunities to develop a 
complete rail network don’t arise 
very often. But Qatar is doing it, 
and on an immense scale. 
Qatar plans to have around 170km of 
new metro and light rail lines in place by 
the time it hosts the World Cup in 2022, 
as well as approximately 400km of high 
speed, long distance lines. 
As strategic programme manager 
through Parsons Brinckerhoff, we are 
guiding one of the most challenging rail 
development programmes in the 
world today.
Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Grow in New Geographies and Market Sectors
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
19 How are we performing?
Go-To List rankings for Parsons 
Brinckerhoff
No.1 
In the Road & Highway  
and Airport categories (2011: No.1)
No.2 
In the Bridge and Mass  
Transit categories (2011: No.2)
No.3 
In the Design-Build category  
(2011: No.4)
55 awards
During 2012 the Group received 
55 awards from customers and 
industry bodies in recognition of 
its achievements (2011: 29)
What’s next?
In the next year we aim to:
 continue to build strong 
relationships with clients in our 
target market sectors
 focus on supporting clients by 
delivering innovative solutions 
across the asset lifecycle.
We deliver greater value to 
clients by leveraging our end- 
to-end asset knowledge. 
This allows us to better understand our 
clients’ own strategic objectives and 
contribute through the infrastructure 
solutions we create. It enables us to 
develop infrastructure solutions that are 
better value, better quality and faster and 
safer to create and maintain. It means we 
can offer a full range of services – from 
ﬁnance and development, through design 
and project management, to construction 
and maintenance.
Why is this important?
For our clients, this delivers value in three 
key areas:
 early engagement allows us to better 
understand strategic needs
 using our knowledge and expertise 
across the full asset lifecycle delivers 
better solutions
 harnessing our end-to-end knowledge 
to projects adds value
Upfront, early engagement with clients 
through our professional services 
relationships means we better 
understand our clients’ strategic 
needs. We work in partnership with 
them to ensure these are met through 
the infrastructure we ﬁnance, design, 
construct or maintain. This enables our 
clients to achieve their own objectives – 
be it better transport links, reliable and 
sustainable energy supply, high quality 
education or world class healthcare.
Our recent A11 road scheme is a 15km 
road widening project undertaken in the 
east of the UK on behalf of the Highways 
Agency. One of the criteria for the 
contract award was the requirement to 
reduce costs by 20% by using innovative 
ideas. We achieved this and an additional 
£500,000 saving by rethinking the design 
of the roundabouts at either end of the 
new section of the road.
We use our knowledge and expertise 
across the full asset lifecycle to 
develop innovative and market leading 
solutions. This allows us to create and 
maintain infrastructure to a higher quality, 
at a lower price, faster and safer than 
our competitors. 
We can design better because we 
understand the construction and 
operational issues – and we can construct 
and operate more effectively because 
we understand the engineering issues. 
Being investors and developers, we also 
understand the owner’s perspective.
For several local authorities we provide 
services to maintain street lighting. This 
can include upgrade and PPP investment 
from our Investments business. Our 
business is involved in the change of old 
equipment to new which includes an 
enhanced technology solution to reduce 
energy and increase longevity of the light. 
Our business is also involved in the 
provision of ongoing maintenance via 
local teams.
This end-to-end knowledge and the 
capability to harness it across projects 
adds value to all our work, including 
in single service contracts where our 
understanding of the full lifecycle makes 
us a better designer or constructor or 
maintainer or operator. It also means we 
can manage large, integrated projects 
incorporating all these skills in one 
package – providing a single point of 
contact for our clients and managing the 
interface between the different disciplines.
The Eagle P3 project is part of the 
Denver Regional Transportation District’s 
12-year multibillion dollar FasTracks plan 
to expand and build new commuter and 
light rail lines throughout the Denver 
metropolitan area. As a public private 
partnership, it transfers certain 
construction and operational risks to the 
private sector. Denver Transit Partners, 
which includes Parsons Brinckerhoff as 
consultant, will design, build, ﬁnance, 
operate and maintain the Eagle P3 
commuter rail project, which 
encompasses the East Corridor, the 
Gold Line and Northwest Rail, using skills 
from across the Group. We are able to 
add value by harnessing our experience 
of all elements of the project lifecycle.
Deliver Greater Value  
to Clients
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 20
Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Deliver Greater Value to Clients Meeting the strategic needs of our client
Our regeneration partnership with North East 
Lincolnshire Council broke new ground by 
combining skills in regeneration, highways, 
transport and planning, asset management 
and architectural support from across the 
Group in a single outsourcing package. 
The joint team, comprising several of our business areas, 
focused on real outcomes. The £250 million, 10-year contract 
sets targets that range from cutting road fatalities by 33%  
to securing £570 million of inward investment. And we are 
delivering. Our joint performance was recognised in Local 
Government Chronicle’s 2012 Business Partnership Awards, 
where we were rated best in two categories: frontline service 
delivery and overall transformation of service delivery.
Our unique breadth of 
capabilities and geographical 
reach has resulted from a 
sustained period of expansion 
including numerous successful 
acquisitions in recent years. 
In 2012, recognising the more 
difﬁcult macroeconomic 
conditions, we focused on 
generating further efﬁciencies 
across all our operations and 
back ofﬁce support functions to 
ensure we operate as efﬁciently 
and as proﬁtably as possible.
Why is this important?
Our clients’ budgets are under pressure, 
be they the budgets of governments, 
regulated industries, or private entities. 
They are looking to us to deliver our 
services on time and as efﬁciently as 
possible by deploying the range of our 
skills and our scale. This requires us to 
focus relentlessly on the successful 
delivery of clients’ expectations, ensuring 
at the same time that we operate 
efﬁciently both at the project site and 
also back in the ofﬁce. We believe that 
by sharing best practice internally across 
our operating units and bringing greater 
commonality to our processes, we will 
improve the consistency of our delivery 
and reduce our cost.
What are we doing?
We started on the journey to improve our 
cost effectiveness with the announcement 
of the creation of a shared service centre 
(SSC) in Newcastle in August 2010. 
Initially the scope of its activities was 
transactional accounting and employee 
services along with procurement of 
indirect spend, ie largely ofﬁce costs. 
By the end of 2011 we had 230 employees 
in Newcastle, accounting for 50% of our 
UK transactions, and procuring about 
£300 million of indirect spend. 
The success of this initiative convinced 
us to take what we had learnt, expand 
the project and consider whether it could 
be applied elsewhere. In March 2012 we 
announced that we were targeting to save 
a further £50 million per annum by 2015, 
for an estimated one-off cost in a range of 
£50 million to £75 million. This would have 
a number of elements to it:
 expand the scope of the services 
provided by the UK shared service 
centre to include IT shared services, 
buying activities and further employee 
services such as international mobility
 transfer Professional Services 
support function roles to Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania from the high labour, high 
property cost environment of New York
 reorganise the UK construction 
business from six business streams into 
three, within one operating company. 
How are we performing?
2.8%
Group operating margin
1, 2
 (2011: 3.0%)
£36m
Achieved in cost efﬁciencies  
by the end of 2012 (2011: £15m)
What’s next?
 complete transfer of UK accounting 
into the SSC by Q4 2013
 continue rollout of Oracle across 
UK operations with a target to 
complete by mid 2014
 go operational with service centre in 
Lancaster, Pennsylvania in April 2013
 investigate cost beneﬁts from 
moving to country structures
 consult employees on ceasing 
future accrual in the UK deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension scheme.
Improve Operational 
Performance and  
Cost Effectiveness
1
 Including joint ventures and associates.
2
 Before non-underlying items.
Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Improve Operational Performance and Cost Effectiveness
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
21 This process involves reducing the 
number of ofﬁces in the UK from more 
than 75 to 37 and implementing a new 
organisational structure with 
common processes
 reorganise the US construction 
business from ﬁve regions into three, 
to better utilise the skills across the 
organisation using market sector 
expertise and to present a consistent 
client experience
 organise Support Services to create 
a more efﬁcient back ofﬁce structure, 
maximising the use of the shared 
service centre
 coordinate our global buying particularly 
in the area of telecoms, data networks 
and software.
Whilst all of these projects have at least 
some element of focus on cost efﬁciency, 
a number of them are also focused on 
how we engage with our clients, using 
best practice processes and improving 
operational delivery.
In the meantime, increasingly difﬁcult 
market conditions have reduced our ability 
to absorb operational errors, intensifying 
the pressures on our teams. We have 
seen some operational problems in 2012, 
notably in our Mainland European rail and 
UK construction businesses. We believe 
the actions we are taking to reorganise 
our UK construction business and 
restructure our Mainland European rail 
business will improve performance in 
2013 and mitigate operational risks 
going forward.
We have made good progress on these 
initiatives, in particular:
 UK shared service centre – a measure 
of the scale of activity now being 
handled through the organisation is its 
number of employees. These increased 
to 420 by year end, of which 320 are in 
Newcastle and 100 employees in two 
centres in Derby and Linlithgow. By the 
end of 2013 this should rise to just 
under 700 employees in total. Another 
measure is the volume of transactions. 
The current annual run rate is 
£3.7 billion of receipts and payments, 
over 1 million invoices, 380,000 
payslips, 17,000 IT service requests and 
200,000 calls received. The growth in 
this shared service organisation has 
been achieved with very little disruption 
to our front line operations
 Lancaster, Pennsylvania service centre 
– recruitment is underway for the new 
roles and the scheduled opening of the 
centre by March 2013 is on track and 
should deliver savings of US$5 million 
per annum
 UK construction – the new 
management structure with a new 
business management system is in 
place and consolidation into fewer 
ofﬁces is underway. By April over 
480 employees will be colocated 
together in London.
Savings in 2012 from the original and 
expanded programme were £36 million, 
and we remain on track to deliver 
combined annual savings of £80 million 
in 2015. 
In 2013 we will continue to progress 
those projects and will also continue 
to identify other steps we can take to 
improve operational delivery and cost 
effectiveness. Two further initiatives 
that we will pursue in 2013 are, ﬁrstly, 
consulting with c.2,500 UK employees, 
who continue to accrue service in our 
deﬁned beneﬁt scheme, about providing 
them with deﬁned contribution pension 
provision in future instead. This beneﬁt 
has become increasingly expensive, and 
can potentially make us uncompetitive 
with peers who do not have a similar cost. 
Secondly, having put in place back ofﬁce 
shared services on a country basis, 
we will look to see whether there are 
beneﬁts to the customer and our cost 
base from a more geographic based 
organisation structure.
2013 will also see increasing use of our 
knowledge sharing and collaboration 
platform to drive the sharing of best 
practise, both in operational excellence 
and also in cost efﬁciency. 
A more agile UK 
construction business
Our UK construction business’ 
transformation programme 
has a simple aim: to be 
more agile in meeting our 
clients’ needs.
To get closer to clients 
we’ve integrated six business 
streams into one business 
focused on growth market 
sectors. The changes will 
increase efﬁciency, cut costs 
and help us collaborate more 
closely through centralised 
hub ofﬁces. Clients will 
beneﬁt from simpler access 
to a business that shares 
knowledge and best practice 
to work better throughout the 
project lifecycle.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 22
Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Improve Operational Performance and Cost Effectiveness To be recognised as a global 
leader in infrastructure services 
we continue to focus on securing 
a sustainable, long term future 
for the Group and provide a 
legacy within the communities 
in which we serve. We must 
also be a leader in areas such 
as business ethics, talent 
management, safety and 
the environment.
Why is this important?
Our reputation is crucial to winning new 
business, attracting and retaining the best 
people, and building high quality business 
partnerships. To be seen as a true leader 
in our ﬁeld we need to build and protect 
a reputation for leadership in values and 
behaviour. In addition, the emergence 
and increasingly aggressive enforcement 
of anti corruption legislation with global 
reach makes ethical rigour a critical risk 
management issue. As we grow into new 
markets where cultural norms may differ 
signiﬁcantly from ours, we must work 
harder to maintain our high standards.
How are we performing?
−6%
Accident Frequency Rate decreased 
by 6% to 0.16% (2011: AFR 0.17%)
−13%
Greenhouse gas emissions  
reduced by 13%
What are we doing?
Our key issues and actions for 2012 in 
the areas of ethics, health and safety, 
diversity, people and sustainability are 
set out in more detail in The Way We 
Work on pages 48 to 51. 
Our key achievements in 2012 include:
 state of the art compliance 
programme
 over 40,000 employees have 
completed the ﬁrst Code of 
Conduct training module
 credited by Robecco SAM as 
the biggest mover in terms 
of sustainability in the heavy 
construction sector.
Opening up new energy resources
Growing global demand for coal has prompted Xstrata Coal to 
further develop its Ulan mine in New South Wales, Australia by 
developing a new underground mine alongside the existing 
opencast workings. 
The US$1.3 billion Ulan West project will produce 6.7 million tonnes of export 
thermal coal a year, operating for about 18 years from 2014. Parsons Brinckerhoff is 
providing construction management services in delivery of the surface infrastructure 
on the 18,000-hectare site as part of an Integrated Owner’s Team, which includes 
input into engineering design, procurement and construction over three years.
Continue to Show Leadership 
in Values and Behaviour
Our Business | Strategic Imperatives | Continue to Show Leadership in Values and Behaviour
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
23 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24
Our Business | Business Model
To achieve our strategic 
objectives of growth in new 
markets, delivering greater 
value to the client, improving 
operational performance and 
continuing to show leadership 
in values and behaviour, our 
business model leverages our 
strong local presence in multiple 
geographies alongside global, 
end-to-end asset knowledge. 
Strong local businesses
Local presence allows us to align with 
our clients – most of whom are based in 
a single country – and be closer to them. 
That allows us to better understand and 
respond to their needs. 
It also means that, as local organisations, 
our clients value the commitment we 
show to the communities we serve. 
By committing to and investing in 
these communities, we provide training 
and development, create long term 
employment opportunities, and support 
sustainable economic growth. This can 
be seen across our business through 
our apprenticeship, graduate training 
and outreach programmes. 
With deep roots in a community we are 
also able to create resilient businesses 
by developing a rigorous approach to risk 
management. Being on-the-ground gives 
us an intimate understanding of the local 
operating environment and, crucially, its 
local supply chain. As most projects in 
our industry are delivered through that 
supply chain, local presence helps in 
every part of our business; and where 
we take delivery risk ourselves, it’s 
absolutely critical.
We have this deep rooted presence 
in a number of countries around the 
world already. 
From our foundation in the UK we’ve 
built strong domestic businesses in the 
US, Hong Kong and the Middle East. 
Experience has taught us that this model 
works much better than an expeditionary 
ﬂy-in ﬂy-out approach.
Balfour Beatty has a distinct
Our business model will deliver
Value drivers:
 Allocate capital to strategic 
areas of growth
 Focus on economic 
infrastructure to increase 
resilience
 Manage costs to facilitate 
consistent margins across 
business cycles.
Strong local businesses
Strong local businesses, close to clients, committed to local 
communities, in touch with local supply chain.
Business 
Model
Deliver value
Established geographies
 
UK 
30,000 employees
USA 
10,000 employees
Hong Kong 
10,000 employees
UAE & GCC 
300 employees
Target geographies
 
Australia & New Zealand 
3,000 employees
Canada 
350 employees
South Africa 
300 employees
India 
300 employees
Brazil 
5 employees
Employee ﬁgures include joint ventures and associates.
Established geographies        Target geographies       Professional Services footprint Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
25
We have then continued to expand 
our coverage into our chosen target 
geographies. We aren’t starting from 
scratch in these countries: we already 
have a presence, in some cases a 
signiﬁcant one – gained largely through 
our acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
in 2009.
For example, we now have over 3,000 
people in Australia, around 350 in Canada, 
300 in South Africa and 300 in India.
These are solid foundations on which 
to expand our activities in these regions.
End-to-end capabilities
Combined with our local presence, we 
also have global end-to-end experience 
and understanding of infrastructure 
assets. That gives us an edge on 
three levels:
 being investors and developers, we also 
understand the owner’s perspective. In 
fact, we can actually develop, structure 
and ﬁnance investment projects as well 
as deliver them
 through design and planning, we can 
leverage strategic relationships and 
early engagement with clients – this 
means we can get early visibility of 
opportunities, help to shape how 
projects come to market and 
generate opportunities ourselves
 we can design better because we 
understand the construction and 
operational issues – and conversely, 
we can construct and operate more 
effectively because we understand 
the engineering issues.
Our end-to-end knowledge adds value 
to all our work. Not just on integrated 
contracts where we’re providing all 
these skills to one project, but also in 
single service contracts where our 
understanding of the full lifecycle makes 
us a better designer, or constructor, 
or maintainer, or operator.
Global expertise
And our knowledge isn’t just end-to-end. 
It also cuts across all of our core 
geographies. We are using this 
international expertise, across the whole 
asset lifecycle, to help us grow in our 
target market sectors. We are doing this 
through global sector teams that link up 
all the different parts of the Group 
around the world that are active in these 
sectors. These teams are responsible 
for knowledge ﬂow, specialist resources, 
global strategy, and coordination of 
global customers.
competitive edge
Service enhancers:
 Relentless focus on 
excellent delivery
 Innovative and  
sustainable solutions
 Safe working 
environments
 Productivity.
Develop & Finance
see p41 
Design & Manage
see p28 
Construct & 
Commission
see p32 
Maintain & Operate
see p37 
Power and Energy
Highways
Aviation
Rail
Water
Mining
Social 
Infrastructure
End-to-end capabilities
Intensive expertise across  
the full asset lifecycle, 
enhanced offerings and 
integrated solutions.
Global expertise
World class solutions, global  
best practice and knowledge 
sharing, coupled with 
international teams.
Deliver service
Our Business | Business Model
value for all our stakeholders 26 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Kirkcaldy Victoria Hospital’s £170 million new 
wing opened in 2012. It was delivered via a 
Balfour Beatty-led PPP under which we managed 
the funding, constructed the asset and will provide 
facilities management until 2041.  
We completed the construction on time and on budget with 
zero snags. We saved time and cost through offsite prefabrication 
(including 273 ensuite toilet pods) and baling segregated waste 
onsite to sell for recycling instead of paying for landﬁll.
2m
Hours worked over 
650 days without a 
reportable accident 
53,000m
2
Clinical area, with 50km  
of pipework created Our Business
27 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
You get your 
perfect delivery 
on a welcoming 
ward
The new hospital provides vital new capacity for 
NHS Fife, including 11 operating theatres, renal, 
maternity delivery, children’s and A&E facilities.  
It is designed to provide a welcoming environment for visitors 
and patients, with bright and spacious wards containing 
more than 50% single rooms. In the children’s ward, special 
curtaining enables children to transform their bedded bays 
into beach huts. A dedicated basement corridor helps keep 
maintenance trafﬁc away from clinicians and visitors.
2,000
Rooms including  
11 operating theatres
360
Beds in 20 wards, with 
31 clinical departments Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28
Our Business | Operating Review | Professional Services
With presence in 70 countries 
worldwide, Professional Services is an 
important bridgehead into our growth 
markets. We continue to broaden and 
deepen our technical expertise to 
win work while improving our cost 
efﬁciency and business mix to increase 
our margins. 
What do we do?
 Programme and project management
 Construction management
 Project design
 Technical services
 Planning
 Consultancy
What’s happened?
 Increased transportation market share in the Americas
 Signiﬁcant highways wins in US following approval of Transportation Bill
 Acquisition of Subsurface Group to expand energy storage capability
 Highways, rail and power transmission contract wins involving other 
Group businesses totalling £2 billion
What’s next?
 Direct our resources to markets that align with the Group’s focus sectors 
and geographic markets
 Beneﬁt from favourable developments in procurement models in the 
US transportation market
 Remain focused on resource utilisation and cost efﬁciency to expand 
margins further
Professional Services
How are we performing?
Order book
+5%
£1.6bn
£1.6bn
£1.5bn
2012
2011
2010
Revenue including JVs and associates
+1%
£1,668m
£1,645m
£1,613m
2012
2011
2010
Proﬁt before non-underlying items
+13%
£98m
£87m
£85m
2012
2011
2010
Divisional KPI
Billability
Billability is a good measure of resource 
utilisation, and hence proﬁtability, in what 
is essentially a billable hours business.
In 2012, billability improved in the UK and 
the Middle East, but this favourable 
impact was more than offset by weaker 
billability in Australia and signiﬁcant 
investment in design-build opportunities 
in the US.
2012
2011
2010
58.3%
58.7%
58.7%
Computes total direct labour cost charged 
to projects divided by total labour cost 
of employees.
  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
29
Thirty-one states have now put PPP-
enabling legislation in place, and big PPP 
projects are beginning to be tendered. But 
only a few have reached ﬁnancial close, 
mainly in Texas. In an environment where 
clients are seeking speed of execution and 
lower interface risk, design-build models 
have also gained traction.
In this environment, we believe we again 
increased our transportation market share 
in Americas in 2012. 
Our US power business is still small but 
goes from strength to strength in target 
segments which are themselves growing. 
In power generation, we specialise in EPC 
contracts for peaking plants, which are 
in demand as the oil and gas industry 
develops. Another related business is 
energy storage: we acquired Subsurface 
Group at the end of the year to broaden 
our presence and capabilities in this area. 
The Canadian market is reasonably active, 
with economic infrastructure faring better 
than buildings. Our strengthened position 
following the acquisition of Halsall has 
helped us to grow in the transportation 
and power markets, and we see further 
opportunity ahead.
Europe, Middle East  
and Northern Africa
The UK market remains extremely 
competitive, but volumes in the 
transportation sector have stabilised 
and even improved. This is evidenced by 
strong tendering activity, particularly in 
mainline rail and regional highways sectors. 
Opportunities in the Arabian Gulf are still 
attractive as countries such as Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait invest in 
transportation and power infrastructure 
to achieve their long term development 
visions. There are also signs of some 
recovery in the United Arab Emirates.
Asia, Australia-Paciﬁc  
and Southern Africa
Following several buoyant years, 
particularly in power and mining, Australia 
experienced somewhat mixed market 
conditions in 2012. Faltering commodity 
demand from China hit the mining sector, 
which responded by cancelling or 
postponing capital projects. Despite this, 
our relatively small mining business was 
able to grow and gain market share. 
We were also active in the power market, 
particularly in EPC power generation 
plants under 100MW, and continue to 
pursue opportunities in this segment.
The transportation market remained 
ﬂat in the year and shows little sign of 
improvement and thus, we have adjusted 
our Australian workforce to the level 
of activity. 
Our strategy
Professional Services, trading under the 
Parsons Brinckerhoff brand, is a fee-based 
consultancy business. We win work 
on the strength of our track record of 
technical expertise and execution. By 
applying our resources to best effect, 
we aim to increase our billability rate 
while reducing overall project costs for 
our clients – and in some cases retaining 
a share of these savings.
Professional Services is at the heart of 
the Group’s growth strategy. Along with 
Infrastructure Investments, we are a key 
component of the strategy to access 
emerging markets where downstream 
construction activity may be limited by 
challenges such as incompatible health 
and safety and ethical standards. 
Our Professional Services acquisition 
strategy aims to build a platform from 
which we can grow the business by 
leveraging our construction, support 
services and investment capabilities. 
Acquisition targets should therefore 
accord with the Group’s target 
geographies, such as Australia and 
Brazil, and target sectors, such as 
power and energy, water and mining. 
In addition, Professional Services looks 
for opportunities in transportation and 
power in the US, its major market, to 
accelerate organic growth or ﬁll speciﬁc 
capability gaps.
We continue to achieve cost efﬁciencies 
– see “Operational performance” on 
pages 30 and 31 – and shift our business 
mix towards higher margin services. 
Typically these involve programme 
management roles and projects with 
design-build, PPP (public private 
partnership) and EPC (engineering, 
procurement, construction) 
characteristics, where we can achieve 
returns commensurate with the higher 
level of risk we take, compared with our 
traditional client side consultancy work. 
Collaboration and knowledge sharing are 
key to delivering this strategy. They are 
essential to leveraging the Group’s 
capabilities, and where we take more 
commercial risk they ensure that we 
manage it effectively by sharing best 
practices and processes across the Group. 
Our marketplace
Americas
US transportation markets remained on 
the whole challenging, due to varying 
levels of budgetary constraint faced by 
individual states. The authorisation of the 
Transportation Bill in July 2012, after two 
and a half years, helped to progress some 
projects that were in design stage, but 
there was little growth to speak of. 
Integrating our 
professional services 
expertise with 
capabilities from 
other parts of the 
Group proved an 
effective bid winner 
in 2012.
George Pierson
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Professional Services
Our Business | Operating Review | Professional Services Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 30
Our Business | Operating Review | Professional Services
the customary six years, and the only 
partially resolved ﬁscal cliff remains a 
drag on decision making, we beneﬁted 
as some large projects moved forward. 
In October we won a design-build 
contract to provide construction 
engineering and inspection (CE&I) 
services for the widening of the 
I-4 interstate highway in Volusia County, 
Florida. Signiﬁcantly, although the contract 
was bid on a “best value procurement” 
basis, we won the contract on the 
strength of our qualiﬁcations.
In November, as part of a design-build 
joint venture, we were named as best 
value bidder to undertake the upgrade and 
replacement of river crossings in Dallas, 
Texas. This project, a collaboration 
between Professional Services and US 
construction, is detailed in the cross-
Group collaboration section on page 31.
We are currently bidding other US 
design-build transportation projects, with 
both our US construction business and 
third party construction companies with 
whom we have a good track record.
Our three major ongoing projects – high-
speed rail in California, the Westside 
Subway Extension in Los Angeles and 
the Second Avenue Subway in New York – 
are progressing well.
In Canada we have been successful in 
leveraging the platform provided by Halsall 
to expand into transportation and power 
markets. In May the Regional Municipality 
of Waterloo, Ontario appointed us as 
Meanwhile, our mechanical, electrical and 
plumbing services for complex buildings 
have continued to grow strongly in 
Singapore, Hong Kong and China – 
our biggest Asian markets.
Financial performance
Professional Services performed well, 
improving its order book by 5% despite 
uncertainty arising from presidential 
elections and the ﬁscal cliff in the US 
where the division generates half of its 
revenue. Strong growth in the rest of the 
world, particularly Qatar and Canada, 
contributed to revenue. Performance was 
mixed in Australia, with a revenue decline 
in transportation offset partly by growth 
in mining. While this has impacted 
utilisation rates adversely, proﬁtability in 
Australia remains healthy. The UK remains 
a difﬁcult market, but recent restructuring 
has improved ﬁnancial performance. 
Underlying proﬁt increased by 13% to 
£98 million with good contributions from 
transportation and power sectors and 
some favourable alliance and at-risk 
contracts in Australia and Asia. With fewer 
projects of this type expected to complete 
in 2013, margin performance is likely to be 
slightly weaker. 
Operational performance
Americas
In the US, where 80% of our activity is in 
the transportation sector, spending by the 
federal and state departments of transport 
is crucial to our business. So the long 
delayed authorisation of the Transportation 
Bill in July 2012 was an important turning 
point. While the bill’s term is shorter than 
general engineering consultants on a 
transit programme that will be one of the 
largest public infrastructure projects ever 
undertaken in the Waterloo region. And 
in June we won a contract to design the 
replacement of the controls, drives and 
overhead cables at the Burlington Canal 
Lift Bridge, spanning the Burlington Canal 
to connect Burlington and Hamilton on 
Lake Ontario’s western shore.
We have taken several steps to ensure 
growth in the attractive power sector 
in the Americas. As noted above, we 
acquired Subsurface Group to expand our 
activities in US energy storage services. 
Subsurface provides services in 
underground injection, underground 
storage, specialty wells, petroleum and 
natural resources, and environmental 
science. Based in Houston, Texas with 
ofﬁces in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and 
South Bend, Indiana, its 37-strong team 
generated some US$50 million of revenue 
in 2012.
In 2012 we successfully completed 
Marathon Petroleum Company’s 
Catlettsburg Cavern No.2. Designed and 
constructed by Parsons Brinckerhoff to 
store a million barrels of liquid butane, this 
is the ﬁrst hard rock storage cavern built 
in the US since 1984.
In January 2013 our joint venture with 
Kvaerner won an EPC contract to design 
and build the Garrison Energy Center, a 
309MW combined cycle gas-ﬁred power 
plant in Delaware. 
Giving commuters 2½ 
more hours each week 
Parsons Brinckerhoff is lead 
designer on a long-awaited 
project to enhance two road 
tunnel routes under the Elizabeth 
River between Portsmouth 
and Norfolk in Virginia, USA. 
Since the original tunnel was built 
50 years ago the local population has 
grown by 70% and trafﬁc has risen 
600%. The US$2.1 billion project is 
upgrading the existing tunnels, adding 
a further 1,400m two-lane tunnel and 
extending the expressway links. From 
2017, it should save 20 minutes a day 
for the average commuter by reducing 
congestion and it is forecast to bring 
regional economic beneﬁts of  
US$170–254 million per annum. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
31
Our business in power generation 
continues to build momentum, based 
on the international team established 
for the EPC contract at Karratha in 
Western Australia. 
We will be focusing the business on 
mining, design-build and power projects 
while we make adjustments to our 
workforce both by geography and by 
sector to retain a sustainable presence 
in this attractive market. 
In South Africa, we received a further 
vote of conﬁdence as our engineering 
and programme management contract 
at Medupi Power Station was extended 
by another two years.
Cross-Group collaboration
Collaboration between Professional 
Services and the other Group businesses 
is a powerful competitive differentiator for 
Balfour Beatty. Many of the Group’s major 
contract wins in 2012 were due at least in 
part to its distinctive ability to combine 
professional services capabilities with 
other parts of its business. 
For example, in January 2012 Denmark’s 
railway operator and developer, 
Banedanmark, awarded us a £335 million 
contract to transform much of the 
country’s rail signalling system. The 
winning bid integrated our Rail business’s 
expertise in signalling installation with 
programme management services from 
Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
In November, our construction business 
was named best value bidder, in a 
design-build joint venture with Fluor 
Corporation, to upgrade and replace river 
crossings in Dallas. Parsons Brinckerhoff’s 
technical design and our US construction 
business’s experience in design-build 
were instrumental in winning this project, 
worth around £500 million.
And towards the end of the year, 
Professional Services and Support 
Services teams collaborated to win 
two major contracts worth £1.1 billion 
to upgrade the UK’s gas distribution 
network for National Grid. 
Looking forward
We continue to direct our resources to 
markets that align with the Group’s focus 
sectors and geographic markets. Indeed 
in many cases, we create the access 
routes to those markets through our local 
presence, client relationships or our 
advantage from being at the very top 
of the value chain. 
We expect favourable market 
developments and new opportunities, 
speciﬁcally in transportation in the US, 
Canada and the Middle East, mining 
in Australia and more generally in 
power globally.
Europe, Middle East  
and Northern Africa
The restructuring of our UK operation 
has enabled us to be competitive in the 
market, which has been evidenced in 
a number of successful major bids. 
Encouragingly, in 2012 we saw net 
increases in staff numbers across the 
region of well over 200, and in the second 
half of the year saw increases in the UK 
as well as in the Middle East.
In the year, we won the preliminary design 
of both railway systems packages for the 
UK’s HS2 project and all three structures 
engineering packages for Transport for 
London (TfL) in the UK as well as the 
programme management award for the 
Odense Light Rail project in Denmark. 
In the highways sector, we secured 
a number of important wins in Wales.
Our two major projects in Qatar – the 
Qatar Rail Strategic Programme Manager 
and the Project Management Consultant 
for Local Roads & Drainage for Ashghal – 
have developed considerably over the 
year, with combined staff numbers now 
exceeding 250. We are pursuing further 
opportunities in Qatar. 
We have been active in Saudi Arabia for 
many years, and our work on the Rabigh 
Power Station continues to perform well. 
Asia, Australia-Paciﬁc  
and Southern Africa
While Australia’s public transportation 
market has been ﬂat, some interesting 
trends are emerging in the procurement 
of highways maintenance. Recently we 
formed a bid consortium, in partnership 
with Transﬁeld Services, to target state 
government outsourcing opportunities 
in highways maintenance on the east 
coast of Australia. A joint team from 
Australia and the UK has collaborated 
to transfer knowledge and best practice 
developed in recent years in the UK to 
Australian markets.
Despite an overall slowdown in the mining 
sector, our business grew in 2012, albeit 
from a small base. One example is our 
established credentials in the Hunter 
Valley, New South Wales. Following on 
from our feasibility work for the Cobbora 
Coal Project, we have also been awarded 
Phase 2 (EPCM early works programme) 
and most recently Phase 3 (detailed 
design, tender, evaluation and 
recommendation) which commenced in 
January 2013. In Mozambique’s Zambezi 
River Basin, on the Estima Coal Project, 
our engagement began at the pre-
feasibility phase, and moved through 
feasibility, engineering, design and further 
study. We are now owner’s engineer and 
project manager for the project.
£2bn
Contract wins involving other 
Group businesses
 1 million
Barrels of liquid butane that 
can be stored in Catlettsburg 
Cavern No.2
Developing Medupi 
Power Station
Parsons Brinckerhoff is 
providing engineering and 
programme management 
support to Eskom, South 
Africa’s power utility, for the 
development of the Medupi 
Power Station, a 4,800MW 
power plant that will be one 
of the largest in the world 
when completed in 2015.
Our Business | Operating Review | Professional Services Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32
Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services
In the face of difﬁcult construction 
markets, the restructuring of our UK 
and US operations is increasing cost 
efﬁciency, agility and collaboration 
while positioning us to leverage our 
capabilities more effectively into our 
target market sectors.
What do we do?
 Civil and ground engineering
 Rail engineering
 Building
 Refurbishment and ﬁt-out
 Mechanical and electrical services
What’s happened?
 Construction proﬁt decline for the second year in a row
 UK and US organisations streamlined and restructured
 Target run rate achieved for Phase 1 of cost efﬁciency programme 
 US business recognised as a national leader in sustainable construction, 
with “green” sales of over US$2 billion as well as ranking #85 in Fortune 
magazine’s “100 Best Companies to Work For” list
 28 health and safety awards won in the UK business
 Major wins for Hong Kong business, including biggest solo contract 
What’s next?
 Focus on cost and risk management in difﬁcult trading conditions in the UK
 Grow in healthcare, mission critical and multi-family housing and expand water 
expertise across our whole US footprint
 Capitalise on the increasing number of design-build and PPP opportunities  
in the US 
 Develop a vertically integrated rail capability in growth markets while realising 
value from our Mainland European rail businesses
 Continue implementing Phase 2 of cost efﬁciency programme
Construction Services
How are we performing?
Order book
−6%
£8.0bn
£8.5bn
£9.2bn
2012
2011
2010
Revenue including JVs and associates
−1%
£6,959m
£7,050m
£6,734m
2012
2011
2010
Proﬁt before non-underlying items
−28%
£122m
£169m
£201m
2012
2011
2010
Divisional KPI
Secured orders and ABNC  
as % of revenue
The secured order book and the awarded 
but not contracted orders (ABNC) are 
leading indicators of future revenue. Good 
pipeline in the US and Hong Kong has 
offset weaker orders in the UK in 2012.
−3%
174%
177%
188%
2012
2011
2010 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
33
the current inadequate infrastructure, 
and funding looked more likely to be 
forthcoming since it would come from 
the regulated industry. But Government 
delays in clarifying key elements of energy 
policy, such as carbon pricing and strike 
prices, caused utility companies to defer 
investment decisions.
Towards the end of the year market 
conditions were further depressed by 
the growing ﬁnancial strains on the 
supply chain and subcontractors, 
reducing our ability to negotiate terms 
with them that matched the terms our 
clients were requiring.
US
In the US, where more than 80% of 
our business is in building construction, 
activity levels were depressed from 
historical highs but stable. 
In civil infrastructure, some projects have 
moved to the tender stage following the 
long awaited approval of the Transportation 
Bill. Where these are procured on a 
PPP or design-build basis, our ability to 
combine our construction capability with 
Parsons Brinckerhoff’s design capability 
gives us competitive advantage.
As 2013 begins, we see opportunities in 
pockets of the US, such as the Northwest 
and Houston, with private investment 
returning to the market. Market segments 
with the greatest promise are ofﬁces, 
healthcare, and mission critical. We also 
see signiﬁcant opportunities in the water 
sector and energy retroﬁts, upgrading 
buildings to higher standards of 
energy efﬁciency. 
Rail
Conditions in our traditional rail markets 
in Europe have been challenging. In Italy 
and Spain, activity levels have reached a 
critically low level. In Germany and the UK 
intense competition has driven increasing 
commoditisation. However, we continue 
to see attractive opportunities in the major 
signalling and electriﬁcation projects that 
we deliver internationally.
The US rail transit market continues to 
trend towards design-build procurement 
for large, complex projects. We are well 
positioned to combine the Group’s 
services and serve as a one-stop partner 
for clients seeking to design, build, 
operate, maintain and ﬁnance projects.
International
In Hong Kong, the market has been 
buoyed by a strong programme of 
government spending on both 
transportation infrastructure and 
public buildings. 
The Dubai market has stabilised, 
and is now showing some signs of 
improvement. We also see opportunities 
Our strategy
The strength of our construction business 
lies in our ability to integrate and manage 
local supply chains to deliver projects 
on budget and on time. Historically, our 
proposition to clients has been to deliver 
speed, quality and low cost; today we are 
differentiating ourselves on the basis of 
innovation and leveraging capability across 
the Group.
Our asset knowledge across the Group is 
crucial in meeting the complex needs of 
infrastructure customers. We see this, 
and our ability to deploy resources from 
across the Group, as competitive 
advantages that differentiate us from 
our peers. To this end, we have launched 
Group wide initiatives to aid collaboration. 
As well as colocating operations in the 
same ofﬁces, we are equipping them 
with the tools, processes and culture to 
support knowledge sharing and put our 
strongest collective offering together for 
every project.
As a fragmented industry, construction 
has lagged behind other industries in 
developing innovative technologies. 
We see tremendous opportunities to 
differentiate ourselves as we innovate to 
reduce waste. We believe it is possible 
to control waste through technology, 
processes and teaming. Through 
investment in technologies such as 
Building Information Management (BIM) 
and offsite fabrication, we aim to be at 
the forefront of innovation in our industry.
In markets that are extremely competitive, 
particularly in the UK, we are making 
particular efforts to enhance margins 
through cost efﬁciency programmes as 
well as effective cost and risk management.
Our marketplace
UK
In 2012 the Government’s public 
expenditure cuts and the ﬁnancial 
constraints generally in the UK economy 
hit the construction sector hard. As we 
completed projects won as early as 
2008, it became increasingly difﬁcult to 
replenish the order book with equally large 
projects. Social infrastructure spending 
on schools and hospitals reduced 
considerably; and while the commercial 
property market fared reasonably well 
in London, it ﬂagged in the rest of the 
country. Some of the transportation 
projects that had been ringfenced from 
the cuts, notably Crossrail, were tendered 
in smaller pieces – making them less 
suitable for applying signiﬁcant innovation 
to reduce overall cost, but accessible to 
more bidders.
Spending on power generation plants had 
been seen as one area of likely growth; 
there is a clear need for investment in 
As 2013 begins, we 
see opportunities 
in pockets of the 
US, such as the 
Northwest and 
Houston, with private 
investment returning 
to the market. 
Robert Van Cleave
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Construction Services US
Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34
Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services
Construction Services saw the 
anticipated reduction in proﬁtability with 
underlying operating proﬁt at £122 million 
(2011: £169 million). There was a drop in 
proﬁts in US construction as a result of 
more competitive pricing in the market. 
In the UK, whilst we beneﬁted from 
successfully completing some long term 
projects, we saw overall proﬁts reduce. 
This was largely a consequence of lower 
margins in the regional businesses as a 
result of tightening markets and was 
exacerbated by delivery margins being 
impacted by rising subcontractor defaults. 
In the year, the proﬁtability of our Mainland 
European rail business weakened due to 
a low level of activity as well as one-off 
issues. We continue to believe that 2013 
will be a difﬁcult year for Construction 
Services notwithstanding the beneﬁts 
of the cost reductions we are achieving.
Operational performance
UK
Our UK construction business is very 
diverse, serving multiple sectors and 
undertaking both regional and major 
national projects. In 2012, we streamlined 
and restructured the UK operations to one 
business with three business streams 
to better integrate our service offering 
to clients. These streams will share 
in the Middle East for our mechanical 
and electrical services.
Financial performance
The construction order book ﬁnished the 
year at £8.0 billion, down 6% from a year 
ago. The most signiﬁcant decrease was 
in the US, down 17% from the end of 
2011. However, the awarded but not 
contracted position has improved, keeping 
the overall pipeline broadly stable. US 
revenue was down by 1% on a like-for-like 
basis and up by 8% including the 
contribution from acquisitions. 
In the UK the order book was up 1%; 
however, we have seen a signiﬁcant shift 
in the year from major works to smaller 
contracts, with the order book for the 
regional building and civil business up 
15% since the end of 2011 while the order 
book for major construction work declined 
by 24%. UK revenue was down by 6% 
in the year, with most of the decline 
occurring in the second half. Based on 
this order book proﬁle, we expect stable 
revenue in the US and a revenue decline 
of c.20% in the UK in 2013. In the rest 
of the world, Hong Kong has good 
prospects, while the Mainland European 
rail business will be adversely impacted 
by our impending divestments.
centralised support functions. The new 
model, operational from January 2013, 
consists of streams for:
 Major infrastructure focused on 
complex projects in key market sectors 
such as energy and transportation
 Regional civil engineering and building 
working through partnerships and 
frameworks to provide our strategic 
customers with locally delivered, 
ﬂexible and fully integrated civils 
and building services
 Regional mechanical and electrical 
covering all sectors. 
The new organisation is more agile, 
fosters collaboration within the 
construction business as well as with 
other divisions, and will ensure that we 
emerge from the current downturn in 
UK construction as a more operationally 
efﬁcient business. Each stream is also 
organised to align with the Group’s key 
market sectors, to aid global coordination 
with other geographies. 
We made a good start to 2012 by winning 
construction contracts in the commercial 
sector worth £100 million. On two of 
these schemes, a high percentage of 
the building services engineering will 
So good, they made  
it an exhibit
For its US$95 million new 
building, the Perot Museum 
of Nature and Science in 
Dallas wanted a shining 
example of modern technology 
with environmentally 
sustainable features.
It should “inspire minds through nature 
and science” and help revitalise the 
city’s downtown economy. Award-
winning architect Thom Mayne’s 
design certainly met the brief – and 
in announcing Balfour Beatty as the 
chosen construction contractor, the 
museum’s CEO declared herself 
“extremely excited to work with an 
internationally renowned ﬁrm with 
a stellar reputation”. Did we meet 
expectations? Well, the museum 
now proudly displays an exhibit 
entitled “Building the building”. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
35
California Chapter of the Construction 
Management Association of America. 
The J Paul Leonard and Sutro Library at 
San Francisco State University won the 
DBIA-WPR’s Project of the Year Award, 
and the Wounded Warrior Headquarters 
and Hope and Care Center at Marine 
Corps Base Camp Pendleton was 
selected for a Merit Award. These awards 
recognise teamwork, innovation and 
problem solving in design-build delivery.
In 2009 we implemented an aggressive 
sustainability strategy highlighting the 
economic, social, and environmental 
beneﬁts of going green. As a result, 
we were ranked last year as one of the 
top ﬁve green contractors in the US with 
more than US$2 billion in revenue from 
sustainable construction projects in 2011 
– almost double the total we reported in 
2010. This growth has raised Balfour 
Beatty six places to No.4 on Engineering 
News-Record’s 2012 Top 100 Green 
Contractors list.
In September 2012, we took the next step 
in the evolution of our US construction 
operations by moving to a uniﬁed 
operating model that allows us to better 
compete in, and lead, a changing industry. 
The business was streamlined from ﬁve 
to three regions: West, East, and Central. 
Also as part of this structural realignment, 
we formed a national capability centre to 
harness expertise, garner best practices 
in the ﬁeld, and deploy that knowledge 
across the national business in key areas 
such as research and development, 
innovation, energy, sustainability, 
technology, public private partnership 
(PPP) and federal procurement. 
As the US military’s Base Realignment 
and Closure Commission programme 
comes to a close, our US PPP business 
has signed a US$362 million deal to 
design, build and renovate 3,268 military 
homes at four bases in California, 
Wyoming, Montana and Missouri for the 
US Air Force. The construction business 
will undertake the new build elements 
of the project.
Since we acquired Fru-Con Construction 
in 2011 to leverage our local civil 
infrastructure capabilities into the water 
market, we have won approximately 
US$300 million in new works directly 
related to our growth strategy. These 
include treatment plant projects in 
Baltimore, Maryland and Galveston, 
Texas. We plan to expand our successful 
west coast and east coast water and 
wastewater business into areas of the 
country where high population growth 
is increasing water demand. We recently 
won another project. The Michelson 
Wastewater Treatment Plant is a 
US$166.5 million project in joint venture 
be delivered using BIM and offsite 
prefabrication to reduce waste and 
increase efﬁciencies. 
Despite the investment delays in the 
power sector, we won several signiﬁcant 
projects. In September, we were 
selected as one of two companies on 
a £288 million framework for construction, 
infrastructure and maintenance projects 
across all 10 sites operated by Magnox for 
the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority. 
This work will complement a broad 
portfolio of multidisciplined activities, 
including the execution of major projects, 
that we are already undertaking at 
licensed nuclear sites. 
Our Investments division has reached 
ﬁnancial close on the Essex Waste 
Partnership’s residual waste treatment 
and the Gloucestershire energy-from-
waste concessions. We are the 
construction partner on both projects. 
In a transportation market where large 
projects were scarce, we were awarded 
a long term contract, potentially worth 
over £125 million, to manage and maintain 
major trunk roads in the southwest of 
Scotland. In January 2013 we were 
also awarded a £321 million design and 
construction contract to upgrade sections 
of the M25 London orbital motorway for 
the Highways Agency. Working as part 
of the Connect Plus design, build, ﬁnance 
and operate contract which is responsible 
for the M25 and strategic arterial routes, 
our construction joint venture with 
Skanska will construct the infrastructure 
for Managed Motorways.
In addition to these encouraging 
business wins, our UK construction 
business was also recognised for its 
performance on a number of fronts. 
Our collaborative working practices 
won certiﬁcation to the new standard for 
Collaborative Business Relationships from 
the British Standard Institute, BS11000, 
which acknowledges the importance of 
collaboration in enhancing sustainable 
relationships, company competitiveness 
and performance. 
Over the year we also received 28 awards 
recognising our commitment to health 
and safety from the Royal Society for the 
Prevention of Accidents. And we were 
once again named Britain’s Most Admired 
Company in the Heavy Construction 
Sector by Management Today.
US
For our US construction business, 2012 
was a year of signiﬁcant successes if not 
a year of major project wins. Three of our 
projects in California received industry 
recognition from the Western Paciﬁc 
Region of the Design-Build Institute of 
America (DBIA-WPR) and the Southern 
Our UK construction 
business is very 
diverse, serving 
multiple sectors and 
undertaking both 
regional and major 
national projects. 
In 2012, to better 
integrate our service 
offering to clients, 
we streamlined 
and restructured it 
into one business 
with three business 
streams.
Mike Peasland
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Construction Services UK
 No.1
Britain’s Most Admired 
Company in the Heavy 
Construction Sector
 No.4
Engineering News-Record’s 
2012 Top 100 Green 
Contractors list in the US 
Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 36
Our Business | Operating Review | Construction Services
with J.R. Filanc Construction Co., and is 
signiﬁcant in that it represents our ofﬁcial 
entry into the Southern California water 
and wastewater market. 
In November we were named as best 
value bidder, in a design-build joint venture 
with Fluor, for the Dallas Horseshoe 
project to upgrade and replace river 
crossings in Dallas, Texas. The Texas 
Department of Transportation’s (TxDOT) 
estimate for the design, construction, 
utilities and right of way for the project 
is US$798 million. The project involves 
upgrading and replacing the I-30 and I-35E 
bridges and building additional lanes as 
well as the previously designed Margaret 
McDermott bridges. TxDOT opted for 
design-build delivery to shorten the 
construction schedule and lower the 
overall cost. Parsons Brinckerhoff’s 
technical design and our US construction 
experience in design-build were crucial 
to winning the contract.
International
Our joint venture (JV) Gammon 
Construction continued to grow its 
business in Hong Kong and the wider 
region. A string of signiﬁcant contract 
awards provided convincing evidence 
of the growth potential in this market, 
and we broadened our business mix 
to embrace a greater number of 
infrastructure projects in line with 
the Group’s key markets strategy. 
In March 2012, Gammon was awarded a 
HK$6.2 billion (£507 million) development 
contract at Hong Kong International 
Airport – the biggest solo contract it 
has ever won. 
In June Gammon also won the contract 
to build an extension to one of the world’s 
greenest science parks – a project that 
will target the Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design (LEED) 
Platinum standard.
In December Gammon won a contract to 
work on a major section of the new Shatin 
to Central Link rail project in joint venture 
with Kaden Construction. This was a 
testament to the strength of its relationship 
with Hong Kong mass transit operator 
MTR, for whom it has delivered numerous 
large projects.
In Dubai our JV delivered the Dubai Mall 
metro link ahead of schedule. The 
business also won a signiﬁcant contract 
to install the electrical, ventilation, air 
conditioning, plumbing and ﬁre protection 
systems in the new airport concourse 
facility that will also include new aircraft 
stands and passenger boarding lounges.
In Indonesia, our JV successfully delivered 
an ofﬁce building, World Trade Center II, 
for Jakarta Land.
Through our joint venture with Tata 
Projects we are currently looking for 
opportunities in rail infrastructure and 
power transmission in India. 
Rail
The Rail business has had a mixed year. 
Its ﬁnancial performance was constrained 
by operational issues on a small number 
of projects in Mainland Europe, combined 
with low activity levels in Italy and Spain. 
The operational and strategic review of 
our Mainland European rail business, 
which we started in the fourth quarter, 
has concluded that maintaining a rail 
presence in Mainland Europe is not 
consistent with our strategy which calls 
for building a strong local presence in 
our geographies in a number of market 
sectors. In Mainland Europe, we 
essentially operate only in rail. Therefore, 
we will be divesting all of our Mainland 
European rail businesses through a 
process that ensures that the businesses 
and their customers continue to receive 
full support. This decision has resulted 
in a goodwill write down amounting 
to £95 million. As a ﬁrst step in the 
divestment process, we have sold the 
Spanish business to its management 
post year end.
But these factors were offset by 
considerable success in major international 
projects where we have a strong specialist 
position that we can combine with our 
Professional Services division’s design 
capability to differentiate our offering. 
A good example is the signalling 
contract we won in joint venture with 
Thales covering west Denmark. Our role 
in the contract integrates signalling 
installation with programme management 
services from Parsons Brinckerhoff.
In the US we made signiﬁcant progress 
with the design, procurement and utility 
relocations on the Eagle P3 commuter rail 
project in Denver. Civil work is ongoing 
throughout the project and systems work 
is ramping up. Our performance to date 
has led to an extension of our involvement 
in the project. Through the end of 2012 
our joint venture has reached 30% 
completion and received US$233 million 
in executed change orders, with a 
four-month extension agreed due to 
added scope on the East Corridor.
Looking forward
Over the medium term, our construction 
businesses are positioned in their 
respective markets as market leaders with 
local presence and a good track record 
of delivery. As the current restructuring 
and cost efﬁciency initiatives are 
implemented, the businesses will become 
ever more agile, closer to the client and 
competitive in the marketplace.
The Rail business has 
had a mixed year. Its 
ﬁnancial performance 
was constrained by 
operational issues 
on a small number of 
projects in Mainland 
Europe, combined 
with low activity 
levels in Italy and 
Spain. But these 
factors were offset by 
considerable success 
in major international 
projects.
John Moore
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Rail  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
37
We grew our services business 
across signiﬁcant areas of activity 
as the trend for outsourcing gained 
further momentum in central and local 
government, regulated utilities and 
other commercial enterprises.
What do we do?
 Upgrade and maintain water, gas and electricity networks
 Total facilities management, business services outsourcing and energy services
 Highways network management, operation and maintenance
 Rail renewals
What’s happened?
 Continued growth, particularly in the power and building segments
 Won new gas distribution contracts worth £1.1 billion in the UK and started 
work on ﬁrst gas contract in Ireland
 Further increase in share of UK highways maintenance market
 Major wins for local authority unit 
 Facilities management unit appointed to run services and facilities  
for the future Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in East London
What’s next?
 Continue to beneﬁt from outsourcing activity by central and local government
 Seek further opportunities for growth in power transmission internationally
 Manage margin pressure in the division in the face of expected contraction 
in rail renewal activity
Support Services
How are we performing?
Order book
+12%
£5.7bn
£5.1bn
£4.5bn
2012
2011
2010
Revenue including JVs and associates
+3%
£1,633m
£1,584m
£1,443m
2012
2011
2010
Proﬁt before non-underlying items
−22%
£52m
£67m
£62m
2012
2011
2010
Divisional KPI
Customer retention
1
Retained customer revenue is a key 
measure for Support Services, as it 
shows how well we have leveraged our 
existing customer relationships. We have 
maintained a retention rate above 100% 
in 2012, albeit lower than that in 2011.
−4%
103.8%
108.2%
95.2%
2012
2011
2010
Our Business | Operating Review | Support Services
1
  Deﬁned as the revenue from existing customers 
retained from one year to the next. Based on 
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace, Utility Solutions and 
Living Places revenue.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38
Our Business | Operating Review | Support Services
Our strategy
Support Services is differentiated by its 
expertise in the maintenance, renewal 
and operation of hard assets and its focus 
on the transportation (highways and rail), 
utilities (power, gas and water) and to 
a lesser extent, building sectors. 
As a services integrator, we bring together 
a diverse set of capabilities to meet 
client needs. Integrating our teams with 
suppliers and clients is an everyday part of 
the business – and a skill we also employ 
to draw capabilities from other parts of 
the Group. Our increasing alignment 
with the Group’s target market sectors 
is crucial, and beneﬁts both Support 
Services and the Group.
Most of our business comes from the 
public and regulated sectors in the UK. 
Pressure on spending in these areas is 
driving innovation and creating new 
opportunities with central and local 
government, and other public entities. 
As a full service provider we aim to 
beneﬁt from the continuing trend 
towards integrated contracts. 
Our strategy is to move progressively 
from contracting relationships based on a 
project or input speciﬁcation to delivering 
transformational outputs for our clients. 
We intend to capture value by acting as 
an integrator, bringing together service 
components to deliver the outcomes that 
our customers require.
Our clients trust us to deal directly with 
their end users and stakeholders. The 
quality and responsiveness of these client 
relationships underpins our organic growth 
by enabling us to extend the length and 
breadth of successful contracts.
Our marketplace
The services market continues to grow 
with the trend towards outsourcing in 
the regulated utilities sector, government 
and local authorities, and also as 
private entities look to outsource their 
facilities management.
The trend for local authorities to outsource 
their services through larger, more 
complex integrated contracts, often over 
longer terms, continued in 2012. As a 
strongly differentiated full service provider 
with a wide range of capabilities, we have 
been able to beneﬁt despite intensifying 
competition as an increasing number of 
suppliers are attracted into the market.
A similar pattern is evident in outsourced 
facilities management (FM). While the 
reduction in discretionary spend since the 
2008 ﬁnancial crisis has made this market 
extremely competitive at the single 
27%
Our market share of 
maintenance work with the 
UK Highways Agency
£1.1bn
Value of gas distribution 
contracts won in the year
Green route for green energy
E.ON’s £736 million Humber 
Gateway offshore wind farm 
in the north of England will 
generate enough green energy 
for up to 170,000 homes. 
We are ensuring that the link to those 
homes is itself ecofriendly. We have a 
£19 million contract to design and install 
twin 132kV land cable circuits on a 
30km route across environmentally 
sensitive terrain from the shore to an 
inland substation. As well as responding 
to local community concerns, we are 
planning and timing our work to take 
care of greater crested newt ponds, 
badger setts, nesting birds, marsh 
harrier nesting sites, Little Tern breeding 
colonies, otter runs, water voles and 
grass snakes. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
39
for greater procurement of 
multidisciplinary contracts should favour 
integrated players such as Balfour Beatty.
Financial performance
Support Services order book improved 
by 12% from last year end to £5.7 billion 
(2011: £5.1 billion). Order intake was 
particularly strong in power, which ended 
the year with its order book up 65% from 
the start of the year. Revenue was up 3% 
at £1,633 million with a particularly strong 
performance in the power sector – up 
24%. Excluding acquisitions, revenue 
was up 2%. 
Proﬁtability, however, was lower at £52 
million (2011: £67 million), due to start-up 
costs on new contracts and some £10m 
of one-off cost increases on a small 
number of power sector contracts in 
Australia and New Zealand in the ﬁrst 
half of the year. Second half proﬁtability 
was in line with that in the same period 
in 2011.
For 2013, we expect to see continued 
growth in the power and buildings 
segments, a reasonably stable water 
business, but with increasing volume 
and margin pressure in rail renewals.
Operational performance
2012 was a year of further revenue 
growth for the division, particularly in 
the power and buildings segments. 
In the power sector, a key focus market 
for the Group, we are continuing to help 
deliver major infrastructure projects for 
National Grid and Scottish and Southern 
Energy in the UK, drawing on our 
engineering and asset expertise and 
global resources. This has included 
securing a ﬁve-year framework agreement 
with National Grid and delivering 
additional volumes of work above original 
agreements as part of their investment 
programme. We were also awarded 
two new contracts with Scottish Power 
Energy Networks, together worth almost 
£40 million, for electricity transmission 
work in Scotland.
In April, E.ON appointed us to install the 
cable for its Humber Gateway offshore 
wind farm. The contract, worth some 
£19 million, involves the design and 
installation of a 30km section of 
underground 132kV cable to connect 
the Humber Gateway offshore wind farm 
to a new onshore substation at Hedon 
in East Yorkshire. Our close collaboration 
with the client to understand the project’s 
environmental and ecological impact was 
a key factor in securing this contract – 
see case study on page 38.
We incurred one-off cost increases in 
some overseas utilities contracts in the 
ﬁrst half of the year. These were not 
service end, there is signiﬁcant potential 
for proﬁtable work in the bundled FM and 
total FM segments that we target. We 
have grown in these segments as we 
have progressively proven the value of 
our asset knowledge across the lifecycle 
of our clients’ assets.
Internationally, there is signiﬁcant 
investment in electricity networks virtually 
everywhere to support a shift towards 
renewable generation and to meet rising 
energy demand from consumers and the 
resources sector. This applies particularly 
in emerging and resource driven markets, 
where robust energy networks are seen 
as a cornerstone of economic growth in 
which energy intensive resource mining 
is often a key factor. In some of these 
markets, such as India, private investment 
is being sought to fund the expansion of 
the electricity network.
We have power transmission contracts 
in the US, Australia, New Zealand, Hong 
Kong and Indonesia, where we operate 
domestic businesses in joint ventures. 
We are now seeking further opportunities 
in these and other international markets 
such as Canada where we have past 
experience. In all of these markets there 
is a demand for our skilled resources, 
technical expertise and capabilities in 
managing supply chain relationships.
In the UK, the power transmission market 
is entering a new eight-year investment 
period. Given our extensive capabilities 
and experience in this territory, we are 
conﬁdent of securing new work.
The UK water market is about to begin 
reviewing contract renewals for the AMP6 
investment period. We have several 
current contracts with options to extend 
into this period, and we will also be 
seeking to expand our operations with 
both existing and new clients.
Most of our transportation work is in road 
maintenance and rail renewals. The UK 
Government’s planned £2.3 billion 
investment in major road improvements to 
the end of 2014–2015 includes £1.4 billion 
to start 14 new schemes in the four years 
to 2014–2015. We expect these schemes 
to create work in addition to the current 
contracts under which we maintain three 
of the 14 existing Highways Agency areas, 
representing a 27% market share – an 
increase on our 23% share in 2011. 
Growth in the rail renewals market is 
driven by broader central government 
strategies to maintain and improve service 
levels on the rail network. While Network 
Rail and London Underground have been 
increasing competitive pressure in the 
routine renewals market, potential 
investment in high speed rail links 
between major cities and the tendency 
Our customers trust 
us to deal directly 
with their end users 
and stakeholders. 
The quality and 
responsiveness 
of our customer 
relationships 
underpins our organic 
growth by enabling 
us to extend the 
length and breadth of 
successful contracts. 
Kevin Craven
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Support Services
Our Business | Operating Review | Support Services Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 40
Our Business | Operating Review | Support Services
repeated in the second half, and the 
projects have now been completed.
Embracing lean approaches to meet client 
efﬁciency challenges has helped us to 
secure work in the gas sector, and leaves 
us uniquely positioned to help clients 
in future. In December we won two 
eight-year contracts with National Grid 
to upgrade the UK’s gas distribution 
network. The contracts, valued at 
£1.1 billion, are for design and installation 
of modern polyethylene gas distribution 
mains to replace ageing metal pipes. The 
new Gas Distribution Strategic Partnership 
contracts cover the Northwest and 
West Midlands and replace our current 
Northwest gas contract, almost doubling 
our gas work for National Grid. 
We also began our ﬁrst gas contract in the 
Republic of Ireland. Operating as BBCLG 
in joint venture with local operator CLG, 
we have an eight-year contract to replace 
and extend the gas network on behalf of 
state operator Bord Gáis.
In the water market, we have continued 
to perform well on our AMP5 water 
contracts with network operators such 
as United Utilities and South West Water. 
We are delivering our ﬁrst projects in 
the non-infrastructure market for United 
Utilities, having established a specialist 
team during 2012 to focus on 
opportunities in this sector.
In transportation, we were awarded a 
£300 million contract to operate, maintain 
and improve part of the Highways 
Agency’s strategic route network in the 
Northwest. Through a joint venture, we 
will maintain and improve over 500km of 
motorway and trunk roads in Manchester, 
Cheshire, Merseyside and parts of 
Lancashire. The Area 10 Asset Support 
Contract runs over the next ﬁve years, 
augmenting a portfolio that already 
includes the Area 4 contract in the 
Southeast and the M25 design, ﬁnance, 
build and operate contract, the largest 
of its kind in the UK.
In facilities management, WorkPlace won 
several contracts that will ensure revenue 
growth for this unit in the coming years. 
At the start of 2012, we won a 10-year 
contract to run services and facilities for 
the future Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park 
in East London. We will have overall 
responsibility for a range of services 
including estates and FM as well as 
operating the ArcelorMittal Orbit, the 
stunning new visitor attraction forming 
a centrepiece of what will be a great 
new park for London. 
In two separate contracts in March 2012, 
we were appointed to provide FM 
services for a range of EDF Energy’s 
sites in the UK and to deliver total FM 
services across UK Power Networks’ 
property portfolio.
We were selected in August as North 
Tyneside Council’s preferred partner to 
provide business services. The contract 
is expected to be worth £200 million 
over 15 years.
Living Places also won street lighting 
contracts from Leicester City Council, 
Peterborough Council and Wokingham 
Borough Council, amongst others. A key 
component of all these contracts will be 
to convert the existing installations to 
lower energy LED lights.
Looking forward
The growth in our order book in the 
year is testament to the strength of our 
offering and an indication of the division’s 
excellent prospects. 
The trend to outsource by central and local 
government, and commercial enterprises 
is an enduring one. Our expertise and 
track record in highways and buildings 
puts us in an advantageous position to 
develop our involvement both in local 
authority work and in the facilities 
management of complex privately 
owned assets. 
Power transmission and distribution 
is a growth area both in the UK and 
in international markets. Our strength in 
this area is evidenced by the exceptional 
growth in order book and revenue in 
the year. We continue to seek further 
opportunities in the power markets. 
In contrast, rail renewal activity is expected 
to be under pressure as the market 
becomes increasingly commoditised.
Queen Elizabeth 
Olympic Park
In the ﬁrst quarter of 2012 
we won a 10-year deal to run 
services and facilities for the 
Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park 
in East London. With over 
200 new job opportunities 
created through the deal and 
most of these ﬁlled by people 
from the local community, 
Balfour Beatty’s training 
and support schemes will 
secure new long term career 
opportunities in East London. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
41
Having created signiﬁcant value through 
ﬁnancing and developing greenﬁeld 
infrastructure assets, we have also been 
successful in managing our portfolio 
more actively – generating additional 
cash from disposals and reinvesting in 
areas that align with the Group’s target 
geographies and market sectors.
What do we do?
 Operate a UK portfolio of PPP concessions, mainly in education, health, 
roads/street lighting, renewables and student accommodation
 Operate a US portfolio of military housing and student accommodation 
PPP concessions
What’s happened?
 Leveraged US military housing experience to establish a student 
accommodation portfolio in US and UK
 Made signiﬁcant progress in UK waste and energy projects
 Successfully disposed of two assets, achieving £84 million of proceeds 
and gains of £52 million
 Completed ﬁrst round of fundraising for managed investment fund
What’s next?
 Continue to make progress in new geographies such as Canada,  
India and Australia
 Deliver sustainable returns on our investments through the continuation 
of our disposal programme 
 Achieve ﬁnancial close on the six projects where we are currently 
preferred bidder
Infrastructure Investments
How are we performing?
Revenue including JVs and associates
1
−16%
£636m
£756m
£682m
2012
2011
2010
Pre-tax result before  
non-underlying items
1,2
+37%
£97m
£71m
£30m
2012
2011
2010
Divisional KPI
Directors’ valuation
While there are numerous factors that 
contribute to the movement in the year, 
Directors’ valuation of our investments 
is a good indicator of the value we create 
in our portfolio. The Directors’ valuation 
was £734 million at year end despite the 
disposal of two assets in 2012.
−1%
£734m
£743m
£671m
2012
2011
2010
1
  Including subordinated debt interest income 
and net interest income from PPP subsidiaries 
(see Notes 6 and 7). 
2
  Re-presented to reﬂect the classiﬁcation of 
Barking Power Ltd as a discontinued operation 
from 2 March 2011.
Our Business | Operating Review | Infrastructure Investments Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 42
Our Business | Operating Review | Infrastructure Investments
25,000
Number of homes that the 
Gloucestershire residual waste 
project is expected to power
£55m
Investments made in 2012
Although the family housing programme 
is in its ﬁnal stages, we anticipate new 
opportunities in single soldier housing 
over the next few years. Meanwhile, the 
skills we have accumulated are bearing 
fruit in the wider PPP market – for 
instance, our student accommodation 
business is conﬁdent of growth across 
the US. 
PPP is beginning to be used more widely 
as a procurement model for US economic 
infrastructure projects, and our investment 
team has been collaborating with our 
US construction business to identify 
attractive projects.
In Canada, where there is an established 
PPP market along similar lines to the UK’s, 
we have established ofﬁces in Toronto 
and Vancouver to address the growing 
opportunities in social and economic 
infrastructure projects.
Rest of the world
In addition to Canada, we see Australia, 
India and potentially Brazil, as exciting 
markets where investment activity can 
support the Group’s growth strategy. 
Investment management business
In November 2010 we announced plans 
to set up an investment management 
business. Our objective was to leverage 
our capabilities into greater pools of 
capital, earning both a return on our 
capital and advisory fees. 
We launched this business, Balfour Beatty 
Infrastructure Partners (BBIP), in 2011 
with the appointment of four fund 
management experts. Since then they 
have worked on obtaining the relevant 
registrations, establishing a presence 
in London and New York, identifying 
investors and pursuing the initial assets 
for the fund to invest in. 
In January 2013 the BBIP fund reached 
ﬁrst close with US$317 million of 
commitments, of which Balfour Beatty 
has committed US$110 million. In 
February 2013, the commitments 
increased to US$420 million and 
subsequent levels of close are expected 
during 2013, ultimately reducing the 
Group’s share in the fund to around 10%. 
Drawdowns will depend on the timing of 
investments by the fund, but we expect 
our commitment to be invested over the 
next three to four years.
The BBIP fund will make investments in 
predominantly brownﬁeld operational 
assets in its key target sectors of 
transport, energy and utilities across 
the UK, Europe and North America.
Financial performance
Infrastructure Investments showed 
a signiﬁcant increase in proﬁt with 
underlying pre-tax proﬁt up to £97 million 
Our strategy
Our strategy is to earn fees and returns 
by ﬁnancing and developing greenﬁeld 
assets. In line with the Group’s focus, we 
invest principally in infrastructure assets, 
and in geographies where the Group has 
a presence. We integrate capabilities from 
across the Group and with the knowledge 
and skills available to us, we believe we 
can make investments that deliver 
superior returns. 
We are diversifying our investment 
activity to align with the Group’s target 
market sectors and broaden into regions 
outside the UK and US. We see potential 
in transportation, social infrastructure and 
renewables such as offshore transmission 
and energy-from-waste; and we also want 
to develop the business in the Group’s 
target geographies such as Canada, 
India and Australia. 
Two years ago we announced our 
intention to recycle our portfolio actively 
and reinvest the capital in new projects. 
These more regular asset disposals 
release some of the accumulated value 
in our portfolio, generating additional 
income and cash for the Group. In 2012 
we decided to accelerate the disposal 
programme for the 2013–2015 period 
to beneﬁt from favourable conditions, 
namely the portfolio’s good growth 
trajectory, an active secondary market 
and considerable opportunity to make 
further greenﬁeld investments.
Our marketplace
UK
Following a UK Government review begun 
in 2010, the PFI model was relaunched as 
PF2 in December 2012. The new model 
tackles the issues of lifecycle costs and 
transparency with modest but effective 
modiﬁcations. We are now awaiting new 
investment opportunities coming to 
market under the new model.
Regardless of the development of this 
model, there are numerous opportunities 
for investment in a range of economic and 
social infrastructure projects including 
waste, student accommodation and 
offshore transmission assets. In Scotland, 
our focus is mainly on roads and 
healthcare through the Non-Proﬁt 
Distribution (NPD) programme. 
There is also an active secondary market 
to accommodate our disposal strategy, 
focused on our mature UK PFI assets. We 
had considerable success in the disposal 
of two assets in 2012 and expect the 
market to remain conducive to further 
disposals in the near future.
North America
In the US we are the largest and most 
successful provider of housing to US 
military personnel and their families. 
We made signiﬁcant 
progress in the year 
towards diversifying 
our activities into 
new sectors and 
new geographies, 
reducing the 
business’s reliance 
on PFI in the UK and 
military housing in 
the US.
Ian Rylatt
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Infrastructure Investments  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
43
(2011: £71 million). This increase was 
driven by disposal gains increasing from 
£20 million in 2011 to £52 million in 2012, 
with the proﬁts on the targeted disposals 
not only signiﬁcantly ahead of their value 
in the Directors’ valuation, but also ahead 
of our expectations. UK PPP proﬁts were 
down £1 million, principally because of the 
proﬁts foregone from disposed assets. 
Bidding costs and overheads increased 
to £34 million (2011: £30 million).
Operational performance
The Investments division has had another 
excellent year operationally. We made 
investments totalling £55 million into our 
projects while laying the groundwork to 
expand the business into new sectors 
and geographies.
Sustainability remained an integral part 
of our business in 2012. Following the 
announcement that we were chosen 
to build the largest solar powered 
community in the US at Fort Bliss military 
base, our US military housing division 
showcased a sustainability initiative, 
‘Switch4Good’, at the prestigious White 
House-sponsored “Energy Datapalooza” 
which is designed to reduce community 
energy consumption – see case 
study below.
UK
Energy-from-waste and waste treatment 
are growth segments we have been 
targeting in the last two years. In 2012 
we won the Essex Waste Partnership’s 
residual waste treatment contract in joint 
venture with Urbaser. Once operational, 
the facility will treat up to 417,000 tonnes 
of municipal waste a year. It will 
incorporate a visitor and education centre 
for the beneﬁt of the local community. 
Gloucestershire residual waste project, 
our second joint venture with Urbaser, 
reached ﬁnancial close in February 2013. 
This 28-year PPP project involves the 
design, build and operation of an energy-
from-waste facility for Gloucestershire 
County Council. This will divert over 91% 
of Gloucestershire’s residual municipal 
waste from landﬁll and generate an 
estimated 116,000MW hours of electricity 
annually – enough to power more than 
25,000 homes. 
In the offshore wind development market, 
where Transitional Round 1 of built farms 
has been completed, we are preferred 
bidder for two of the largest Offshore 
Transmission Owner (OFTO) projects, 
Thanet and Greater Gabbard. We are 
currently bidding for Gwynt y Mor OFTO 
in Transitional Round 2. 
We have established our position in the 
student accommodation market over the 
past 12 months having been successful 
on two projects. In August 2012 we 
were appointed preferred bidder for 
the University of Edinburgh’s Holyrood 
postgraduate student accommodation 
and outreach centre project. This was 
followed by another success in February 
2013, when we announced our preferred 
bidder appointment for the Aberystwyth 
University student accommodation 
project. We are also making signiﬁcant 
progress in this market in the US, giving 
us an opportunity to share learning and 
best practice across geographies for the 
beneﬁt of our clients. 
North America
In military housing, we achieved ﬁnancial 
close on the US$362m Western Group 
and continue to make progress with our 
preferred bidder positions on Northern 
Group and ACC Group III. Over the past 
12 months we have built over 650 new 
homes and renovated 960 homes on 
20 military bases across the US. 
We remain committed to developing and 
managing residential communities that 
maximise value for both our partners and 
residents and increasingly that value is 
focused on sustainability. 
In 2012, in the student accommodation 
market, we signed a development 
agreement with Lake Forest College for 
a new 233-bed student housing facility. 
We are preferred bidder for three other 
US student accommodation projects on 
a non-PPP basis, and in contention for 
a PPP detention centre project.
Putting our developer skills together with 
the Group’s rail and professional services 
expertise, we strengthened our bidding 
resources in Canada to address the 
growth in the transportation sector which 
is anticipated in a number of provinces.
Rest of the world
Over the past few years we have been 
developing our capability in the waste 
sector in the UK which we are applying 
to new opportunities in Australia. We are 
now actively developing a biomass power 
project there which is the ﬁrst in a pipeline 
of similar opportunities which we are 
exploring. 
In India we continue to bid on a number 
of power transmission projects working 
in partnership with Tata Projects. 
Looking forward
We made signiﬁcant progress in the year 
towards diversifying our activities into 
new sectors and new geographies, 
reducing our reliance on PFI in the UK 
and military housing in the US. We see 
signiﬁcant opportunity to develop the 
model further.
Switching Fort Bliss on to solar
The largest single energy consumer in the US is the Defense 
Department. And with our help it aims to meet 25% of its energy 
needs renewably by 2025. 
At Fort Bliss in Texas we are creating the world’s largest solar powered community 
by placing 13.2MW of solar power across 4,700 rooftops. When we have ﬁnished, 
sunshine will produce up to 26% of the community’s electricity needs. The US Army 
aims to make Fort Bliss a “net zero” installation, producing as much energy as it 
uses, and we are its sole net zero partner for military housing. 
Our Business | Operating Review | Infrastructure Investments Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 44
Our Business | Operating Review | Directors’ Valuation of PPP Concessions
Directors’ Valuation  
of PPP Concessions
In the UK we have built a leading 
position in the Private Finance 
Initiative (PFI) and public private 
partnerships (PPPs). In 2008 we 
acquired a US business giving us 
a strong position in privatised 
military housing, America’s most 
developed PPP market. Building 
on this platform more recently, we 
have also invested in renewables, 
waste and student housing.
The Directors’ valuation is intended to 
provide an indicator of the value intrinsic in 
our PPP investment portfolio and illustrate 
movements in underlying values between 
periods, highlighting the impact of 
intervening transactions, through the 
application of a consistent methodology. 
It does not set out to estimate the market 
value of the investments in the portfolio.
The valuation is based on the forecast 
investments and returns of the projects 
based on current projections, and may 
differ signiﬁcantly from the book value of 
the investments shown in the accounts.
The values are calculated on a discounted 
cash ﬂow basis, discounting all future 
cash ﬂows to Balfour Beatty at a ﬁxed 
rate. This rate is 9.5% before shareholder 
tax for the UK portfolio and 12% before 
shareholder tax for the US portfolio. 
As the chart below left shows, we 
promote, develop and invest in assets 
in three main sectors. We design and 
build new roads, upgrade and maintain 
existing roads and replace and maintain 
street lighting. We design and build 
hospitals and provide them with  
non-medical facilities management 
services. And we design and build or 
refurbish schools, and provide them  
with non-educational services. 
Increasingly we have been transferring our 
experience from these more traditional 
PPP sectors into other sectors such as 
power, waste treatment, energy-from-
waste and student accommodation. As a 
result, we now have seven projects in the 
UK and one project in the US outside our 
traditional sectors of roads, hospitals, 
schools and military housing.
As part of our asset disposal programme, 
we sold the Group’s stakes in two 
projects: a 33.3% interest in Health 
Management (University College London 
Hospital) and a 50% interest in North 
Lanarkshire schools. 
London Underground has exercised its 
right to terminate the power services 
contract for our Powerlink project in 
August 2013.
Value by phase
 No. of
projects 
2012
£m
2011
£m
1 3+ years post construction 13 150 226 
2 0–3 years post construction 18 355 157
3 Construction 6 26 166 
4 Preferred bidder 4 20 20
UK portfolio 41 551 569
5 US portfolio 22 183 174
Total 63 734 743 
PPP portfolio valuation, 31 December 2012
Value by sector
No. of 
projects
2012
£m
2011
£m
1 Roads 12 260 239 
2 Hospitals 7 156 202 
3 Schools 13 91 86 
4 Other 9 44 42 
UK portfolio 41 551 569
5 US portfolio 22 183 174 
Total 63 734 743
1
2
3
4
5
1
2
3
4
5
 63
Projects in our PPP portfolio 
at the end of 2012
£734m
Directors’ valuation of our PPP 
portfolio at the end of 2012 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
45
US portfolio
PPP concessions’ valuation range
UK portfolio
0
100
200
300
500
400
700
600
900
800
638 
6.5% 7 .0% 7 .5% 8.0% 8.5% 9.0% 9.5% 10.0% 10.5% 1 1 .0% 1 1 .5%
569 
551
510
Directors’ valuation £m
2012       
2011
Discount rate
615
497
0
100
50
200
150
300
250
203 
9.0% 9.5% 10.0% 10.5% 1 1 .0% 1 1 .5% 12.0% 12.5% 13.0% 13.5% 14.0%
183 
174
166
Directors’ valuation £m
2012       
2011
Discount rate
194
157
Movement in value (£m)
2011
Equity 
invested
Distri-
butions 
received
Disposal 
proceeds
Unwind 
of 
discount Rebased
New 
project 
wins
Gain on 
disposals
Operational 
perfor-
mance 
gains
FX 
translation 2012
UK portfolio 569 42 (60) (84) 55 522 4 17 8 – 551
US portfolio 174 13 (25) – 20 182 – – 9 (8) 183
Total 743 55 (85) (84) 75 704 4 17 17 (8) 734
During the year we were chosen as 
preferred bidder on the Edinburgh 
University student accommodation 
project. However, we withdrew  
from a preferred bidder position 
on a roads project in Ireland due 
to unfavourable conditions.
The table above shows the changes 
in the value of our portfolio over the past 
year, based on:
 the 2011 valuation
 PLUS equity invested during the year
 LESS distributions received during 
the year
 LESS the sale value of disposals during 
the year. During the year we sold our 
stakes in two projects: a 50% interest 
in North Lanarkshire schools and a 
33.3% interest in Health Management 
(University College London Hospital)
 PLUS the “discount unwind” – the 
increase in value as time passes, 
bringing future distributions closer.
Together, these changes give us the 
“rebased” ﬁgure.
 PLUS new project wins during the year, 
represented by the Edinburgh student 
accommodation project on which 
we were appointed preferred bidder 
in August
 PLUS the gains we made from 
disposals during the year, over and 
above the Directors’ valuation of 
those interests 
 PLUS operational performance gains, 
which reﬂect improvements or 
reductions in the performance of the 
investments – these may be due to 
higher inﬂation, better performance, 
changes in demand, revisions to costs 
and other factors. The UK portfolio 
is showing a small net gain in 
performance this year, comprising 
some increases and decreases in actual 
performance and increases due to 
higher inﬂation on projects coming 
out of construction. The US portfolio 
is also showing a net gain, with the 
movements including increases in 
scope and changes to rental rates
 LESS the effect of foreign exchange 
movements on our portfolio value.
Together, these give us the valuation of 
the 63 PPP projects in our portfolio at the 
end of 2012, which include four projects 
in our UK portfolio and two projects in our 
US portfolio at preferred bidder stage.
The graphs below give the value of each 
portfolio over a range of pre shareholder 
tax discount rates enabling the reader 
to revalue the US and UK portfolios at 
a discount rate of their choice.
Our Business | Operating Review | Directors’ Valuation of PPP Concessions Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 46
Our three projects to upgrade Baltimore’s 
Patapsco wastewater treatment plant will vastly 
improve the surrounding environment and the 
city’s outﬂows into Chesapeake Bay. 
They will ensure that the discharge of nutrients – nitrogen 
and phosphorus – into the Patapsco River meets the “pollution 
diet” introduced by the Environment Protection Agency (EPA). 
And they are helping to establish us – through our Fru-Con 
business – as one of the leading water and wastewater 
players in the US market.
 US$269m
Total value of our three  
Patapsco projects 
 100%
Increase in the plant’s  
peak capacity Our Business
47 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
You catch 
more ﬁsh
Chesapeake Bay is the largest estuary in the US, 
a complex ecosystem that supports a wide range 
of ﬁsh and shellﬁsh. But the Bay, and its marine 
inhabitants, are suffering badly from pollution. 
The main cause is nutrient rich efﬂuent, which the EPA wants 
to see cut by 20–25%. Our projects, including constructing the 
world’s largest ﬁxed ﬁlm denitriﬁcation system, an enhanced 
nutrient removal facility, a biological aerated ﬁlter building and 
pump station, as well as leading utility works for the project will 
help the city reach local environmentalists’ target of making 
Baltimore Harbour more habitable for marine life by 2020.
80%
Reduction in nitrates that  
the new plant will achieve
 100,000
Tonnes of chromium laden soil 
our work will also eliminate Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 48
Our Business | The Way We Work
Health and safety
In 2008 we set out to achieve Zero Harm 
by 2012. That meant zero deaths, zero 
injuries to the public and zero ruined 
lives among all our people: no seriously 
disabling injuries, no long term harm to 
health and an accident frequency rate 
(AFR) below 0.10. While we failed to meet 
these targets across the Group, we made 
important progress and remain even more 
committed to achieving them.
Our overall Group performance improved 
in 2012, with most businesses making 
further advances towards Zero Harm. Of 
the 184 (2011: 189) major injuries reported 
in 2012, one was permanently disabling, 
compared with ﬁve in 2011. Group AFR 
improved to 0.16 in 2012 (2011: 0.17).
There were signiﬁcant improvements 
in many parts of the Group, with 20 out 
of 34 operations showing either zero 
AFR or an improved AFR compared with 
2011. Group AFR has reduced by 69% 
since 2001.
There were 115 injuries to members 
of the public in 2012 (2011: 127), 
a reduction of 9%.
However, we regret that there were 
eight employee fatalities during 2012 – 
three in the UK, two in North America, 
two in Australia and one in Indonesia 
(2011: ﬁve in Hong Kong). Every fatal 
accident is subject to a thorough 
investigation and review by the 
Balfour Beatty Board. Lessons learnt 
are shared across the Group to help 
improve future performance.
To emphasise our commitment to the 
absolute necessity for Zero Harm, in 
June 2012 we held our ﬁrst ever Group 
wide safety stand down. Over 90,000 
Balfour Beatty and subcontractor 
personnel stopped work to remember 
colleagues killed at work, consider new 
ways of working to prevent fatal accidents 
and reafﬁrm everyone’s individual 
responsibilities for keeping colleagues and 
members of the public safe from harm.
In 2013 and beyond, our Zero Harm goals 
of zero fatalities, zero disabling injuries, 
zero injuries to members of the public and 
zero new cases of long term harm to 
health will remain. As we head into 2013, 
we are intensifying our Zero Harm efforts, 
setting clear Health & Safety expectations 
for all of our businesses, renewing our 
focus on the elimination of fatal risk and 
increasing the level of personal 
accountability for safety. 
Ethics and values
Across all of our businesses, we share 
the same values – integrity, teamwork, 
excellence and respect. They help to 
deﬁne who we are and what we want 
to be known for. Integrity is about being 
honest and transparent and always doing 
what is right. Teamwork means seeing 
ourselves as part of a bigger picture in the 
way we work with colleagues, clients and 
suppliers. Excellence is the standard of 
performance people are entitled to expect 
from working with or for us. Respect 
shapes the way we treat other people, 
inside and outside the business – and 
the wider community and environment.
Our programme to embed ethics and 
integrity across our business covers not 
only bribery, fraud and competition law 
but also data protection, human rights 
and other areas addressed in our Code 
of Conduct. For nearly four years we 
have been embedding a best practice 
compliance programme founded on 
our values, the Code of Conduct and its 
associated training modules. To date more 
than 40,000 employees have completed 
the ﬁrst online training module and 
more than 26,000 have completed the 
second module. We have also begun 
a programme for site operatives which 
should be largely completed in 2013.
As part of our programme, in 2009 
we launched a conﬁdential helpline for 
whistleblowers. Last year, for the ﬁrst 
time since its launch, we saw a slight 
decrease in the number of potential 
breaches of the Code of Conduct reported 
via the helpline or other whistleblowing 
channels or detected by management to 
221 (2011: 232), excluding HR grievances. 
Whilst this may indicate that our ethics 
and compliance programme is leading 
to a reduction in unethical behaviour, 
we believe that we are still experiencing 
under reporting in some countries and 
we would also hope and expect to see 
an increase in reporting, once the site 
operative ethics training has been fully 
rolled out.
During 2012 we continued to embed the 
compliance programme and developed 
an assurance framework, which includes 
management self assessments, 
compliance function risk assessments 
and internal audits of anti corruption 
procedures. This helps us to test 
implementation, address weaknesses 
and continually improve.
The Way We Work
Showing leadership in values and behaviour is essential for a business 
such as Balfour Beatty that aspires to differentiate itself in the market 
and be seen as a global leader in its ﬁeld. That is why we have made 
it one of our core strategic objectives: we want high ethical and 
professional standards to be evident in every aspect of the way we work. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
49
Delivering sustainability for customers
We see our sustainability performance 
and expertise as a strategic asset, and aim 
for market leading capability in delivering 
sustainable solutions for clients. 
Sustainability is increasingly important to 
clients and we work closely with many 
clients to deliver sustainable solutions. 
We have now secured positions in 
virtually all the renewables markets, made 
our delivery capability signiﬁcantly more 
efﬁcient through BIM technology and 
materials reuse, and have developed 
a comprehensive array of water, carbon 
and ecology tools. Through training and 
knowledge sharing we have equipped 
our business development teams and 
design managers to advise clients on 
how sustainable thinking can add value 
to their projects.
Environmental performance
We have made good progress against 
a number of our environmental targets. 
We met our target to halve our waste 
to landﬁll by 2012 and in the UK we 
procured 44% of our major materials 
from recognised responsible sourcing 
schemes. Reducing our energy 
consumption has been more challenging, 
but in 2012 our overall Scope 1 and 2 
carbon intensity decreased by 13% 
following restatement based on more 
comprehensive data. Improvements in 
our UK businesses were partially offset 
by growth in energy intensive projects in 
Hong Kong. Further details are available 
in our 2012 Sustainability Report online 
at www.balfourbeatty.com. 
Four environmental incidents resulted 
in enforcement action and ﬁnes in 
2012 across the Group (2011: 6) totalling 
£66,800 (2011: £18,800). These ranged 
from £160 to £56,000. Corrective actions 
have been completed for each violation.
Looking ahead
In 2013 we are focusing on sustainability 
as a driver of growth, supply chain 
engagement and a more focused 
approach to social performance. We will 
also be promoting sustainable innovation 
in products, client engagement and 
efﬁciency – such as our reuse and 
recycling practices that have saved 
the Highways Agency £55 million over 
the past three years.
As we seek to grow in emerging markets, 
it is even more important that we continue 
to roll out our ethical programme. The 
choices that we face can be difﬁcult, but 
we must ensure our values are at the 
forefront of each and every business 
decision. In 2013, we will continue to 
implement appropriate policies and 
procedures to support our growth strategy 
in new and often higher risk markets, 
and to embed the culture of ethics and 
integrity upon which, ultimately, the 
success of our programme will depend.
Sustainability
We have set out a clear path to embed 
sustainability into everything we do by 
2020. At the end of 2012 we published 
our roadmap for the 2013–2015 second 
stage of this journey – developed in 
consultation with over 200 staff and 
20 clients and non-governmental 
organisations (NGOs).
This roadmap deﬁnes our objectives, 
strategies and measures in 11 focus areas: 
new markets, client engagement, 
efﬁciency, our people, supply chain, 
communities, climate change, waste, 
water, materials and ecology.
In our 2012 Sustainability Report online at 
www.balfourbeatty.com we report our 
progress against the 2009–2012 ﬁrst 
stage roadmap. Broadly speaking, we 
performed better against our proﬁtable 
markets and healthy communities targets 
than the environmental limits targets. 
Within environmental limits, we 
performed better on waste management 
than on carbon reduction.
We benchmarked our performance 
externally by participating in three key 
indices – securing a Silver rating in the 
Business in the Community Index, a 
score of 78 out of 100 from the Carbon 
Disclosure Project, and inclusion in the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe. 
During 2011 and 2012 an independent 
programme was conducted by KPMG 
to review our progress against the 
roadmap and help management embed 
sustainability within the business. The 
quality of our reporting was recognised 
by the Building Public Trust Awards 
FTSE 250 Sustainability Report award in 
November 2012. We have been credited 
by the asset management business, 
Robeco SAM, as the Sector Mover in 
the Heavy Construction Sector’ in 2012.
To earn the trust 
of clients and other 
stakeholders, we 
must do business 
ethically at all times. 
We focus on doing 
the right things 
and see compliance 
with the law as the 
absolute minimum 
we expect.
Chris Vaughan
Chief Corporate Ofﬁcer 
Our Business | The Way We Work Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 50
Our Business | The Way We Work
People
Our competitiveness depends on how 
well we harness the wide range of skills, 
knowledge and potential in our 50,000 
global workforce. The key is to identify 
and nurture the talents of all our people, 
in a values based business where they 
can thrive. Our people policies are 
focused on fulﬁlling the potential in the 
Group so our clients beneﬁt from wide 
ranging capability, and our employees 
from enhanced careers. 
During the year we continued to enhance 
the way we identify and develop talent in 
the organisation. We supplemented our 
Group wide leadership framework, which 
articulates what the business requires 
of its leaders today, with a new set of 
requirements for the people with potential 
who will lead the business in the future. 
We ran our ﬁrst Group development 
centre to test these requirements with a 
range of high potential individuals. They 
were observed by senior leaders from 
across the business to extend the visibility 
of our talent across the organisation. 
We also launched two new programmes 
aimed at supporting people with potential 
at key career transition points. The 
advanced management programme 
and executive leadership programme 
combine thought leadership, drawn from 
the latest academic research, with the 
opportunity to address real business 
challenges in the Group and to network 
with other participants. 
The launch of individual personal and skill 
proﬁles on the new Group knowledge 
sharing and collaboration intranet also 
helps us identify and deploy talent more 
effectively – for example by promoting 
opportunities to work in different 
businesses and locations. 
We continue to build on our progress 
in instilling leadership in values and 
behaviours. Our commitment to our 
values in the treatment of others is now 
increasingly embedded in the way we 
work. We can use this commitment to 
extend and enhance the Group’s brand 
in the market so that we attract the very 
best external talent – and we have already 
won several new awards for companies 
highly rated by graduates including The 
Guardian UK 300 and the Job Crowd’s Top 
Companies for Graduates to Work For. 
Our US construction business has been 
recognised as a Fortune “Best Company 
To Work For” at #85 in the rankings.
We also continue to make progress in 
our work on diversity so that we attract 
and engage more than our fair share of 
talent from the broadest possible pools. 
Formal awards and recognition for our 
achievements in this area, including from 
both Opportunity Now and Race for 
Opportunity in 2012, give us a strong 
platform to build on in 2013.
Respecting our communities
Our business is centred on communities. 
We bring them signiﬁcant beneﬁts by 
creating and caring for efﬁcient, high 
quality economic and social amenities. 
But we also recognise the importance 
of engaging more directly with the 
communities where we operate. 
Because our operations are so widely 
dispersed, we do this through local 
initiatives that ﬁt with our businesses’ 
individual objectives and provide 
motivation and engagement for our 
employees. Across the Group there is a 
high degree of commitment to, and active 
participation in, community involvement. 
At Group level we work, often in 
partnership with clients, to support 
organisations and activities that aim to 
improve social cohesion and inclusion. 
In the UK these have included the 
London Youth Games, Action for Children, 
the Coram Foundation and the Prince’s 
Trust. We also donate cash and the 
energies of our employees to selected 
charitable causes. The Balfour Beatty 
Charitable Trust has donated over 
£1.75 million to disadvantaged young 
people’s charities since its inception in 
2009, through corporate funding and 
employee fundraising.
In late 2011 we reviewed our community 
policies to take account of the Group’s 
increasing size and geographical spread 
and to align our community programmes 
more closely with key social issues and 
our core business activities. The result 
was Building Better Futures, a set of 
strategic themes focusing on young 
people’s employability and employment, 
helping the most disadvantaged young 
people in society.
Our competitiveness 
is founded on a 
tradition of technical 
capability and 
collaboration, an 
established culture 
of respect and 
leadership in values 
and behaviours, 
and individual 
empowerment to 
drive improvement 
and innovation.
Paul Raby
Group HR director Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
51
Building Better Futures and our 
sponsorship of the London Youth Games 
have been very successful in the UK, 
but we need an approach that also 
embraces the US and our emerging 
markets, such as South Africa. In 2013, 
we will look to build on each aspect of 
our community engagement programme 
within those markets where we have 
signiﬁcant presence.
In 2012, we worked closely with 
our charitable partners to develop 
programmes that meet our common 
strategic ambitions. We also built 
stronger internal networks to help us 
identify and promote local initiatives 
and programmes within the Group 
that support our strategic theme of 
employability and employment. 
We continue to build a volunteering 
culture across the Group. Many of our 
businesses’ volunteering policies were 
extended in 2012 and will be further 
developed during 2013. Our charitable 
partners have been working with us to 
identify opportunities for our staff to 
become involved in their work and we 
plan to build on this in 2013. We also 
plan to incorporate a volunteering 
module into our apprentice and 
graduate development programmes.
Hong Kong’s ﬁrst  
zero carbon building
Our Gammon joint venture 
built the Zero Carbon Building 
in Kowloon Bay which may be 
small in scale but its impact 
on green construction will be 
long lasting and far ranging.
The Zero Carbon Building – the ﬁrst 
of its kind in Hong Kong – achieved 
BEAM Plus Platinum environmental 
standard, the highest rating possible. 
It will produce more energy than it 
consumes – about 225MW hours 
of electricity in total per year. 
30% of the generated energy will be 
derived from solar panels and 70% 
from biodiesel made from used 
cooking oil. 
 1st
Female non-executive Director 
and managing director of a 
business unit appointed
40,000
More than 40,000 employees 
have completed the ﬁrst 
Code of Conduct online 
training module
Our Business | The Way We Work Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 52
In 2005, we formed a joint venture with local 
support services business UGL to bid for power 
transmission contracts in Australasia.  
The key to our success is our collaborative approach; our global 
teams transfer knowledge and best practice developed in 
recent years in the UK to Australasian markets, putting our 
global transmission expertise to work in partnership with local 
asset owners. Today, BBUGL is the region’s market leader in 
extra high voltage transmission. We design and build overhead 
and underground transmission and distribution systems for 
clients in Australia, New Zealand and the Paciﬁc. 
500kV
Maximum voltage for  
BBUGL projects
 186km
Length of new Whakamaru-
Brownhill Road power line Our Business
53 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
You share 
power
Electricity is so versatile that people use  
it in more and more ways. 
Since the power grid in New Zealand’s upper North Island 
was last upgraded in the 1970s, the region’s population has 
more than doubled – and electricity use has trebled. To carry 
modern loads, BBUGL has just completed a new 400kV 
overhead transmission line. As New Zealand’s largest 
infrastructure project, it presented many engineering 
challenges, including the design of 65m-high monopole 
towers to minimise visual impact in sensitive scenic areas.
432
Number of new transmission 
towers built for the project
460
Number of old towers 
demolished Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s Review
2012 saw a resilient underlying earnings performance despite  
some challenging markets.
Trading performance
Professional Services performed well, 
improving its order book by 5% despite 
uncertainty arising from presidential 
elections and the ﬁscal cliff in the US and 
a difﬁcult market in the UK. Strong growth 
in the rest of the world, particularly Qatar 
and Canada, contributed to revenue. 
Performance was mixed in Australia, with 
a revenue decline in transportation offset 
partly by growth in mining, but it remains 
an important and successful territory. 
Underlying proﬁt increased by 13% to 
£98m, with good contributions from 
transportation and power sectors.
Construction Services saw the anticipated 
reduction in proﬁtability with underlying 
proﬁt at £122m (2011: £169m). There was 
a drop in proﬁts in US construction as 
a result of more competitive pricing in 
the market. Our Mainland European rail 
business weakened due to a low level 
of activity as well as one-off issues. 
The operational and strategic review has 
concluded and we will be divesting all 
of our Mainland European rail businesses 
over time. UK construction beneﬁted 
from successfully completing some long 
term projects, but overall proﬁts reduced. 
This was largely a consequence of lower 
margins in the regional businesses as 
a result of tightening markets and was 
exacerbated by delivery margins being 
impacted by rising subcontractor defaults.
Unexecuted construction orders ﬁnished 
the year at £8.0bn, down 6% from a year 
ago (2011: £8.5bn). The most signiﬁcant 
decrease was in the US, down 17% from 
the end of 2011. However, the awarded 
but not contracted position has improved, 
keeping the overall US pipeline broadly 
stable. The UK order book was up 1% 
from a year ago, but we have seen a 
signiﬁcant shift in the year from major 
works to smaller contracts, with the 
order book for the regional building 
and civils business up 15% since 
the end of 2011 while the order 
book for major construction work 
declined by 24%. Construction 
revenue was down by 4% 
overall, excluding the impact 
of acquisitions.
Support Services’ order book improved 
by 12% from the end of 2011 to £5.7bn 
(2011: £5.1bn). Order intake was 
particularly strong in power, which ended 
the year with order book up 65% from the 
start of the year. Revenue was up 3% at 
£1,633m, again with a particularly strong 
performance in the power sector which 
was up 24%. Proﬁtability however, was 
lower at £52m (2011: £67m), due to start 
up costs on new contracts and some 
£10m of one-off costs in a small number 
of power sector contracts in Australasia in 
the ﬁrst half. Second half proﬁtability was 
in line with the second half of last year.
Infrastructure Investments showed 
a signiﬁcant increase in proﬁt with 
underlying pre-tax proﬁt up to £97m 
(2011: £71m). This increase was driven 
by disposal gains increasing from £20m 
in 2011 to £52m in 2012, with the proﬁts 
on the targeted disposals not only 
signiﬁcantly ahead of their value in the 
Directors’ valuation, but also ahead of our 
expectations. UK PPP proﬁts were down 
£1m, principally because of the proﬁts 
foregone from disposed assets. 
See pages 28 to 43 for more detailed 
comments on performance by segment.
Cost efﬁciency programme
We started on the journey to improve 
our cost effectiveness with the 
announcement in August 2010 of the 
creation of a shared service centre in 
Newcastle. By the end of 2011 we had 
230 employees accounting for 50% of 
UK transactions and procuring £300m 
of indirect spend.
The success of this initiative convinced us 
to expand the programme and apply what 
we had learnt elsewhere, so in March 
2012 we announced that we would target 
to save a further £50 million per annum 
by 2015 for one-off costs estimated at 
between £50 million and £75 million. 
In addition to expanding the scope of the 
Newcastle service centre including some 
global procurement, we are setting up 
an equivalent service centre in Lancaster, 
PA which will go operational in April 2013. 
We are also restructuring our businesses; 
in particular, UK construction has been 
reorganised into three business streams 
and is in the process of reducing the 
number of ofﬁces from 75 down to 37, 
and US construction has been reorganised 
into three regions. 
We are rigorously 
pursuing cost 
savings to offset the 
impact of continuing 
difﬁcult construction 
markets and to 
position ourselves 
for the future.
Duncan Magrath
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
 
Our Business | Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s Review
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 54 We have booked non-underlying costs for 
redundancy, relocation, property and other 
associated costs for this programme of 
£61m in the year. Savings in 2012 from 
the original and expanded programme 
were £36m, and we remain on track to 
deliver annual savings of £80m in 2015. 
Financial review
Revenue including joint ventures and 
associates declined 1% in the year to 
£10,896m (2011: £11,035m). Excluding 
the impact of currency and acquisitions, 
underlying revenue declined by 4%.
Our share of underlying post-tax proﬁts 
from continuing joint ventures and 
associates increased to £97m from £75m 
last year, principally due to increased 
proﬁts from our overseas construction 
joint ventures, with improved liquidity in 
Dubai and continuing growth in Hong Kong.
Underlying proﬁt from continuing 
operations decreased by 7% to £309m 
(2011: £331m), including the beneﬁt of 
£52m of gains from PPP disposals.
Net ﬁnance income of £1m was broadly 
in line with the prior year (2011: £3m).
Underlying pre-tax proﬁt from continuing 
operations therefore decreased 7% to 
£310m (2011: £334m).
The underlying tax charge for continuing 
operations for the year of £70m (2011: 
£91m), excluding the Group’s share of the 
results of joint ventures and associates, 
equates to an effective tax rate of 32.9% 
(2011: 35.1%). Adjusting to include tax 
in joint ventures and associates, and 
comparing this to pre-tax proﬁts for the 
continuing Group and joint ventures and 
associates, the effective tax rate was 
25.7% (2011: 30.2%). 
Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items of £235m (2011: 
£88m) before tax were charged to the 
income statement. This comprised 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets 
of £45m (2011: £62m) and other items of 
£190m (2011: £26m). The amortisation 
charge declined in the year as some 
intangible assets became fully written 
down. Other items included rail 
restructuring costs of £104m, of which 
£95m comprised goodwill write downs. 
These are as a result of our strategic 
decision to divest all of our Mainland 
European rail businesses over time. 
During the year we also announced a 
major restructuring of our business to 
rationalise the cost base, expand our 
use of shared service centres and aid 
collaboration by colocating employees. 
Costs incurred on this during the year 
were £61m. Post-acquisition integration, 
reorganisation and other costs totalled 
£9m, principally due to the settlement 
of a pre-acquisition legal case in Parsons 
Brinckerhoff. We also wrote down our 
investment in Exeter International Airport 
in the ﬁrst half from £12m to £nil, as a 
result of continued poor trafﬁc volumes 
in the regional airport market.
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share from 
continuing operations of 35.0p were 
down 1% on last year (2011: 35.5p).
Cash ﬂow performance
Cash used in operations of £219m 
(2011: generated £35m) was impacted 
by a working capital outﬂow of £310m 
(2011: £201m). Including the impact 
of exchange, negative working capital 
decreased from £1,085m at the end 
of 2011 to £777m at the end of 2012. 
Of this decrease of £308m, the biggest 
component was £250m in Construction 
Services. This was largely due to changes 
in the mix of business, away from larger 
more complex projects, which have the 
potential for more favourable terms, 
to smaller projects, plus the impact of 
volume reductions with revenue down 
10% in the UK and 8% in the US in the 
second half year on year. 
Cash from operations was also impacted 
by pension deﬁcit payments of £61m 
(2011: £58m). 
As shown in the diagram on page 57, 
average borrowings in the second half of 
the year were £126m, although the Group’s 
net cash at 31 December 2012 was £35m 
(2011: £340m), before taking into account 
the consolidation of £368m (2011: £332m) 
of non-recourse net borrowings held in 
wholly owned PPP project companies.
More detailed analysis on the movements 
in net cash is shown in Note 29.
Goodwill and intangible assets
Total consideration for the acquisition 
of Subsurface Group amounted to £10m, 
with goodwill of £9m arising and a further 
£3m of other intangible assets being 
recognised. These increases were more 
than offset by the write down in the 
Mainland European rail business, so 
that the goodwill on the Group’s balance 
sheet at 31 December 2012 decreased 
to £1,160m (2011: £1,279m). Other 
intangible assets, after amortisation 
charges of £49m (2011: £66m), reduced 
to £212m (2011: £239m). 
Impairment reviews have been carried 
out, and none of the goodwill, other than 
noted above, has been impaired. Details 
of the calculations and assumptions are 
shown in Note 13. Two businesses have 
no headroom. The goodwill relating to the 
Mainland European rail business has been 
written down to £61m, but a 1% increase 
in the discount rate would lead to a further 
impairment of £16m. The recoverable 
amount of the Blackpool Airport goodwill 
is £4m, underpinned by the value of the 
land owned.
Results for the year
2012 2011
Percentage 
increase
Revenue including joint ventures  
and associates £10,896m £11,035m (1)%
Group revenue £9,483m £9,494m –
Proﬁt from continuing operations
– underlying £309m £331m (7)%
– reported £74m £243m (70)%
Pre-tax proﬁt from continuing 
operations
– underlying £310m £334m (7)%
– reported £75m £246m (70)%
Earnings per share from continuing 
operations
– underlying 35.0p 35.5p (1)%
– basic 6.5p 26.7p (76)%
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
55
Our Business | Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s Review Balance sheet and capital structure
The diagram below gives a visual 
representation of the major elements 
that we consider in relation to the shape 
of the balance sheet. We look to achieve 
a balance between the negative working 
capital, liquid funds and the PPP 
investments portfolio. Whilst we have 
seen a reduction in net cash during 2012, 
we have also seen a reduction in the 
levels of negative working capital, with 
the Directors’ valuation of our investments 
portfolio remaining broadly unchanged.
These items are considered further below. 
Infrastructure investments
During 2012, the Group invested £55m 
(2011: £52m) in a combination of equity 
and shareholder loans to PPP project 
companies and at the end of the year 
had committed to provide a further £47m 
from 2013 onwards, with some £77m 
expected in addition for six projects at 
preferred bidder stage. 
During the year total proceeds of £84m 
were received from the disposal of the 
Group’s 50% interest in Transform 
Schools (North Lanarkshire) and 
33.3% interest in Health Management 
(UCLH), realising £17m in excess 
of Directors’ valuation.
At 31 December 2012, the Group’s share 
of non-recourse net borrowings within 
Balfour Beatty Investments’ continuing 
PPP project companies amounted to 
£2,086m (2011: £2,127m), comprising 
£1,718m (2011: £1,795m) in relation to 
joint ventures and associates as disclosed 
in Note 16.2 and £368m (2011: £332m) 
on the Group balance sheet in relation to 
wholly owned subsidiaries as disclosed 
in Note 24.1.
The Directors have carried out a valuation 
of the Group’s PPP concessions. This is 
set out on pages 44 and 45 and shows 
that the value of the portfolio has 
decreased during the year from £743m 
to £734m, after receiving cash net of 
reinvestment of £114m.
Working capital
Negative working capital reduced from 
£1,085m to £777m, so total working 
capital as a percentage of annualised 
revenue (WCPR) at the end of the year 
was (8.3)% (2011: (10.9)%). The most 
signiﬁcant component of negative working 
capital relates to Construction Services, 
which ended the year with WCPR of 
(12.1)% (2011: (14.7)%). 
In 2013, we would expect further 
reductions in negative working capital 
in UK construction as a result of 
anticipated revenue reductions, and the 
greater proportion of smaller contracts. 
We also expect an increase in working 
capital in Support Services, due to one 
very large contract with positive working 
capital characteristics. Professional 
Services will continue trending towards 
5% positive working capital. We would 
however, expect negative working capital 
to be broadly stable in US construction, 
before increasing again when the 
market recovers.
Pensions – balance sheet movement
The Group’s balance sheet includes 
aggregate deﬁcits of £338m (2011: 
£275m) for the Group’s pension schemes. 
Note 26 sets out the assumptions used 
and a sensitivity analysis which identiﬁes 
the impact on the balance sheet from 
changes in those assumptions. 
The Group recorded net actuarial losses 
for 2012 on those schemes totalling 
£121m (2011: gains £60m), with the 
effects of the lower discount rates applied 
to the schemes’ obligations exceeding 
the better than expected returns on the 
assets held by the schemes and revised 
mortality assumptions based on historical 
experience. Movements in the pension 
deﬁcit are illustrated in the diagram below.
In our 2013 accounts, we will be applying 
the new IAS 19 reporting standard which 
requires the return on assets within the 
pension net ﬁnance cost to be calculated 
using the same rate as the discount rate 
on the obligations. This has no cash 
impact, but we estimate that net ﬁnance 
cost will increase by £21m in 2013, 
compared with a £10m increase for 2012. 
A formal actuarial valuation of the Balfour 
Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF) was carried 
out at 31 March 2010 and showed a 
funding position of 85%. A funding plan 
was agreed to eliminate that deﬁcit over 
eight years. Under this plan, the Group is 
making regular monthly payments, which 
increase each April by the growth in CPI 
up to a cap of 5%, plus 50% of any 
increase in the Company’s dividend in 
Balance sheet elements Pensions – balance sheet movement
Cumulative contributions for deﬁcit funding since December 2009 of £255m
Dec
2009
Dec
2010
Dec
2011
Service
cost
Company
contributions
Actuarial
gain
assets
Actuarial
loss
liabilities
Other
movements
Dec
2012
£166m
£586m
£120m
£441m
£75m
£275m
£48m
£96m
£73m
£194m
£420m
£321m
£200m
£10m
£338m
Pension deﬁcits, net of tax Deferred tax assets
£(1,085)m
£(777)m
£743m
£734m
£340m
£35m
£(2)m
£(8)m
£(275)m
£(338)m
Investments
1
Working capital
Aggregate
3
Pension deﬁcit
Net cash
2
¹  Directors’ valuation of PPP concessions.
²  Excluding net borrowings of PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse).
3
  Aggregate balance of investments, working capital and net cash.
Dec 2011       Dec 2012
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 56
Our Business | Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s Review excess of CPI. Monthly deﬁcit payments 
from April 2012 were £4.5m. Regular 
deﬁcit payments into the BBPF increased 
by £0.9m per month to £5.4m following 
the merger of the Parsons Brinckerhoff 
pension scheme into the BBPF on 
30 June 2012. In advance of the formal 
triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 
2013, additional contributions of £1m per 
month are payable for any month where 
the BBPF funding levels drop below the 
targets set out in the BBPF funding plan.
Dividends
The Board has recommended a ﬁnal 
dividend of 8.5p in respect of 2012, giving 
a full-year dividend of 14.1p (2011: 13.8p), 
up 2% on last year. Underlying dividend 
cover, taking into account PPP disposal 
gains, for 2012 is 2.5 times. 
Banking facilities
The Group’s principal committed facility is 
a ﬁve-year revolving syndicated facility at 
£850m which was arranged in November 
2011. In December 2012 an expiring 
£100m bilateral facility was extended 
through to 2016. The purpose of these 
facilities, and other small facilities, is to 
provide liquidity from a group of core 
relationship banks to support Balfour 
Beatty in its current and future activities. 
Over time, as the Group evolves we will 
continue to explore diversifying our 
sources of funds away from the pure bank 
market, and as part of that process, after 
the year end US$350m was raised 
through a US private placement of a series 
of notes with an average coupon of 4.94% 
over 9.3 years. The incremental cost of 
this funding on an annual basis is 
approximately £9m. 
In addition, the Group has non-recourse 
facilities for companies engaged in PPP 
projects and infrastructure investments.
In the normal course of its business, the 
Group arranges for ﬁnancial institutions 
to provide customers with guarantees in 
connection with its contracting activities 
(commonly referred to as bonds). Such 
bonds provide a customer with a level 
of ﬁnancial protection in the event that a 
contractor fails to meet its commitments 
under the terms of a contract. In return 
for issuing the bonds, the ﬁnancial 
institutions receive a fee and a counter-
indemnity from Balfour Beatty plc. As 
at 31 December 2012, contract bonds 
in issue by ﬁnancial institutions under 
uncommitted facilities covered £3.3bn 
(2011: £3.7bn) of contract commitments 
of the Group.
Financial risk factors and  
going concern
The key ﬁnancial risk factors for the Group 
remain largely unchanged, with two 
exceptions. Firstly, a year ago the risk 
of economic events in Europe leading to 
disruption in the euro economies and an 
impact on the bonding market was higher 
than it is today. In addition, we believe 
the measures we have announced for 
restructuring our Mainland European rail 
business will help to limit the impact that 
future events could have on our business, 
although a further deterioration in the 
outlook for our business in those markets 
could lead to a further non-cash goodwill 
impairment charge. Secondly, however, 
the outlook for UK construction has 
deteriorated over the last 12 months. 
The lack of work at attractive rates in 
the market will in turn lead to reduced 
volumes which will lead to further 
unwinding of the negative working capital 
position, and hence a cash outﬂow. In 
addition, the overall health of the market 
is likely to lead to increased risks of 
company failures particularly in our 
subcontractor supply chain. Given the 
importance of maintaining a strong 
balance sheet and liquidity, as noted 
above we have put in place a US$350m 
private placement and extended a £100m 
bilateral bank facility for four years.
The Directors have acknowledged the 
guidance “Going Concern and Liquidity 
Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK 
Companies 2009” published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 
2009. In reviewing the future prospects 
of the Group, the following factors 
are relevant:
 the Group has a strong order backlog 
 there continues to be underlying 
demand in infrastructure markets in the 
countries in which the Group operates
 the Group has an increasingly 
diversiﬁed business model that 
gives resilience to the business
 excluding the non-recourse net 
borrowings of PPP subsidiaries, 
the Group had £35m net cash at 
31 December 2012 and committed 
facilities of £950m for at least the 
next three years, of which £540m 
were undrawn.
Based on the above, and having made 
appropriate enquiries and reviewed 
medium term cash forecasts, the 
Directors consider it reasonable to 
assume that the Group and the Company 
have adequate resources to continue for 
the foreseeable future and, for this reason, 
have continued to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements. 
To appreciate the prospects for the Group 
as a whole, the complete Annual Report 
and Accounts 2012 needs to be read.
Average net cash/(borrowings)
1
 
-£100m
-£200m
£100m
£200m
£0m
£400m
£300m
£600m
£500m
Jun
2008
£333m
£440m
£394m
£572m
£500m
£518m
£292m £340m
£223m
£256m
£224m
£342m
£436m £434m
£296m
£104m
£34m
£35m
£35m
£(126)m
Dec
2008
Jun
2009
Dec
2009
Jun
2010
Dec
2010
Jun
2011
Dec
2011
Jun
2012
Dec
2012
Net cash Six-monthly average
¹  Excluding net borrowings of PPP subsidiaries (non-recourse).
Our Business | Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s Review
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
57 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 58
Our Business | Managing Risk
Risk management
Effective risk management underpins the delivery 
of our objectives. It is essential to protecting our 
reputation and generating sustainable shareholder 
value. We aim to identify key risks at an early 
stage and develop actions to eliminate them 
or mitigate their impact and likelihood to an 
acceptable level.
Risk management processes are embedded 
throughout the Group at all levels and form an 
integral part of day-to-day business activity. They 
help management to identify and understand the 
risks they face in delivering business objectives 
and the status of the key controls in place for 
managing those risks.
Managing Risk
Responsibilities Actions undertaken
1. Board Responsible for the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal control
 Determine Group appetite for risk in achieving 
its strategic objectives
 Issue and review Group risk management policy
 Annually review effectiveness of Group risk 
management and internal control systems
 Review the Group’s key risks and risk responses
Audit Committee Review the effectiveness of Group internal 
controls, including systems to identify, assess, 
manage and monitor risks
 Receive regular reports on internal and external audit 
and other assurance activities
 Annually assess Group risk management and internal 
control systems
Business Practices  
Committee
 Review Group management of risks 
associated with health and safety, 
sustainability, employee engagement, 
corporate values, ethics and Code of Conduct
 Receive regular reports on implementation of Group 
health and safety, sustainability and ethics and 
compliance programmes, and Group HR policies
 Review effectiveness of the Group’s helpline 
procedures and other mechanisms for raising concerns
2. Group management Strategic leadership
 Responsible for ensuring that the Group’s 
risk management policy is implemented 
and embedded
 Ensure appropriate actions are taken to 
manage strategic risks and key risks arising 
from bidding and project execution
 Strategic roadmap and annual budget process
 Review of risk management and assurance activities 
and processes
 Group Tender and Investments Committee
 Monthly/quarterly ﬁnance and performance reviews
3. Divisional management Responsible for risk management and internal 
control systems within their division
 Ensure that operating companies’ 
responsibilities are discharged
 Review key risks and mitigation plans monthly
 Review and challenge of operating company 
assurance plans
 Review results of assurance activities
 Escalate key risks to Group management and Board
4.  Operating company 
management
 Maintain an effective system of risk 
management and internal control within 
their operating company
 Maintain and regularly review project, functional 
and strategic risk registers
 Review mitigation plans
 Plan, execute and report on assurance activities
Information and risk reporting
Policy and review
Roles and responsibilities
The Board is responsible for our system of risk management and internal control. It sets the Group’s appetite for risk in pursuit of its 
strategic objectives, and the level of risk that can be taken by Group, divisional and operating company management without speciﬁc 
Board approval. Group policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed and 
escalated to the appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration and approval.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, and divisional and operating company management are set out below.
1.  
Board
3. Divisional 
management
2. Group 
management
4. Operating company 
management
Risks Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
59
Risk management process
Our risk management policy requires that 
all divisions and those operating companies 
within them identify and assess the risks 
to which they are exposed and which 
could impact their ability to deliver their 
and the Group’s objectives.
Identiﬁed risk events, their causes and 
possible consequences are recorded in 
risk registers. Their likelihood and potential 
business impact and the control systems 
that are in place to manage them are 
analysed and, if required, additional 
actions are developed and put in place to 
mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposures. 
Individuals are allocated responsibility 
for evaluating and managing these risks 
to an agreed timescale.
Risk registers and relevant action plans 
are reviewed regularly, at various levels 
throughout the business, to identify 
emerging risks, remove expired risks 
and update mitigation plans.
Reporting structures ensure that risks 
are monitored continually, mitigation plans 
are reviewed and signiﬁcant exposures 
are escalated – from project level to 
operating company management to 
senior management.
All divisions and operating companies 
must have assurance mechanisms to 
ensure that the internal controls and 
actions designed to mitigate and eliminate 
risks are operating effectively. A range 
of procedures is used to monitor the 
effectiveness of internal controls, 
including management assurance, risk 
management processes and independent 
assurance provided by internal audit and 
other specialist third party reviews.
The Board has concluded that the Group 
maintained sound risk management and 
internal control systems throughout the 
year and has reviewed their effectiveness.
Principal risks
During 2012, most of our businesses 
performed well and in line with 
expectations. However, our construction 
businesses in the UK and US experienced 
difﬁcult trading conditions which are likely 
to continue into 2013. In the UK, reduced 
private spending, depressed private sector 
investment in commercial building and 
delays in government backed projects 
shifted our construction business mix 
towards less complex and lower margin 
projects. In the US, the construction 
market is now expected to recover later 
than previously expected.
These trends will continue into 2013, and 
the steps we have taken in response will 
increase the importance of effective risk 
management. As we reshape the 
organisation to deliver our combined 
capabilities across our target growth 
sectors, we must ensure that we do not 
inadvertently import additional risk. The 
Board believes that our established risk 
management and internal control systems 
will help us to identify such risks and 
respond in a timely manner.
Operating in many different business 
environments and territories inevitably 
entails risks and uncertainties that are not 
necessarily within our control. Although 
we cannot eliminate such risks and 
uncertainties completely, we have 
established risk management and internal 
control systems and procedures to 
manage their impact.
We also face signiﬁcant risks and 
uncertainties that are common to many 
companies – including ﬁnancial and 
treasury risks, IT and information security 
risks, and the management of pension 
liabilities, which are signiﬁcant. We have 
established controls and systems to 
manage such risks.
The principal risks that could adversely 
impact our proﬁtability and ability to 
achieve our strategic objectives are set 
out below and on pages 60 to 61. While 
the risks themselves have not changed 
since last year, the Board’s assessment 
of their likelihood and potential impact 
has changed and steps have been 
taken to strengthen, as appropriate, 
the mitigations in place.
Economic environment
Risk
The continued effect of the global economic 
downturn may cause our clients to postpone 
or reduce existing or future projects.
Change in 2012
The challenging economic environment in 
some of our main geographies has continued 
to depress spending by governments and 
other clients and has increased competitive 
intensity which in turn has put pressure 
on margins.
Impact
Any signiﬁcant changes in the level or timing 
of client spending or investment plans could 
adversely impact our future order book. 
Such changes could arise from changes in 
government policy or clients’ failure to secure 
ﬁnancing for future projects. 
Mitigation
The Group’s strategy to focus on the more 
resilient and stable infrastructure markets 
(be they geographies or market sectors) 
will further mitigate this risk. The effect 
of spending changes in any one market 
is mitigated by our broad exposure to 
infrastructure markets across the globe and 
the continued need for infrastructure spending.
Failure of a client, including any government or 
public sector body, could result in non-collection 
of amounts owed.
The ﬁnancial solvency and strength of 
counterparties is always considered before 
contracts are signed and is a speciﬁc focus in 
the current economic climate. During the life 
of a contract such assessments are updated 
and reviewed whenever possible. We seek 
to ensure that we are not over reliant on any 
one counterparty.
Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would 
result in the Group having to ﬁnd a replacement 
or undertaking the task itself. This could result 
in delays and additional costs.
We aim to develop long term relationships 
with key subcontractors, working closely 
with them to understand their operations. 
We develop contingency plans to address 
subcontractor failure, and also obtain project 
retentions, bonds and/or letters of credit 
from subcontractors, where appropriate, 
to mitigate the impact of any insolvency.
Key:  Increased risk 
    
   No change to risk
Our Business | Managing Risk Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 60
Our Business | Managing Risk
Expansion into new territories and by acquisition
Risk
In pursuit of our strategic objectives, we will 
seek to enter new territories and continue to 
make acquisitions. This has the potential to 
expose the Group to risks that it may not have 
encountered before.
Change in 2012
No change.
Impact
Failure to identify, understand and evaluate 
the risks of conducting business in a new 
territory could lead to signiﬁcant ﬁnancial 
loss and reputational damage.
Mitigation
As part of the decision making process before 
entering a new territory, we undertake a detailed 
country risk assessment. This will consider 
and assess the prevailing economic, political, 
regulatory, ethical, health, safety and sustainability 
conditions to ensure that we can operate there 
in line with our own values and standards.
Failure to realise the expected beneﬁts 
from acquisitions and to integrate acquired 
businesses successfully into the Group’s 
processes could result in an adverse impact 
on our strategic objectives, future prospects, 
ﬁnancial conditions and proﬁtability.
We undertake detailed due diligence on all 
potential acquisitions to ensure that all aspects 
of their business align with ours. In many cases 
we have worked with these businesses before. 
In addition, we prepare valuation models on all 
potential acquisitions, drawing on both internal 
and external resources. Due diligence includes 
an assessment of our ability to integrate the 
acquired businesses successfully into the Group. 
When a business is acquired, we develop 
detailed integration plans and monitor them to 
ensure the business is successfully assimilated 
into the Group and its internal control framework.
Legal and regulatory
Risk
We operate in diverse territories and our 
businesses are subject to a variety of 
complex, demanding and evolving legal, 
tax and regulatory requirements.
Change in 2012
No change.
Impact
A breach of local laws and regulations could 
lead to legal proceedings, investigations or 
disputes resulting in business disruption 
ranging from additional project costs to 
potential debarment and reputational damage.
Mitigation
We monitor and respond to legal and regulatory 
developments in the territories where we 
operate. We consider the local legal and 
regulatory framework as part of any Group 
decision to conduct business in a new country.
Business conduct
Risk
We operate in various international markets 
with partners and supply chains that may 
present business conduct related risks involving, 
for example, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Change in 2012
No change.
Impact
Failure by the Group and its employees to 
observe the highest standards of integrity 
and conduct in dealing with clients, suppliers 
and other stakeholders could result in civil 
and/or criminal penalties, debarment and 
reputational damage.
Mitigation
Throughout the Group we take a rigorous 
approach to assessing and addressing corruption 
risks. We have a variety of programmes to 
promote compliance with our Code of Conduct 
and in areas such as competition and data 
protection law. Each operating company has a 
compliance ofﬁcer responsible for the application 
and monitoring of these programmes. 
People
Risk
Our inability to recruit and retain the best 
management and employees who have the 
appropriate competencies and also share 
our values and behaviours may hamper our 
growth prospects.
Change in 2012
No change.
Impact
Failure to recruit and retain appropriately 
skilled people could harm our ability 
to deliver speciﬁc contracts and our 
future growth.
Mitigation
We measure all potential recruits for key roles 
in the organisation against a competency and 
leadership framework. Divisions and their 
operating companies undertake organisation 
and people reviews to review the roles, 
competencies, performance and potential 
of personnel. We have a well developed 
succession planning process to identify and 
develop high potential personnel to ﬁll key roles. 
These plans are reviewed regularly and discussed 
at all levels within the organisation and by the 
Board. We have appropriate remuneration and 
incentive packages to help us attract and retain 
key employees. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Business
61
Bidding
Risk
Through our operating companies we seek to 
win work through a large number of bids each 
year. In some cases we bid in joint venture 
with carefully selected partners, especially 
where we want to augment our expertise 
or knowledge of the territory.
We also invest in PPP and infrastructure 
investments, where success depends on 
a number of assumptions, made, at the time 
of investment, on future revenues and costs.
Change in 2012
No change.
Impact
Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs, 
impact of inﬂation and contractual terms and 
how best to manage them could diminish the 
proﬁtability of contracts.
Mitigation
All bids are subject to rigorous estimating 
and tendering processes within a 
deﬁned framework. 
We have deﬁned delegated authority levels  
for approving all tenders and infrastructure 
investments. All major and signiﬁcant contracts 
above those authority levels are subject to 
Group review and approval by the Group Tender 
and Investment Committee (GTIC).
In the event of a disagreement with, or failure 
of, or poor delivery performance of a joint 
venture partner, we could face ﬁnancial and 
reputational risks.
Before entering into a joint venture agreement 
we have procedures for reviewing the relevant 
skills, experience, resources and values of 
joint venture partners to understand how they 
complement ours. We monitor the performance 
of joint ventures and joint venture partners 
throughout the life of the project.
If any of the assumptions behind investment 
decisions prove incorrect, the proﬁtability of 
those investments could be reduced.
Investment appraisals are performed and 
reviewed by experienced professionals. We 
analyse the risks associated with revenues 
and costs and, where appropriate, establish 
contractual and other risk mitigations.
Project execution
Risk
We work on complex design, engineering, 
construction, facilities management and 
asset management projects. If we fail 
to deliver these on time and to clients’ 
requirements, we face the risk of ﬁnancial 
loss, claims and reputational damage.
Successful delivery of many of these projects 
depends on the combined availability and 
effective management of subcontractors 
and other service providers.
Impact
Failure to manage or deliver against contracted 
customer requirements on time and to an 
appropriate quality could result in issues such 
as contract disputes, rejected claims, design 
issues, cost overruns or failure to achieve 
customer savings – which harm our 
proﬁtability and reputation.
Mitigation
Each operating company has deﬁned operating 
procedures to address the risks inherent in 
project delivery. In addition, the Group risk 
management framework aids identiﬁcation 
of speciﬁc risks on projects and the mitigating 
actions required. Projects are subject to 
management review at all levels to monitor 
progress and to review steps put in place 
to address speciﬁc risks identiﬁed on 
those projects.
Change in 2012
Increased incidence of subcontractor failure 
or default could affect the successful 
execution of projects.
A subcontractor’s failure to perform to 
an appropriate standard and quality could 
cause project delays, reduce our ability to 
meet contractual commitments and harm 
our reputation.
We aim to develop long term relationships 
with a number of key subcontractors without 
becoming overreliant on any one. 
As part of our selection criteria we seek to 
partner with subcontractors and suppliers who 
share our values.
Health, safety and sustainability
Risk
We work on signiﬁcant, complex and 
potentially hazardous projects which require 
continuous monitoring and management of 
health and safety risks. Through our activities 
we can impact either positively or adversely 
the world in which we operate and the 
communities with which we come into contact.
Change in 2012
No change.
Impact
Failure to manage these risks could expose 
our people or the public to injury/harm and the 
Group to signiﬁcant potential liabilities and 
reputational damage.
Mitigation
We have detailed health and safety policies 
and procedures to minimise such risks. These 
are reviewed and monitored by operating 
companies, divisional management and 
external veriﬁcation bodies. Each operating 
company has experienced health and safety 
professionals who provide advice and support 
and undertake regular reviews.
A Safety Executive committee meets regularly 
throughout the year to develop a consistent 
approach to health and safety best practice.
Failure to address these risks and to execute 
projects sustainably could result in signiﬁcant 
potential liabilities, reputational damage and 
inability to win future work.
Our sustainability strategy covers our 
operations until 2020 in terms of proﬁtable 
markets, healthy communities and 
environmental limits. Sustainability issues 
such as climate change adaption are considered 
in risk management activities at operating 
company as well as project level.
Key:  Increased risk 
    
   No change to risk
Our Business | Managing Risk Dear Shareholder
The Board welcomed the UK Corporate 
Governance Code when it was published 
three years ago and we implemented 
all its provisions. We particularly 
welcomed the Code’s change of tone, 
signalling the importance of general 
principles in guiding boardroom 
behaviours and its continuing validation 
of the “comply or explain” principle.
The new edition of the Code was 
published in September 2012 and applies 
to reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 October 2012. Despite this, we have 
incorporated some of the new provisions 
into this governance report.
I would like to highlight how each of the 
Code’s main principles is being applied 
in practice. 
Leadership and effectiveness
Our areas of Board focus in 2012 are 
highlighted above. In the following pages 
we explain how we have been addressing 
them and the progress we have made.
Since my last report to you we have 
announced the retirements from the 
Board of Anthony Rabin and Robert 
Walvis and, most recently, the impending 
retirement of Ian Tyler.
Anthony retired after 17 years with 
the Group, 10 as a Director. He was 
instrumental in establishing Balfour Beatty 
Capital, now the Infrastructure Investments 
division and one of the Group’s key 
value generators. Over the years he 
brought tremendous knowledge 
and experience to the Group and 
played a pivotal role in shaping 
our direction and growth and I thank him 
for his signiﬁcant contribution.
Robert retired after 11 years on the Board, 
latterly as Senior Independent Director. 
He also chaired our Remuneration 
Committee for several years, during 
which he displayed independent 
leadership in the development of 
executive remuneration policy and its 
fair and consistent application. I thank him 
for his wise counsel and the contribution 
he has made to Board discussions. 
Through his tenure as a non-executive 
Director he brought robust challenge and 
critique to the Board’s deliberations and 
provided an effective sounding board 
to me and the other Directors.
In January 2013 we announced that 
Ian Tyler would hand over to Andrew 
McNaughton as Chief Executive. On 
behalf of the Board and our shareholders, 
I want to say a huge thank you to Ian for 
his outstanding contribution during his 
16-year career with Balfour Beatty, 
including eight years as Chief Executive. 
It is testament to his leadership that 
Balfour Beatty has the depth of 
management talent to ensure a 
smooth succession.
To build on the strong platform that has 
been created and to lead the business 
through the next stage of its strategic 
development, the Board has made 
two appointments.
In July 2012 we named Maureen 
Kempston Darkes as a non-executive 
Director. With our increasing focus on 
market sectors and growth geographies, 
the considerable experience Maureen has 
already brought to Board discussions in 
these areas has added strength and depth 
as we enter our next phase of growth.
Finally, the Board is delighted that a leader 
of Andrew McNaughton’s calibre has 
developed from within the business and is 
now ready to take over as Chief Executive. 
Andrew has a deep understanding of 
our customers and operations, and the 
relentless drive necessary to deliver 
the strategy that he has been intimately 
involved in developing.
Diversity
In 2011 the Board approved the 
development of a Group approach to 
diversity and inclusion. Our aim is to build 
Chairman’s Statement
Balfour Beatty is committed to applying the very highest  
standards of corporate governance wherever it operates.
Areas of focus in 2012
 Succession planning 
and diversity
 Strategy implementation
 Operational delivery 
and performance
Areas of focus in 2013
 Transition to new 
Chief Executive
 Implementation of evolved 
business strategy
 Remuneration policy review
 Implementing diversity and 
inclusion programme
Leadership and effectiveness
Our areas of Board focus in 2012 are 
highlighted above. In the following pages
we explain how we have been addressing 
them and the progress we have made.
Since my last report to you we have 
announced the retirements from the 
Board of Anthony Rabin and Robert
Walvis and, most recently, the impending 
retirement of Ian Tyler.
Anthony retired after 17 years with 
the Group, 10 as a Director. He was
instrumental in establishing Balfour Beatty
Capital, now the Infrastructure Investments 
division and one of the Group’s key 
value generators. Over the years he 
brought tremendous knowledge 
and experience to the Group and 
played a pivotal role in shaping 
be
I w
hi
16
in
It
Ba
m
sm
To
be
th
de
tw
In
Ke
D
m
th
al
th
as
Fi
of
de
no
A A
o ou
re
th h
in
D
In
de
di di
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 62
Our Governance | Chairman’s Statement Our Governance | Chairman’s Statement
Remuneration
Over the coming few months the 
Remuneration Committee will be making 
its own assessment of whether the 
current remuneration policy and incentive 
arrangements remain appropriate as the 
Group evolves its business strategy and 
organisational structure. If the Committee 
believes changes are needed, we will 
begin formal consultation with major 
shareholders towards the end of 2013 in 
order to put proposals to all shareholders 
at the May 2014 AGM. We will report on 
the Committee’s review ﬁndings in our 
next annual report, whether or not 
changes are thought necessary. 
Relations with shareholders
Among other stakeholders, engagement 
with our investors remains critically 
important. In 2012 it again received a 
considerable amount of attention. Further 
information on our investor relations 
programme is given on pages 79 and 80.
In last year’s governance report, I said 
we were looking to increase the levels of 
shareholding among US investors, since 
a signiﬁcant proportion of our overall 
business is conducted in the US or 
driven from the US headquarters of our 
Professional Services business. We also 
employ over 10,000 people in the US. 
I am very pleased to report that, as 
a consequence of our increased 
commitment of resources and time to 
investor communication in the US and 
through our ADR programme launched in 
July 2012, the percentage of our issued 
share capital held by US investors has 
grown from 15% to just over 18%.
Steve Marshall
Chairman
on the wide range of good practice in the 
organisation to stimulate further progress 
and recognition by sharing best practice 
and coordinating activity across the Group.
Recognising the compelling business case 
for promoting diversity in the Group, not 
only to help us reach into new markets but 
also to retain and attract talent, we have 
focused initially on gender diversity.
To move this forward in 2012, we 
appointed Andrew McNaughton as 
executive sponsor of activities to raise 
awareness of diversity, agreed a series of 
targets and reviewed our key policies and 
procedures. This review generated an 
integrated Group and divisional action plan 
and established a Group baseline analysis 
of diversity in the workforce and leadership.
A three-year diversity programme of 
action steps and publicly reported targets 
is included in our 2013–2015 sustainability 
roadmap. We have also reported the 
percentage of senior leadership posts held 
by women, the percentage of women in 
the workforce, the divisional diversity 
targets and actions achieved in 2012.
In the past year we have appointed our 
ﬁrst female Board member and our ﬁrst 
female managing director (in Balfour 
Beatty Living Places). We have launched a 
UK women’s afﬁnity network, Connecting 
Women, and received Bronze Awards 
from Opportunity Now and Race for 
Opportunity. We hope to build on these 
as we progress with the implementation 
of our action plan.
Accountability
We believe that the Company’s policies 
and procedures enable the Board to 
present a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s trading 
position and its prospects.
Through 2012 the Board continued to 
develop its thinking on the business 
strategy and model, and how the 
organisation can best be structured to 
achieve its growth ambitions in a trading 
environment that remains difﬁcult. 
This work has crystallised into a clearly 
deﬁned business strategy, explained 
in detail on pages 12 and 13 and pages 
16 to 23, focused on growth markets 
and the creation of a robust organisational 
structure which will be fully implemented 
during 2013. 
In 2012 we appointed 
our ﬁrst female Board 
member and our ﬁrst 
female managing 
director. We also 
launched a new UK 
women’s afﬁnity 
network and received 
Bronze Awards from 
Opportunity Now and 
Race for Opportunity. 
The Bengalla 
Expansion Project 
in Australia
The AUS$190 million (£122 
million) project which was 
delivered on time and under 
the approved budget involved 
three main contracts: civil 
works, coal handling and 
preparation plant (CHPP) 
upgrade, and the mining 
infrastructure area upgrade. 
The scope of work included: 
two additional heavy vehicle 
workshop bays; expansion of 
the bathhouse; extension of 
existing ofﬁces; increased car 
parking capacity; improved 
outdoor stores facilities; 
upgraded heavy vehicle 
wash station; and oil/water 
separation plant.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
63 Chairman and  
executive Directors
1 Steve Marshall
Non-executive Chairman
Age 56. Appointed a Director in 2005 
and Chairman in May 2008. He is 
non-executive chairman of Wincanton plc 
and a non-executive director of Halma 
p.l.c. He is a former chairman of Delta, 
Torex Retail and Queens’ Moat Houses. 
He was chief executive of Thorn and of 
Railtrack Group, having also served as 
group ﬁnance director at each company. 
His earlier career included a wide range 
of corporate and operational roles at 
Grand Metropolitan, Black & Decker, 
BOC and Burton Group. He is a 
Fellow of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants.
2 Ian Tyler
Chief Executive
Age 52. A Director since 1999, he became 
Chief Executive in January 2005, having 
been Chief Operating Ofﬁcer since 
2002 and prior to that, Finance Director. 
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 from 
the Hanson Group where he was ﬁnance 
director of ARC, one of its principal 
subsidiaries. He is a non-executive 
director of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc and a former 
non-executive director of VT Group. He is 
president of Construction Industry Relief, 
Assistance and Support for the Homeless 
Ltd, the construction and property 
industry charity for the homeless, and 
chairman of governors of Woldingham 
School. He is a chartered accountant.
3 Andrew McNaughton
Deputy Chief Executive &
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Age 49. Appointed to the Board as Chief 
Operating Ofﬁcer in 2009, he additionally 
assumed the role of Deputy Chief 
Executive in July 2012. He joined Balfour 
Beatty in 1997, having spent 12 years with 
the Kier Group, and held the position of 
managing director of Balfour Beatty Civil 
Engineering from 2004 to 2007, when he 
became Group managing director with 
responsibility for civil engineering in the 
UK and the Group’s interests in the Middle 
East. He is a Fellow of the Institution of 
Civil Engineers, a Liveryman in the 
Worshipful Company of Engineers and 
a vice-president of the Institution of 
Civil Engineers.
4 Duncan Magrath
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Age 48. Appointed to the Board in 2008. 
He joined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as 
deputy ﬁnance director from Exel. 
He spent 13 years at Exel in a number of 
senior ﬁnance roles in both the UK and 
US, latterly as director of investor relations 
and ﬁnancial strategy. Prior to this he 
worked at Price Waterhouse. He is a 
non-executive director of Brammer plc 
and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants.
5 Peter Zinkin
Planning and Development Director
Age 59. Joined the Group in 1981 and 
became Planning and Development 
Director in 1991 after a series of senior 
positions in the ﬁnance function. He is 
responsible for the Group’s merger, 
acquisition and divestment activities 
as well as the development of Group 
strategy. Previously, he worked at the 
London Business School and UMIST. 
He is a governor of Birkbeck College, 
University of London.
Non-executive Directors
6 Robert Amen
Non-executive Director
Age 63. Appointed a Director in 2010. 
Until 2009, he was chairman and chief 
executive ofﬁcer of International Flavors 
& Fragrances Inc (“IFF”). Prior to joining 
IFF in 2006, he spent over 25 years at 
International Paper Company in a 
Board of Directors
5 7
1
8 10
2
9
6 11
3
4
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 64
Our Governance | Board of Directors Our Governance | Board of Directors
main board of Linde AG, the worldwide 
producer and supplier of industrial and 
medical gases. He was previously a 
member of the European management 
board of Whirlpool Europe and was 
also chairman of its German operating 
company, and has previously held 
non-executive directorships in the UK for 
Wassall and Thorn Lighting Group. He is 
currently chairman of the supervisory 
boards of Eckelmann and Bauknecht 
Hausgeraete, deputy chairman of United 
Power Technology and an advisory board 
member of Kepler Capital Market 
Investment Bank.
11 Graham Roberts
Non-executive Director
Age 54. Appointed a Director in 2009. 
He is chief executive of Assura Group, a 
UK primary healthcare property company 
and was formerly ﬁnance director of The 
British Land Company between 2002 and 
2011. Prior to that, he spent eight years at 
Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising 
in the real estate and government services 
sectors. He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants.
He is also chairman of Wilton Park, 
an independent and non-proﬁt making 
Executive Agency of the British Foreign 
and Commonwealth Ofﬁce and lead 
independent director at the Department 
for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. 
He was formerly a non-executive director 
of Sygen International.
9 Maureen Kempston Darkes
Non-executive Director
Age 64. Appointed a Director in July 2012. 
She joined General Motors Corporation in 
1975 and held a number of progressively 
senior roles during her time with the 
business, culminating in her appointment 
as group vice-president for General 
Motors’ Latin America, Africa and 
Middle East operations. She retired from 
General Motors in 2009. She has a 
portfolio of non-executive directorships 
including Brookﬁeld Asset Management, 
Bridgepoint Health Foundation, Enbridge 
Inc, Irving Oil Company and Canadian 
National Railways.
10 Hubertus Krossa
Non-executive Director
Age 65. Appointed a Director in 2008. 
Until 2008, he was chief executive ofﬁcer 
of KION Group, a leading international 
material handling equipment manufacturer. 
Prior to that, he spent seven years on the 
succession of roles culminating in his 
appointment as president and member 
of the board. He was also a director of 
Wyeth, the US pharmaceutical and 
healthcare company, until its acquisition 
by Pﬁzer in October 2009. He is a 
non-executive director of New Page 
Corporation, a US manufacturer of 
coated papers, and currently serves as 
an executive-in-residence at Columbia 
Business School.
7 Mike Donovan
Non-executive Director
Age 59. Appointed a Director in 2006. He 
was chief operating ofﬁcer of Marconi 
from 2001 to 2005. Prior to that, he was 
chief executive ofﬁcer of Marconi 
Systems and was previously responsible 
for managing major divisions of British 
Aerospace, Vickers and the Rover Group.
8 Iain Ferguson CBE
Senior Independent Director
Age 57. Appointed a Director in 2010. 
Until 2009, he was chief executive of 
Tate & Lyle. Prior to joining Tate & Lyle 
in 2003, he spent 26 years at Unilever in 
a succession of roles culminating in his 
appointment as senior vice-president, 
corporate development. He is non-
executive chairman of Berendsen plc and 
a non-executive director of Greggs plc. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
65 Compliance with the Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 
(the Code) is the standard applying to 
good corporate governance practice in the 
UK and the Financial Services Authority 
requires listed companies to disclose 
whether they have complied with the 
provisions of the Code throughout the 
ﬁnancial year. Further information on 
the Code is publicly available on the 
Financial Reporting Council’s website 
at www.frc.org.uk.
The Company has complied with the 
requirements of the Code throughout the 
accounting period, other than in respect 
of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
whistleblowing procedures which is kept 
under review by the Business Practices 
Committee and not by the Audit 
Committee. The principal reason for this 
is that the Business Practices Committee, 
in particular, focuses on the Company’s 
business conduct, its ethics and values, 
ensuring that procedures exist for 
employees to raise concerns in 
conﬁdence and is an integral element 
in its overall remit. However, the Audit 
Committee is kept informed of any 
allegations of fraud or poor ﬁnancial 
controls and internal audit participates 
in investigations into such claims 
and reports to the Audit Committee 
on the outcome.
Director’s independence
At its Board meeting in March 2013, 
as part of its annual audit of corporate 
governance, the Board considered the 
independence of the non-executive 
Directors against the criteria speciﬁed 
in the Code and determined that each 
of them continues to be independent.
The Board
The Board currently comprises 11 
Directors, of whom seven, including the 
Chairman, are non-executive. Details of 
the changes during the year can be found 
under the heading “Board composition” 
below. The Directors believe that the 
Board continues to include an appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the 
Company and retains the ability to provide 
effective leadership to the Group.
Board composition
The names of the Directors at the year 
end are shown on pages 64 and 65 
together with brief biographical details. 
Full details of Directors’ service 
agreements, emoluments and share 
interests are shown in the Remuneration 
Report starting on page 82.
Maureen Kempston Darkes was 
appointed as a non-executive Director on 
11 July 2012. Anthony Rabin and Robert 
Walvis retired from the Board on 30 June 
and 31 December 2012 respectively.
Each of the Directors brings skills and 
experience which enhance the quality 
of debate in the boardroom and provides 
guidance. The Directors believe that the 
Board continues to include an appropriate 
balance of skills and retains the ability to 
provide effective leadership. There are, 
however, speciﬁc areas where the 
non-executive Directors, in particular, 
bring with them a wealth of insight and, 
although not exhaustive, some of their 
most signiﬁcant strengths are highlighted 
on page 67.
Directors’ Report
Board balance
 
 
1 Chairman 1
2 Executive Directors 4
3 Non-executive Directors 6
1
2
3
Board geography
 
 
1 UK  8
2 Europe 1
3 Americas 2
1
2
3
Board tenure
 
1 0–1 year 1
2 2–3 years 2
3 4–5 years 4 
4 6+ years 4
1
2
3
4
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 66
Our Governance | Directors’ Report Chairman’s responsibilities
 Ensuring effective strategic 
planning is undertaken by the 
executive Directors
 Ensuring corporate governance 
is properly maintained
 Formally appraising the performance 
of the Chief Executive and 
reviewing with the Chief Executive 
his views on the performance of 
the other executive Directors
 Providing leadership to the Board
 Acting as senior ambassador 
for the Company
 Considering Board balance, 
composition and succession
 Ensuring the smooth operation 
of the Board and its Committees
 Providing effective communication 
between the Board and its 
shareholders.
Steve Marshall spends an average of 
two days a week on the business of 
the Company. The Board is satisﬁed 
that his role as non-executive 
chairman of Wincanton plc, and 
his other business and charitable 
commitments, can be accommodated 
without hindering his ability to carry 
out his duties as Chairman. 
The Board reviewed its list of reserved 
matters in 2012 and, most recently, at 
its meeting in March 2013. The terms 
of reference of the Board and the Board 
Committees are available on request from 
the Company Secretary and are also 
displayed on the Company’s website 
www.balfourbeatty.com. Descriptions 
of the speciﬁc responsibilities which 
have been delegated to the principal 
Board Committees are also provided 
on pages 72 to 77.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The two roles are complementary. The 
Chairman is responsible for managing 
the business of the Board, whilst the 
Chief Executive actually runs the 
business. As the senior executive ofﬁcer 
of the Company, the Chief Executive is 
responsible to the Chairman and Board 
for directing and prioritising the proﬁtable 
operation and development of the Group. 
The Chairman and Chief Executive keep 
each other appropriately informed on the 
other’s current activities.
Speciﬁcally, their roles comprise 
the principal responsibilities in the 
sections following:
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board is collectively responsible for 
the success of the Company and has a 
formal schedule of matters reserved for 
its decision which includes the matters 
summarised below:
 determining the Group’s strategic 
direction
 approving annual budgets and ﬁnancial 
reporting, including the annual and 
half-year results and interim 
management statements
 approving interim, and recommending 
ﬁnal, dividends
 approving major acquisitions, disposals 
and capital expenditure
 ensuring the necessary ﬁnancial and 
human resources are in place to achieve 
objectives and review management 
performance
 setting the Company’s values and 
ethical standards
 approving policies and systems for 
risk management and assurance.


 S ra g c Strategic Strategic
development development






E , l Ethics, values Ethics, values
a ure e e and culture and culture





Stakeholder 


Stakeholder Stakeholder
engagement engagement


 management

 HR HR
m g management management




e

Risk Risk
m g management management
and assurance and assurance



Health and 


H l Health and Health and
s ty y safety safety




Experience of
markets



 Experience of Experience of
international international
markets markets





and planning



Fi F a c a al Financial Financial
g g t management management
and planning and planning





Operating Operating
performance performance
and delivery and delivery





Mergers and Mergers and
acquisitions acquisitions




 Business 

 Business Business
i i g at n n n integration integration



Non-executive Directors – signiﬁcant strengths
Our Governance | Directors’ Report
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
67 Chief Executive’s responsibilities
 Strategy development and the 
stewardship of physical, ﬁnancial 
and human resources
 Group operational and ﬁnancial 
performance
 Executive leadership
 Health, safety and environmental 
performance
 Corporate values and ethics
 Objective setting for the senior 
management team
 Organisational structure, succession 
and talent management
 Major capital expenditure 
prioritisation and allocation 
of resources
 Consideration of acquisitions, 
disposals and ﬁnancing
 Stakeholder management.
Senior Independent Director
On 10 May 2012, Iain Ferguson 
succeeded Robert Walvis as the Senior 
Independent Director, and his principal 
responsibilities are to ensure that the 
views of the other non-executive 
Directors are properly considered and 
to provide an additional communication 
channel between the non-executive 
Directors and the shareholders and other 
stakeholders, as required. Mr Ferguson 
will meet with the other non-executive 
Directors without the Chairman or 
executive Directors being present 
at least once a year.
Directors’ interests
No Director had any material interest 
in any contract of signiﬁcance with the 
Group during the period under review. 
The Directors have put in place procedures 
to ensure the Board collectively and the 
Directors individually comply with the 
disclosure requirements on conﬂicts of 
interest set out in the Companies Act 
2006. At its meeting each January, a 
formal declaration of interests is reviewed 
by the Board.
The interests of Directors in the share 
capital of the Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings and their interests under 
the long term incentive scheme (the 
Performance Share Plan), the Deferred 
Bonus Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and 
share options, are set out in the tables in 
the Remuneration Report commencing 
on page 82.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company grants an indemnity to all 
of its Directors to the extent permitted 
by law. These indemnity amounts are 
uncapped in relation to losses and 
liabilities which Directors may incur to 
third parties in the course of acting as a 
Director of the Company, or in any ofﬁce 
where such duties are performed at the 
request of the Board, or as a result of their 
appointment as Directors.
Board meetings
Procedures for Board meetings remain 
largely unchanged from previous years. 
Since the beginning of 2011, the Board 
has been using an electronic portal to 
receive papers and to share information 
(see “Board portal” on page 70). The 
Company Secretary is responsible for 
advising the Board on appropriate 
governance matters, ensuring good 
information ﬂow and ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed. He also provides 
updates on legal matters of relevance to 
the Group and is available to individual 
Directors for advice on Board procedures.
2012 meeting programme
In 2012 eight Board meetings were held 
at the Company’s head ofﬁce, whilst two 
meetings were held elsewhere in London 
and one was held in Hong Kong. The 
meeting in Hong Kong provided the 
Directors with the opportunity to meet 
management and staff at Gammon, the 
Group’s Hong Kong joint venture and at 
Parsons Brinckerhoff. Included in the visit 
were presentations on the businesses 
and the principal strategic issues each 
faces. There was also a wider review 
of potential opportunities for the Group 
in Asian markets. 
Each Board meeting normally lasts four 
to ﬁve hours but can be longer.
On the evening preceding a Board 
meeting, the Directors generally meet 
for dinner and sometimes take the 
opportunity to discuss predetermined 
developmental themes, led by one of  
the executive Directors, other senior 
managers or a specialist external speaker. 
For example, in 2012, the themes included 
investor relations and public affairs. One 
of the dinners each year is attended by 
the Chairman and the non-executive 
Directors only, whilst a second includes 
the Chief Executive, but none of the other 
executive Directors. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 68
Our Governance | Directors’ Report Each meeting addresses key strategic 
topics for the Group which enable the 
Directors to engage in in-depth reviews. 
The Board also reviews at each of its 
meetings monthly updates from the Chief 
Executive, Deputy Chief Executive & Chief 
Operating Ofﬁcer and Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer. Regular reports are also provided 
on health, safety and environment, 
operational performance, corporate 
communications, risk management and 
assurance, investor relations and any legal 
issues. At each meeting, the chairmen of 
the various Board Committees provide a 
summary of the discussions held at the 
preceding Committee meeting and the key 
actions arising. The following topics were 
also addressed by the Board during 2012 
under each of the themes shown. For 
clarity, a synopsis of certain of the topics 
has been included as well.
The Board speciﬁcally addressed the 
Chief Executive’s objectives for 2012 
which identiﬁed those key tasks over and 
above his normal responsibilities, which 
include ensuring that the Group achieves 
its overall budget performance. Where 
appropriate, each of the objectives had 
identiﬁed milestones and each one was 
integral in moving the organisation 
forward along its stated strategic path. 
Speciﬁc objectives included the 
development of the market sector 
structure and market entry strategies, 
development of the Middle East, the 
pursuit of the four principal efﬁciency 
projects across the Group, the operating 
capability of the Rail business and the 
continued development and progress 
of the Zero Harm safety programme.
The Chief Executive succession and 
management of the transition to his 
successor was also discussed by 
the Board.
Finance
 Budgets 2012 and 2013
 Annual and half-year results
 Pensions
 Group insurances
 Financing capacity and options – 
future cash needs of the Group 
and various ﬁnancing options, 
including convertible bonds and 
private placements.
Operational performance
 Health and safety – performance 
across the Group and the status 
of the Zero Harm programme
 Efﬁciency programme – reviews of 
each of the four principal divisional 
cost reduction and efﬁciency 
programmes and monitoring their 
progress against predetermined 
measures and milestones
 Business reviews – operating 
performance against budget and 
strategic plan, risks and opportunities 
and matters such as Health & Safety, 
people development and 
sustainability, including:
 − International (Middle East, India, 
Brazil, Australia)
 − Construction Services UK
 − Professional Services
 − Rail
 − Infrastructure Investments.
HR
 Chief Executive succession
 People planning, talent, diversity 
and succession management – 
review of detailed divisional 
management succession plans, the 
encouragement of cross-divisional 
and cross-geographical moves 
and diversity and inclusion policies 
and practices across the Group, 
including associated action plans.
Strategy
 Group strategy development and 
structuring options – development 
of the business model to enable 
the organisation to operate as an 
integrated services group as the 
most effective way to enhance 
shareholder value. Consideration 
was given to the shape of the 
operating model and the 
identiﬁcation and development of 
geographies and market sectors 
(a recurring topic throughout 2012)
 Infrastructure fund – having 
established a funds management 
business, the infrastructure fund 
will enable the Group to utilise a 
combination of infrastructure asset 
knowledge, skills and experience to 
earn a superior return on capital, as 
well as advisory fees. The Board 
received progress updates on how 
this business was progressing 
leading up to the ﬁrst close 
announced in January 2013
 Approval of PPP asset disposals 
in 2012:
 − North Lanarkshire schools
 − Health Management (University 
College London Hospital).
Mergers, acquisitions 
and divestments
 Acquisition of Subsurface Group in 
the US – power and energy sector 
professional services business
 Other opportunities – review of 
other acquisition opportunities.
For 2013, the Board will meet eight 
times. One meeting will focus on the 
development of the strategic plan. At 
least one meeting will probably be held 
outside London at one of the Group’s 
business units.
Our Governance | Directors’ Report
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
69 Board portal
Board papers are distributed by way 
of a secure electronic portal, thereby 
reducing cost and environmental impact. 
Documents are made available on the 
portal at least three business days in 
advance of the meeting. The portal has 
helped to improve Board operating 
efﬁciencies by enabling the Directors to 
receive papers quickly and to review these 
at any time convenient to them. It houses 
a secure reading room in which key data 
and documents are kept. This reading 
room is maintained by the Company 
Secretary and regularly updated. 
Information held in the reading room 
includes audit, market and competitor 
data, strategy papers, investor relations 
and analysts’ reports, as well as the 
Group’s principal policies relating to HR, 
compliance, and health and safety.
Board development
Induction
Directors undertake a thorough induction 
programme and receive a range of 
information about the Company when 
they join the Board, including access to 
the Board portal, which includes Balfour 
Beatty’s Code of Conduct, processes for 
dealing in Balfour Beatty shares and 
Board procedures, as well as the minutes 
and papers of past Board and Board 
Committee meetings. In addition, they 
also take part in a series of one-to-one 
meetings with other members of the 
Board and senior executives which include 
brieﬁngs on the Company’s business 
strategy, ﬁnancial procedures, business 
development, legal and other key issues.
In the case of Mrs Kempston Darkes, this 
process commenced immediately prior to 
her appointment on 11 July 2012 and was 
completed in January 2013. During her 
induction she met with the senior 
executives in each of the divisions and 
functional heads at Group head ofﬁce. 
She also attended meetings and site visits 
in Dallas (Construction Services US) and 
New York (Parsons Brinckerhoff).
Professional development
In discussion with the Directors and 
Company Secretary each year, the 
Chairman determines whether there are 
any speciﬁc training needs identiﬁed by 
the Directors which can be addressed 
either by the topic being included at a 
future Board meeting or on a one-to-one 
basis. Directors are also enrolled in the 
Deloitte Academy, a seminar-led 
programme for main board directors of UK 
listed companies, which provides regular 
updates throughout the year on the 
principal governance and other matters 
of which directors of a listed company 
should be fully aware.
The Directors’ induction programme also 
provides the foundation for continuing 
professional development. This takes 
place throughout the year by way of a 
series of internal and external updates, 
including visits to operating companies 
to meet local management and visits to 
Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK 
and overseas.
Normally, such visits take place for each 
non-executive Director four times each 
year, although some Directors have not 
been able to attend all the visits whilst 
others have been able to participate in 
more of them.
2012 Board and Board Committee meetings
Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board meetings and meetings of the Audit, Business Practices, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the following table:
Name of Director Board Audit Business Practices Nomination Remuneration
Robert Amen 11 (11) 5 (5) 4 (4) 3 (4)
Michael Donovan 11 (11) 5 (5) 4 (4) 4 (4)
Iain Ferguson 11 (11) 2 (4) 3 (4) 5 (5)
Maureen Kempston Darkes 5 (6) 0 (2) 1 (1)
Hubertus Krossa 10 (11) 5 (5) 4 (4) 3 (4) 5 (5)
Duncan Magrath 11 (11)
Steve Marshall 11 (11) 4 (4) 4 (4) 5 (5)
Andrew McNaughton 11 (11)
Anthony Rabin 5 (5)
Graham Roberts 11 (11) 5 (5) 4 (4) 5 (5)
Ian Tyler 11 (11) 4 (4)
Robert Walvis 10 (11) 4 (5) 4 (4) 3 (5)
Peter Zinkin 10 (11)
The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year (including as a result of 
changes to Committee memberships). 
Non-attendance at meetings was due to illness or prior business commitments. In each case, where the Directors have not been able 
to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments 
directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chairman, as appropriate. As Mrs Kempston Darkes only joined the Board part way through 
the year, meetings she missed were attributable to business engagements which had been made prior to her appointment to the Board.
Any Director who is not a Committee member has an open invitation to attend any Committee meeting and a number of the Directors 
take this opportunity.
Further information about the work of each of the Board’s Committees may be found on pages 72 to 77 and 82 to 96.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 70
Our Governance | Directors’ Report During 2012, the non-executive Directors 
visited the Eagle P3 commuter rail project 
in Denver, a US$2.4 billion project to 
engineer, build and operate 35 miles 
of new lines under the ﬁrst rail public 
private partnership in the US, which 
demonstrates the integrated capabilities 
of Parsons Brinckerhoff and the Group’s 
US rail business.
The non-executive Directors also attended 
an internal seminar on the power and 
renewables markets where they received 
presentations from senior management 
and subject experts across several 
businesses and geographies. The seminar 
included an analysis of the global power 
market, the Group’s current power 
capabilities, power networks (including 
transmission) and power generation 
(including nuclear and wind). This enabled 
the non-executive Directors to engage 
directly with senior management 
concerning the development of the 
Group’s capabilities in a market sector 
that is an area of signiﬁcant strategic 
importance for the Group.
In 2013, four visits are planned for the 
non-executive Directors which will 
concentrate, as in previous years, on key 
strategic topics. The ﬁrst visit has been 
organised in the UK and will focus on 
power transmission. One of the four 
visits in 2013 will be outside the UK.
Board evaluation
Introduction
In keeping with the Code, the Board 
receives external evaluations normally 
every three years, with internal 
evaluations in the intervening two years. 
The last external evaluation was carried 
out in 2010.
For 2013, an external provider has been 
engaged to carry out the Board evaluation; 
the output of this will be reported in 2014.
2012 evaluation
For 2012, the Board conducted its own 
internal evaluation using an online 
structured questionnaire covering the 
operation of the Board and its principal 
Committees. Questionnaires were also 
issued, in the case of each of the Board 
Committees, to those other participants 
who regularly attend these meetings. 
The questionnaires were supplemented 
by individual interviews with the Directors 
carried out by the Company Secretary 
and the emerging key themes were 
summarised and presented to the Board 
in April 2012.
The principal themes arising from the 
2012 Board evaluation are set out below:
Theme Evaluation Status
Board size and composition,  
Director knowledge and diversity
The Board was thought to be marginally 
on the large size, but this was not an issue. 
A greater mix of gender, emerging markets 
experience, HR and complex matrix 
organisational experience should be sought.
The appointment of Mrs Kempston 
Darkes as a non-executive Director added 
valuable emerging markets knowledge 
and matrix organisational experience to 
the Board’s combined experience as 
well as addressing, in part, the diversity 
objectives set out in the Lord Davies 
Report on Women on Boards published 
in June 2011.
Board papers and presentations Generally, a greater emphasis on trend 
information, key performance indicators 
(KPIs) and measurable objectives was 
sought and, in some cases, the timeliness 
of papers.
New format Group KPI report presented 
to the Board on a monthly basis. Board 
papers are issued via the Board portal 
on the Friday before the Board or Board 
Committee meeting.
Strategic development Certain improvements were sought in the 
strategy review process.
A signiﬁcant proportion of the Board’s 
agenda during 2012 was given to the 
development of the Group’s business 
model, operating structure and overall 
strategy. The Directors considered 
that the strategic planning and Board 
engagement process has improved 
signiﬁcantly during the year.
Operational performance Key performance indicators were identiﬁed 
to support analysis of the business.
Group KPI report issued monthly. 
Reviewed and monitored the Chief 
Executive’s objectives. Regular business 
reviews from the Deputy Chief Executive 
and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer and each 
of the divisional CEOs.
Risk management and assurance There was a need for the Board to deﬁne 
its risk appetite and to deﬁne clearly those 
risks for which it took direct management 
responsibility, as opposed to providing 
oversight alone.
Although work in progress and to be 
further developed through 2013, the 
Board and Audit Committee have received 
a series of detailed business reviews 
during the year focusing, in part, on 
operating performance, risk and assurance 
across the divisions.
Succession planning and evaluation Board to be made aware of the Chief 
Executive’s annual objectives and clear 
reporting against each of them.
Reviewed and monitored the Chief 
Executive’s objectives as well as a 
focus in 2013 on managing the Chief 
Executive succession and ensuring 
a smooth transition.
Our Governance | Directors’ Report
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
71 Audit Committee
The Committee’s focus in 
2012 on risk management 
and assurance reviews 
will be maintained through 
this year.
Graham Roberts – chairman
Meetings in 2012: 5
Members
 Graham Roberts – chairman
 Robert Amen
 Mike Donovan
 Hubertus Krossa 
 Robert Walvis (to 31 December 2012)
Responsibilities
 Financial statements
 Financial controls
 External audit 
 Internal audit
 Risk management and assurance
The terms of reference for the 
Committee are based on the Guidance 
on Audit Committees issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council. The main 
responsibilities of the Audit Committee 
are summarised below:
 monitor the integrity of the ﬁnancial 
statements of the Group and any 
formal announcements relating to 
the Group’s ﬁnancial performance
 review the Group’s internal controls 
established to identify, assess, manage 
and monitor risks, and receive reports 
from management on the effectiveness 
of the systems they have established 
and the conclusions of any testing 
carried out by the internal audit function 
and external auditor
 monitor and review the effectiveness 
of the internal audit function including 
its work programme
 make recommendations to the Board 
in relation to the appointment of the 
external auditor and approve the 
remuneration and terms of engagement 
of the external auditor
 assess the independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external auditor 
and develop and implement policy on 
the engagement of the external auditor 
to supply non-audit services.
Graham Roberts, a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants and a former 
partner at Andersen and ﬁnance director 
of The British Land Company PLC, has 
been identiﬁed by the Board as having 
recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. 
Minutes of Committee meetings are 
circulated to all Board members.
Partners from the external auditor, the 
Head of Group Risk Management and 
Assurance, and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
regularly attend each meeting. In addition, 
any independent non-executive Director 
who is not a Committee member has an 
open invitation to attend meetings. The 
Committee also invites other executives 
from within the Group to participate in 
Committee discussions, most notably 
in 2012 the chief executive ofﬁcer and 
ﬁnance director of Construction Services 
UK and the chief executive ofﬁcer of the 
Professional Services division.
In 2012, the Committee’s work 
programme included the following 
principal topics in addition to the standing 
agenda items which comprise reports on:
 accounting, ﬁnancial and regulatory 
issues
 review of non-audit work carried out 
by the external auditors, and their fees
 risk management activities and 
compliance
 implementation of and progress against 
the Group assurance plan.
February  
(two meetings held in this month)
 2011 annual report and accounts and 
preliminary results announcement – 
consideration of revenue and margin 
recognition, the carrying value of 
goodwill and other intangible assets, 
the accounting treatment of the 
Barking Power sale and the status of 
provisions. Review of the proposed 
investor presentations and proposed 
ﬁnal dividend
 Key contract valuation and accounting 
judgements
 Directors’ valuation of PPP concessions 
– the composition of the Directors’ 
valuation including the application of 
the pre shareholder tax discount rate
 Going concern review – reaching a 
conclusion that there was a reasonable 
assumption that the Group had 
adequate resources to continue for 
the foreseeable future
 Incidents of dishonest acts – 
conﬁrmation that there were no 
systemic or material breakdowns in 
controls across the Group
 Annual review of internal audit work 
and ﬁndings
 Directors’ expenses – conﬁrmation 
of the process adopted for approving 
expenses and subsequent audit
June
 External audit and interim review plan 
for 2012, audit fees and assessment of 
2011 audit process – a detailed review 
of the audit scope and plans for the year 
and an assessment of the proposed 
audit and non-audit fees
 Risk management and assurance 
review: Construction Services UK – 
a presentation by the chief executive 
ofﬁcer and ﬁnance director with a 
speciﬁc focus on the efﬁciency and 
cost savings programme
August
 2012 half-year ﬁnancial report – 
consideration was given to projects 
where isolated contract deteriorations 
and contractual issues had arisen
 Key contract valuation and accounting 
judgements
 Major litigation and legal update
December
 External audit plan for 2013 and audit 
fees – a detailed review of the audit 
scope and plans, and an assessment of 
the proposed audit and non-audit fees
 Internal audit plan for 2013 – a detailed 
review of the scope and priorities for 
the internal audit function for the year
 Major litigation and legal update
 Risk management and assurance 
review: Professional Services – an 
assessment of the key risks which the 
division faced and how these varied 
across each of its regions. The risk 
 risk m
comp
 imple
the G
Februar
(two me
 2011 a
prelim
consid
recog
goodw
the ac
Barkin
provis
invest
ﬁnal d
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 72
Our Governance | Directors’ Report Deloitte LLP continues as the Company’s 
external auditor, having satisﬁed itself 
of its independence. In reaching its 
conclusion, the Committee took into 
consideration the following matters:
Non-audit work
The objective set out in the Company’s 
policy is to ensure that the external 
auditor is not placed in a position 
where its independence is, or might be 
seen to be, compromised. Under no 
circumstances will any assignment be 
given to the external auditor, when the 
result is that:
 as part of the statutory audit, it 
is required to report directly on 
non-audit work
 it makes management decisions on 
behalf of the Group
 it acts as advocate for the Group
 the level of non-audit fees is such, 
relative to audit fees, as to raise 
concerns about its ability to form 
objective judgements.
The Company’s policy identiﬁes the 
various types of non-audit services and 
determines the analysis to be undertaken 
and level of authority required before the 
external auditor can be considered to 
undertake such services. Included within 
such analysis is consideration of the 
cost and efﬁciency beneﬁts as well as 
the real or perceived threats to auditor 
independence.
There is no inconsistency between the 
Financial Reporting Council’s ethical 
standards and the Company’s policy. 
In 2012 the external auditor was 
appointed to carry out various non-audit 
related work, including corporate ﬁnance 
services for reasons of commercial 
conﬁdentiality and efﬁciency, as well 
as providing tax advice and compliance 
services in Australia, Europe, India and 
the US.
The Committee considers that the 
Company receives particular beneﬁts, 
including those relating to cost, quality 
and consistency, from the advice 
provided by its external auditor, given 
its wide and detailed knowledge 
of the Group and its international 
operations. There can also be savings 
in management time and accelerated 
delivery of work in situations where 
rapid turnaround is required. The 
majority of non-audit related work 
was carried out using the services of 
other major international audit ﬁrms.
management protocols in place across 
each of the business units to mitigate 
against the principal risks and how the 
assurance processes were functioning 
and lessons learnt
 Oracle R12 update – a review of 
the programme, the methods 
applied and costs incurred and the 
assurance protocols which had been 
implemented to assist with overall 
project management and achievement 
of milestones
 Rail – issues which had led to 
shortcomings on a UK rail project, 
how the learning was being recorded 
and applied elsewhere across the 
business and conﬁrmation sought that 
reviews had been completed on other 
projects and that no systemic issues 
had been identiﬁed
 Committee terms of reference – 
review and recommend any changes
 IFRS accounting training session – 
a separate training session. This 
addressed contract accounting and 
the different risk proﬁles associated 
with the various contract structures 
employed across the Group.
In 2013, the Committee will continue to 
address the topics on its standing agenda 
and will also continue to undertake 
reviews of the risk management and 
assurance practices in the divisions on a 
rolling programme. The Committee will 
also continue to receive targeted training 
in order to broaden and refresh the skills 
and knowledge of its members.
Risk management and internal control
Throughout 2012, the Committee has 
continued to review the Group’s risk 
management and internal control 
systems and processes and paid close 
attention to isolated operational delivery 
issues which have arisen during the 
year and the remedial action which has 
been taken. As a result, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that it 
could properly conclude that the Group 
continued to maintain sound systems of 
risk management and internal control and 
that a review of the effectiveness of 
these systems had been completed.
External auditor independence 
and effectiveness
The Committee carries out a formal 
review each year to assess the 
independence and effectiveness of the 
external auditor, Deloitte LLP. The 
Committee has recommended that the 
Board proposes to shareholders that 
Annual internal assessment 
A detailed assessment of the previous 
year’s external audit process, together 
with any identiﬁed improvement 
recommendations is prepared each year. 
Each division and operating company 
within the Group is required to evaluate 
the performance of the assigned 
external audit team and to compare that 
performance against the previous year.
External auditor’s assessment 
An assessment was carried out by the 
external auditor in consultation with the 
operating companies using a structured 
questionnaire.
The external auditor’s annual transparency 
report for the year ended 31 May 2012 
was reviewed. This was prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Statutory Auditors (Transparency) 
Instrument 2008 made by the Professional 
Oversight Board (POB) of the Financial 
Reporting Council.
External auditor rotation
Audit partners are rotated every ﬁve 
years. The advisory partner changed in 
2010 and the audit engagement partner 
changed in 2011.
A number of circumstances would lead 
to consideration being given to carrying 
out an audit tender review. For example:
 in circumstances where the external 
auditor’s performance had been 
called into question, or where, 
through the audit partner rotation 
process, no suitable replacement 
had been identiﬁed
 where value for money considerations 
had arisen
 where there was a real or perceived 
threat to independence
 where conﬂict of interests had been 
identiﬁed
 where issues had been raised about 
audit quality by a regulator.
The Committee is aware of regulations 
and developing guidance in relation to 
auditor tendering and rotation and will 
consider the optimal timing of any tender 
in the light of emerging practice and 
in the interests of shareholders.
Our Governance | Directors’ Report
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
73 Nomination Committee
The transition to the 
new Chief Executive and 
assessing the implications 
of the evolved business 
strategy on the senior 
leadership team, will be 
key areas of focus in 2013.
Steve Marshall – chairman
Meetings in 2012: 4
Members
 Steve Marshall – chairman
 Robert Amen
 Mike Donovan
 Iain Ferguson
 Maureen Kempston Darkes  
(from 11 July 2012)
 Hubertus Krossa
 Graham Roberts
 Ian Tyler
 Robert Walvis (to 31 December 2012)
Responsibilities
 Structure and composition of Board
 Appointment of non-executive 
Directors
 Succession planning and talent 
management
In 2012, the Committee’s work 
programme comprised the following 
principal topics:
 recommending to the Board the 
appointment of a new non-executive 
Director (Maureen Kempston Darkes) 
and the appointment of a Deputy 
Chief Executive (Andrew 
McNaughton) and Senior Independent 
Director (Iain Ferguson). In seeking 
suitable candidates for the non-
executive Director vacancy, Korn 
Ferry, an external executive search 
agency was engaged. The Committee 
identiﬁed the competences sought 
and the required experience, and the 
agency prepared a shortlist of 
potential candidates who were 
interviewed by members of the 
Committee and by the executive 
Directors
 as a critical part of the Chief Executive 
succession process the Committee 
undertook a detailed process to 
assess competences required of 
a chief executive given the strategic 
direction of the Group, as well as 
the internal succession options 
for executive Directors and senior 
operational and functional leaders. 
External benchmarking was carried 
out by an executive search agency, 
Korn Ferry, in relation to the role of 
the Chief Executive. The process 
involved sectoral and company 
mapping, the creation of experiential 
proﬁles and the identiﬁcation 
of agreed critical competences. 
Frameworks and learning/leadership 
development tools were employed 
in helping to determine the skills 
and leadership/behavioural 
criteria required
 management of the Chief Executive 
succession process.
The executive search agency appointed 
for the recruitment of the non-executive 
Director and for carrying out the 
engagement on the Chief Executive’s 
succession has no other connections 
with Balfour Beatty.
In 2013, the Committee will continue to 
monitor the transition to the new Chief 
Executive and the implications of the 
evolved business strategy on senior 
executive recruitment. The Committee 
will also continue to monitor the 
appropriateness of the composition 
of the Board and, if thought necessary, 
make recommendations concerning 
the need for the introduction of 
non-executive Directors to refresh 
the Board.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 74
Our Governance | Directors’ Report Remuneration Committee
Ensuring the current 
remuneration policy and the 
appropriateness of the short 
and long term incentive 
arrangements to properly 
meet the needs of the 
organisation, will be high 
on the Committee’s agenda.
Iain Ferguson – chairman
Meetings in 2012: 5
Members
 Iain Ferguson – chairman 
 Hubertus Krossa
 Steve Marshall
 Graham Roberts
 Robert Walvis (to 31 December 2012)
Responsibilities
 Remuneration strategy and policies
 Remuneration packages
 Incentive plans
In 2012, the Committee’s work 
programme comprised the following 
principal topics:
January
 Executive Directors’ 2011 bonus – 
consideration of the proposed 
approach to calculating the bonus 
payments for the 2011 ﬁnancial results
 Executive Directors’ 2012 bonus 
targets – setting targets for the year
 2009 Performance Share Plan 
performance conditions – an analysis 
of the expected 2011 ﬁnancial results 
and whether the PSP performance 
conditions would be achieved
 2012 Performance Share Plan 
performance conditions – 
conﬁrmation that the existing two 
performance conditions (EPS and 
TSR) should be maintained and 
setting of targets.
 2011 Remuneration Report – 
review of the draft report
March
 Executive Directors’ bonus payments 
for 2011 and 2012 PSP awards – both 
conﬁrmed
 Barking Power – consideration on 
how the impact of this asset disposal 
to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund 
should be treated in assessing future 
PSP vestings
June
 Executive Directors’ 2012 salary 
review – conﬁrmation of adjusted 
salaries based on benchmarking data
October
 Executive remuneration market 
update – presentation made by 
New Bridge Street, the Committee’s 
remuneration advisers, to take stock 
of the Group’s broad executive 
remuneration strategy and to compare 
this against market developments
December
 Chief Executive succession – update 
from Chairman ahead of Board meeting.
Further information about the work of 
the Committee during the ﬁnancial year 
is set out in the Remuneration Report 
starting on page 82.
In 2013, the Remuneration Committee 
will undertake a formal review of the 
current remuneration policy and the 
appropriateness of the short and long 
term incentive arrangements, to 
properly meet the needs of the 
Company as it implements the next 
phase of its business strategy. If 
changes are considered necessary, 
the Committee will consult with 
shareholders ahead of the AGM in 2014.
Remuneration Report p82
Our Governance | Directors’ Report
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
75 Business Practices Committee
In light of the strategic 
review, the Committee 
will be focusing this year 
on reputational risk and 
the adequacy of business 
processes.
Mike Donovan – chairman
Meetings in 2012: 4
Members
 Mike Donovan – chairman
 Robert Amen
 Iain Ferguson
 Maureen Kempston Darkes  
(from 11 July 2012)
 Hubertus Krossa
 Steve Marshall
Responsibilities
 Corporate values, ethics and 
Code of Conduct
 Health and safety
 Stakeholder management
 Sustainability
 Whistleblowing
 Community engagement
The Committee focuses signiﬁcant 
attention on health and safety, values, 
ethics and compliance, and sustainability. 
The Committee also addresses the 
Group’s Code of Conduct and the 
training which ensures that the Group’s 
business principles are properly 
embedded throughout the business. In 
addition, during the year, the Committee 
took over responsibility from the Audit 
Committee for reviewing contract 
commission arrangements.
At each of its meetings, the Committee 
receives detailed updates on health and 
safety performance and the current 
status of the Group’s Zero Harm safety 
programme, including statistical data 
and trends, accident reporting and high 
potential incidents, as well as occupational 
health. The Committee also reviews the 
output from the independent health and 
safety audit carried out across the Group.
In addition to the standing agenda items, 
the following principal topics were 
considered at Committee meetings 
during the year:
March
 A review of the external monitor’s anti 
corruption compliance report for 2011, 
a summary of which was incorporated 
into the Group’s 2011 Sustainability 
Report
 A review of the top priorities for 
Zero Harm in 2012 highlighting high 
potential incidents and trends within 
each division, policy, procedures and 
civil engineering risks
 A review of the Group’s approach to 
Government affairs both in the UK 
and US as well as in other countries 
(Australia and Canada). The intention is 
to position Balfour Beatty as a thought 
leader and over the past two years the 
Group had raised its proﬁle in policy 
areas such as procurement, PFI, 
energy policy and transportation
 Recommendation to the Board of 
the adoption of the Group’s 2011 
Sustainability Report published in 
April 2012
July
 A review of the compliance function 
across the Group and the extent to 
which the compliance programme has 
been embraced within each of the 
divisions and the operating companies
 A detailed review of each of the 
principal whistleblowing cases and 
emerging trends across the Group
 A discussion on communication 
strategy and how best this could be 
developed in order to ensure the core 
messages concerning the Group’s 
strategic development and progress 
were effectively communicated
 Development of a series of position 
statements to address key issues 
taking a thought leadership perspective 
in such areas as private ﬁnance 
and alternative methods of funding 
infrastructure projects, the beneﬁts of 
infrastructure spend, apprenticeships 
and planning regulations
September
 The Committee undertook a detailed 
review of the Group’s Zero Harm 
safety programme, including 
performance during the 2007–2012 
period, lessons learnt and the next 
stage of its development. There were 
concerns over the high number of 
fatalities in 2012 and the impact of 
management changes following the 
retirement of the former head of 
Health & Safety during the year. There 
would be a focus on eliminating risks 
and placing emphasis on “bottom up” 
improvements to processes. Adopting 
leading indicators to measure 
performance was one highlighted 
change as well as setting minimum 
and excellence targets and a series 
of clearly articulated deliverables 
and milestones
December
 Review of the 2013–2015 
sustainability roadmap and the 
progress made against the 2012 
minimum expectations
 Discussion on the Health & Safety 
matters covered at the September 
meeting and the status on each of the 
actions in the 2012 and 2013 H&S plans 
including the 10 global safety principles 
and how these would be promulgated 
and adopted across the Group.
In 2013, the Committee will continue 
to address its standing agenda on 
Health & Safety, sustainability and 
ethics, but will also undertake a 
reputational risk assessment in light 
of the new organisational structure, 
complete a detailed review of the anti 
corruption risk processes and their 
application and consider the adequacy 
of the business processes following 
the Group strategic review.
Group h
areas su
energy
 Recom
the ado
Sustain
April 20
July
 A review
across t
which t
been em
division
 A detail
principa
emergin
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 76
Our Governance | Directors’ Report Group Tender and Investment Committee
As the implementation 
of the evolved business 
strategy takes place, 
the Committee will 
ensure internal approval 
processes continue to be 
appropriate in the way we 
address major projects and 
capital expenditure.
Ian Tyler – chairman
Meetings in 2012: Numerous
Members
 Ian Tyler – chairman
 Duncan Magrath
 Andrew McNaughton
 Anthony Rabin (to 30 June 2012)
 Peter Zinkin
 Kevin Craven
 Manfred Leger
 John Moore  
(from 1 February 2012)
 Brian Osborne
 Mike Peasland
 George Pierson
 Ian Rylatt (from 1 July 2012)
 Steve Tarr (from 11 October 2012)
 Robert Van Cleave
Responsibilities
 Major contract approvals
 Acquisitions and disposals
 Capital expenditure
Finance and General 
Purposes Committee
Meetings in 2012: Numerous
Members
 Ian Tyler – chairman
 Duncan Magrath
 Andrew McNaughton
 Anthony Rabin (to 30 June 2012)
 Peter Zinkin
Responsibilities
 Banking facilities and other  
treasury matters
 Share options
The Committee is chaired by the 
Chief Executive, or in his absence by 
one of the other executive Directors. 
Its principal purpose is to approve 
various routine banking and treasury 
matters, grants and exercises of 
employee share options and other 
matters relating to share capital. A 
summary of the business conducted 
at the meetings is provided to all 
the Directors.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief 
Executive, or in his absence by one of 
the Deputy Chief Executive & Chief 
Operating Ofﬁcer or the Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer. Its main purpose is to review all 
major proposed tenders with projected 
values above speciﬁed levels. The 
Committee also has authority to 
approve capital expenditure applications 
and any proposed acquisitions or 
disposals over certain speciﬁed limits 
determined by the Board. For example, 
currently the Committee’s terms 
of reference require contracts for 
construction or services in the UK of 
a value exceeding £100 million to be 
submitted for review, whilst other limits 
vary according to geography and nature 
of the contract. The Committee no 
longer automatically reviews tenders 
in territories classiﬁed as high risk, as 
following the Committee’s work in 
previous years, the Group’s compliance 
procedures in such territories are now 
fully implemented in each division, 
through their own divisional risk 
management committees. Routine 
monthly operating reviews cover issues 
of territorial and security risk. Any 
Director may convene a meeting of 
the Committee to discuss any of the 
divisional operating reviews in more 
detail. Minutes of Committee meetings 
are made available to all Directors.
Our Governance | Directors’ Report
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
77 Risk management  
and internal control
The Board takes ultimate responsibility 
for the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal control 
and reviews their effectiveness. 
The Group’s systems and controls are 
designed to ensure that the Group’s 
exposure to signiﬁcant risk is managed 
properly, but the Board recognises that 
any system of internal control is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. In addition, not all 
the material joint ventures in which the 
Group is involved are treated, for these 
purposes, as part of the Group. Where 
they are not, systems of internal control 
and risk management are applied as 
agreed between the partners to the 
joint venture.
Details of the Group’s risk management 
framework and of its principal risks and 
how they are mitigated are set out on 
pages 58 to 61. The Board continued 
to assess the effectiveness of the risk 
management processes and internal 
controls during 2012 and to the date of 
this report. Such assessment is based 
on reports made to the Board, the Audit 
Committee and the Business Practices 
Committee, including:
 the results of internal audit’s reviews 
of internal ﬁnancial controls
 a Group wide certiﬁcation that effective 
internal controls had been maintained, 
or, where any signiﬁcant non-compliance 
or breakdown had occurred with or 
without loss, that appropriate remedial 
action has been or is being taken
 a paper prepared by management on 
the nature, extent and mitigation of 
signiﬁcant risks and on the systems 
of internal controls.
Central to the Group’s systems of internal 
control are its processes and framework 
for risk management. These accord with 
the Turnbull Guidance on internal controls 
and were in place throughout 2012 and up 
to the date of signing this report.
The Group’s systems of internal control 
operate through a number of different 
processes, some of which are interlinked. 
These include:
 a clear system of delegated authorities 
from the Board to management with 
certain matters reserved by the Board
 the annual review of the strategy and 
plans of each division and of the Group 
as a whole in order to identify the risks 
to the Group’s achievement of its overall 
objectives and, where appropriate, any 
relevant mitigating actions
 monthly ﬁnancial reporting against 
budgets and the review of results and 
forecasts by executive Directors and 
line management, including particular 
areas of business or project risk. 
This is used to update management’s 
understanding of the environment 
in which the Group operates and the 
methods used to mitigate and control 
the risks identiﬁed
 individual tender and project review 
procedures starting at operating 
company and progressing to divisional 
and Board Committee levels if value, 
or perceived exposure, exceeds 
certain thresholds
 regular reporting, monitoring and review 
of the effectiveness of health, safety 
and environmental processes. These 
processes are subject to independent 
audit and certiﬁcation to internationally 
recognised standards
 the review and authorisation of 
proposed investment, divestment and 
capital expenditure through the Board’s 
Committees and the Board itself
 speciﬁc policies set out in the Group 
Finance Manual covering the ﬁnancial 
management of the Group, including 
arrangements with the Group’s bankers 
and bond providers, controls on foreign 
exchange dealings and management 
of currency and interest rate exposures, 
insurance, capital expenditure 
procedures, application of accounting 
policies and ﬁnancial controls
 legal compliance risks which are 
addressed through speciﬁc policies 
and training on such matters as ethics, 
competition and data protection laws
 a Group wide risk management 
framework which is embedded 
throughout the Group. Under it, key 
risks are identiﬁed and assessed and 
action plans are developed to mitigate 
or eliminate unwanted exposures. The 
results of these reviews are placed on 
risk registers and are subject to regular 
review with material risks being 
escalated as appropriate
 reviews and tests by the internal audit 
function of critical business ﬁnancial 
processes and controls and speciﬁc 
reviews in areas of perceived high 
business risk
 the Group’s policy in relation to 
staff being able to raise concerns, 
in conﬁdence, about possible 
improprieties on matters of ﬁnancial 
reporting and other issues.
These systems are extended, as soon 
as possible and as appropriate, to all 
businesses joining the Group.
The Head of Group Risk Management and 
Assurance is responsible for ensuring that 
a comprehensive framework of assurance 
(including internal audit) exists within 
divisions and their operating companies 
and for coordinating risk management 
activities across the Group. No signiﬁcant 
failings or weaknesses have been 
identiﬁed by the Board in carrying out 
its review of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management and internal 
control systems.
Other disclosures
Business and ﬁnancial review
The Chairman’s Welcome on pages 4 and 
5, the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 
6 and 7, the strategy review on pages 12 
and 13 and pages 16 to 23, the Operating 
Review on pages 28 to 43, The Way We 
Work on pages 48 to 51 and the Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer’s Review on pages 54 to 
57 are incorporated by reference into the 
Directors’ Report.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are shown in the 
audited ﬁnancial statements presented 
on pages 99 to 161 and are explained 
more fully in the Chief Executive’s 
Review, the Operating Review and the 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s Review. An 
interim dividend payment of 5.6p (net) per 
ordinary share was approved by the Board 
on 14 August 2012 and a ﬁnal dividend of 
8.5p (net) per ordinary share will be 
recommended at the Annual General 
Meeting giving a total of 14.1p (net) per 
ordinary share, which compares with a 
total dividend per ordinary share of 13.8p 
(net) for 2011. Preference dividends 
totalling 10.75p (gross) per preference 
share were paid in 2012 (2011: 10.75p 
(gross) per preference share).
The Directors continued to offer the 
dividend reinvestment plan, which allows 
holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their 
cash dividends in the Company’s shares 
through a specially arranged share 
dealing service.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 78
Our Governance | Directors’ Report Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance 
to maintaining good relationships with 
all shareholders and ensures that 
shareholders are kept informed of 
signiﬁcant Company developments.
The Company continued its programme of 
communication with institutional investors 
and sell side analysts throughout 2012. 
Presentations of the half-year and full-year 
results were made in accordance with 
the practice of previous years, and 
teleconferences have been held for 
Interim Management Statements. 
Through the year, 185 one-on-one and 
group meetings were held at regular 
intervals with institutional shareholders 
(2011: approximately 220). Current and 
prospective shareholders, brokers and 
analysts were also given the opportunity 
to engage with Balfour Beatty at hosted 
events including:
 an Investor Day which involved 
presentations and breakout sessions 
to give the investment community a 
better understanding of the Group’s 
strategic direction
 a roadshow in Zurich for local investors
 a site visit to the ongoing Heathrow 
Terminal 2B project for investors
 two conferences for existing and 
prospective investors
 a presentation to the UK Shareholders 
Association’s northeast region.
The Chairman held three meetings with 
major investors on corporate governance 
matters and ﬁve further meetings 
were held with major shareholders 
by senior executives as part of our 
ongoing engagement.
We will maintain this communication 
programme and expand it where 
appropriate, subject to the constraints of 
regulation and practice. The 2013 investor 
programme will focus on ensuring our 
investors and the analyst community 
understand the Group, its operations and 
strategy, and that international institutions 
are given the opportunity to meet 
with management.
Care is exercised to ensure that any 
price sensitive information is released 
to all shareholders at the same time 
in accordance with UK Listing 
Authority requirements.
Executive Directors report regularly to the 
Board on meetings or other contact with 
shareholders or their representatives. 
The non-executive Directors continue to 
believe that, through their direct and ready 
access to, and contact with, the Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director and 
At 31 December 2012, the Directors had 
authority under shareholders’ resolutions 
approved at the AGM and at the Class 
Meeting of preference shareholders held 
in May 2012 to purchase through the 
market 68,736,152 ordinary shares and 
16,775,968 preference shares at prices 
set out in those resolutions. This authority 
expires at the earlier of the conclusion 
of the Class Meeting of preference 
shareholders which will follow the 2013 
AGM or on 1 July 2013.
Throughout the year, all the Company’s 
issued share capital was publicly listed 
on the London Stock Exchange and it 
remains so as at the date of this report. 
In 2012, the Company launched an 
American Depositary Receipt programme 
to improve access to the Company’s 
ordinary shares for investors in the US. 
There are no speciﬁc restrictions on the 
size of a shareholding nor on the transfer 
of shares, which are both governed by the 
Articles of Association and the prevailing 
law. The Directors are not aware of any 
agreements between holders of the 
Company’s shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of shares 
or on voting rights.
Shares held by the Balfour Beatty 
Employee Share Ownership Trust are 
not voted.
No person has special rights of control 
over the Company’s share capital and all 
issued shares are fully paid.
As at 31 December 2012, the Company 
had been notiﬁed in accordance with the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority of the following 
interests in its ordinary share capital:
Number
of ordinary
shares held
Percentage
of ordinary
shares held
Prudential plc 35,103,707 5.10
BlackRock, Inc 34,469,134 5.01
Causeway Capital 
Management LLC 34,296,464 4.98
Since 1 January 2013, the Company has 
received a further notiﬁcation advising 
that Standard Life Investments Limited 
has an interest of 3.65%.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness 
to continue as auditor to the Company 
and a resolution for its reappointment 
will be proposed at the AGM.
Innovation, research and development
The Group remains committed to 
enhancing stakeholder value through 
thought leadership and innovation. 
Innovation is a signiﬁcant part of the 
day-to-day operations of the Group and is 
integral to the development and delivery 
of its projects. Developed with our 
partner, Imperial College London, our 
approach to innovation aims to better 
meet our clients’ needs through: 
pioneering solutions; encouraging 
a culture of entrepreneurship and 
knowledge sharing; and leveraging our 
relationship with partners and suppliers. 
By delivering on these aims we are 
better able to connect the end-to-end 
infrastructure knowledge that we 
have around the globe with the client 
challenges we ﬁnd locally. In this way, 
we are able to deliver greater value 
to them and create new market 
opportunities that underpin growth. 
A sustained central focus and the 
successful integration of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff have led to an increase in 
research and development activities. This 
is evidenced by long term relationships 
with thought leaders such as Princeton 
University and the University of Bristol 
and strategic suppliers such as Autodesk. 
Successes in innovation include the 
Olympic Aquatic Centre, where 
constraints on time and budget have 
been overcome through innovative 
thinking; our partnership with Royal Mail 
to deliver facilities management that 
is at the forefront of business model 
innovation; and our Highways Agency 
maintenance contracts, which are leading 
the way in outcome based contracting.
In 2013, we will continue to look for ways 
in which we can exploit the best practice 
we have been developing with our 
ﬂagship projects in other areas of the 
Group’s portfolio. We will also continue to 
identify opportunities where we can 
better connect our global sector expertise 
with local needs, as we develop new 
geographies and market sectors. 
Share capital and shareholders
Details of the share capital of the 
Company as at 31 December 2012, 
including the rights attaching to each 
class of share, are set out in Note 27 
on pages 139 and 140. During the year 
ended 31 December 2012 no ordinary or 
preference shares were repurchased for 
cancellation. 866,427 ordinary shares 
were issued following the exercise of 
options held under the Company’s 
savings-related share option scheme 
and 229,220 ordinary shares were issued 
following the exercise of options held 
under the Company’s executive share 
option scheme.
Our Governance | Directors’ Report
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
79 Parsons Brinckerhoff Group Inc sponsors 
a Political Action Committee (PAC). 
A PAC is an independently administered 
committee which receives small voluntary 
contributions from Parsons Brinckerhoff’s 
US employees and allocates the funds 
received to US political candidates and 
other eligible stakeholders who support 
investment in infrastructure markets 
generally. Contributions are entirely 
voluntary from employees and are kept 
completely separate from company funds. 
Decisions taken by the PAC are 
independent of inﬂuence by Balfour 
Beatty. Total PAC contributions in 2012 
were £88,019.
Corporate responsibility
A full description of our approach to 
sustainability, including information on 
the Group’s community engagement 
programme, appears on page 49.
The Group’s published policies on health 
and safety, the environment, business 
conduct and ethics remain in place and 
are subject to regular reviews. 
Further information on each of these 
policies and the progress which has 
been made during the year is provided 
in the 2012 Sustainability Report at  
www.balfourbeatty.com.
Employment
As the Group operates across a number of 
business sectors in different environments, 
it has evolved a decentralised management 
structure, with employment policies 
designed to suit the needs of individual 
businesses. However, each employing 
company is expected to comply with 
certain key principles in its design and 
practice of employment policy.
These are:
 to provide an open, challenging and 
participative environment
 to enable all employees to use their 
talents and skills to the full, through 
appropriate encouragement, training 
and development
 to communicate a full understanding 
of the objectives and performance 
of the Group and the opportunities 
and challenges facing it
 to provide pay and other beneﬁts which 
reﬂect good local practices and reward 
individual and collective performance
 to ensure that all applicants receive 
fair treatment regardless of age, origin, 
gender, disability, sexual orientation, 
marital status, religion or belief
 to ensure that all employees similarly 
receive fair treatment, particularly in 
relation to training, development and 
career progression.
Applications for employment by disabled 
persons are always fully considered, 
bearing in mind the aptitudes of the 
applicant concerned and the support that 
is available. In the event of members of 
staff becoming disabled every effort is 
made to ensure that their employment 
with the Group continues and that 
appropriate training and other support 
is provided. It is the policy of the Group 
that the training, career development and 
promotion of disabled persons should, 
as far as possible, be identical to that 
of other employees.
Throughout the Group we use a 
variety of methods to communicate key 
business goals and issues to employees 
and also consult and involve employees 
through local publications, brieﬁng 
groups, consultative meetings, training 
programmes and working groups to assist 
innovation, collaboration and the process 
of continuous improvement in the way 
business is conducted. In 2012, the 
Company launched its global intranet 
“360” which is available to the 
majority of employees and is a key 
communication channel for informing 
them of major business and technical 
achievements. It also aids knowledge 
sharing and collaboration.
Events after the reporting date
Details of events after the reporting date 
are set out in Note 35 on page 148.
Contractual arrangements
The Group has contractual arrangements 
with numerous third parties in support 
of its business activities. Disclosure in 
this report of information about any of 
those third parties is not considered 
necessary for the understanding of the 
development, performance or position 
of the Group’s business.
Change of control provisions
The Group’s bank facility agreements 
contain provisions that, on 30 days’ 
notice being given to the Group, the 
lender may exercise its discretion to 
require prepayment of the loans on a 
change of control of the Company and 
cancel all commitments under the 
agreement concerned. 
A number of signiﬁcant joint venture 
and contract bond agreements include 
provisions which become exercisable by 
through the regular reports to the Board, 
they are kept fully aware of the views of 
the larger shareholders in the Company 
and the investment community generally.
The Board continues to retain the services 
of independent external corporate and 
investor relations consultants who provide 
advice on the relationship between the 
Company and its institutional investors.
The Board regards the Company’s 
general meetings as an opportunity 
to communicate directly with private 
investors and actively encourages 
participative dialogue with all the 
Company’s shareholders. The chairmen 
of the Board Committees attend the 
AGM each year along with the other 
Directors and are available to answer 
questions from shareholders.
The website www.balfourbeatty.com is 
regarded by the Company as an important 
source of information on the Group, 
including ﬁnancial press releases, 
shareholder documentation, annual and 
half-year results presentations and the 
terms of reference of the principal Board 
Committees. We continue to develop the 
Company’s website to ensure it remains 
a principal source of information on the 
Group and its activities.
Political donations
At the AGM held on 10 May 2012, 
shareholders gave authority for the 
Company and its UK subsidiaries to make 
donations to political organisations up to 
a maximum aggregate amount of £25,000 
in the European Union. This approval is 
a precautionary measure in view of the 
broad deﬁnition of these terms in the 
Companies Act. No such expenditure 
or donations were made during the year 
and shareholder authority will be sought 
again at the 2013 AGM.
In the US and Canada, donations totalling 
£371,000 were made by operating 
companies during 2012 (2011: £182,000). 
Most of these donations were made by 
Parsons Brinckerhoff; they were small 
and all were permitted by law. They are 
non-partisan and in the main, they relate 
to support given for local campaigns, 
public bond or similar referenda to 
promote investment in infrastructure. 
Any political contributions or donations are 
tightly controlled and must be approved 
in advance in accordance with the 
Company’s internal procedures and must 
also adhere strictly to the Company’s 
policies on probity set out in its Code of 
Conduct. A review of existing practices 
was undertaken during 2012 and no 
changes to these practices were 
considered necessary.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 80
Our Governance | Directors’ Report Statements of Directors as 
to disclosure of information 
to auditors
Each of the Directors at the date of 
approval of this report conﬁrms that:
 so far as the Director is aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware
 the Director has taken all the steps 
that he or she ought to have taken as 
a Director to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
This conﬁrmation is given and should 
be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board
Chris Vaughan
Chief Corporate Ofﬁcer & 
Company Secretary
6 March 2013
Registered Ofﬁce:
130 Wilton Road
London SW1V 1LQ
Registered in England Number 395826
 properly select and apply  
accounting policies
 present information, including 
accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information
 provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the speciﬁc 
requirements in IFRSs are insufﬁcient to 
enable users to understand the impact 
of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the Company’s and 
the Group’s ﬁnancial position and 
ﬁnancial performance
 make an assessment of the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufﬁcient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy, at any time, 
the ﬁnancial position of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial 
statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for taking reasonable steps for 
preventing and detecting fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the 
United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
The Directors conﬁrm that to the best 
of their knowledge:
 the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position 
and proﬁt or loss of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole
 the Operating Review and Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer’s Review, which are 
incorporated into the Directors’ Report, 
include a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business 
and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties they face.
a counterparty on a change of control of 
the Company. These include the right of a 
counterparty to request additional security 
and to terminate an agreement.
Some other commercial agreements, 
entered into in the normal course 
of business, include change of 
control provisions.
The Group’s share and incentive plans 
include usual provisions relating to change 
of control.
There are no agreements providing for 
compensation for the Directors or 
employees on a change of control.
Payment of creditors
In the UK, the Company’s policy is to 
settle the terms of payment with suppliers 
when agreeing the terms for each 
transaction or series of transactions; to 
seek to ensure that suppliers are aware 
of the terms of payment; and to abide 
by these terms of payment as and when 
satisﬁed that the supplier has provided 
the goods or services in accordance with 
the agreed terms. At 31 December 2012, 
creditors’ days of the Company were 26 
(2011: 28).
Financial instruments
The Group’s ﬁnancial risk management 
objectives and policies and its exposure 
to the following risks – foreign exchange, 
interest rate, price and credit – are detailed 
in Note 36 on pages 149 to 154.
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the annual report and the 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare ﬁnancial statements for each 
ﬁnancial year. Under that law, the 
Directors are required to prepare the 
Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union (EU) and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation and they have also chosen 
to prepare the parent company ﬁnancial 
statements under IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU. Under company law, the Directors 
must not approve the ﬁnancial statements 
unless they are satisﬁed that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company and of the proﬁt or loss of 
the Company for that period. In preparing 
these ﬁnancial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that Directors:
Our Governance | Directors’ Report
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Governance
81 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 82
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Remuneration Report
Dear Shareholder 
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee’s report for 2012 on Directors’ remuneration.
The Government has recently tabled proposals to reform the way that Directors’ remuneration is voted upon and 
reported. Although the new legislative requirements will not come into effect until October 2013, the Committee 
has sought to comply with many of the new requirements in the interests of openness and transparency. 
Accordingly we have split this report into two sections: 
 a Policy Report which sets out the forward looking policy on the remuneration of the executive and  
non-executive Directors for 2013
 an Implementation Report which discloses how the current remuneration policy has been implemented in the year 
ended 31 December 2012.
We will be seeking your support for both parts of the report by way of a single advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
The Group continues to face challenging trading conditions in many of its traditional construction markets and is taking 
action to improve operational performance and effectiveness. Underlying pre-tax proﬁt from continuing operations, 
which is the measure on which we base performance for the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP), decreased 7% to £310 million 
in 2012, including the beneﬁt of £52 million of gains from PPP disposals. The Group’s ﬁnancial performance for 2012 has 
therefore generated outturns from the AIP for the executive Directors of 48% of base salary, which is below target and 
signiﬁcantly lower than the 78% of base salary for the previous year. Furthermore, the 2010 Performance Share Plan 
awards will lapse in full in April 2013 as the 2009 Performance Share Plan awards did in April 2012. We believe that this 
represents a fair link between reward and performance for the year under review.
We remain committed to ensuring that rewards for executives are closely aligned to the interests of shareholders 
through having all of our incentive arrangements linked to the achievement of challenging business performance 
targets and generation of market beating levels of shareholder return. We remain comfortable that this is the case.
We are not proposing any major changes to the remuneration policy for the 2013 ﬁnancial year, although the suite 
of performance metrics used in the Annual Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan will change for 2013. More 
speciﬁcally, 30% of the annual incentive will be subject to three business strategy metrics (with 70% continuing to be 
subject to proﬁt before tax). Furthermore the earnings per share performance condition attaching to the Performance 
Share Plan awards will be removed and replaced with an additional relative total shareholder return condition. Further 
details of these changes, which have been made following shareholder consultation, are contained in the Policy Report.
Salaries of executive Directors are due to be reviewed in July 2013 but it has already been agreed that, consistent 
with many parts of the Group, executive Directors will not receive an annual increase in 2013.
The Committee encourages dialogue with the Company’s shareholders and will consult with major shareholders ahead 
of any signiﬁcant future changes to remuneration policy. We were pleased that the 2011 Remuneration Report received 
a 97% vote in favour at the 2012 AGM. 
Shareholders are invited to approve this report at the AGM on 16 May 2013. 
Iain Ferguson 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83
Our Governance
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Policy Report
This part of the Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the Company with effect from 1 January 2013. There have 
been some changes to the performance metrics used in the performance related elements of pay, which the Committee considers 
provide better alignment with the business strategy. Further details of these changes are provided on pages 84 and 85.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines the remuneration packages of the executive Directors of the Company and the 
Chairman and the Company’s remuneration policy. In setting the remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account a number 
of factors, including:
 general trends in pay and conditions throughout the Group
 the positioning of remuneration levels against the external market – the Committee is, however, aware of the risk of an upward 
ratchet in remuneration levels through overreliance on comparative survey data
 the balance between ﬁxed and variable pay – more speciﬁcally, variable pay should form a signiﬁcant but not disproportionately 
high level of remuneration
 the strategy of the business.
In setting the overall remuneration policy, general trends and average increases throughout the Group are taken into account when 
setting executive Directors’ reward packages. A key feature for the executive Directors is that a higher proportion of their remuneration 
package is delivered through performance related pay, which has a greater linkage to the results of the Group. The areas covered in this 
Policy Report comprise:
Executive Director remuneration policy for 2013 Page 84
Remuneration scenarios for executive Directors Page 86
Service agreements for executive Directors Page 87
External appointments of executive Directors Page 87
Appointment of non-executive Directors Page 87
Non-executive Directors’ fees Page 87 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 84
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Executive Director remuneration policy for 2013
The following table sets out a summary of each element of the executive Directors’ remuneration packages, their link to the  
Company’s strategy, the policy for how these are operated, the maximum opportunity, a description of any performance  
metrics and any changes since 2012. 
Element of pay Purpose and link to Company’s strategy How operated in practice
Base salary To attract and retain high calibre individuals.
To provide a mid-market salary relative to 
comparable companies in terms of size 
and complexity.
Salaries are reviewed and set annually in July.
The Committee considers remuneration levels in 
companies of comparable market capitalisations, 
revenues and industry sectors.
In addition, a key reference point for salary increases is the 
average increase across the general workforce (with the 
exception of promotions or signiﬁcant changes in responsibility). 
Salaries are paid monthly in cash.
Beneﬁts To aid retention and to remain competitive in the 
marketplace. In addition, medical beneﬁts are 
provided to minimise disruption due to absence.
Private medical insurance. 
A car and fuel card or car allowance are offered.
Pension To remain competitive in the marketplace. Executive Directors can elect to either: 
 participate in the deﬁned contribution (DC) section of the 
Group’s pension fund. Executive Directors must make 
contributions of 5% of base salary (up to an earnings cap), 
with the Company contributing 20% of base salary (up to the 
cap). On earnings above the cap, executive Directors receive 
a salary supplement; or
 receive a salary supplement. 
Annual Incentive Plan 
(AIP) and Deferred Bonus  
Plan (DBP)
To motivate executives and incentivise the 
achievement of key business performance  
targets over the ﬁnancial year without  
encouraging excessive risk taking. Managing risk  
is critical, particularly given the nature of the 
Company’s business.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
50% of the annual incentive is paid in cash annually and 50% 
is deferred into shares for three years.
Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct  
and/or material misstatement or error of ﬁnancial results.
Performance Share Plan  
(PSP)
To incentivise and reward delivery of long term 
performance linked to the business strategy.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
To aid retention.
PSP awards are granted annually so that no undue emphasis 
is placed on performance in any one particular ﬁnancial year. 
Awards vest on the third anniversary subject to performance 
over three ﬁnancial years. 
Participants also receive an award of shares in lieu of the value 
of dividends on vested shares.
Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct  
and/or material misstatement or error of ﬁnancial results.
For 2013, the relative total shareholder return (TSR) performance 
metric is considered to be the most appropriate output based 
measure of longer term performance. Executive Directors should 
be incentivised to achieve strong stock market performance to 
align their interests with those of shareholders. 
Shareholding guidelines To further align the interests of executive Directors 
with those of shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to accumulate a shareholding 
in the Company’s shares to the value of 100% of their base 
salary. Executive Directors are expected to retain at least 50% 
of shares (net of tax) which vest from awards made under the 
PSP and DBP until the target shareholding is attained.
Fees for external  
appointments
The Committee recognises that beneﬁts can arise 
from allowing executive Directors to take a 
non-executive directorship elsewhere.
Fees can be retained with the approval of the Board.
New joiners The above policy would also be anticipated to form the basis on which any new executive Director would be appointed.  
Ongoing policy for the individual would be subject to the above policy. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85
Our Governance
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics Changes since 2012
– The Committee takes into account the performance of the 
Group and each individual executive Director’s performance 
when setting salaries.
No change
The maximum opportunity for medical 
beneﬁts is cover for the executive 
Director and his family. The taxable 
value of the car and fuel card can vary 
depending on the car provided and tax 
rates from time to time. The value of 
car allowance is:
 £16,000 for the Chief Executive
 £14,000 for other executive 
Directors.
–No change
Executive Directors who participate 
in the Group’s pension fund receive 
a salary supplement of 20% of base 
salary in excess of the cap. 
If a salary supplement alone is 
taken, this is equivalent to 20% 
of base salary.
– During 2012 some executive Directors 
participated in the deﬁned beneﬁt (DB) 
section of the Group’s pension fund. 
Further details are set out on page 94.
Maximum annual incentive 
opportunity is 120% of base salary.
70% of the bonus is based on proﬁt before tax and 
non-underlying items. 30% of the bonus is based on 
three other Group-based performance metrics linked 
to the business strategy.
The metrics are based on:
 delivery of cost efﬁciencies
 strength of order book
 restructuring for strategic growth.
Other performance goals including those relating to social, 
environmental and governance responsibilities are assessed 
through the normal management review process.
Three new Group based performance 
metrics have been introduced for 2013 (for 
30% of the bonus opportunity) to provide 
a link between reward and the strategic 
changes required during 2013. The new 
measures are designed to provide a more 
rounded assessment of performance.
The payout for achieving on-target 
performance under the proﬁt before tax part 
of the bonus has been reduced from 50% to 
40% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
The limit in the rules of the PSP is 
200% of base salary. Other than 
in exceptional circumstances, the 
value of shares at grant is equal to:
 175% of base salary for the 
Chief Executive
 150% of base salary for 
other executive Directors.
100% of the awards are subject to relative TSR targets 
measured over a period of three years.
50% of awards are based on TSR against a comparator 
group of UK listed companies ranked 51–150 by market 
capitalisation in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding 
Investment Trusts) at the start of the performance period.
50% of awards are based on TSR measured against a group 
of 8–10 construction and professional services companies, 
including international peers.
For both tranches there is no vesting below median, with 
25% vesting at median ranking, rising to 100% vesting at 
upper quartile or higher.
A sliding scale for performance targets is used to provide 
incremental awards for additional performance delivered, 
but with a cap in place to discourage excessive risk taking. 
The earnings per share element of the PSP 
award (accounting for 50% of awards in 
2012) has been removed due to the 
difﬁculties in setting robust targets given the 
ongoing uncertainty in construction markets.
The Remuneration Committee considers 
relative TSR to be a good measure of the 
Group’s performance. In addition, the choice 
of the two comparator groups will reward 
executives for outperforming the sector and/
or the general market, although signiﬁcant 
rewards will only be delivered for 
outperforming both.
– No change No change
Maximum of one external 
corporate appointment.
–No change
However, ﬂexibility is retained to offer remuneration on a one-off basis on appointment outside the above policy.   Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 86
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Remuneration scenarios for executive Directors
The charts below provide estimates for the potential future remuneration based on the remuneration policy for 2013. Potential 
outcomes based on different performance scenarios are provided for the Chief Executive (assuming a full year’s remuneration for 
the incoming Chief Executive) and the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. The remuneration package of the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer is similar in 
proportion terms to that of the Planning and Development Director. The charts show that the performance related elements of the 
package comprise a very signiﬁcant proportion of the executive Directors’ total remuneration from threshold performance upwards, 
with payments for on-target and maximum performance linked to highly stretching business goals.
Andrew McNaughton, Chief Executive (from 31 March 2013)
500
250
750
1,000
Fixed pay
On-target Maximum
0
1,250
2,000
1,750
1,500
2,250
2,500
2,750
£000
Base salary Beneﬁts and pensions Annual Incentive Plan (cash and deferred) Performance Share Plan
82%
18%
38%
9%
20%
33%
24%
5%
29%
42%
Duncan Magrath, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Fixed pay
On-target Maximum
0
250
1,000
750
500
1,250
1,500
1,750
£000
Base salary Beneﬁts and pensions Annual Incentive Plan (cash and deferred) Performance Share Plan
81%
19%
40%
9%
21%
30%
26%
6%
30%
38%
Notes:
The potential values presented in the charts above assume the following at each performance level:
(i) Fixed pay – no vesting under the AIP or PSP.
(ii)  On-target – 43% payout under the AIP (of which 50% is paid in cash and 50% is deferred into shares) and 50% vesting under the PSP.
(iii) Maximum – 100% payout under the AIP and 100% vesting under the PSP. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87
Our Governance
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Service agreements for executive Directors
Details of the service contracts of the executive Directors are shown in the table below. In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, all executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM. 
Name of Director Date of contract
Notice 
period from
the Company
(months)
Notice
period from
the Director
(months) Termination payment
Duncan Magrath 11 April 2008 12 6 There is no provision for speciﬁc payment. It is not the 
Committee’s intention to introduce such provisions. If any existing 
contract is breached by the Company, it would be liable to pay, as 
damages, an amount approximating to the net loss of salary and 
contractual beneﬁts for the unexpired notice period, subject to 
mitigation and phased payments where appropriate. 
Andrew McNaughton 
(Note i) 15 December 2008 12 6
Anthony Rabin (Note ii) 31 March 2008 12 6
Ian Tyler 22 December 2004 12 6
Peter Zinkin 16 January 2004 12 6
Notes:
(i)  A new service agreement dated 7 January 2013 was put in place for Andrew McNaughton following the announcement of his appointment as Chief Executive from 
31 March 2013.
(ii) 
Anthony Rabin retired from the Company on 30 June 2012.
External appointments of executive Directors
Ian Tyler was appointed as a non-executive director of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, effective 1 January 2011. Duncan Magrath 
was appointed as a non-executive director of Brammer plc, effective 1 March 2012. Anthony Rabin was appointed as a non-executive 
director of Colt Group S.A., effective 20 July 2011. The fees that each executive Director received in 2012 for these roles are set out 
in Note (vi) to the Directors’ remuneration table on page 90.
Appointment of non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are appointed by the full Board following recommendations from the Nomination Committee. All non-executive 
Directors are appointed for a term of three years. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all non-executive Directors 
submit themselves for re-election at the AGM. 
The dates of the letters of appointment or reappointment of the non-executive Directors are shown in the table below.
Name of Director
Date of appointment  
or reappointment 
Unexpired period at
December 2012 (months)
Robert Amen 10 June 2010 5
Mike Donovan 1 July 2012 30
Iain Ferguson (Note i) 1 January 2010 0
Maureen Kempston Darkes 11 July 2012 30
Hubertus Krossa 9 September 2011 20
Steve Marshall 16 May 2011 16
Graham Roberts 1 January 2012 24
Robert Walvis (Note ii) 26 September 2010 –
Notes:
(i)
 Iain Ferguson was reappointed on 1 January 2013. 
(ii) Robert Walvis retired on 31 December 2012.
Non-executive Directors’ fees
In order to attract and retain high quality and experienced non-executive Directors, the Chairman is paid an annual fee and the 
non-executive Directors are paid an annual base fee and additional responsibility fees for the role of Senior Independent Director or 
for chairing a Board Committee. Non-executive Directors based outside Europe receive an additional allowance for each visit made 
on Company business to the UK, or to any other country (excluding their home country). Fee levels are reviewed annually in July.
The non-executive Directors are not eligible to join any pension scheme operated by the Company and cannot participate in any of the 
Company’s share plans or annual incentive schemes. None of the appointment letters for non-executive Directors contain provision for 
speciﬁc payment in the event of termination for whatever cause. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 88
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Implementation Report
This part of the Remuneration Report sets out how the remuneration policy and practices for the Company were implemented over 
the 2012 ﬁnancial year. Details of the remuneration earned by executive Directors and the outcomes of incentive schemes, including 
details of relevant links to Company performance, are also provided in this Implementation Report.
The areas covered in this Implementation Report comprise:
Performance graph comparing the Company’s TSR with the FTSE 250 and the Chief Executive’s remuneration Page 89
Directors’ base salaries in 2012 Page 89
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2012 Page 90
Directors’ interests in the Annual Incentive Plan in 2012 Page 91
Directors’ interests in the Performance Share Plan in 2012 Page 92
Directors’ interests in the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2012 Page 93
Directors’ interests in the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme in 2012 Page 93
Directors’ pensions and pension allowances in 2012 Page 94
Directors’ shareholdings in 2012 Page 95
Membership of the Remuneration Committee Page 96
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM Page 96 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89
Our Governance
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Performance graph comparing the Company’s TSR with the FTSE 250 and the Chief Executive’s remuneration
As in previous reports, the Remuneration Committee has chosen to compare the TSR on the Company’s ordinary shares against the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) principally because this is a broad index of which the Company is a constituent member. 
The values indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends from a £100 hypothetical holding of ordinary 
shares in Balfour Beatty plc and in the index, and have been calculated using 30 trading day average values.
In addition, the graph shows the movements in remuneration earned by the Chief Executive for each year over the same period. 
25
Dec 2007 Dec 2008
Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012
0
50
75
100
125
150
300
0
1,200
900
600
1,500
1,800
2,100
2,400
Value (£)
CEO pay (£000)
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Balfour Beatty plc CEO pay
The detailed information about the Directors’ remuneration, set out below, on page 90 and on pages 92 to 95, has been audited by the 
Company’s independent auditors, Deloitte LLP.
 
Directors’ base salaries in 2012
At the annual review of base salaries for the executive Directors on 1 July 2012, base salaries were reviewed as shown below:
Name of Director
Base salary at 
1 July 2012
Base salary at 
1 July 2011 % uplift
Duncan Magrath (Note i) £425,000 £405,000 4.9%
Andrew McNaughton (Note ii) £460,000 £430,000 7.0%
Anthony Rabin n/a £450,000 n/a
Ian Tyler (Note iii) £688,000 £668,000 3.0%
Peter Zinkin (Note iii) £443,000 £430,000 3.0%
Notes:
(i)  The 4.9% increase was based on market and performance factors.
(ii)  The 7.0% increase was based on market and performance factors plus an element for the additional responsibilities taken on as a result of Andrew McNaughton’s 
additional appointment as Deputy Chief Executive.
(iii) The 3.0% increase was based on market and performance factors.
As part of the overall succession plan, the Board has recently announced some changes to the management team. The Chief 
Executive, Ian Tyler, is leaving the Company in April 2013 and Andrew McNaughton will be succeeding him as Chief Executive, 
effective from 31 March 2013. In addition, our Deputy Chief Executive, Anthony Rabin, retired from the Company on 30 June 2012.
Andrew McNaughton’s base salary will be £650,000 on appointment, with other elements of his package in line with the policy set out 
in this report.
In line with contractual entitlements, Ian Tyler will work four months of his 12 months’ notice period, up to 30 April 2013, to ensure a 
smooth handover to Andrew McNaughton. In lieu of the remainder of the notice period, he will receive a payment from the Company 
equivalent to eight months’ salary, beneﬁts and pension, including phased monthly payments for the four months from September to 
December 2013, which are subject to offset against earnings elsewhere. Ian Tyler will be treated as a good leaver under the relevant 
share plans. On 30 April 2013, his awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan will vest and a proportion of his Performance Share Plan 
(PSP) awards will lapse reﬂecting the proportion of the performance period for each award which had not been completed at that date. 
The remainder of his PSP awards will vest in the same proportion, and at the same time, as the awards made to the other participants.
At the annual review of fees for the non-executive Directors on 1 July 2012 the annual fee level for the non-executive Directors 
(excluding the Chairman) was increased from £54,000 to £56,000 and for Steve Marshall as Chairman from £258,000 to £265,750. 
The annual fee for chairing Board Committees is unchanged at £10,000. In addition the annual fee for the Senior Independent Director 
remains at £10,000. For non-executive Directors based outside Europe the additional allowance for each overseas visit made on 
Company business remains at £2,500. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 90
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2012
Name of Director
Base 
salary
£
Fees
£
Pension
allowances 
£
Taxable
beneﬁts
£
Annual 
incentive
£
Total 
remuneration 
2012 
£
Total cash
remuneration 
2011 
£
Robert Amen –77,500––– 77,500 73,000
Mike Donovan –65,000––– 65,000 63,000
Iain Ferguson – 65,000 – – – 65,000 57,451
Maureen Kempston Darkes –29,500––– 29,500 –
Hubertus Krossa –79,390––– 79,390 82,565
Duncan Magrath 415,000 – 76,027 15,550 102,425 609,002 622,690
Steve Marshall –261,875 –––261,875 254,000
Andrew McNaughton 445,000 – 48,791 15,550 110,860 620,201 647,511
Anthony Rabin 238,846 – 39,263 10,396 – 288,505 717,592
Graham Roberts – 65,000 – – – 65,000 63,000
Ian Tyler 678,000 – 80,614 27,546 331,616 1,117,776 1,024,390
Robert Walvis – 65,000 – – – 65,000 63,000
Peter Zinkin 436,500 – 60,210 9,881 106,763 613,354 661,286
Total 2,213,346 708,265 304,905 78,923 651,664 3,957,103 4,329,485
Notes:
(i)  Base salary and fees were those paid in respect of the period of the year during which individuals were Directors. In practice, the base salary paid to Peter Zinkin has 
been reduced due to his participation in the Company’s SMART Pensions salary sacriﬁce arrangement. The salary reduction in 2012 was £6,773. This corresponds to 
his contributions to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund, which are now met directly by the Company as part of this arrangement.
(ii)  The base salaries paid to Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton and Peter Zinkin have been reduced due to their participation in the Company’s Share Incentive Plan. 
The salary reductions in 2012 were £2,625, £1,125 and £2,625 for Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton and Peter Zinkin respectively.
(iii)  All executive Directors received taxable cash supplements in lieu of some pension provision. Further details are set out in the section on Directors’ pensions on pages 94 
and 95.
(iv)  The performance measure for the AIP was proﬁt before tax and non-underlying items. The targets were set in January 2012 based on a sliding scale from threshold to 
target proﬁt and from target proﬁt to maximum. The proﬁt for the year ended 31 December 2012 resulted in an AIP outturn of 48.2% of base salary for each executive 
Director. As Ian Tyler is leaving the business on 30 April 2013, all of his annual incentive will be paid in cash and this amount is shown in the table above. For the other 
executive Directors, 50% of this annual incentive is payable in cash and these are the amounts shown in the table above. The remaining 50% is deferred in the form 
of ordinary shares in the Company. The number of shares comprising the deferred element will be determined based on the share price at the award date of 29 March 
2013. These shares will be released to the Director on 29 March 2016, providing he is still employed by the Company at that time.
(v)  Hubertus Krossa received a fee of €30,000 (included above) for his chairmanship of the supervisory board of Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH.
(vi)  In addition, Ian Tyler received a fee of £76,667 for his services as a non-executive director of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, Duncan Magrath received a fee 
of £27,000 for his services as a non-executive director of Brammer plc and Anthony Rabin received a fee of €35,625 for his services as a non-executive director of 
Colt Group S.A.
(vii)  Taxable beneﬁts are calculated in terms of UK taxable values. All executive Directors received private medical insurance for the Director and his immediate family. 
Ian Tyler and Anthony Rabin received a fully expensed car and a fuel card. Peter Zinkin received a fully expensed car only. Duncan Magrath and Andrew McNaughton 
received a car allowance of £14,000 pa.
(viii) No Director received any expense allowance.
(ix)   In addition, awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2009 to Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton, Anthony Rabin, Ian Tyler and Peter Zinkin vested during the 
year. At the date of vesting on 31 March 2012 the closing market price was 285.5p and the total values of the awards which vested were £93,067, £83,492, £116,341, 
£172,468 and £110,871 respectively.
(x)  In addition, Ian Tyler and Peter Zinkin exercised savings-related share options during the year. The closing market price on the dates of exercise were 312.7p and 300.6p 
respectively and the values realisable on exercise were £280 and £189 respectively.
(xi)  Anthony Rabin retired on 30 June 2012. All of his remuneration was earned and received prior to 30 June 2012, and he received no compensation for loss of ofﬁce. In 
addition, Anthony Rabin’s awards under the DBP in 2010, 2011 and 2012 vested on 30 June 2012 at which date the closing market price was 298.0p and the total value 
of the awards that vested was £342,497. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91
Our Governance
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Single total remuneration ﬁgure for each Director in 2012
Following the draft proposals published by the Government, the table below presents a single total remuneration ﬁgure for 2012 for the 
executive Directors. Compared to the Directors’ remuneration table on page 90, the additional elements included in the single ﬁgure in 
the table below relate to the value of any pension provision, the 50% of the Annual Incentive Plan which will be deferred in the form of 
shares and any vesting of the Performance Share Plan. The single ﬁgure for each non-executive Director would be as presented in the 
Directors’ remuneration table on page 90.
Fixed pay Pay for performance
Base salary
£
Pensions 
and pension
allowances
£
Taxable
beneﬁts
£
Subtotal
£
Annual
Incentive 
Plan
(including
deferred 
shares)
£
Performance
Share Plan
£
Subtotal
£
Total
remuner-
ation
£
Duncan Magrath 415,000 76,027 15,550 506,577 204,850 – 204,850 711,427
Andrew McNaughton 445,000 109,731 15,550 570,281 221,720 – 221,720 792,001
Anthony Rabin 238,84639,26310,396288,505–––288,505
Ian Tyler 678,000 154,694 27,546 860,240 331,616 – 331,616 1,191,856
Peter Zinkin 436,500 87,300 9,881 533,681 213,526 – 213,526 747,207
Notes:
(i)  The PSP values are based on the 2010 PSP award which will lapse in April 2013 based on the performance period which ended on 31 December 2012.
(ii)  The value of DB pension entitlements has been calculated as the increase in the accrued deferred pension during the year in excess of retail price inﬂation, multiplied by 20. 
The value of DC pension entitlements has been calculated as the sum of Company contributions paid during the year. 
(iii)  In addition, Ian Tyler and Peter Zinkin exercised savings-related share options during the year. The closing market price on the dates of the exercise were 312.7p and 
300.6p respectively and the values realisable were £280 and £189 respectively.
(iv) See also notes (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (vii) and (xi), to the Directors’ remuneration table on page 90.
Directors’ interests in the Annual Incentive Plan in 2012
As detailed in the Policy Report, each executive Director participates in the Annual Incentive Plan, in which performance is measured 
over a single ﬁnancial year. For the year under review, the performance condition which applied to the Annual Incentive Plan and the 
resulting outturn were as follows:
Performance measure
Proportion of total annual 
incentive available
Resulting annual 
incentive outturn (Note i)
% of maximum % of base salary % of maximum % of base salary
Proﬁt before tax and  
non-underlying items
Threshold: £287m 6.25% 7.5%
Actual: £309.8m
(Note ii)
40.2% 48.2%
Target: £319m 50% 60%
Maximum: £367m 100% 120%
Notes:
(i)  As Ian Tyler is leaving the business on 30 April 2013, all of his AIP outturn will be paid in cash. For the other executive Directors, 50% of the AIP outturn will be payable  
in cash, whilst the remaining 50% will be deferred into shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
(ii) As set out in the rules of the AIP the Committee adjusts the proﬁt before tax ﬁgure for acquisitions, divestments and exchange rate movements. The adjusted proﬁt  
 before tax ﬁgure used for the year ended 31 December 2012 was £311.8m. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 92
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Directors’ interests in the Performance Share Plan in 2012
Maximum number of shares subject to award
Name of Director Date granted
At 
1 January 
2012
Awarded 
during 
the year
Vested 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At 
31 December 
2012
Exercisable 
from
Duncan Magrath 15 April 2009 124,069 – – 124,069 – April 2012
15 April 2010 133,826 – – – 133,826 April 2013
1 June 2011 181,729––– 181,729 June 2014
16 April 2012 – 219,076 – – 219,076 April 2015
Andrew McNaughton 15 April 2009 135,017 – – 135,017 – April 2012
15 April 2010 143,120 – – – 143,120 April 2013
1 June 2011 193,530 – – – 193,530 June 2014
16 April 2012 – 232,600 – – 232,600 April 2015
Anthony Rabin 15 April 2009 155,087 – – 155,087 – April 2012
15 April 2010 157,989 – – 26,331 131,658 April 2013
1 June 2011 206,274 – – 103,137 103,137 June 2014
Ian Tyler 15 April 2009 275,874 – – 275,874 – April 2012
15 April 2010 281,036 – – – 281,036 April 2013
1 June 2011 356,850 – – – 356,850 June 2014
16 April 2012 – 421,565 – – 421,565 April 2015
Peter Zinkin 15 April 2009 147,789 – – 147,789 – April 2012
15 April 2010 150,555 – – – 150,555 April 2013
1 June 2011 196,834 – – – 196,834 June 2014
16 April 2012 – 232,600 – – 232,600 April 2015
Notes:
(i)  All awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be 
satisﬁed by shares purchased in the market.
(ii)  For the awards in April 2010, June 2011 and April 2012 the performance periods are the three years ending 31 December 2012, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 
2014 respectively. 50% of each award is subject to an earnings per share (EPS) growth target. The maximum number of shares subject to this performance condition will 
only vest if EPS growth exceeds the retail prices index (RPI) by 36% for the April 2010 award and if EPS growth exceeds 45% for the June 2011 and April 2012 awards. 
If EPS growth exceeds RPI by 6% for the April 2010 award and if EPS growth exceeds 15% for the June 2011 and April 2012 awards, 25% of this part of the awards will 
vest. For growth in EPS between these points, vesting will be on a pro rata basis. No shares will vest from this part of the award if EPS growth exceeds RPI by less than 
6% for the April 2010 awards or if EPS growth is less than 15% for the June 2011 and April 2012 awards. The other 50% of each award is subject to a total shareholder 
return (TSR) target under which the TSR of the Company is compared to a comparator group at the start of the performance period. For the 2010 award, the comparator 
group was based on a bespoke group of companies (as previously disclosed). For the 2011 and 2012 awards, the comparator group was the FTSE 51–150 (excluding 
investment trusts). The maximum number of shares subject to this performance condition will only vest if the Company’s TSR is in the upper quartile of the comparator 
group. If the Company’s TSR is equal to that of the median of the comparator group, 25% of this part of the award will vest. No shares from this part of the award will 
vest if the Company’s TSR is below that of the median of the comparator group. For TSR performance between median and upper quartile, vesting will be on a pro rata 
basis. There is no provision for retesting of either of the performance conditions. 
(iii)  The average middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company for the three dealing dates before the award dates, which was used for calculating the number of 
awards granted, was 354p for the 2009 award, 302.63p for the 2010 award, 317.78p for the 2011 award and 277.3p for the 2012 award. The closing middle market price 
of ordinary shares on the date of the awards was 352.25p, 302.8p, 312.4p and 271.9p respectively.
(iv)   Anthony Rabin retired from the Company on 30 June 2012. At this time a proportion of his 2010 and 2011 awards lapsed reﬂecting the proportion of the performance 
period for each award which had not been completed at the date of retirement. The remainder of these awards will vest in the same proportion, and at the same time 
in 2013 and 2014 respectively, as the awards made to the other participants.
(v)  On 16 April 2012 for all participants in the PSP, a maximum of 4,177,096 conditional shares were awarded which are normally exercisable in April 2015. 
(vi)  The performance period for the awards made in April 2009 was completed on 31 December 2011. The growth in EPS for this period did not exceed the RPI + 9%  
required for threshold vesting. The Company’s TSR for this period ranked below the median of the comparator group. The combined effect of these performance 
measures is that each participant’s conditional award lapsed on 15 April 2012.
(vii)  The performance period for the awards made in April 2010 was completed on 31 December 2012. The growth in EPS for this period did not exceed the RPI + 6% 
required for threshold vesting. The Company’s TSR for this period ranked below the median of the comparator group. The combined effect of these performance 
measures is that each participant’s conditional award will lapse on 15 April 2013. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93
Our Governance
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Directors’ interests in the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2012
Name of Director Date of initial award
Number of shares awarded
Vesting date
At
1 January 
2012
Awarded 
during 
the year
Awarded during the year 
in respect of dividends
Exercised 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At 
31 December 
2012
Final 
2011
Interim 
2012
Duncan Magrath 31 March 2009 32,598 – – – 32,598 – – 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 21,668 – 608 485 – – 22,761 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 21,738 – 721 417 – – 22,876 31 March 2014
30 March 2012 – 55,627 1,846 1,069 – – 58,542 30 March 2015
Andrew 
McNaughton 31 March 2009 29,244 – – – 29,244 – – 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 23,174 – 650 519 – – 24,343 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 23,150 – 768 444 – – 24,362 31 March 2014
30 March 2012 – 59,060 1,960 1,135 – – 62,155 30 March 2015
Anthony Rabin 31 March 2009 40,750––– 40,750 – – 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 25,581 – – – 25,581 – – 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 24,675 – 818 – 25,493 – – 31 March 2014
30 March 2012 – 61,807 2,051 – 63,858 – – 30 March 2015
Ian Tyler 31 March 2009 60,409 – – – 60,409 – – 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 37,922 – 1,064 849 – – 39,835 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 36,589 – 1,214 703 – – 38,506 31 March 2014
30 March 2012 – 91,750 3,045 1,763 – – 96,558 30 March 2015
Peter Zinkin 31 March 2009 38,834––– 38,834 – – 31 March 2012
31 March 2010 24,379 – 684 546 – – 25,609 31 March 2013
31 March 2011 23,544 – 781 452 – – 24,777 31 March 2014
30 March 2012 – 59,060 1,960 1,135 – – 62,155 30 March 2015
Notes:
(i)  All awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be 
satisﬁed by shares purchased in the market.
(ii)  The initial awards made in 2010, 2011 and 2012 will vest on 31 March 2013, 31 March 2014 and 30 March 2015 respectively, providing the Director is still employed 
by the Company at the vesting date (unless speciﬁed leaver conditions are met, in which case early vesting may be permitted). 
(iii)  The initial awards made in 2009 vested on 31 March 2012. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company on the vesting date was 285.5p. 
The monetary values of the awards which vested in 2012 are disclosed in Note (ix) to the Directors’ remuneration table on page 90.
(iv)  The shares awarded on 31 March 2009, 31 March 2010, 31 March 2011 and 30 March 2012 were purchased at average prices of 365.801p, 300.32p, 343.417p and 
286.99p respectively.
(v)  For the initial awards made in 2011 and 2012, the shares awarded on 25 April 2012 and 10 October 2012 (in lieu of the ﬁnal 2011 and interim 2012 dividends respectively) 
were allocated at average prices of 256.1p and 301.0p respectively. For the initial awards made in 2010, the shares awarded on 6 July 2012 and 7 December 2012 (in lieu 
of the ﬁnal 2011 and interim 2012 dividends respectively) were allocated at average prices of 302.7p and 257.0p respectively. 
(vi)  On 30 March 2012, for all participants in the Deferred Bonus Plan, a maximum of 913,786 conditional shares were awarded which will normally be released on 30 March 
2015. On 25 April 2012 and 6 July 2012 a further 54,344 and 19,234 conditional shares were awarded in lieu of entitlements to the ﬁnal 2011 dividend and on 10 October 
2012 and 7 December 2012 a further 29,023 and 14,662 conditional shares were awarded in lieu of entitlements to the interim 2012 dividend.
(vii)  Anthony Rabin retired from the Company on 30 June 2012. Under the rules of the Deferred Bonus Plan the awards made to him in 2010, 2011 and 2012 vested on 
30 June 2012. The monetary values of these awards which vested in 2012 are disclosed in Note (xi) to the Directors’ remuneration table on page 90.
Directors’ interests in the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme in 2012
Name of Director Date granted
Number of options
Exercise
price
Exercisable
At 
1 January
2012
Granted 
during 
the year
Exercised 
during 
the year
Lapsed 
during 
the year
At
31 December 
2012 From To
Duncan Magrath 7 May 2008 1,073 – – – 1,073 315.2p July 2013 December 2013
18 May 2009 628 – – – 628 249.0p July 2014 December 2014
11 May 2010 1,291 – – – 1,291 236.0p July 2015 December 2015
Anthony Rabin 2 May 2007 1,140 – – 1,140 – 338.7p July 2012 December 2012
Ian Tyler 18 May 2009 439 – 439 – – 249.0p July 2012 December 2012
11 May 2010 676 – – – 676 236.0p July 2013 December 2013
Peter Zinkin 2 May 2007 1,352 – – 1,352 – 338.7p July 2012 December 2012
7 May 2008 804 – – – 804 315.2p July 2013 December 2013
18 May 2009 366 – 366 – – 249.0p July 2012 December 2012
11 May 2010 246 – – – 246 236.0p July 2013 December 2013
Notes:
(i) All options are granted for nil consideration on grant and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc.
(ii)  The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 December 2012 was 273.7p. During the year the highest and lowest closing market prices were 320.8p 
and 237.9p respectively.
(iii)  Options granted to Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin in May 2007, exercisable at 338.7p, lapsed unexercised in December 2012.
(iv) The monetary values realisable from options exercised in 2012 are disclosed in Note (x) to the Directors’ remuneration table on page 90. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 94
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Directors’ pensions and pension allowances in 2012
Executive Directors participated in the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (the Fund) during 2012. The deﬁned beneﬁt (DB) section of the 
Fund provides for a pension at a normal retirement age of 62 for pension purposes. The deﬁned contribution (DC) section of the Fund 
is a money purchase scheme with a normal retirement age of 65. Each Director pays an annual contribution equal to 5% of contributory 
salary except where the Director participates in the Company’s SMART Pensions salary sacriﬁce arrangement as outlined in Note (i) 
in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 90.
The DB pension for a Director who can complete 20 or more years of pensionable service at normal retirement age is targeted at 
two-thirds of ﬁnal pensionable salary, subject to Fund limits which have their origin in the former HMRC limits.
The Fund operates a Fund-speciﬁc earnings cap for pension purposes. The pensionable earnings of each Director were subject to 
the Fund-speciﬁc earnings cap and details of the Company’s allowances paid in lieu of pension contributions on earnings above the 
Fund-speciﬁc earnings cap are included in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 90. Andrew McNaughton elected to have his 
pensionable earnings restricted further to a personal earnings cap and details of the Company’s allowance paid in lieu of pension 
contributions on earnings above his personal earnings cap are included in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 90. 
Duncan Magrath opted out of the DB section of the Fund on 5 April 2012 and became a deferred pensioner. He chose not to participate 
in the DC section of the Fund and has been receiving an allowance in lieu of Fund membership since 6 April 2012.
Andrew McNaughton opted out of the Fund on 31 December 2012. He chose not to participate in the DC section of the Fund and has 
been receiving an allowance in lieu of Fund membership since 31 December 2012.
Anthony Rabin retired from the Company on 30 June 2012 and started to receive his DB pension immediately.
Peter Zinkin opted out of the DB section of the Fund on 31 December 2010 and started to receive his DB pension from 1 January 2011. 
He has not accrued any further DB pension in the Fund during 2012. He has however participated in the DC section of the Fund since 
1 January 2011, and the Company’s contributions to this arrangement for 2012 are shown in Note (vii) on page 95.
Pension table 1 below sets out the accrued DB deferred pension which would be paid annually from the Fund at normal retirement 
age based on each executive Director’s service to 31 December 2012 (or earlier date of leaving the Fund) as well as showing the 
increase in DB pension beneﬁt secured in respect of service during the year.
Pension table 2 below sets out the transfer value at 31 December 2012 of each executive Director’s accrued DB pension entitlements 
at that date as well as the movement in that transfer value over the period. The transfer values represent the cash equivalent values 
that would have been payable from the Fund had the Directors left service on the dates shown (except where noted below), and reﬂect 
each executive Director’s age and DB beneﬁt entitlement.
Pension table 1
Accrued 
deferred 
pension at 
31 December 
2012 or earlier
date of leaving
the Fund
£ pa
Transfer value 
corresponding 
to increase 
in excess of 
inﬂation at 
31 December 
2012 less 
Director’s 
contributions 
(Note i)
£ Name of Director
Age at 
31 December 
2012
Years
Pensionable 
service at 
31 December 
2012
Years 
Accrued 
deferred 
pension at 
31 December 
2011
£ pa
Increase in accrued deferred 
pension during the year
As a 
result of 
inﬂation
£ pa
Increase in 
excess of 
inﬂation
£ pa
Duncan Magrath (Note v) 48 6 24,925 1,396 (281) 26,040 n/a
Andrew McNaughton 49 15 41,462 2,323 3,047 46,832 46,536
Anthony Rabin (Note vi) 57 19 80,790 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Ian Tyler 52 16 51,811 2,902 3,704 58,417 65,705
Peter Zinkin (Note vii) 59 29 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Pension table 2
Name of Director
Age at
31 December
2012
Years
Pensionable 
service at 
31 December 
2012
Years
Transfer 
value at 
31 December 
2011
(Note ii)
£
Contributions 
made by 
Director during 
the year
£
Increase in 
transfer value 
during the year 
(Note iii)
£
Transfer 
value at 
31 December 
2012
(Note iv)
£
Duncan Magrath (Note v) 48 6 378,962 1,724 45,422 426,108
Andrew McNaughton 49 15 621,847 5,907 169,543 797,297
Anthony Rabin (Note vi) 57 19 1,773,166 3,521 (398,797) 1,377,890
Ian Tyler 52 16 946,169 7,019 179,963 1,133,151
Peter Zinkin (Note vii) 59 29 5,253,257 n/a 237,925 5,491,182 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 95
Our Governance
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Directors’ pensions and pension allowances in 2012 continued
Notes to Pension tables 1 and 2 on page 94:
(i)  These amounts represent the value at 31 December 2012 of the increase in excess of inﬂation (where inﬂation is measured using the RPI between September 2010 
and September 2011) of each Director’s deferred pension and associated beneﬁts over the period calculated in accordance with the transfer value regulations, using the 
transfer value basis then stipulated by the Trustee of the Fund, less the value of any Directors’ contributions. 
(ii)  These amounts represent the present value of the accrued deferred pension and associated beneﬁts at 31 December 2011 for all Directors who were in pensionable 
service at this date, calculated using the transfer value basis then stipulated by the Trustee of the Fund. For Peter Zinkin, who was not in pensionable service at 
31 December 2011, see individual comments below. 
(iii)  These amounts represent the difference between the transfer value of each Directors’ accrued beneﬁts at the end and the beginning of the year, less the value of any 
Directors’ contributions paid during the year.
(iv)  These amounts represent the present value of the accrued deferred pension and associated beneﬁts at 31 December 2012 for all Directors who were in pensionable 
service at this date, calculated using the transfer value basis then stipulated by the Trustee of the Fund. For Directors who were not in pensionable service at 
31 December 2012, Duncan Magrath, Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin, see individual comments below.
(v)  Duncan Magrath ceased accruing a DB pension through the Fund on 5 April 2012 and became a deferred pensioner. He has not accrued any beneﬁts in the Fund since 
5 April 2012. The period of pensionable service shown for Duncan Magrath is for the period up to 5 April 2012. The accrued deferred pension ﬁgure as at 31 December 
2012 in Pension table 1 is his deferred pension on leaving the Fund as at 5 April 2012. The increase in his accrued pension up until 5 April 2012 was less than the annual 
inﬂationary increase to his accrued pension as at 31 December 2011, so using market conditions as at 31 December 2012 this represented a reduction in value of £6,367. 
The transfer value in the ﬁnal column of Pension table 2 is the present value of his deferred pension at 5 April 2012 calculated using market conditions as at 31 December 
2012. The contributions made by the him during the year are in respect of the period to 5 April 2012.
(vi)  Anthony Rabin’s pensionable service includes nine years of service transferred in from previous pension arrangements. Anthony Rabin drew lump sum beneﬁts  
totalling £321,770 from the Fund on 30 June 2012 and he has received a pension of £45,612 pa from the Fund since 1 July 2012. The period of pensionable service 
shown for Anthony Rabin is for the period up to 30 June 2012. Pension table 1 does not include the change in value of Anthony Rabin’s deferred pension entitlement at 
31 December 2011 to his immediate early retirement post-commutation pension entitlement at 31 December 2012 as these are not directly comparable. Using market 
conditions at 31 December 2012, the reduction in value after allowing for inﬂation, Directors’ contributions and the lump sum beneﬁts paid was £258,699. The transfer 
value in the ﬁnal column of Pension table 2 represents the value of his post-commutation pension on retirement of £45,612 pa, based on market conditions as at 
31 December 2012. The contributions made by the Director during the year are in respect of the period to 30 June 2012.
(vii)  Peter Zinkin started to receive his DB pension from the Fund on 1 January 2011 and has not accrued any further DB beneﬁts in the Fund since 31 December 2010.  
The period of pensionable service shown for Peter Zinkin is for the period up to 31 December 2010. The transfer value in the ﬁnal column represents the present value  
of his DB pension as at 31 December 2012 of £202,194 pa. Peter Zinkin has participated in the DC section since 1 January 2011, and the Company paid £27,090 into  
this arrangement during 2012, in addition to his SMART pension salary sacriﬁce contributions of £6,773.
(viii) All beneﬁts shown exclude the value of beneﬁts derived from Directors’ additional voluntary contributions into the Fund.
Directors’ shareholdings in 2012
The interests of the Directors and connected persons (including amongst others, member of the Director’s immediate family) in the 
share capital of Balfour Beatty plc and its subsidiary undertakings during the year are set out below.
Name of Director
Number of ordinary shares
At 1 January 2012* At 31 December 2012
Legally 
owned
Legally 
owned
Subject to
 deferral under 
the DBP
Subject to 
SAYE
Subject to 
Share 
Incentive Plan
Subject to 
performance 
conditions 
under the PSP Total
Duncan Magrath 102,579 118,226 104,179 2,992 941 534,631 760,969
Andrew McNaughton 100,601 114,638 110,860 – 363 569,250 795,111
Ian Tyler 376,156 376,595 174,899 676 – 1,059,451 1,611,621
Peter Zinkin 301,751 307,117 112,541 1,050 941 579,989 1,001,638
Robert Amen 10,000 10,000 – – – – 10,000
Mike Donovan 10,000 10,000 – – – – 10,000
Iain Ferguson 25,000 25,000 – – – – 25,000
Maureen Kempston Darkes – ––––––
Hubertus Krossa 7,142 7,142 – – – – 7,142
Steve Marshall 7,142 7,142 – – – – 7,142
Graham Roberts 15,000 15,000 – – – – 15,000
Robert Walvis 14,285 14,285 – – – – 14,285
* or date of appointment, if later.
Notes:
(i)  All interests at the dates shown are beneﬁcial and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. There were no changes between 31 December 2012 and 
6 March 2013 other than in respect of investments under the Share Incentive Plan which increased by 88 shares, 89 shares and 89 shares for Andrew McNaughton, 
Duncan Magrath and Peter Zinkin respectively.
(ii) Peter Zinkin was also interested at 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012 in 325 cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each in Balfour Beatty plc. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 96
Our Governance | Remuneration Report
Membership of the Remuneration Committee
The members of the Committee and their attendance at the meetings of the Committee in 2012 are shown on page 70. All the members 
are independent non-executive Directors, as deﬁned under the Corporate Governance Code. No member of the Committee has 
conﬂicts of interest arising from cross directorships and no member is involved in the day-to-day executive management of the Group. 
The Committee also receives advice from several sources, namely:
 The Chief Executive, Ian Tyler, and the HR director, Paul Raby, who are invited to attend meetings of the Committee but are not 
present when matters relating directly to their own remuneration are discussed
 New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon Corporation), (NBS).
NBS has been appointed as external independent executive remuneration advisers by the Committee and has provided a range 
of advice to the Committee during the year, including:
 attendance at Committee meetings
 provision of pay benchmarking data for the executive Directors and non-executive Directors
 annual update for the Committee on developments in best and market practice and regulatory requirements for all 
remuneration elements
 assistance with the drafting of the Remuneration report
 valuation of share-based payments for IFRS 2 purposes
 calculation of vesting levels under the TSR element of the PSP awards. 
NBS does not provide any other services to the Company.
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM 
At the 2012 AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders:
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 414,810,022 96.6%
Against 4,732,739 1.1%
Abstentions 10,090,212 2.3%
Total 429,632,973 100.0%
This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with Section 420 of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act) and Schedules 
5 and 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. The report also meets the 
relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles 
relating to Directors’ remuneration in the Combined Code. As required by the Act a resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will 
be proposed at the AGM of the Company.
By order of the Board
Iain Ferguson 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
6 March 2013  98 Independent Auditor’s Report
 99 Financial Statements
 99 Group Income Statement 
100 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
100 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 
101 Company Income Statement 
101 Company Statement of Comprehensive Income 
101 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
102 Statements of Financial Position 
103 Statements of Cash Flows
104 Notes to the Financial Statements
Our Accounts
Our Accounts
97 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Accounts Independent Auditor’s Report to the  
Members of Balfour Beatty plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements 
of Balfour Beatty plc for the year ended 
31 December 2012 which comprise the 
Group and Company Income Statements, 
the Group and Company Statements 
of Comprehensive Income, the Group 
and Company Statements of Financial 
Position, the Group and Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity, the 
Group and Company Statements of 
Cash Flows, and the related Notes 1 to 
38. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the 
Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the Directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the 
ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed 
that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the  
ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence 
about the amounts and disclosures in the 
ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial 
statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud 
or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the 
Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of 
signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by 
the Directors; and the overall presentation 
of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, 
we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial 
information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited 
ﬁnancial statements. If we become 
aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
 the ﬁnancial statements give a true 
and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
and of the Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2012 and of the Group’s 
and the Company’s proﬁt for the year 
then ended;
 the ﬁnancial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union; and
 the ﬁnancial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 the information given in the Directors’ 
Report for the ﬁnancial year for which 
the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required  
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect 
of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited 
by us; or
 the Company ﬁnancial statements and 
the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration speciﬁed by law are 
not made; or
 we have not received all the  
information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review:
 the Directors’ statement, contained 
within the Directors’ Report, in relation 
to going concern; 
 the part of the corporate governance 
statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
speciﬁed for our review; and
 certain elements of the report to 
shareholders by the Board on Directors’ 
remuneration.
John Adam
Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants  
and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
6 March 2013
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 98
Our Accounts | Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Balfour Beatty plc Our Accounts
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99
Our Accounts 
|
 Financial Statements
Group Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 2011
Notes
Underlying
items
1
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
items
1,2
 
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total
2
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue including share of joint ventures  
and associates 10,896 – 10,896 11,035 – 11,035
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 16.2 (1,413) – (1,413) (1,541) – (1,541)
Group revenue 2 9,483 – 9,483 9,494 – 9,494
Cost of sales (8,433) – (8,433) (8,358) – (8,358)
Gross proﬁt 1,050 – 1,050 1,136 – 1,136
Gain on disposals of investments
2
52 – 52 20 – 20
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – (45) (45) – (62) (62)
Other net operating expenses
2
(890) (190) (1,080) (900) (26) (926)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 212 (235) (23) 256 (88) 168
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 16.2 97 – 97 75 – 75
Proﬁt/(loss) from operations 4 309 (235) 74 331 (88) 243
Investment income 6 62 – 62 57 – 57
Finance costs 7 (61) – (61) (54) – (54)
Proﬁt/(loss) before taxation 310 (235) 75 334 (88) 246
Taxation 9 (70) 39 (31) (91) 27 (64)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 240 (196) 44 243 (61) 182
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year from discontinued operation 10 ––– –4 4
Proﬁt for the year 240 (196) 44 243 (57) 186
Attributable to
Equity holders 240 (196) 44 243 (57) 186
Non-controlling interests ––– –– –
Proﬁt for the year 240 (196) 44 243 (57) 186
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
2
 Re-presented to separately disclose the gain on disposals of investments (Note 1.2). 
Notes
2012 
Pence
2011
Pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 11 6.5 26.7
– discontinued operation 11 – 0.6
11 6.5 27.3
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 11 6.5 26.7
– discontinued operation 11 – 0.6
11 6.5 27.3
Dividends per ordinary share proposed for the year 12 14.1 13.8 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 100
Our Accounts 
|
 Financial Statements
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Notes
2012
£m
2011
3
 £m
Proﬁt for the year 44 186
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Items which will not subsequently be reclassiﬁed to the income statement
 Actuarial movements on retirement beneﬁt liabilities (126) 53
 Tax on above 20 (18)
(106) 35
Items which will subsequently be reclassiﬁed to the income statement
 Currency translation differences (56) 4
 Fair value revaluations – PPP ﬁnancial assets 405 204
  – PPP cash ﬂow hedges (20) (239)
  – other cash ﬂow hedges 1 –
  – available-for-sale investments in mutual funds 17.1 4 (2)
 Tax on above (90) 6
244 (27)
Total other comprehensive income for the year 138 8
Total comprehensive income for the year 28.1 182 194
Attributable to 
Equity holders 182 194
Non-controlling interests – –
Total comprehensive income for the year 28.1 182 194
3
 Re-presented to reﬂect the adoption of amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Note 1.1).
Group Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Called-up
share 
capital
Share 
premium
account
Equity
component
of
preference
shares
Special 
reserve
Share 
of joint 
ventures’ 
and 
associates’
reserves 
(Note 16.5)
Other
reserves
(Note 28.1)
Retained 
proﬁts
Non- 
controlling 
interests Total
Notes£m£m£m£m£m£m£m£m£m
At 1 January 2011 343 59 16 30 144 334 230 4 1,160
Total comprehensive
income/(expense) for the year 28.1 – – 1 – 60 (18) 151 – 194
Ordinary dividends 12 – – – – – – (88) – (88)
Joint ventures’ and
associates’ dividends 16.1 – – – – (54) – 54 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 27.1 1 2 – – – – – – 3
Recycling of revaluation reserves to  
the income statement on disposal 16.5 – – – – (6) – – – (6)
Movements relating to
share-based payments ––––– (5) 5 ––
Other transfers – – – (3) – – 3 – –
At 31 December 2011 344 61 17 27 144 311 355 4 1,263
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year 28.1 – – – – 371 (37) (152) – 182
Ordinary dividends 12 –––––– (96) (1) (97)
Joint ventures’ and
associates’ dividends 16.1 – – – – (58) – 58 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 27.1 – 2–––––– 2
Recycling of revaluation reserves to  
the income statement on disposal 16.5 –––– (48) ––– (48)
Movements relating to 
share-based payments ––––– (2) 9 – 7
Other reserve transfers relating to 
joint venture and associate disposals
4
16.5
–––– (72) – 72––
Other transfers ––– (2) –– 2––
At 31 December 2012 344 63 17 25 337 272 248 3 1,309
4
   Includes £52m transfers between the joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves and retained proﬁts relating to joint ventures disposed or liquidated in prior years. Our Accounts
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 101
Our Accounts 
|
 Financial Statements
Company Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 2011
Notes
Underlying
items
1
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
items
1
 
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 8)
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 2 130 – 130 13 – 13
Net operating expense (24) (2) (26) (21) (1) (22)
Proﬁt/(loss) from operations 106 (2) 104 (8) (1) (9)
Investment income 6 6– 6 6– 6
Finance costs 7 (35) – (35) (29) – (29)
Proﬁt/(loss) before taxation 77 (2) 75 (31) (1) (32)
Taxation 9 819 5– 5
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 85 (1) 84 (26) (1) (27)
Proﬁt for the year from discontinued operation 10 ––– –5959
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders 85 (1) 84 (26) 58 32
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
 Company Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Notes
2012
£m
2011
3
£m
Proﬁt for the year 84 32
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year
Items which will not subsequently be reclassiﬁed to the income statement
 Actuarial movements on retirement beneﬁt liabilities (3) 6
 Tax on above 25.3 1 (2)
Total other comprehensive income for the year (2) 4
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders 28.2 82 36
3 
Re-presented to reﬂect the adoption of amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Note 1.1).
 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Notes
Called-up 
share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
account
£m
Equity
component
of
preference
shares
£m
Special 
reserve 
£m
Other 
reserves
(Note 28.2)
£m
Retained 
proﬁts
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 343 59 16 30 321 382 1,151
Total comprehensive income for the year 28.2 – – 1 – – 35 36
Ordinary dividends 12 – – – – – (88) (88)
Issue of ordinary shares 27.1 1 2 –––– 3
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – 2 1 3
Other transfers – – – (3) – 3 –
At 31 December 2011 344 61 17 27 323 333 1,105
Total comprehensive income for the year 28.2 ––––– 82 82
Ordinary dividends 12 ––––– (96) (96)
Issue of ordinary shares 27.1 – 2 –––– 2
Movements relating to share-based payments –––– (2) 5 3
Other transfers ––– (2) – 2 –
At 31 December 2012 344 63 17 25 321 326 1,096 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 102
Our Accounts 
|
 Financial Statements
Statements of Financial Position
At 31 December 2012
Group Company
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 13 1,160 1,279 – –
 – other 14 212 239 – –
Property, plant and equipment 15 247 288 – –
Investments in joint ventures and associates 16 726 466 – –
Investments 17 94 96 1,937 1,742
PPP ﬁnancial assets 18 542 457 – –
Trade and other receivables 21 100 87 23 25
Deferred tax assets 25 117 105 – –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 36 – – – 1
3,198 3,017 1,960 1,768
Current assets
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 19 172 140 – –
Due from construction contract customers 20 634 604 – –
Trade and other receivables 21 1,241 1,410 1,152 1,295
Cash and cash equivalents – PPP subsidiaries 24 25 18 – –
 – other 24 517 577 43 –
Current tax assets 4 5 – –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 36 1 1 2 2
2,594 2,755 1,197 1,297
Total assets 5,792 5,772 3,157 3,065
Current liabilities
Due to construction contract customers 20 (382) (576) – –
Trade and other payables 22 (2,214) (2,426) (1,464) (1,594)
Provisions 23 (116) (107) – –
Borrowings – PPP non-recourse loans 24 (12) (21) – –
 – other 24 (477) (231) (466) (236)
Current tax liabilities (42) (30) – –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 36 (20) (10) (2) (2)
(3,263) (3,401) (1,932) (1,832)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (159) (142) (25) (25)
Provisions 23 (112) (130) (5) (6)
Borrowings  – PPP non-recourse loans 24 (381) (329) – –
 – other 24 (5) (6) – –
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (10) (15) – (1)
Retirement beneﬁt liabilities 26 (338) (275) (6) (4)
Liability component of preference shares 27 (92) (91) (92) (91)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 36 (123) (120) (1) (1)
(1,220) (1,108) (129) (128)
Total liabilities (4,483) (4,509) (2,061) (1,960)
Net assets 1,309 1,263 1,096 1,105
Equity
Called-up share capital 27 344 344 344 344
Share premium account 28 63 61 63 61
Equity component of preference shares 28 17 17 17 17
Special reserve 28 25 27 25 27
Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves 28 337 144 – –
Other reserves 28 272 311 321 323
Retained proﬁts 28 248 355 326 333
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,306 1,259 1,096 1,105
Non-controlling interests 28 3 4 – –
Total equity 1,309 1,263 1,096 1,105
On behalf of the Board
Steve Marshall  Duncan Magrath
Director    Director
6 March 2013 Our Accounts
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 103
Our Accounts 
|
 Financial Statements
Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Group Company
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Cash (used in)/generated from operations 29.1 (219) 35 (79) (100)
Income taxes (paid)/received (19) (18) – 9
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (238) 17 (79) (91)
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 58 54 3 12
Dividends received from discontinued operation – 5 – 5
Dividends received from subsidiaries – – 4 1
Interest received 33 23 3 6
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 30.1 (4) (100) – –
Purchase of intangible assets – other 14 (25) (19) – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15 (49) (77) – –
Purchase of other investments 17 (5) (21) – –
Investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates 16.4 (27) (41) – –
Investments in PPP ﬁnancial assets 18 (22) (40) – –
Disposal of investments in joint ventures 16.4 81 28 – –
Disposal of UK specialist rail manufacturing business 30.5 – 37 – –
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 21 21 – –
Disposal of other investments 17 9 19 – –
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 70 (111) 10 24
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 27.1 2 3 2 3
Purchase of ordinary shares 28.3 (3) (4) – –
Proceeds from new loans 29.3 350 282 230 212
Repayment of loans 29.3 (53) (8) (32) –
Repayment of ﬁnance leases 29.3 (4) (4) – –
Ordinary dividends paid 12 (96) (88) (96) (88)
Other dividends paid – non-controlling interest 12 (1) – – –
Interest paid (47) (44) (13) (18)
Preference dividends paid (11) (11) (11) (11)
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities 137 126 80 98
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents 29.3 (31) 32 11 31
Effects of exchange rate changes (17) (2) – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 580 550 (24) (55)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 29.2 532 580 (13) (24) Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 104
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
 Notes to the Financial Statements 
1 Principal accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of accounting
The annual ﬁnancial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis as 
discussed on page 57 and in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union and therefore comply 
with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation 
and with those parts of the Companies 
Act 2006 that are applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. The Group has 
applied all accounting standards and 
interpretations issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board and 
International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee as adopted 
by the European Union relevant to its 
operations and effective for accounting 
periods beginning on 1 January 2012.
The ﬁnancial statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost 
convention, except as described 
under Note 1.26. The functional and 
presentational currency of the Company 
and the presentational currency of the 
Group is sterling. 
Adoption of new and revised 
standards
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of 
Items of Other Comprehensive Income 
was adopted in the current period 
requiring items of other comprehensive 
income during the period to be presented 
as items which will subsequently be 
reclassiﬁed to the income statement and 
items which will not. The tax applicable 
to each category is also shown separately 
and as a result the comparative 
information has been re-presented.
Amendments to the following standards 
were also adopted during the current year 
with no effect on the Group: 
 IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinﬂation and 
Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time 
Adopters 
 IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the 
Production Phase of a Surface Mine
 Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: 
Recovery of Underlying Assets.
Accounting standards not yet adopted 
by the Group
The following accounting standards, 
interpretations and amendments have 
been issued by the IASB but had either 
not been adopted by the European Union 
or were not yet effective in the European 
Union at 31 December 2012: 
 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 
 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in 
Other Entities 
 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 
 Amendments to the following 
standards: 
 − IFRS 1 Government Loans 
 − IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures – Offsetting Financial 
Assets and Financial Liabilities 
 − IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts 
 − IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 
 − IAS 28 Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures
 − IAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures – Offsetting Financial 
Assets and Financial Liabilities 
 − Improvements to IFRSs (2009 – 2011) 
 − IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: 
Investment entities 
 − IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: 
Transition guidance. 
Of these, IFRS 9 and IAS 19 revised 
are expected to have the most 
signiﬁcant effect. 
IFRS 9 is expected to replace IAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement from 2015, subject to 
EU adoption. IFRS 9 in issue as at 
31 December 2012 concerns the 
classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial 
assets and ﬁnancial liabilities and the 
de-recognition of ﬁnancial instruments. 
New requirements for impairment and 
hedge accounting are expected to be 
added to IFRS 9 in the ﬁrst half of 2013. 
On 28 November 2012 the IASB issued 
an Exposure Draft, Classiﬁcation and 
Measurement: Limited Amendments to 
IFRS 9, which proposes a new category 
for the classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial assets 
and liabilities, “Fair value through other 
comprehensive income”. Should these 
proposals be adopted, the Group’s PPP 
ﬁnancial assets will be classiﬁed as 
“Fair value through other comprehensive 
income” which would not result in material 
changes to the current accounting of the 
Group’s PPP ﬁnancial assets. 
The requirements of IFRS 9 in issue as 
at 31 December 2012 would result in 
the Group’s PPP ﬁnancial assets being 
reclassiﬁed from “available-for-sale”, 
which is a category that will no longer 
exist under the current new standard, 
to a debt instrument measured either at 
amortised cost or at fair value through 
proﬁt or loss. Assuming the Group 
adopts fair value through proﬁt or loss, 
movements in the fair value of PPP 
ﬁnancial assets will no longer be 
recognised in other comprehensive 
income. Retrospective application of this 
requirement would result in the closing 
balance of fair value movements 
recognised in PPP ﬁnancial asset reserves 
being transferred to retained earnings. 
The effect within the Group’s reserves 
would be a transfer of £93m from PPP 
ﬁnancial asset reserves to retained 
earnings. The effect within the share of 
joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves 
would be a transfer of £399m from PPP 
ﬁnancial asset reserves to retained earnings.
Adopting amendments to IAS 19 
Employee Beneﬁts would have increased 
the 2012 net ﬁnance cost by £10m (2011: 
£17m). The estimated effect for 2013, 
based on current actuarial assumptions, is 
to increase the net ﬁnance cost by £21m.
1.2 Re-presentation of comparative 
information
The 2011 Income Statement has been 
re-presented to separately disclose the 
gains on disposals of interests in PPP 
joint ventures on the face of the income 
statement. Previously this amount was 
included within other net underlying 
operating expenses and disclosed within 
the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
Refer to Note 38.1.
The 2011 trade and other receivables 
note has been re-presented to separately 
identify trade receivables and other 
receivables which were previously 
amalgamated. Refer to Notes 21 and 38.2. 
1.3 Basis of consolidation
The Group ﬁnancial statements include 
the results of the Company and its 
subsidiaries, together with the Group’s 
share of the results of joint ventures and 
associates, drawn up to 31 December 
each year.
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which the 
Group has control, being the power to 
govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies 
of the investee entity so as to obtain 
beneﬁts from its activities. The results 
of subsidiaries acquired or sold in the 
year are consolidated from the effective 
date of acquisition to the effective date 
of disposal.
The acquisition method of accounting 
is used to account for the acquisition of 
subsidiaries by the Group. On acquisition, 
the assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at 
their fair values at the date of acquisition. 
Any excess of the fair value of the cost 
of acquisition over the fair values of 
the identiﬁable net assets acquired is 
recognised as goodwill. Any deﬁciency 
of the cost of acquisition below the fair 
values of the identiﬁable net assets 
acquired (discount on acquisition) is 
credited to the income statement in the 
period of acquisition. The interest of 
non-controlling equity holders is stated 
at the non-controlling equity holders’ 
proportion of the fair value of the assets 
and liabilities recognised.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 105
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Principal accounting policies 
continued
1.3 Basis of consolidation continued
a) Subsidiaries continued 
Any acquisition or disposal which does not 
result in a change in control is accounted 
for as a transaction between equity 
holders. The carrying amounts of the 
controlling and non-controlling interests 
are adjusted to reﬂect the changes in their 
relative interests in the subsidiary. Any 
difference between the fair value of the 
consideration paid or received and the 
amount by which the non-controlling 
interests are adjusted is recognised 
directly in equity and attributed to the 
owners of the parent.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are 
adjusted where necessary to ensure 
consistency with those used by the 
Group. All intra-Group transactions, 
balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation.
b) Joint ventures and associates 
Joint ventures are those entities over 
which the Group exercises joint control 
through a contractual arrangement. 
Associates are entities over which 
the Group is in a position to exercise 
signiﬁcant inﬂuence, but does not 
control or exercise joint control, through 
participation in the ﬁnancial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee. 
The results, assets and liabilities of joint 
ventures and associates are incorporated 
in the ﬁnancial statements using the 
equity method of accounting except 
when classiﬁed as held for sale. 
The equity return from the military 
housing joint ventures of Balfour Beatty 
Investments US is contractually limited 
to a maximum level of return, beyond 
which Balfour Beatty Investments 
US does not share in any further return. 
Any excess of the fair value of the cost of 
acquisition over the Group’s share of the 
fair values of the identiﬁable net assets 
of the joint venture or associate entity at 
the date of acquisition is recognised as 
goodwill. Any deﬁciency of the fair value 
of the cost of acquisition below the 
Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identiﬁable net assets of the joint 
venture or associate at the date of 
acquisition (discount on acquisition) 
is credited to the income statement 
in the period of acquisition. 
Investments in joint ventures and 
associates are initially carried in the 
statement of ﬁnancial position at cost 
(including goodwill arising on acquisition) 
and adjusted by post-acquisition changes 
in the Group’s share of net assets of 
the joint venture or associate, less any 
impairment in the value of individual 
investments. Losses of joint ventures 
and associates in excess of the Group’s 
interest in those joint ventures and 
associates are only recognised to the 
extent that the Group is contractually 
liable for, or has a constructive obligation 
to meet, the obligations of the joint 
ventures and associates.
Unrealised gains and losses on 
transactions with joint ventures and 
associates are eliminated to the extent of 
the Group’s interest in the relevant joint 
venture or associate.
c) Jointly controlled operations
The Group’s share of the results, assets 
and liabilities of contracts carried out 
in conjunction with another party are 
included under each relevant heading 
in the income statement and statement 
of ﬁnancial position. 
1.4 Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are 
recorded at the rate of exchange at the 
date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rates of 
exchange at the reporting date. Signiﬁcant 
exchange rates used in the preparation 
of these ﬁnancial statements are shown 
in Note 1.28.
For the purpose of presenting 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the 
results of foreign subsidiaries, associates 
and joint venture entities are translated at 
average rates of exchange for the year, 
unless the exchange rates ﬂuctuate 
signiﬁcantly during that period, in which 
case the exchange rates at the date 
of transactions are used. Assets and 
liabilities are translated at the rates of 
exchange prevailing at the reporting date. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments 
arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
entity are treated as assets and liabilities 
of the foreign entity and translated at the 
rates of exchange at the reporting date. 
Currency translation differences arising 
are transferred to the Group’s foreign 
currency translation reserve and are 
recognised in the income statement 
on disposal of the underlying investment. 
In order to hedge its exposure to certain 
foreign exchange risks, the Group may 
enter into forward exchange contracts. 
Refer to Note 1.26(c) for details of the 
Group’s accounting policies in respect 
of such derivative ﬁnancial instruments. 
1.5 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of 
the consideration received or receivable 
for goods and services provided, net of 
trade discounts, value added and similar 
sales based taxes, after eliminating 
revenue within the Group. Revenue 
is recognised as follows:
 revenue from construction and service 
activities represents the value of work 
carried out during the year, including 
amounts not invoiced
 revenue from manufacturing activities 
is recognised when title has passed
 interest income is accrued on a time 
basis using the effective interest 
method by reference to the principal 
outstanding and the effective interest 
rate, which is the rate that exactly 
discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life 
of the ﬁnancial asset to that asset’s 
net carrying amount
 dividend income is recognised when 
the equity holder’s right to receive 
payment is established. 
1.6 Segmental reporting
The Group considers its Board of 
Directors to be the chief operating 
decision maker and therefore the 
segmental disclosures provided in Note 3 
are aligned with the monthly reports 
provided to the Board of Directors. 
The Group’s reporting segments are 
based on the types of services provided. 
Operating segments with similar 
economic characteristics have been 
aggregated into four reportable segments. 
A description of each reportable operating 
segment is provided in Note 3. Further 
information on the business activities 
of each reportable operating segment 
is set out on pages 28 to 43.
Working capital is the statement of 
ﬁnancial position measure reported to 
the chief operating decision maker. The 
proﬁtability measure used to assess the 
performance of the Group is underlying 
proﬁt from operations.
Segment results represent the contribution 
of the different segments after the 
allocation of attributable corporate 
overheads. Transactions between 
segments are conducted at arm’s length 
market prices. Segment assets and 
liabilities comprise those assets and 
liabilities directly attributable to the 
segments. Corporate assets and liabilities 
include cash balances, bank borrowings, 
tax balances and dividends payable.
Major customers are deﬁned as 
customers contributing more than 10% 
of the Group’s external revenue. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 106
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Principal accounting policies 
continued 
1.7 Construction and service contracts
When the outcome of individual contracts 
can be estimated reliably, contract 
revenue and contract costs are recognised 
as revenue and expenses respectively 
by reference to the stage of completion 
at the reporting date. The stage of 
completion is measured by the proportion 
of the value of work done to the total 
value of work under the contract. 
Provision is made for all known or 
expected losses on individual contracts 
once such losses are foreseen. Revenue 
in respect of variations to contracts, 
claims and incentive payments is 
recognised when it is probable it will be 
agreed by the client. Proﬁt for the year 
includes the beneﬁt of claims settled on 
contracts completed in previous years. 
1.8 Pre-contract bid costs and 
recoveries
Pre-contract costs are expensed as 
incurred until it is virtually certain that a 
contract will be awarded, from which time 
further pre-contract costs are recognised 
as an asset and charged as an expense 
over the period of the contract. Amounts 
recovered in respect of pre-contract costs 
that have been written off are deferred 
and amortised over the life of the contract.
For construction and services projects, 
the relevant contract is the construction 
or services contract respectively. With 
respect to PPP projects, there are 
potentially three contracts over which 
the recovered costs could be amortised, 
the concession itself, the construction 
contract or the services contract. 
An assessment is made as to which 
contractual element the pre-contract 
costs relate to, in order to determine 
which is the relevant period for 
amortisation. The relevant contract is 
either the construction contract that 
ultimately gives rise to a ﬁnancial or 
intangible asset; or the services contract 
where there is no initial construction.
1.9 Proﬁt from operations
Proﬁt from operations is stated after the 
Group’s share of the post-tax results of 
equity accounted joint venture entities and 
associates, but before investment income 
and ﬁnance costs.
1.10 Finance costs 
Finance costs of debt, including premiums 
payable on settlement and direct issue 
costs, are charged to the income 
statement on an accruals basis over the 
term of the instrument, using the effective 
interest method. 
1.11 Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of 
ﬁnancial performance which the Group 
believes should be separately identiﬁed on 
the face of the income statement to assist 
in understanding the underlying ﬁnancial 
performance achieved by the Group. Such 
items will affect the absolute amount of 
the results for the period and the trend of 
results. Underlying items are items before 
non-underlying items.
Non-underlying items include: 
 gains and losses on the disposal 
of businesses, investments and 
property, plant and equipment, unless 
this is part of a programme of releasing 
value from the disposal of similar 
businesses or investments
 costs of restructuring and reorganisation 
of existing businesses
 costs of integrating newly acquired 
businesses
 acquisition and similar costs related to 
business combinations
 impairment and amortisation charges 
on intangible assets arising on business 
combinations (amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets) 
 impairment of goodwill. 
These are examples, however, from time 
to time it may be appropriate to disclose 
further items as non-underlying items 
in order to highlight the underlying 
performance of the Group. Amortisation 
charges in respect of software are 
included in underlying items. 
1.12 Taxation
The tax charge comprises current tax and 
deferred tax, calculated using tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the reporting date. Current tax 
and deferred tax are charged or credited 
to the income statement, except when 
they relate to items charged or credited 
directly to equity, in which case the 
relevant tax is also dealt with in equity. 
Current tax is based on the proﬁt for 
the year.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using 
the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the ﬁnancial statements. 
Deferred tax on such assets and liabilities 
is not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or from the initial 
recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities 
in a transaction that affects neither the 
taxable proﬁt nor the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable 
proﬁt will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised. The 
carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at each reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, 
except where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary difference can be 
controlled by the Group and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
offset when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority and 
the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
1.13 Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of 
subsidiaries and other businesses, joint 
ventures and associates and represents 
the excess of the fair value of 
consideration over the fair value of the 
identiﬁable assets and liabilities acquired. 
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries 
and other businesses is included in 
non-current assets. Goodwill on 
acquisitions of joint ventures and 
associates is included in investments 
in joint ventures and associates. 
Goodwill is reviewed annually for 
impairment and is carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill 
is included when determining the proﬁt 
or loss on subsequent disposal of the 
business to which it relates.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the 
date of transition to IFRS (1 January 2004) 
has been retained at the previous UK 
GAAP amounts subject to being tested 
for impairment. Goodwill written off or 
discount arising on acquisition credited to 
reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 
has not been reinstated and is not included 
in determining any subsequent proﬁt or 
loss on disposal. 
b) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are stated at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 107
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Principal accounting policies 
continued 
1.13 Intangible assets continued
c) Research and development
Internally generated intangible assets 
developed by the Group are recognised 
only if all the following conditions are met:
 an asset is created that can be identiﬁed
 it is probable that the asset created will 
generate future economic beneﬁts 
 the development cost of the asset can 
be measured reliably.
Other research expenditure is written off 
in the period in which it is incurred.
1.14 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated 
at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and any recognised impairment loss. 
Cost includes expenditure associated with 
bringing the asset to its operating location 
and condition. 
1.15 Leasing
Leases which transfer substantially all 
of the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee are classiﬁed as ﬁnance 
leases. All other leases are classiﬁed 
as operating leases.
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are 
recognised as assets of the Group at their 
fair value or, if lower, at the present value 
of the minimum lease payments, 
determined at the inception of the lease, 
and depreciation is provided accordingly. 
The liability to the lessor is included in the 
statement of ﬁnancial position as a ﬁnance 
lease obligation. Lease payments are 
apportioned between ﬁnance charges 
and reduction of the lease obligation so 
as to achieve a constant effective rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of 
the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases 
are charged to income on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Beneﬁts received and receivable as an 
incentive to enter into an operating lease 
are also spread on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term.
1.16 Impairment of assets
Goodwill arising on acquisitions and other 
assets that have an indeﬁnite useful life 
and are not subject to amortisation are 
reviewed at least annually for impairment. 
Other intangible assets and property, 
plant and equipment are reviewed for 
impairment whenever there is any 
indication that the carrying amount 
of the asset may not be recoverable. 
1.21 Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing 
and are stated at their nominal value. 
1.22 Provisions
Provisions for legal claims, faults and 
warranties, environmental restoration, 
onerous leases, and other onerous 
commitments are recognised at the best 
estimate of the expenditure required to 
settle the Group’s liability. Provisions are 
recognised when: the Group has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of a past event; it is probable that an 
outﬂow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation; and the amount of 
the obligation can be estimated reliably. 
1.23 Borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts 
are recorded at the proceeds received, net 
of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement 
or redemption and direct issue costs, are 
charged to income on an accruals basis 
using the effective interest method and 
are added to the carrying amount of the 
instrument to the extent that they are not 
settled in the period in which they arise.
1.24 Retirement beneﬁt costs
The Group, through trustees, operates 
a number of deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned 
contribution retirement and other long 
term employee beneﬁt schemes, 
the majority of which are of the deﬁned 
beneﬁt type and are funded. Deﬁned 
beneﬁt contributions are determined in 
consultation with the trustees, after taking 
actuarial advice. 
For deﬁned beneﬁt retirement beneﬁt 
schemes, the cost of providing beneﬁts 
recognised in the income statement 
and the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 
are determined at the reporting date 
by independent actuaries, using the 
projected unit credit method. The liability 
recognised in the statement of ﬁnancial 
position comprises the present value of 
the deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligation, 
determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash ﬂows using the market yield 
on a high quality corporate bond, less the 
fair value of the plan assets. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in full in 
the period in which they occur outside 
the income statement in the statement 
of comprehensive income.
Contributions to deﬁned contribution 
pension schemes are charged to the 
income statement as they fall due.
If the recoverable amount of an asset 
is less than its carrying amount, an 
impairment loss is recognised.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use. 
Value in use is assessed by discounting 
the estimated future cash ﬂows that the 
asset is expected to generate. For this 
purpose assets, including goodwill, are 
grouped into cash-generating units 
representing the level at which they are 
monitored by the Board of Directors for 
internal management purposes. Goodwill 
impairment losses are not reversed in 
subsequent periods. Reversals of other 
impairment losses are recognised in 
income when they arise.
1.17 Investments
Investments are recognised and 
derecognised on the trade date where a 
purchase or sale of an investment is under 
a contract whose terms require delivery 
of the investment within the timeframe 
established by the market concerned, and 
are initially measured at cost, including 
transaction costs.
Available-for-sale investments are 
measured at fair value. Gains and losses 
arising from changes in the fair value 
of available-for-sale investments are 
recognised in equity, until the investment is 
disposed or is determined to be impaired, 
at which time the cumulative gain or loss 
is included in the net proﬁt or loss for the 
period. Held to maturity investments are 
measured at amortised cost.
1.18 Assets held for sale 
Non-current assets and groups of assets 
to be disposed of are classiﬁed as held 
for sale if their carrying amounts will 
be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. Held 
for sale assets are measured at the 
lower of their carrying amount or fair value 
less costs to sell.
1.19 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. 
Cost includes an appropriate proportion 
of manufacturing overheads incurred in 
bringing inventories to their present 
location and condition and is determined 
using the ﬁrst-in ﬁrst-out method. Net 
realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price less all estimated costs of 
completion and costs to be incurred in 
marketing, selling and distribution.
1.20 Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recorded at 
fair value and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost as reduced by allowances 
for estimated irrecoverable amounts.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 108
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Principal accounting policies 
continued 
1.25 Share-based payments
Employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of share options, 
performance share plan awards and 
deferred bonus plan awards since 
7 November 2002 are charged in the 
income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on the fair 
values of the options or awards at the 
date of grant and the numbers expected 
to become exercisable. The credits 
in respect of the amounts charged are 
included within separate reserves in 
equity until such time as the options or 
awards are exercised, when the proceeds 
received in respect of share options are 
credited to share capital and share 
premium or the shares held by the 
employee trust are transferred to 
employees in respect of performance 
share plan awards and deferred bonus 
plan awards. 
1.26 Financial instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities 
are recognised in the Group’s statement 
of ﬁnancial position when the Group 
becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
a) Classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial liabilities 
and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments 
are classiﬁed according to the substance 
of the contractual arrangements. An 
equity instrument is any contract that 
evidences a residual interest in the assets 
of the Group after deducting all of its 
liabilities. Equity instruments issued by 
the Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs. 
b) Cumulative convertible redeemable 
preference shares
The Company’s cumulative convertible 
redeemable preference shares are a 
compound instrument, comprising 
a liability component and an equity 
component. The fair value of the liability 
component was estimated using the 
prevailing market interest rate at the date 
of issue for a similar non-convertible 
instrument. The difference between 
the proceeds of issue of the preference 
shares and the fair value assigned to 
the liability component, representing the 
embedded option to convert the liability 
into the Company’s ordinary shares, is 
included in equity. The interest expense 
on the liability component is calculated 
by applying the market interest rate for 
similar non-convertible debt prevailing at 
the date of issue to the liability component 
of the instrument. The difference 
between this amount and the dividend 
paid is added to the carrying amount of 
the liability component and is included 
in ﬁnance charges, together with the 
dividend payable. 
c) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments to manage interest rate risk 
and to hedge exposures to ﬂuctuations in 
foreign currencies and commodity prices 
in accordance with its risk management 
policy. The Group does not use derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments for speculative 
purposes. A description of the Group’s 
objectives, policies and strategies with 
regard to derivatives and other ﬁnancial 
instruments is set out in Note 36. 
Derivatives are initially recognised in the 
statement of ﬁnancial position at fair value 
on the date the derivative transaction 
is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair values. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives 
that are designated and qualify as fair 
value hedges are recognised in the 
income statement together with any 
changes in the fair value of the hedged 
item that are attributable to the 
hedged risk. 
Changes in the fair value of the effective 
portion of derivatives that are designated 
and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges are 
recognised in equity. Changes in the fair 
value of the ineffective portion of cash 
ﬂow hedges are recognised in the income 
statement. Amounts accumulated in 
equity are transferred to the income 
statement when the underlying 
transaction occurs or, if the transaction 
results in a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability, 
are included in the initial cost of that asset 
or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments that do not qualify 
for hedge accounting are recognised in 
the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when 
the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated, or exercised, or no longer 
qualiﬁes for hedge accounting. At that 
time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in equity 
is retained in equity until the hedged 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction 
is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
equity is transferred to the income 
statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial 
instruments or other host contracts 
are treated as separate derivatives and 
recorded in the statement of ﬁnancial 
position at fair value when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to 
those of the host contract. Changes in the 
fair value of those embedded derivatives 
recognised in the statement of ﬁnancial 
position are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise.
d) PPP concession companies
Assets constructed by PPP concession 
companies are classiﬁed principally as 
available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets.
In the construction phase, income is 
recognised by applying an attributable 
proﬁt margin to the construction costs 
representing the fair value of construction 
services. In the operational phase, income 
is recognised by allocating a proportion 
of total cash received over the life of 
the project to service costs by means 
of a deemed constant rate of return on 
those costs. The residual element of 
projected cash is allocated to the ﬁnancial 
asset using the effective interest rate 
method, giving rise to interest income. 
Due to the nature of the contractual 
arrangements the projected cash ﬂows 
can be estimated with a high degree 
of certainty.
In the construction phase the fair value 
of the Group’s PPP ﬁnancial assets is 
determined by applying an attributable 
proﬁt margin on the construction costs 
representing the fair value of construction 
services performed. In the operational 
phase fair value is determined by 
discounting the future cash ﬂows 
allocated to the ﬁnancial asset using 
discount rates based on long term gilt 
rates adjusted for the risk levels 
associated with the assets, with 
movements in fair value recognised in 
equity. Amounts accumulated in equity 
are transferred to the income statement 
upon disposal of the asset.
1.27 Judgements and key sources 
of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements under IFRS requires 
management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect 
amounts recognised for assets and 
liabilities at the reporting date and the 
amounts of revenue and expenses 
incurred during the reporting period. 
Actual outcomes may differ from these 
judgements, estimates and assumptions. 
The judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that have the most 
signiﬁcant effect on the carrying value 
of assets and liabilities of the Group as at 
31 December 2012 are discussed below.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 109
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Principal accounting policies 
continued 
1.27 Judgements and key sources 
of estimation uncertainty continued
a) Revenue and margin recognition
The Group’s revenue recognition and 
margin recognition policies, which are set 
out in Notes 1.5 and 1.7, are central to 
how the Group values the work it has 
carried out in each ﬁnancial year. 
These policies require forecasts to be 
made of the outcomes of long term 
professional services, construction 
services and support services contracts, 
which require assessments and 
judgements to be made on recovery 
of pre-contract costs, changes in 
work scopes, contract programmes, 
maintenance liabilities and changes 
in costs. 
b) Taxation
The Group is subject to tax in a number of 
jurisdictions and judgement is required in 
determining the worldwide provision for 
income taxes. The Group provides for 
future liabilities in respect of uncertain 
tax positions where additional tax may 
become payable in future periods and 
such provisions are based on 
management’s assessment of exposures.
As set out in Note 1.12 above, deferred 
tax is accounted for on temporary 
differences using the liability method, 
with deferred tax liabilities generally being 
provided for in full and deferred tax assets 
being recognised to the extent that it is 
judged probable that future taxable proﬁt 
will arise against which the temporary 
differences will be utilised. 
c) Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired 
requires an estimation of the value in use 
of the cash-generating units to which the 
goodwill has been allocated. The value in 
use calculation requires an estimate to be 
made of the timing and amount of future 
cash ﬂows expected to arise from the 
cash-generating unit and the application 
of a suitable discount rate in order to 
calculate the present value. The discount 
rates used are based on the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital adjusted 
to reﬂect the speciﬁc economic 
environment of the relevant cash-
generating unit. The carrying value of 
goodwill at 31 December 2012 was 
£1,160m (2011: £1,279m).
d) Impairment of investments in joint 
ventures and associates 
Investments in joint ventures and 
associates are reviewed for impairment at 
the reporting date. Determining whether 
an investment balance is impaired requires 
an estimation of the value in use of the 
joint venture or associate. The value in 
use calculation requires an estimate to be 
made of the timing and amount of future 
cash ﬂows expected to arise from the 
joint venture or associate and the 
application of a suitable discount rate 
in order to calculate the present value. 
The discount rates used are based on 
the Group’s weighted average cost of 
capital adjusted to reﬂect the speciﬁc 
economic environment of the joint venture 
or associate.
e) Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 
At 31 December 2012 £3,183m (2011: 
£2,938m) of assets constructed by the 
Group’s PPP subsidiary, joint venture and 
associate companies are classiﬁed as 
“available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets”. In the 
operational phase the fair value of these 
ﬁnancial assets is measured at each 
reporting date by discounting the future 
value of the cash ﬂows allocated to the 
ﬁnancial asset. A range of discount rates, 
is used from 4.70% to 7.70% (2011: 
4.83% to 7.83%), which reﬂects the 
prevailing risk free interest rates and 
the different risk proﬁles of the various 
concessions. A £405m gain was taken to 
equity in 2012 and a cumulative fair value 
gain of £647m had arisen on these 
ﬁnancial assets as a result of movements 
in the fair value of these ﬁnancial assets 
at 31 December 2012.
f) PPP derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group’s PPP subsidiary, joint venture 
and associate companies use derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments, principally swaps, 
to manage the interest rate and inﬂation 
rate risks to which the concessions are 
exposed by their long term contractual 
agreements. These derivatives are initially 
recognised as assets and liabilities at their 
fair value and subsequently remeasured 
at each reporting date at their fair value. 
The fair value of derivatives constantly 
changes in response to prevailing 
market conditions. A loss of £20m was 
taken to equity in 2012 and a cumulative 
fair value loss of £433m had arisen 
on these ﬁnancial instruments at 
31 December 2012. 
g) Recoverable value of recognised 
receivables
The Group has recognised trade 
receivables with a carrying value of 
£824m (2011: £926m re-presented). 
The recoverability of trade receivables 
is regularly reviewed in the light of the 
available economic information speciﬁc 
to each receivable and speciﬁc provisions 
are recognised for balances considered 
to be irrecoverable.
h) Provisions
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain 
timing or amount and therefore in 
making a reliable estimate of the quantum 
and timing of liabilities judgement is 
applied and re-evaluated at each reporting 
date. The Group recognised provisions 
at 31 December 2012 of £228m 
(2011: £237m).
i) Retirement beneﬁt obligations
Details of the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension schemes are set out in Note 26, 
including tables showing the sensitivity 
of the Group pension scheme obligations 
and assets to different actuarial 
assumptions. At 31 December 2012, the 
retirement beneﬁt liability recognised on 
the Group’s statement of ﬁnancial position 
was £338m (2011: £275m). The effects 
of changes in the actuarial assumptions 
underlying the beneﬁt obligation, discount 
rates and the differences between 
expected and actual returns on 
the schemes’ assets are classiﬁed as 
actuarial gains and losses. During 2012 
the Group recognised net actuarial losses 
of £126m in equity (2011: £53m gains), 
including its share of the actuarial 
gains and losses arising in joint ventures 
and associates.
1.28 Exchange rates 
The following key exchange rates were applied in these ﬁnancial statements.
Average rates
£1 buys 2012 2011 Change
US$ 1.59 1.60 (0.6)%
Euro 1.23 1.15 7.0%
Closing rates
£1 buys 2012 2011 Change
US$ 1.62 1.55 4.5%
Euro 1.23 1.20 2.5% Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 110
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
2 Revenue
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
Revenue from the provision of services
*
9,466 9,460 – –
Revenue from manufacturing activities 13 33 – –
Proceeds from sale of development land 4 1 – –
Dividends from subsidiaries – – 127 1
Dividends from joint ventures and associates – – 3 12
Total revenue 9,483 9,494 130 13
Investment income (Note 6) 62 57 6 6
Total revenue and investment income 9,545 9,551 136 19
*
 Includes IAS 11 construction contract revenue of £8,127m (2011: £8,098m).
3 Segment analysis 
Reportable segments of the Group:
 Professional Services – the provision of project management, architectural, design or other technical services performed by the 
Group as a consultant
 Construction Services – activities resulting in the physical construction of an asset
 Support Services – activities which support existing assets or functions such as facilities management, asset maintenance 
and refurbishments
 Infrastructure Investments – acquisition, operation and disposal of infrastructure assets such as PPP concessions and airports.
3.1 Total Group
Income statement – performance by activity
Professional
Services
Construction
Services
Support
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
Corporate
activities Total
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 1,668 6,959 1,633 636 – 10,896
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (21) (830) (135) (427) – (1,413)
Group revenue 1,647 6,129 1,498 209 – 9,483
Underlying group operating proﬁt/(loss)
1
97 69 49 29 (32) 212
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 153 3 40 – 97
Underlying proﬁt/(loss) from operations
1
 98 122 52 69 (32) 309
Non-underlying items
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets (19) (13) (5) (8) – (45)
–  goodwill impairment in respect of Mainland European 
rail businesses –(95) – – – (95)
– other non-underlying items (13) (51) (16) (12) (3) (95)
Proﬁt/(loss) from operations 66 (37) 31 49 (35) 74
Investment income 62
Finance costs (61)
Proﬁt before taxation 75
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 1,645 7,050 1,584 756 – 11,035
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (1) (849) (140) (551) – (1,541)
Group revenue 1,644 6,201 1,444 205 – 9,494
Underlying group operating proﬁt/(loss)
1
87 141 63 – (35) 256
Share of results of joint ventures and associates – 28 4 43 – 75
Underlying proﬁt/(loss) from operations
1
 871696743(35)331
Non-underlying items
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets (30) (17) (4) (11) – (62)
– other non-underlying items (1) (11) (14) – – (26)
Proﬁt/(loss) from operations 56 141 49 32 (35) 243
Investment income 57
Finance costs (54)
Proﬁt before taxation 246
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8). Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 111
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
3 Segment analysis continued
3.1 Total Group continued
Assets and liabilities by activity
Professional
Services
Construction
Services
Support
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
Corporate
activities Total
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
Due from construction contract customers 187 387 60 – – 634
Due to construction contract customers (127) (243) (12) – – (382)
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 57987 – 1 172
Trade and other receivables – current 309 663 208 49 12 1,241
Trade and other payables – current (302) (1,455) (368) (43) (46) (2,214)
Provisions (15) (156) (34) (4) (19) (228)
Working capital
*
57 (725) (59) 2 (52) (777)
*
 Includes non-operating items, current working capital and provisions.
Total assets 864 2,268 579 1,341 740 5,792
Total liabilities (571) (2,087) (449) (256) (1,120) (4,483)
Net assets/(liabilities) 293 181 130 1,085 (380) 1,309
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
Due from construction contract customers 165 412 27 – – 604
Due to construction contract customers (151) (415) (10) – – (576)
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 1 69 69 – 1 140
Trade and other receivables – current 309 794 233 49 25 1,410
Trade and other payables – current (272) (1,679) (355) (52) (68) (2,426)
Provisions (22) (156) (36) (2) (21) (237)
Working capital
*
30 (975) (72) (5) (63) (1,085)
*
 Includes non-operating items, current working capital and provisions.
Total assets 858 2,519 581 1,041 773 5,772
Total liabilities (566) (2,414) (430) (249) (850) (4,509)
Net assets/(liabilities) 292 105 151 792 (77) 1,263
Other information
Professional
Services
Construction
Services
Support
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
Corporate
activities Total
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (Note 15) 11 23 1311 49
Depreciation (Note 15) 13 27 21 2 1 64
Gain on disposals of interests in PPP joint ventures (Note 30.4) – – – 52 – 52
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
£m
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (Note 15) 9 31 34 2 1 77
Depreciation (Note 15) 12 29 26 2 1 70
Gain on disposals of interests in PPP joint ventures (Note 30.5) – – – 20 – 20
Performance by geographic destination
United
Kingdom
United
States
Mainland
Europe
Rest of
world Total
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
2012
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 5,319 3,543 485 1,549 10,896
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (564) (119) (7) (723) (1,413)
Group revenue 4,755 3,424 478 826 9,483
Non-current assets excluding ﬁnancial assets and deferred tax assets 1,207 835 113 194 2,349
2011
£m
2011
£m
2011
5
£m
2011
5
£m
2011
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 5,700 3,413 520 1,402 11,035
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (675) (112) (26) (728) (1,541)
Group revenue 5,025 3,301 494 674 9,494
Non-current assets excluding ﬁnancial assets and deferred tax assets 999 882 219 177 2,277
5
 Re-presented to separately disclose the geographic information relating to Mainland Europe.
Major customers
Included in Group revenue are revenues of £2,240m (2011: £2,093m) from the US Government and £2,166m (2011: £2,626m) 
from the UK Government, which are the Group’s two largest customers. These revenues are included in the results across all four 
reported segments. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 112
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
3 Segment analysis continued
3.2 Infrastructure Investments (Balfour Beatty Investments UK and Balfour Beatty Investments US)
Underlying proﬁt from operations
1
Group
2012
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 16.2)
6
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 16.2)
6
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
PPP UK
^
235 37 137 38
PPP US 12 6 18 12 7 19
Infrastructure (3) (1) (4) (3) (1) (4)
Gain on disposals of interests in PPP joint ventures 52 – 52 20 – 20
63 40 103 30 43 73
Bidding costs and overheads (34) – (34) (30) – (30)
29 40 69 –4343
Net assets
PPP UK
^
393 528 921 329 299 628
PPP US 130 65 195 144 56 200
Infrastructure 1– 1 358
524 593 1,117 476 360 836
Infrastructure Investments central functions (32) – (32) (44) – (44)
Total Infrastructure Investments net assets 492 593 1,085 432 360 792
Net borrowings in relation to PPP subsidiaries (368) – (368) (332) – (332)
124 593 717 100 360 460
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
6
 The Group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates is disclosed net of investment income, ﬁnance costs and taxation.
^
 Including Singapore.
3.3 PPP concession subsidiaries 
The Group has a 100% interest in nine UK PPP concessions through its shareholdings in Connect Roads Sunderland Holdings Ltd, 
Connect Roads South Tyneside Holdings Ltd, Connect Roads Derby Holdings Ltd, Transform Schools (Knowsley) Holdings Ltd, 
Connect CNDR Holdings Ltd, Connect Roads Coventry Holdings Ltd, Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Holdings Ltd, Connect 
Roads Cambridgeshire Holdings Ltd, and Connect Roads Northamptonshire Holdings Ltd. The performance of the wholly owned 
PPP concessions and their statements of ﬁnancial position are summarised below.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Income statement
Group revenue 90 90
Proﬁt from operations 2 1
Investment income 31 25
Finance costs (27) (22)
Proﬁt before taxation and intra-Group interest
*
6 4
Statement of cash ﬂows
Proﬁt from operations 2 1
Increase in working capital (3) (1)
Income taxes paid – –
Net cash outﬂow from operating activities (1) –
Net cash outﬂow from investing activities (22) (40)
Net cash outﬂow from ﬁnancing activities (13) (22)
Net cash outﬂow (36) (62)
Net borrowings at beginning of year (332) (270)
Net borrowings at end of year
*
(368) (332)
Statement of ﬁnancial position
PPP ﬁnancial assets (Note 18) 542 457
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (141) (128)
Other net liabilities (8) –
393 329
Cash and cash equivalents 25 18
Non-recourse term loans (393) (350)
Net assets/(liabilities)
*
25 (3)
* 
Excludes £3m (2011: £3m) subordinated debt interest payable and £34m (2011: £20m) subordinated debt payable by PPP subsidiaries to their holding companies. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 113
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
4 Proﬁt/(loss) from operations
4.1 Proﬁt/(loss) from operations is stated after charging/(crediting)
2012
£m
2011
£m
Research and development costs 3 6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 64 70
Amortisation of intangible assets 49 66
Goodwill impairment in respect of Mainland European rail businesses (Note 8) 95 –
Net reversal of trade receivables impairment provision (13) –
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5 –
Impairment of inventory 4 2
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (7) (4)
Loss on disposal of UK specialist rail manufacturing business – 7
Cost of inventory recognised as an expense 223 172
Exchange gains and losses 1 (2)
Auditor’s remuneration 8 6
Short-term hire charges for plant and equipment 118 114
Other operating lease rentals 110 113
4.2 Analysis of auditor’s remuneration 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Services as auditor to the Company 0.8 0.8
Services as auditor to Group subsidiaries 4.3 4.3
Total audit fees 5.1 5.1
Audit related assurance fees 0.5 0.5
Taxation compliance fees 0.3 0.3
Taxation advisory fees 0.1 0.4
Corporate ﬁnance fees 1.6 –
Other assurance fees 0.2 –
Other services 0.1 0.1
Total non-audit fees 2.8 1.3
Total fees in relation to audit and other services 7.9 6.4
5 Employee costs
5.1 Group
Employee costs during the year
2012
£m
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 2,253 2,121
Redundancy 33 17
Social security costs 226 214
Pension costs (Note 26.2) 104 105
Share-based payments (Note 31) 7 6
 2,623 2,463
 
Average number of Group employees
2012
Number
2011
Number
Professional Services 13,894 13,819
Construction Services 17,487 18,292
Support Services 16,984 16,534
Infrastructure Investments 1,621 1,337
Corporate 188 213
 50,174 50,195
At 31 December 2012 the total number of Group employees was 50,304 (2011: 50,301).
5.2 Company
The average number of employees of Balfour Beatty plc was 134 (2011: 125). Total employee costs of Balfour Beatty plc were £19m 
(2011: £22m). Total employee costs comprise: wages and salaries £14m (2011: £17m); social security costs £2m (2011: £2m); pension 
costs £1m (2011: £1m); and share-based payments £2m (2011: £2m). Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 114
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
6 Investment income
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
PPP subordinated debt interest receivable 24 25 2 2
Interest receivable on PPP ﬁnancial assets 31 25 – –
Interest receivable from subsidiaries – – 3 3
Other interest receivable and similar income 7 7 1 1
62 57 6 6
7 Finance costs
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
7
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
7
£m
PPP non-recourse – bank loans and overdrafts 27 22 – –
Preference shares – ﬁnance cost 12 12 12 12
Other interest payable – loans under committed facilities
7
8 3 8 3
 – other bank loans and overdrafts
7
3 6 1 1
 – commitment fees 4 4 4 4
 – other ﬁnance charges 7 4 – –
Net ﬁnance cost on pension scheme assets and liabilities (Note 26.2) – 3 – –
Interest payable to subsidiaries – – 10 9
61 54 35 29
7
 Re-presented to separately disclose interest payable on loans under committed facilities.
8 Non-underlying items
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
8.1 Operating expenses (charged against)/credited to proﬁt 
Continuing operations 
8.1.1 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (45) (62) – –
8.1.2 Other non-underlying items
 – goodwill impairment in respect of Mainland European rail businesses (95) – – –
 – other restructuring charges in respect of Mainland European rail businesses (9) – – –
 – restructuring and reorganisation costs relating to other existing businesses (61) – (2) –
 – post-acquisition integration, reorganisation and other costs (9) (4) – –
 – write-down of investment in Exeter International Airport (12) – – –
 – cost of implementing UK shared service centre (4) (12) – (1)
 – acquisition related expenses – (3) – –
 – loss on disposal of UK specialist rail manufacturing business – (7) – –
Total other non-underlying items (190) (26) (2) (1)
Charged against proﬁt before taxation (235) (88) (2) (1)
8.2 Tax on items above 39 27 1 –
Non-underlying items charged against proﬁt for the year from  
continuing operations (196) (61) (1) (1)
Discontinued operation
8.3 Barking
 – dividends received – 5 – 5
 – (loss)/gain on disposal of Barking – (1) – 54
– 4 – 59
(Charged against)/credited to proﬁt for the year (196) (57) (1) 58 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 115
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
8 Non-underlying items continued 
8.1.1 The amortisation of acquired intangible assets comprises: customer contracts £16m (2011: £24m); customer relationships £19m 
(2011: £27m); and brand names £10m (2011: £11m). 
8.1.2.1 Following a strategic review in the light of low activity levels and the commoditisation of work, the Group has decided to divest 
all of its Mainland European rail businesses over time. As a result, £95m (2011: £nil) of goodwill in Mainland European rail businesses 
has been impaired, comprising: Germany £80m; Scandinavia £12m; and Spain £3m. Refer to Note 13.
8.1.2.2 In addition to the goodwill impairment, restructuring costs of £9m (2011: £nil) were incurred during the year in respect of the 
European rail businesses.
8.1.2.3 The Group is restructuring a number of its other businesses in order to increase its focus on the needs of customers and upon 
growth sectors, further integrate its service offering to these customers, and realise operational efﬁciencies. In 2012 restructuring 
costs of £61m were incurred (2011: £nil) relating to: Construction Services UK £34m, where six business units will be streamlined and 
restructured into one business with three business streams; Support Services UK £7m; other UK entities £10m; and other non-UK 
entities £10m. These 2012 restructuring costs comprise: redundancy costs £20m; external advisers £10m; impairment of land and 
buildings £5m; other property related costs £11m; pension curtailment cost £2m; and other restructuring costs £13m. 
The Company incurred restructuring costs of £2m (2011: £nil) during the year.
8.1.2.4 Post-acquisition integration and reorganisation costs of £9m (2011: £4m) have been incurred in 2012, of which £8m (2011: £nil) 
relates to a liability in respect of a geotechnical survey carried out by a company acquired by Parsons Brinckerhoff, prior to its own 
acquisition by Balfour Beatty in 2009. The remaining £1m comprises: £1m (2011: £1m) relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff post-acquisition 
reorganisation costs; £nil (2011: £1m) relating to SpawMaxwell; £nil (2011: £1m) relating to Rok; and £nil (2011: £1m) relating to various 
other acquisitions.
8.1.2.5 An impairment charge of £12m (2011: £nil) arose on the Group’s 60% interest in Regional & City Airports (Exeter) Holdings Ltd 
from writing the carrying value of the Group’s joint venture investment down to £nil, as a result of the continued effect of adverse 
economic conditions upon trafﬁc at regional airports, which was exacerbated by an increase in Air Passenger Duty effective from 
April 2012.
8.1.2.6 The implementation of the UK shared service centre in Newcastle-upon-Tyne during 2012 led to incremental costs of £4m 
(2011: £12m) being incurred, of which £nil (2011: £1m) were incurred by the Company. 
8.1.2.7 No signiﬁcant costs were incurred in the acquisition of Subsurface on 31 December 2012. Costs of £3m were incurred during 
2011 which were directly attributable to the following acquisitions: Romec Services Ltd £1m; Fru-Con £1m; and Howard S. Wright £1m. 
8.1.2.8 The UK specialist rail manufacturing business was sold during 2011. A loss of £7m arose on the sale which comprises: a loss on 
the disposal of the rail business operations of £4m, including writing off £7m goodwill; and an onerous lease liability of £3m due to a 
property becoming vacant. 
8.1.3 In addition to the items included above during 2011, a net £nil non-underlying item arose in respect of Romec Services Ltd 
comprising: revaluation of the existing 49% stake on step acquisition £13m; service credit £(4)m; and preference dividend to Royal Mail 
Group £(9)m. 
8.2 The non-underlying items charged against Group operating proﬁt have given rise to a tax credit of £39m, comprising: £14m on 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets; and £25m on other non-underlying items (2011: £27m comprising: £23m on amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets; and £4m on other non-underlying items). 
The non-underlying items charged against Company operating proﬁt have given rise to a tax credit of £1m (2011: £nil).
8.3 On 2 March 2011 it was resolved to dispose of the Company’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd (Barking), which 
became a discontinued operation with all items from this date classiﬁed as non-underlying items. Subsequent to 2 March 2011, 
dividends of £5m were received by the Company. On 21 December 2011 the Company disposed of its interest in Barking which 
resulted in a loss on disposal of £1m for the Group after transaction costs and a gain of £54m for the Company. Refer to Note 10.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 116
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
9 Taxation
9.1 Taxation charge
Group
Underlying
items
1 
2012 
£m 
Non-
underlying 
items
(Note 8)
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Total
2011
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
Total UK tax 17 (21) (4) 25 (9) (5)
Total non-UK tax 53 (18) 35 39 – –
Total tax charge/(credit) 70 (39) 31 64 (9) (5)
UK current tax
– corporation tax for the year at 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 15 (14) 1 – (10) (10)
– adjustments in respect of previous periods (3) – (3) – 1 4
12 (14) (2) – (9) (6)
Non-UK current tax
– non-UK tax on proﬁts for the year 31 4 35 24 – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 2– 2 (8) – –
33 4 37 16 – –
Total current tax 45 (10) 35 16 (9) (6)
UK deferred tax
– current year charge/(credit) 3(7) (4) 22 – 3
– adjustments in respect of previous periods (1) – (1) 1 – (2)
– UK corporation tax rate change 3– 3 2 – –
5 (7) (2) 25 – 1
Non-UK deferred tax
– current year charge/(credit) 27 (22) 5 14 – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods (7) – (7) 9 – –
20 (22) (2) 23 – –
Total deferred tax 25 (29) (4) 48 – 1
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
The Group tax charge excludes amounts for joint ventures and associates (refer to Note 16.2), except where tax is levied at the Group level. 
In addition to the Group tax charge, tax of £70m is charged directly to equity (2011: £12m), comprising: a deferred tax credit of £15m 
(2011: £12m charge); a current tax credit of £1m (2011: £1m charge); and a deferred tax charge in respect of joint ventures and 
associates of £86m (2011: £1m credit).
In addition to the Company tax credit, £1m of deferred tax is credited directly to equity (2011: £2m charged).
The weighted average applicable tax rate is 30% (2011: 29%) based on underlying proﬁt before taxation, excluding the results of joint 
ventures and associates.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 117
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
9 Taxation continued
9.2 Taxation reconciliation
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
Proﬁt/(loss) before taxation 75 246 75 (32)
Less share of results of joint ventures and associates (97) (75) – –
(Loss)/proﬁt before taxation (22) 171 75 (32)
Add non-underlying items charged excluding share of joint ventures and associates 235 88 2 1
Underlying proﬁt/(loss) before taxation and the results of joint ventures and associates
1
213 259 77 (31)
Tax on proﬁt/(loss) before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 52 69 19 (8)
Effects of
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7 4 1 2
Dividend income not taxable – – (32) (4)
Non-taxable disposals (12) (5) – –
Tax levied at Group level on share of joint ventures’ and associates’ proﬁts 5 7 – –
Preference share dividends not deductible 3 3 3 3
Losses not available for offset 9 6 – –
Recognition of losses not previously recognised (1) (1) – –
Higher tax rates on non-UK earnings 13 2 – –
UK corporation tax rate change 3 2 – –
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (9) 4 1 2
Total tax charge/(credit) on underlying proﬁt/(loss) 70 91 (8) (5)
Less tax credit on non-underlying items (39) (27) (1) –
Total tax charge/(credit) on proﬁt/(loss) 31 64 (9) (5)
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
10 Discontinued operation
On 2 March 2011 the Directors resolved to dispose of the Company’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd (Barking) and 
accordingly, from 2 March 2011, the Company’s interest in Barking was classiﬁed as a discontinued operation held for sale. 
Barking was previously accounted for as an associate using the equity method. Subsequent to classiﬁcation as a discontinued operation, 
equity accounting was no longer applied and all income and expenses relating to Barking were classiﬁed as non-underlying items.
On 21 December 2011 the Company disposed of its effective 25.5% interest in Barking to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF) for 
its carrying value of £55m. Transaction costs of £1m were incurred in respect of the disposal resulting in a £1m loss on disposal for the 
Group and a £54m gain for the Company.
The £55m proceeds from the disposal of Barking to the BBPF and the £55m one-off BBPF deﬁcit contribution were net settled. 
Barking was part of the Infrastructure Investments segment. 11 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings
Basic
2012 
£m
Diluted
2012 
£m
Basic
2011 
£m
Diluted
2011 
£m
Continuing operations
Earnings 44 44 182 182
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £14m (2011: £23m) 31 31 39 39
Other non-underlying items – net of tax credit of £25m (2011: £4m) 165 165 22 22
Underlying earnings 240 240 243 243
Discontinued operation
Earnings –– 44
Other non-underlying items – net of tax of £nil (2011: £nil) –– (4) (4)
Underlying earnings –– ––
Total operations
Earnings 44 44 186 186
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £14m (2011: £23m) 31 31 39 39
Other non-underlying items – net of tax credit of £25m (2011: £4m) 165 165 18 18
Underlying earnings 240 240 243 243
Basic
2012 
m
Diluted
2012 
m
Basic
2011 
m
Diluted
2011 
m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 684 685 683 684
Earnings per share
Basic
2012 
Pence
Diluted
2012
Pence
Basic
2011 
Pence
Diluted
2011
Pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per ordinary share 6.5 6.5 26.7 26.7
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 4.4 4.4 5.7 5.7
Other non-underlying items 24.1 24.1 3.1 3.1
Underlying earnings per ordinary share 35.0 35.0 35.5 35.5
Discontinued operation
Earnings per ordinary share –– 0.6 0.6
Other non-underlying items –– (0.6) (0.6)
Underlying earnings per ordinary share –– ––
Total operations
Earnings per ordinary share 6.5 6.5 27.3 27.3
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 4.4 4.4 5.7 5.7
Other non-underlying items 24.1 24.1 2.5 2.5
Underlying earnings per ordinary share 35.0 35.0 35.5 35.5
12 Dividends on ordinary shares
Per share
2012
Pence 
Amount 
2012 
£m
Per share
2011
Pence 
Amount 
2011 
£m
Proposed dividends for the year
Interim – current year 5.60 38 5.30 36
Final – current year 8.50 58 8.50 58
14.10 96 13.80 94
Recognised dividends for the year
Final – prior year 58 52
Interim – current year 38 36
96 88
The interim 2012 dividend was paid on 7 December 2012. Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2013, the ﬁnal 
2012 dividend will be paid on 5 July 2013 to holders on the register on 26 April 2013. The ordinary shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 
24 April 2013.
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Dividends on ordinary shares of the Company 96 88
Other dividends to non-controlling interests 1 –
Total recognised dividends for the year 97 88
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 118
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements 119
13 Intangible assets – goodwill
Cost
£m
Accumulated
impairment
losses
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
At 1 January 2011 1,242 (46) 1,196
Currency translation differences 1– 1
Businesses acquired 89 – 89
Business disposed (7) – (7)
At 31 December 2011 1,325 (46) 1,279
Currency translation differences (34) 2 (32)
Impairment charges in respect of Mainland European rail businesses (Note 8) – (95) (95)
Business acquired (Note 30.1) 9– 9
Businesses acquired – prior year (Note 30.3) (1) – (1)
At 31 December 2012 1,299 (139) 1,160
2012 2011
Carrying amounts of goodwill 
by segment
United
Kingdom
£m
United
States
£m
Mainland
Europe
£m
Rest of
world
£m
Total
£m
United
Kingdom
£m
United
States
£m
Mainland
Europe
5
£m
Rest of
world
5
£m
Total
£m
Professional Services 10 169 1 57 237 10 166 1 60 237
Construction Services 329 362 61 – 752 329 379 162 – 870
Support Services 125 – – – 125 125 – – – 125
Infrastructure Investments 442 – –46 443 – – 47
Group 468 573 62 57 1,160 468 588 163 60 1,279
5 
Re-presented to separately disclose the geographic information relating to Mainland Europe. 
The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value in use. Cash ﬂow forecasts are based on the expected workload of each 
cash-generating unit (CGU) giving consideration to the current level of conﬁrmed and anticipated orders. Cash ﬂow forecasts for the 
next three years (2011: four years) are based on the Group’s 2013 budget and strategic roadmap. The other key inputs in assessing 
each CGU are its revenue growth rate and discount rate. The revenue growth rates have been applied to cash ﬂows after three years 
(2011: four years) into perpetuity and have been derived from estimated GDP growth rates based on published data for the economic 
environment of each CGU less 1.0% to reﬂect current economic uncertainties and their consequent estimated effect on public sector 
spending on infrastructure. The cash ﬂows assume a residual value based on a multiple of earnings before interest and tax. 
The cash ﬂows have been discounted using CGU speciﬁc pre-tax discount rates of 9.0% to 13.7% (2011: 10.3% to 13.4%). The discount 
rates are revised annually applying updated market inputs to the capital asset pricing model. 
2012 2011
United
 Kingdom 
%
United
States
% 
Mainland 
Europe
%
Rest of
world
%
United
 Kingdom
%
United
States
%
Mainland
Europe
5
%
Rest of
world
5
%
Inﬂation rate 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.0 1.7 2.0 1.7
Real growth rate 1.3 1.7 0.3 2.1 1.7 2.4 0.5 2.4
Nominal long term revenue growth rate applied 3.5 3.9 2.5 4.3 3.7 4.1 2.5 4.1
5 
Re-presented to separately disclose the geographic information relating to Mainland Europe. 
Following a strategic review in the light of low activity levels and the commoditisation of work, the Group has decided to divest all of its 
Mainland European rail businesses over time. As a result, £95m (2011: £nil) of goodwill in Mainland European rail businesses has been 
impaired, comprising: Germany £80m; Scandinavia £12m; and Spain £3m. The residual goodwill in the CGU is £61m.
Sensitivities
The Group’s impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used. The major assumptions that result in signiﬁcant 
sensitivities are the discount rate and the revenue growth rate. 
Except as noted below, a reasonable possible change in a single assumption will not give rise to impairment in any of the Group’s CGUs. 
Following the impairment in Mainland European rail businesses using a discount rate of 9.2% and revenue growth rate of 2.5% the 
recoverable amount of goodwill is £61m based on value in use, with a consequent headroom of £nil. A 1.0% increase in the discount 
rate or a 1.0% reduction in the growth rate would lead to a further impairment of £16m or £13m respectively.
The recoverable amount of the Blackpool International Airport goodwill is £4m with headroom of £nil, based on the value in use of 
the trading business and the fair value of the land. Any decrease in the fair value of the land will lead to a commensurate impairment 
of the goodwill.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements 14 Intangible assets – other
Customer
contracts
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
Brand
names
£m
Software
*
^
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 227 124 51 20 422
Currency translation differences 2 1 – – 3
Additions – – – 19 19
Businesses acquired 7 20 7 – 34
At 31 December 2011 236 145 58 39 478
Currency translation differences (9) (5) (1) – (15)
Additions – – – 25 25
Business acquired (Note 30.1) 111 – 3
At 31 December 2012 228 141 58 64 491
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2011 (97) (51) (20) (3) (171)
Currency translation differences (1) (1) – – (2)
Charge for the year (24) (27) (11) (4) (66)
At 31 December 2011 (122) (79) (31) (7) (239)
Currency translation differences 531 – 9
Charge for the year (16) (19) (10) (4) (49)
At 31 December 2012 (133) (95) (40) (11) (279)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 95 46 18 53 212
At 31 December 2011 114 66 27 32 239
*
  Primarily includes software of the UK shared service centre and operating companies with a cost of £45m (2011: £27m) and accumulated amortisation of £1m (2011: £nil).
^
 Of the total software, £49m (2011: £30m) is internally generated software with a cost of £50m (2011: £30m re-presented) and accumulated amortisation of £1m (2011: £nil).
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, which are one to four years for customer 
contracts, three to 10 years for customer relationships, three to seven years for software, and up to ﬁve years for brand names, 
except for customer contracts and relationships relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff, Barnhart and Balfour Beatty Investments US which 
are amortised on a basis matching the returns earned over the life of the underlying contracts and relationships. These contracts have  
a duration of up to eight years for customer contracts and relationships relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff and Barnhart and up to 50 years  
for customer contracts relating to Balfour Beatty Investments US. The software for the UK shared service centre and operating 
companies is amortised on a basis matching its usage proﬁle over its seven-year life. The Group’s knowledge sharing and collaboration 
software is amortised on a basis matching its usage proﬁle over its ﬁve-year life.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 120
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements 121
15 Property, plant and equipment
15.1 Movements
Group
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Assets in
course of
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2011 132 580 3 715
Currency translation differences – (2) – (2)
Additions 769 1 77
Disposals (2) (54) – (56)
Businesses disposed (17) (34) – (51)
Businesses acquired 23 –5
At 31 December 2011 122 562 4 688
Currency translation differences (4) (9) – (13)
Additions 742 – 49
Disposals (8) (77) – (85)
Impairment (Note 8) (5) – – (5)
Transfers –4 (4) –
At 31 December 2012 112 522 – 634
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2011 (37) (358) – (395)
Currency translation differences – 1 – 1
Charge for the year (12) (58) – (70)
Disposals 138 – 39
Businesses disposed 322 – 25
At 31 December 2011 (45) (355) – (400)
Currency translation differences 15 –6
Charge for the year (10) (54) – (64)
Disposals 566 – 71
At 31 December 2012 (49) (338) – (387)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 63 184 – 247
At 31 December 2011 77 207 4 288
The carrying amount of the Group’s land and buildings and property, plant and equipment held under ﬁnance leases was £7m (2011: £9m). 
The Company has no land and buildings or property, plant and equipment held under ﬁnance leases.
Except for land and assets in the course of construction, the costs of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line 
basis over their expected useful lives. Buildings are depreciated at 2.5% pa or over the term of the lease, and plant and equipment is 
depreciated at 4% to 33% pa.
15.2 Analysis of carrying amount of land and buildings
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Freehold 31 40
Long leasehold – over 50 years unexpired 5 5
Short leasehold 27 32
63 77
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements 16 Investments in joint ventures and associates
16.1 Movements 
Net assets
£m
Loans
£m
Provisions
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 338 241 (91) 488
Currency translation differences 3 – – 3
Income recognised 75–– 75
Fair value revaluation of PPP ﬁnancial assets 140 – – 140
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash ﬂow hedges (154) – – (154)
Fair value revaluation of other cash ﬂow hedges 2 – – 2
Actuarial losses on retirement beneﬁt obligations (7) – – (7)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 – – 1
Dividends (54) – – (54)
Additions 10–– 10
Barking disposal (55) – – (55)
Other disposals (6) (8) – (14)
Loans advanced –32 – 32
Loans repaid –(1) –(1)
At 31 December 2011 293 264 (91) 466
Currency translation differences (5) – – (5)
Income recognised 97 – – 97
Fair value revaluation of PPP ﬁnancial assets 374 – – 374
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash ﬂow hedges (8) – – (8)
Fair value revaluation of other cash ﬂow hedges 1–– 1
Actuarial losses on retirement beneﬁt obligations (5) – – (5)
Tax on items taken directly to equity (86) – – (86)
Dividends (58) – – (58)
Additions 20–– 20
Disposals (68) (9) – (77)
Write-down of investment in Exeter International Airport (12) – – (12)
Loans advanced –27 – 27
Loans repaid –(12) – (12)
Provisions utilised – –44
At 31 December 2012 543 270 (87) 726
The principal joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 37. The original cost of the Group’s investments in joint ventures and 
associates was £199m (2011: £187m). The Group’s share of borrowings of joint ventures and associates is shown in Note 16.2. 
The amount which was supported by the Group and the Company was £nil (2011: £1m), relating to the Group’s share of guaranteed 
borrowings. The borrowings of Regional & City Airports (Exeter) Ltd and the PPP joint venture and associate entities are repayable over 
periods extending up to 2044. As disclosed in Note 32, the Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding of joint 
ventures and associates in PPP projects and military housing concessions. Further, in respect of a number of these investments the 
Group has committed not to dispose of its equity interest until construction is complete. As is customary in such projects, banking 
covenants restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 122
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements 123
16 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
16.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates
Infrastructure Investments
Income statement
Professional
Services
2012
£m
Construction
Services
2012
£m
Support
Services
2012
£m
UK PPP
^
2012
£m
US PPP
2012
£m
Infrastructure
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Revenue 21 830 135 422 – 5 427 1,413
Underlying operating proﬁt
1
157 3 19 6 – 25 86
Investment income –1 – 180 – – 180 181
Finance costs – – – (155) – (2) (157) (157)
Proﬁt/(loss) before taxation 1 58 3 44 6 (2) 48 110
Taxation –(5) – (9) – 1 (8) (13)
Proﬁt/(loss) after taxation 1 53 3 35 6 (1) 40 97
Statement of ﬁnancial position
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill – 30 – – – 12 12 42
 – PPP concession intangible –– – 18 – – 18 18
 – other –2 – 1 – –13
Property, plant and equipment –41 7 1 – 13 14 62
PPP ﬁnancial assets – – – 2,641 – – 2,641 2,641
Military housing projects –– – – 65 – 65 65
Other non-current assets –11 2 11 – 3 14 27
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 5202 9 211 – 2 213 429
Other current assets 2357 27 95 – 15 110 496
Total assets 7 643 45 2,978 65 45 3,088 3,783
Current liabilities
Borrowings – recourse –(45) – – – – – (45)
Borrowings – non-recourse – – – (58) – – (58) (58)
Other current liabilities (3) (441) (37) (206) – (6) (212) (693)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings – non-recourse – – – (1,871) – (38) (1,909) (1,909)
Other non-current liabilities (3) (33) – (315) – (1) (316) (352)
Total liabilities (6) (519) (37) (2,450) – (45) (2,495) (3,057)
Net assets 1 124 8 528 65 – 593 726
^
 Including Singapore.
1
  
Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
The Group’s investment in military housing joint ventures’ and associates’ projects is recognised at the initial equity investment plus the 
value of the Group’s accrued preferred return from the underlying projects. The military housing joint ventures and associates have total 
non-recourse net borrowings of £1,787m (2011: £1,717m). Note 37(e) details the Group’s military housing projects.
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted which has not been provided for in the ﬁnancial statements of the joint ventures and 
associates amounted to £2m (2011: £2m). 
As a result of the net fair value revaluations of PPP ﬁnancial assets and cash ﬂow hedges on three PPP concessions, where the 
borrowings are non-recourse to the Group, the Group has not recognised cumulative fair value revaluation charges to other 
comprehensive income of £15m (2011: £10m). 
Following the write down of the Group’s investment in Exeter International Airport, where the borrowings are non-recourse to the 
Group, the Group ceased recognising its share of Exeter’s further losses of £1m (2011: £nil). 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements 16 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
16.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates continued
Infrastructure Investments
Income statement
Professional
Services
2011
£m
Construction
Services
*
2011
£m
Support
Services
2011
£m
UK PPP
^
2011
£m
US PPP
2011
£m
Infrastructure
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Revenue 1849 140 536 2 13 551 1,541
Underlying operating proﬁt
1
–31 4 12 7 1 20 55
Investment income – 1 – 184 – – 184 185
Finance costs – – – (148) – (3) (151) (151)
Proﬁt/(loss) before taxation –32 4 48 7 (2) 53 89
Taxation – (4) – (11) – 1 (10) (14)
Proﬁt/(loss) after taxation –28 4 37 7 (1) 43 75
Statement of ﬁnancial position
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill – 31 – – – 24 24 55
 – PPP concession intangible – – – 19 – – 19 19
 – other – – – 1 – – 1 1
Property, plant and equipment – 42 1 – – 11 11 54
PPP ﬁnancial assets – – – 2,481 – – 2,481 2,481
Military housing projects – – – – 55 – 55 55
Other non-current assets – 13 – 41 – 11 52 65
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 3 193 9 199 – 2 201 406
Other current assets
*
3341 42 96 1 2 99 485
Total assets
*
6 620 52 2,837 56 50 2,943 3,621
Current liabilities
Borrowings – recourse – (47) – – – – – (47)
Borrowings – non-recourse – – – (79) – – (79) (79)
Other current liabilities
*
(3) (442) (41) (187) – (8) (195) (681)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings – recourse – (1) ––––– (1)
Borrowings – non-recourse – – – (1,915) – (37) (1,952) (1,952)
Other non-current liabilities
*
(2) (36) – (357) – – (357) (395)
Total liabilities (5) (526) (41) (2,538) – (45) (2,583) (3,155)
Net assets 1 94 11 299 56 5 360 466
* 
Re-presented in accordance with Group policy.
 
^
 Including Singapore.
1
  
Before non-underlying items (Notes 1.11 and 8).
16.3 PPP investments
Net
investment
2012
£m
Reserves
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Net
investment
2011
£m
Reserves
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Roads 101 238 339 99 (15) 84
Hospitals 78 45 123 80 75 155
Schools 54 4 58 47 5 52
Other concessions 178 268
PPP UK
^
234 294 528 228 71 299
PPP US 53 12 65 45 11 56
PPP investments 287 306 593 273 82 355
^
 Including Singapore.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 124
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements 125
16 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 
16.4 Cash ﬂow from/(to) joint ventures and associates
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
UK PPP
^
2012
£m
US PPP
2012
£m
Other
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
UK PPP
^
2011
£m
US PPP
2011
£m
Other
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Dividends from joint
ventures and associates 25 7 26 58 26 6 22 54
Subordinated debt interest received 20–– 20 18 – – 18
Investments in and loans to joint ventures 
and associates (15) (12) – (27) (31) (10) – (41)
Disposal of investments in joint ventures 81 – – 81 28 – – 28
Net cash ﬂow from/(to)
joint ventures and associates 111 (5) 26 132 41 (4) 22 59
Investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates
UK PPP 
^
2012
£m
US PPP
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
UK PPP
^
2011
£m
US PPP
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Equity – (12) (12) – (10) (10)
Subordinated debt proceeds (27) – (27) (32) – (32)
Subordinated debt repaid 12 – 12 1– 1
Total investments in joint ventures and associates (15) (12) (27) (31) (10) (41)
^
 Including Singapore.
16.5 Share of reserves of joint ventures and associates
Accumulated
proﬁt/(loss)
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
PPP
ﬁnancial
 assets
£m
Currency
translation
reserve
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 January 2011 159 (113) 79 19 144
Currency translation differences – – – 3 3
Income recognised 75 – – – 75
Fair value revaluation of PPP ﬁnancial assets – – 140 – 140
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash ﬂow hedges – (154) – – (154)
Fair value revaluation of other cash ﬂow hedges – 2 – – 2
Actuarial movements on retirement beneﬁt liabilities (7) – – – (7)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 32 (32) – 1
Dividends paid (54) – – – (54)
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal – – (6) – (6)
Balance at 31 December 2011 174 (233) 181 22 144
Currency translation differences ––– (2) (2)
Income recognised 97 – – – 97
Fair value revaluation of PPP ﬁnancial assets – – 374 – 374
Fair value revaluation of PPP cash ﬂow hedges –(8) – – (8)
Fair value revaluation of other cash ﬂow hedges –1 – – 1
Actuarial movements on retirement beneﬁt liabilities (5) – – – (5)
Tax on items taken directly to equity –(5) (81) – (86)
Dividends (58) – – – (58)
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal –27 (75) – (48)
Other reserves disposed
4
(72) – – – (72)
Balance at 31 December 2012 136 (218) 399 20 337
4
   Includes £52m joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves disposed relating to joint ventures disposed or liquidated in prior years.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements 17 Investments 
17.1 Group
Held to
 maturity
 bonds
£m
Available-
for-sale
investments
in mutual
funds
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 January 2011 46 49 95
Currency translation differences –11
Fair value movements –(2) (2)
Additions 14 7 21
Maturities/disposals (14) (5) (19)
Balance at 31 December 2011 46 50 96
Currency translation differences –(2) (2)
Fair value movements –44
Additions –55
Maturities/disposals (4) (5) (9)
Balance at 31 December 2012 42 52 94
The held to maturity bonds are held by Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, the Group’s captive insurance company, and comprise 
ﬁxed rate bonds or treasury stock with an average yield to maturity of 1.20% (2011: 2.08%) and weighted average life of 2.3 years 
(2011: 3.2 years). The fair value of the bonds is £45m (2011: £48m), determined by the market price of the bonds at the reporting date. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2012 is the carrying amount. These bonds have been pledged as security for 
letters of credit issued in respect of Delphian Insurance Company Ltd. 
The available-for-sale investments in mutual funds comprise holdings in a number of funds, based on employees’ investment elections, 
in respect of the deferred compensation obligations of the Group as disclosed in Note 26. The fair value of the available-for-sale 
investments is £52m (2011: £50m), determined by the market price of each fund at the reporting date. 
17.2 Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
Investment in subsidiaries 2,072 1,877
Investment in joint ventures and associates 3 3
Provisions (138) (138)
1,937 1,742
18 PPP ﬁnancial assets
Schools 
£m 
Roads
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 January 2011 190 137 – 327
Income recognised in the income statement
– construction contract margin – 1 – 1
– interest income 11 13 1 25
Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
– fair value movements 22 42 – 64
Other movements
– cash expenditure 847 24 79
– cash received (16) (23) – (39)
Balance at 31 December 2011 215 217 25 457
Income recognised in the income statement
– construction contract margin –1 –1
– interest income 12 16 3 31
(Losses)/gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
– fair value movements (3) 34 – 31
Other movements
– cash expenditure 10 38 19 67
– cash received (17) (26) (2) (45)
Balance at 31 December 2012 217 280 45 542
Assets constructed by PPP subsidiary concession companies are classiﬁed as available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets and are denominated in 
sterling. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the PPP ﬁnancial assets. There were no disposals 
or impairment provisions in 2012 or 2011.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 126
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements 127
19 Inventories
2012
£m
2011
£m
Unbilled non-construction work in progress 76 47
Raw materials and consumables 50 62
Development and housing land and work in progress 32 17
Manufacturing work in progress 6 6
Finished goods and goods for resale 8 8
172 140
20 Construction contracts
Contracts in progress at reporting date
2012
£m
2011
£m
Due from construction contract customers 634 604
Due to construction contract customers (382) (576)
252 28
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised proﬁts less recognised losses for all contracts in progress that had not 
reached practical completion at the reporting date was £15,647m (2011: £16,910m).
21 Trade and other receivables
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
8
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
8
£m
Current
Trade receivables
8
851 970 – –
Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (29) (46) – –
822 924 – –
Other receivables
8
69 124 6 8
Due from subsidiaries – – 1,144 1,285
Due from joint ventures and associates 38 24 – –
Due from jointly controlled operations 1 2 – –
Contract retentions receivable 199 244 – –
Accrued income 38 34 – –
Prepayments 74 58 2 2
1,241 1,410 1,152 1,295
Non-current
Trade receivables
8
2 2 – –
Other receivables
8
9 15 – –
Due from joint ventures and associates 2 2 19 20
Contract retentions receivable 67 47 – –
Prepayments 4 5 4 5
Due on acquisitions 16 16 – –
100 87 23 25
Total trade and other receivables 1,341 1,497 1,175 1,320
Comprising
Financial assets 1,263 1,434 1,169 1,313
Non-ﬁnancial assets – prepayments 78 63 6 7
1,341 1,497 1,175 1,320
8
  Re-presented to separately identify trade receivables and other receivables which were previously disclosed as trade receivables (Notes 1.2 and 38.2).
Based on prior experience, an assessment of the current economic environment and a review of the ﬁnancial circumstances of individual 
customers, the Directors believe no further credit risk provision is required in respect of trade receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current trade and other receivables approximate their fair values. The fair value of 
non-current trade and other receivables amounts to £98m (2011: £83m) and has been determined by discounting future cash ﬂows 
using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 128
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
21 Trade and other receivables continued
Movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables 
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Balance at 1 January (46) (48)
Currency translation differences 1 –
(Charged)/credited to the income statement
– additional provisions (9) (11)
– unused amounts reversed 22 11
Utilised during the year 3 2
Balance at 31 December (29) (46)
Maturity proﬁle of impaired trade receivables
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Up to three months 1 2
Three to six months 3 1
Six to nine months 1 1
Nine to 12 months 1 5
More than 12 months 23 37
29 46
At 31 December 2012, trade receivables of £245m (2011: £194m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of individual 
customers where there is no reason to believe that the receivable is not recoverable. 
Maturity proﬁle of trade receivables past due but not impaired
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Up to three months 154 137
Three to six months 39 27
Six to nine months 15 13
Nine to 12 months 10 11
More than 12 months 27 6
245 194
The Company had no provision for impairment of trade receivables and no trade receivables that were past due but not impaired 
in either year. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 129
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
22 Trade and other payables
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
Current
Trade and other payables 900 1,183 10 8
Accruals 1,130 1,052 8 7
Deferred income 15 32 1 1
Advance payments on contracts
*
19 18 – –
VAT, payroll taxes and social security 108 114 14 15
Due to subsidiaries – – 1,421 1,558
Due to joint ventures and associates 15 8 5 –
Dividends on preference shares 5 5 5 5
Due on acquisitions 22 14 – –
2,214 2,426 1,464 1,594
Non-current
Trade and other payables 94 69 – –
Accruals 16 19 – –
Deferred income 4 6 – –
Advance payments on contracts 1 2 – –
Due to joint ventures and associates 25 25 25 25
Due on acquisitions 19 21 – –
159 142 25 25
Total trade and other payables 2,373 2,568 1,489 1,619
Comprising
Financial liabilities 2,150 2,326 1,474 1,603
Non-ﬁnancial liabilities
– accruals not at amortised cost 96 90 – –
– deferred income 19 38 1 1
– VAT, payroll taxes and social security 108 114 14 15
2,373 2,568 1,489 1,619
*
 Includes £14m (2011: £12m) advances on construction contracts.
Maturity proﬁle of the Group’s non-current trade and other payables at 31 December 
Trade
and other
payables
2012
£m
Accruals
2012
£m
Deferred
income
2012
£m
Advance
payments
on
contracts
2012
£m
Due to
joint
ventures
and 
associates
2012
£m
Due on 
acquisitions
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Due within one to two years 47 6 – 1 – 3 57
Due within two to ﬁve years 14 73 –37 34
Due after more than ﬁve years 33 3 1 – 22 9 68
94 16 4 1 25 19 159
Fair values 80 15 2 1 18 19 135
Trade
and other
payables
2011
£m
Accruals
2011
£m
Deferred
income
2011
£m
Advance
payments
on
contracts
2011
£m
Due to
joint
ventures
and 
associates
2011
£m
Due on 
acquisitions
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Due within one to two years 23 6 1 2 – 3 35
Due within two to ﬁve years 13 10 3 – 1 7 34
Due after more than ﬁve years 33 3 2 – 24 11 73
69 19 6 2 25 21 142
Fair values 57 16 5 1 17 21 117
The fair value of non-current trade and other payables has been determined by discounting future cash ﬂows using yield curves and 
exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 130
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
23 Provisions
Group Company
Contract
provisions 
£m
Employee
provisions 
£m
Other
provisions 
£m
Total 
£m
Other
provisions 
£m
At 1 January 2011 145 29 68 242 7
Currency translation differences – – 1 1 –
Charged to the income statement
– additional provisions 42 8 12 62 –
– unused amounts reversed (23) (2) (11) (36) (1)
Utilised during the year (16) (5) (10) (31) –
Businesses disposed (1) – – (1) –
At 31 December 2011 147 30 60 237 6
Currency translation differences (3) – – (3) –
Transfers (6) 15 (9) – –
Charged to the income statement
– additional provisions 74 43 22 139 –
– unused amounts reversed (49) (14) (8) (71) (1)
Utilised during the year (38) (17) (19) (74) –
At 31 December 2012 125 57 46 228 5
Group Group Company Company
Contract
provisions
2012
£m
Employee
provisions
2012
£m
Other
provisions
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Contract
provisions
2011
£m
Employee
provisions
2011
£m
Other
provisions
2011 
£m
Total 
2011 
£m
Other
provisions
2012
£m
Other
provisions
2011 
£m
Due within one year 71 26 19 116 73 12 22 107 – –
Due within one to 
two years 35 18 11 64 38 9 15 62 1 1
Due within two to 
ﬁve years 16 12 10 38 30 7 18 55 4 5
Due after more than 
ﬁve years 316 10 625 13 – –
125 57 46 228 147 30 60 237 5 6
Contract provisions include construction insurance liabilities retained in the Group’s captive insurance company and construction fault 
and warranty provisions. Employee provisions are principally liabilities relating to employers’ liability insurance retained in the Group’s 
captive insurance company. Other provisions principally comprise environmental provisions, legal claims and costs and onerous lease 
and other commitments.
Provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress. The Group takes 
actuarial advice in respect of provisions in the Group’s captive insurance company. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 131
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
24 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 
24.1 Group
Current
2012
£m
Non-current
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Current
7
2011
£m
Non-current
2011
£m
Total
7
2011
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
– bank overdrafts (10) – (10) (15) – (15)
– loans under committed facilities expiring in less than one year
7
––– (32) – (32)
– loans under committed facilities expiring in more than one year
7
(410) – (410) (180) – (180)
– other loans
7
(56) (2) (58) –(2) (2)
Secured borrowings at amortised cost
– ﬁnance leases (1) (3) (4) (4) (4) (8)
 (477) (5) (482) (231) (6) (237)
Cash and deposits at amortised cost 515 – 515 574 – 574
Term deposits at amortised cost 2– 2 3– 3
Non-PPP cash and cash equivalents 517 – 517 577 – 577
 40 (5) 35 346 (6) 340
PPP non-recourse term loans at amortised cost
– sterling ﬂoating rate term loan (2008–2027) (1) (21) (22) – (22) (22)
– sterling ﬂoating rate term loan (2011–2030) – (24) (24) (1) (24) (25)
– sterling ﬂoating rate term loan (2012–2031) (1) (24) (25) (3) (21) (24)
– sterling ﬂoating rate term loan (2010–2034) (5) (165) (170) (6) (161) (167)
– sterling ﬂoating rate term loan (2016–2035) – (19) (19) –(7) (7)
– sterling ﬂoating rate term loan (2016–2035) – (10) (10) –(3) (3)
– sterling ﬂoating rate term loan (2016–2036) – (11) (11) –(3) (3)
– sterling ﬂoating rate term loan (2012–2037) – (68) (68) (11) (65) (76)
– sterling ﬂoating rate term loan (2013–2037) (5) (39) (44) – (23) (23)
(12) (381) (393) (21) (329) (350)
PPP cash and cash equivalents 25 – 25 18 – 18
13 (381) (368) (3) (329) (332)
Net (borrowings)/cash 53 (386) (333) 343 (335) 8
7
 Re-presented to separately disclose loans under committed facilities.
The PPP project ﬁnance sterling term loans arise under non-recourse facilities in the subsidiary concession companies. The borrowings 
are secured by ﬁxed and ﬂoating charges over each concession company’s right, title and interest in certain assets and/or revenues and 
over each concession company’s shares held by their immediate parent companies detailed in Note 3.3. 
A signiﬁcant part of the PPP non-recourse project ﬁnance ﬂoating rate term loans has been swapped into ﬁxed rate debt by the use 
of interest rate swaps.
Included in cash and cash equivalents above is restricted cash of £15m (2011: £10m) held by the Group’s captive insurance company, 
Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, which is subject to Isle of Man insurance solvency regulations, and £25m (2011: £18m) relating to 
amounts held by the PPP concession subsidiaries.
Cash, deposits and term deposits include the Group’s share of amounts held by jointly controlled operations of £232m (2011: £243m).
The Group discloses its borrowings under committed facilities as current liabilities due to requirements in IAS 1. The borrowings 
however are drawn down under committed facilities expiring in more than one year and the Group believes they can be rolled forward 
within the terms of the facilities.
Maturity proﬁle of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December
PPP
non-recourse
project
ﬁnance
2012
£m
Finance
leases
2012
£m
Other
borrowings
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
PPP
non-recourse
project
ﬁnance
2011
£m
Finance
leases
2011
£m
Other
borrowings
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Due on demand or within one year (12) (1) (476) (489) (21) (4) (227) (252)
Due within one to two years (9) (1) – (10) (12) (1) – (13)
Due within two to ﬁve years (50) (1) (1) (52) (36) – – (36)
Due after more than ﬁve years (322) (1) (1) (324) (281) (3) (2) (286)
(393) (4) (478) (875) (350) (8) (229) (587)
The carrying values of the Group’s borrowings are equal to the fair values at 31 December 2012 and 2011. The fair values are 
determined by discounting future cash ﬂows using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 132
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
24 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings continued
24.1 Group continued
Group undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent were satisﬁed
PPP
non-recourse
project
ﬁnance
2012
£m
Other
borrowings
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
PPP
non-recourse
project
ﬁnance
2011
£m
Other
borrowings
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Expiring in one year or less 41 – 41 64 20 84
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 36 55 91 42 154 196
Expiring in more than two years 56 540 596 91 670 761
133 595 728 197 844 1,041
24.2 Company
Current
2012
£m
Non-current
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Current
2011
£m
Non-current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
– bank loans and overdrafts (56) – (56) (24) – (24)
– loans under committed facilities (410) – (410) (212) – (212)
Net borrowings (466) – (466) (236) – (236)
The bank loans and overdrafts are sterling denominated, variable rate instruments and repayable on demand. Loans under committed 
facilities comprise £410m (2011: £180m) sterling denominated borrowings and US$nil borrowings (2011: US$50m) which are variable 
rate instruments repayable within one year. 
The Company had cash and cash equivalents of £43m at 31 December 2012 (2011: £nil). Refer to Note 29.2.
25 Deferred tax
25.1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Net deferred tax position at 31 December 
Group
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
Deferred tax assets 117 105 – –
Deferred tax liabilities (10) (15) – (1)
 107 90 – (1)
Movement for the year in the net deferred tax position 
Group
£m
Company
£m
At 1 January 2011 155 2
Charged to income statement
9
(48) (1)
Charged to equity
9
(12) (2)
Businesses acquired (5) –
At 31 December 2011 90 (1)
Credited to income statement
9
4–
Credited to equity
9
15 1
Businesses acquired (2) –
At 31 December 2012 107 –
9
  Group includes £3m charged (2011: £2m) to the income statement and £5m charged (2011: £4m) to equity in relation to the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 133
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
25 Deferred tax continued
25.2 Group 
Deferred tax assets
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Retirement
beneﬁt
liabilities
£m
Unrelieved
trading 
losses
£m
Share-
based
payments
£m
Provisions
£m
Derivatives
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 13 120 14 5 46 4 202
Currency translation differences – – – – (1) – (1)
Reclassiﬁcations/transfers (1) – 1 – (3) 1 (2)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 5 (28) – – (26) – (49)
(Charged)/credited to equity – (17) – (2) 1 5 (13)
At 31 December 2011 17 75 15 3 17 10 137
Currency translation differences – 1 (1) – (1) – (1)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 3 (15) 7 –6 –1
Credited/(charged) to equity – 19––– (5) 14
Business acquired – – – – (2) – (2)
At 31 December 2012 20 80 21 3 20 5 149
Deferred tax liabilities
Revaluation
of properties
£m
Goodwill
£m
Preference
shares
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Loss
of IBAs
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 (1) (10) (7) (26) (3) (47)
Currency translation differences – – – 1 – 1
Reclassiﬁcations/transfers – – – 2 – 2
Credited to income statement – – – – 1 1
Credited to equity – – 1 – – 1
Businesses acquired – – – (5) – (5)
At 31 December 2011 (1) (10) (6) (28) (2) (47)
Currency translation differences – – –1 –1
Credited/(charged) to income statement –3 – (1) 1 3
Credited to equity –– 1 – – 1
At 31 December 2012 (1) (7) (5) (28) (1) (42)
 
Total net deferred tax asset 107
The Finance Act 2011, which was enacted as at 31 December 2011, implemented a reduction in the main UK corporation tax rate 
from 27% to 26% effective from 1 April 2011 and to 25% effective from 1 April 2012. Subsequently, the Finance Act 2012, which was 
enacted on 17 July 2012, reduced the main UK corporation tax rate by an additional 1% to 24% from 1 April 2012 and by a further 1% 
to 23% from 1 April 2013. In 2012, the effect of the reduction in the UK tax rate reduced the Group’s net deferred tax asset by £8m, 
with £3m being charged to the income statement and £5m being charged to equity. 
In the 2012 Autumn Statement it was announced, although not enacted, that there will be a further 2% reduction in the main UK 
corporation tax rate to bring the rate down to 21% from 1 April 2014. Should the future UK corporation tax rate reduction be enacted, 
based on the latest forecasts, this will give rise to a further reduction in the Group’s net deferred tax asset of £8m by 2014 with £3m 
being charged to the income statement and £5m being charged to equity.
At the reporting date, the Group had unrecognised tax losses that arose over a number of years of approximately £280m (2011: £273m) 
which are available for offset against future proﬁts. £22m (2011: £26m) will expire 20 years after the year in which they arose, using 
losses incurred in earlier years before those incurred in later years, with the ﬁrst expiry in 2021. The remaining losses may be carried 
forward indeﬁnitely.
At the reporting date, the undistributed reserves for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £905m (2011: £924m) 
in respect of subsidiaries and £128m (2011: £110m) in respect of joint ventures and associates. No liability has been recognised in 
respect of these differences because either no temporary difference arises or the timing of any distribution is under the Group’s control 
and no distribution which gives rise to taxation is contemplated.
25.3 Company
Deferred tax
liability
Deferred tax
assets
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Preference
shares
£m
Share-
based
payments
£m
Retirement
beneﬁt
liabilities
£m
Provisions
£m
Total
£m
Net deferred
tax assets/
(liability)
£m
At 1 January 2011 (7) 33392
Charged to income statement – – – (1) (1) (1)
Credited/(charged) to equity
9
1(1) (2) – (3) (2)
At 31 December 2011 (6) 2 1 2 5 (1)
Credited/(charged) to equity
9
1–––– 1
At 31 December 2012 (5) 2 125 –
9 
The Company includes £nil credited (2011: £1m) to equity in relation to the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 134
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
26 Retirement beneﬁt liabilities
26.1 Group
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of deﬁned contribution and deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes. 
Deﬁned contribution schemes are those where the Group’s obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme 
and the scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks. 
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are schemes other than deﬁned contribution schemes and provide beneﬁts based on employees’ 
pensionable service and their pensionable salary. The majority of the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are funded.
Deﬁned beneﬁt contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
The Group’s main scheme is the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF), which includes deﬁned contribution and deﬁned beneﬁt sections. 
The deﬁned beneﬁt sections are closed to new members with the exception of employees where employment has transferred to the 
Group under certain agreed arrangements. 
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group made a pension increase exchange (PIE) offer to certain current pensioners, 
widows and widowers of the BBPF to forego their entitlement to future non-statutory inﬂationary increases in return for a higher 
pension than their current entitlement. At 31 December 2011, 509 members had accepted the PIE offer, resulting in a £2m reduction 
in obligations and a consequential past service cost credit of £2m in 2011. The offer closed in February 2012 resulting in an additional 
£2m reduction to the pension liability and a consequential net past service cost credit of £2m in 2012. 
Following the formal triennial funding valuation of the BBPF carried out as at 31 March 2010, the Group agreed to certain one-off deﬁcit 
funding contributions and to increase the amount of ongoing deﬁcit payments to the BBPF to £48m per annum from April 2010, 
increasing each year by CPI (capped at 5%) plus 50% of any increase in the Company’s dividend in excess of capped CPI. In December 
2011 a one-off deﬁcit funding contribution of £55m was made.
In anticipation of the formal triennial funding valuation as at 31 March 2013, the Group has agreed to make additional conditional deﬁcit 
contributions of £1m per month, payable quarterly in arrears, if the BBPF funding levels in any given month are below certain funding 
targets set out in the BBPF journey plan. The ﬁrst payment was made in January 2013. 
The investment strategy of the BBPF is to hold assets of appropriate liquidity and marketability to generate income and capital growth 
to meet, together with contributions from the Group, the cost of current and future beneﬁts. The BBPF invests partly in a diversiﬁed 
range of assets including equities and hedge funds in anticipation that, over the longer term, they will grow in value faster than the 
obligations. The equities are in the form of pooled funds and are a combination of UK, other developed market and emerging market 
equities. The remaining BBPF assets are principally ﬁxed and index-linked bonds and swaps in order to match the duration and inﬂation 
exposure of the obligations and enhance the resilience of the funding level of the scheme. The performance of the assets is measured 
against market indices. 
On 21 December 2011, the BBPF acquired the Group’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd at its carrying value of £55m. 
Refer to Note 10.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, Parsons Brinckerhoff Ltd operated a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme which has been closed to 
new members (Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme) since 31 July 2003. On 28 June 2012 the Parson Brinckerhoff Scheme released its legal 
charge over a Group leasehold property with a book value of £4m at 31 December 2011 in return for a one-off deﬁcit contribution of 
£2.5m. On 30 June 2012 the Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme merged with the BBPF and agreed to make additional deﬁcit payments of 
£11m per annum to the BBPF, with the ﬁrst payment made in October 2012. 
Certain Group employees are members of the Balfour Beatty Shared Cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme (Railways Pension 
Scheme), which is closed to new members with the exception of employees transferring under certain agreed arrangements. The 
economic interest of the Group in this shared cost scheme is approximately 60% of the scheme’s assets and liabilities, based on the 
relevant provisions of the trust deed and rules and trustee guidelines regarding future surplus apportionments and deﬁcit ﬁnancing. 
Active members continue to accrue beneﬁts for future service. Other schemes comprise funded and unfunded post-retirement beneﬁt 
obligations in Europe and North America, the majority of which are closed to new entrants, and deferred compensation schemes in the 
US, where an element of employees’ compensation is deferred and invested in available-for-sale assets (as disclosed in Note 17.1) in a 
trust, the assets of which are for the ultimate beneﬁt of the employees but are available to the Group’s creditors in the event of insolvency. 
In the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group reassessed the difference between the RPI and CPI measures of price inﬂation from 
0.50% to 0.90%. The increase was applied following consideration of research published by the Ofﬁce for National Statistics (ONS) 
and independent advice received from the Group’s actuaries as a consequence of the Occupational Pensions (Revaluation) Order 2010 
published by the UK Government on 30 November 2010. These changes in assumptions gave rise to a £35m actuarial reduction in 
liabilities which was credited to equity in the statement of comprehensive income.
In the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group reassessed the difference between the RPI and CPI measures of price inﬂation from 
0.90% to 0.70%. The reduction was applied following further consideration of proposals made by the ONS to change the method to 
calculate RPI and independent advice received from the Group’s actuaries. This change in assumptions gave rise to a £25m actuarial 
increase in liabilities which was charged to equity in the statement of comprehensive income. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 135
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
26 Retirement beneﬁt liabilities continued
26.1 Group continued 
Membership of the principal schemes
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
2012
Railways
Pension Scheme
2012
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
2011
Railways
Pension Scheme
2011
Parsons
Brinckerhoff Scheme
 2011
Number of
members
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
obligations
£m
Number of
members
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
obligations
£m
Number of
members
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
obligations
£m
Number of
members
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
obligations
£m
Number of
members
Deﬁned
beneﬁt
obligations
£m
Deﬁned beneﬁt
– active members 3,404 614 260 43 3,892 587 287 45 – –
– deferred pensioners 11,887 794 1,476 54 11,105 600 1,514 47 998 95
–  pensioners, widow(er)s 
and dependants 22,586 1,455 1,490 92 20,882 1,278 1,436 82 1,192 92
Deﬁned contribution 10,373 – – – 8,953 – – – 1,735 –
Total 48,250 2,863 3,226 189 44,832 2,465 3,237 174 3,925 187
IAS 19 prescribes the accounting for deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements. Obligations are calculated using 
the projected unit credit method and discounted to a net present value using the market yield on a high quality corporate bond. The 
pension expense relating to current service cost is charged to contracts or overheads based on the function of scheme members and 
is included in cost of sales and net operating expenses. The net ﬁnance cost arising from the expected return on plan assets and the 
interest on scheme obligations is included in ﬁnance charges. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in full in the statement of 
comprehensive income. The IAS 19 accounting valuation is set out in Note 26.2.
A different calculation is used for the formal triennial funding valuations undertaken by the scheme trustees to determine the future 
company contribution level necessary so that over time the scheme assets will meet the scheme obligations. The principal difference 
between the two methods is that under the funding basis the obligations are discounted using a rate of return reﬂecting the 
composition of the assets in the scheme, rather than the rate of return on a high quality corporate bond as required by IAS 19 for the 
ﬁnancial statements. Details of the latest formal funding basis valuations are set out in Note 26.3. The assets of the schemes do not 
include any direct holdings of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets of the Group.
26.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations
Principal actuarial assumptions for the IAS 19 accounting valuations of the Group’s principal schemes
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2012
%
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2012
%
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension 
Fund
2011
%
Railways 
Pension
Scheme
2011
%
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
%
Discount rate on obligations 4.40 4.40 4.85 4.85 4.85
Expected return on plan assets 5.10 6.05 5.20 5.85 5.30
Inﬂation rate – RPI 2.90 2.90 2.95 2.95 2.95
Inﬂation rate – CPI 2.20 2.20 2.05 2.05 2.05
Future increases in pensionable salary
– certain members of the BBPF whose increase in pensionable pay is limited –– –––
–  certain other members of the BBPF that have a protected right to a deﬁned 
beneﬁt membership 2.20 – 4.45 – –
– other members 4.40 2.20 4.45 3.95 –
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (or such other rate as is guaranteed) 2.80 2.20 2.85 2.05 3.00
The BBPF actuary undertakes regular mortality investigations based on the experience exhibited by pensioners of the BBPF and due to 
the size of the membership of the BBPF (48,250 members at 31 December 2012) is able to make comparisons of this experience with 
the mortality rates set out in the various published mortality tables. The actuary is also able to monitor changes in the exhibited mortality 
over time. This research is taken into account in the Group’s mortality assumptions across its various deﬁned beneﬁt schemes. 
The mortality assumptions as at 31 December 2012 have been updated to reﬂect the experience of Balfour Beatty pensioners for the 
period 1 April 1997 to 31 March 2012. The mortality tables adopted for the 2012 and 2011 IAS 19 valuations are the SAPS tables with 
a multiplier of 90% (2011: 94%) for males and 103% (2011: 103%) for females and an improvement rate of 1.6% pa from 2004 to 2013 
(2011: 1.5% pa from 2003 to 2010), plus future improvements from 2013 (2011: 2010) in line with the CMI core projection model 
applicable to each member‘s year of birth with a long term rate of 1.25% pa for males and 1.00% pa for females (2011: 1.5% pa for 
both males and females).  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 136
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
26 Retirement beneﬁt liabilities continued
26.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Principal actuarial assumptions for the IAS 19 accounting valuations of the Group’s principal schemes continued
2012
Average life expectancy
at 65 years of age
2011
Average life expectancy
at 65 years of age
Male Female Male Female
Members in receipt of a pension 21.9 24.4 22.0 24.6
Members not yet in receipt of a pension (current age 50) 23.2 25.6 23.8 26.5
The demographic of the former members of the Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme is different to that of other members and allowance has 
been made for approximately three further years of life expectancy for these members of the BBPF. 
Former members of the Parsons Brinckerhoff Scheme
2012
Average life expectancy
at 65 years of age
2011
Average life expectancy
at 65 years of age
Male Female Male Female
Members in receipt of a pension 24.6 27.0 24.7 27.3
Members not yet in receipt of a pension (current age 50) 26.0 28.2 26.5 29.2
The BBPF deﬁned contribution employer contributions paid and charged to the income statement have been separately identiﬁed in 
the table below and the deﬁned contribution section assets and liabilities amounting to £200m (2011: £150m) have been excluded from 
the tables on pages 137 to 139. Deﬁned contribution charges for other schemes include contributions to multi-employer pension schemes.
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2012
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2012
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2012
£m
Other
schemes
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Current service cost (40) (2) – (6) (48) (42) (3) (1) (6) (52)
Past service cost credit 2– – – 2 2 – – – 2
Curtailment cost (Note 8) (2) – – – (2) –––––
Deﬁned contribution charge (35) – (4) (17) (56) (33) – (5) (17) (55)
Included in employee costs 
(Note 5)
(75) (2) (4) (23) (104) (73) (3) (6) (23) (105)
Expected return 
on plan assets 126 8 3 – 137 126 9 8 – 143
Interest cost (122) (8) (4) (3) (137) (124) (8) (10) (4) (146)
Net investment income/
(ﬁnance cost) (Note 7)
4– (1) (3) – 21 (2) (4) (3)
Total charged to income 
statement (71) (2) (5) (26) (104) (71) (2) (8) (27) (108)
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2012
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2012
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2012
£m
Other
schemes
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Actuarial movements on 
pension scheme obligations (174) (11) 2 (11) (194) (68) 4 (10) 3 (71)
Actuarial movements on 
pension scheme assets 73 1 – (1) 73 141 (8) (2) – 131
Total actuarial movements 
recognised in the statement  
of comprehensive income  
(Note 28.1) (101) (10) 2 (12) (121) 73 (4) (12) 3 60
Cumulative actuarial 
movements recognised in 
equity (338) (34) (6) (15) (393) (237) (24) (8) (3) (272)
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of £210m (2011: £274m). Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 137
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
26 Retirement beneﬁt liabilities continued
26.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued 
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Financial Position
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2012
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2012
£m
Other
schemes
†
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension 
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
†
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Present value of obligations (2,863) (189) (99) (3,151) (2,465) (174) (187) (89) (2,915)
Fair value of plan assets 2,665 147 1 2,813 2,370 141 127 2 2,640
Liability in the statement  
of ﬁnancial position (198) (42) (98) (338) (95) (33) (60) (87) (275)
†
 Available-for-sale investments in mutual funds of £52m (2011: £50m) are held by the Group to satisfy the Group’s deferred compensation obligations (Note 17.1).
The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation comprises £97m (2011: £87m) arising from wholly unfunded plans and £3,054m (2011: £2,828m) arising 
from plans that are wholly or partly funded.
Movement in the present value of obligations
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2012
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2012
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2012
£m
Other
schemes
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
At 1 January (2,465) (174) (187) (89) (2,915) (2,345) (175) (176) (89) (2,785)
Currency translation 
differences –– – 2 2 – – –11
Current service cost (40) (2) – (6) (48) (42) (3) (1) (6) (52)
Past service cost credit 2– –– 2 2––– 2
Curtailment cost (2) – – – (2) –––––
Interest cost (122) (8) (4) (3) (137) (124) (8) (10) (4) (146)
Actuarial movements from  
reassessing the difference 
between RPI and CPI (20) (5) – – (25) 23 10 2 – 35
Actuarial movements from 
the change in the mortality 
assumptions 45 4 – – 49 –––––
Other actuarial movements (199) (10) 2 (11) (218) (91) (6) (12) 3 (106)
Total actuarial movements (174) (11) 2 (11) (194) (68) 4 (10) 3 (71)
Contributions from members (1) – – – (1) (1) – – – (1)
Beneﬁts paid 124 6 4 8 142 113 8 10 6 137
Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Scheme merger (185) – 185 – – –––––
At 31 December (2,863) (189) – (99) (3,151) (2,465) (174) (187) (89) (2,915)
Movement in the fair value of plan assets
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2012
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2012
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2012
£m
Other
schemes
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2011
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2011
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Scheme
2011
£m
Other
schemes
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
At 1 January 2,370 141 127 2 2,640 2,072 145 125 2 2,344
Expected return on plan 
assets 126 8 3 – 137 126 9 8 – 143
Actuarial movements 73 1 – (1) 73 141 (8) (2) – 131
Contributions from employer
– regular funding 33 2 – – 35 37 2 – – 39
– ongoing deﬁcit funding 55 1 2 – 58 51 1 6 – 58
– one-off deﬁcit funding –– 3– 3 55 – – – 55
Contributions from members 1– –– 1 1––– 1
Beneﬁts paid (124) (6) (4) – (134) (113) (8) (10) – (131)
Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Scheme merger 131 – (131) – – –––––
At 31 December 2,665 147 – 1 2,813 2,370 141 127 2 2,640 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 138
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
26 Retirement beneﬁt liabilities continued 
26.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued 
Fair value and expected rates of return on the assets held by the schemes at 31 December
Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund
Railways Pension
Scheme
Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Scheme Other schemes Total
Expected
rate of 
return
2012
%
Value
2012
£m
Expected
rate of 
return
2012
%
Value
2012
£m
Expected
rate of
return
2012
%
Value
2012
£m
Expected 
rate of 
return
2012
%
Value
2012
£m
Expected 
rate of 
return
2012
%
Value
2012
£m
Return-seeking
(i)
8.03 1,065 7.20 110 – – – – 7.95 1,175
Liability matching 
bond-type assets
(ii)
3.35 1,321 2.60 37 – – – – 3.33 1,358
Other
(iii)
2.20 279 2.20––– 2.20 1 2.20 280
Rate of return/total 5.10 2,665 6.05 147 – – 2.20 1 5.15 2,813
Expected 
rate
of return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Expected 
rate
of return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Expected 
rate
of return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Expected 
rate
of return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Expected 
rate
of return
2011
%
Value
2011
£m
Return-seeking
(i)
8.34 835 7.14 92 7.30 69 – – 8.16 996
Liability matching 
bond-type assets
(ii)
3.69 1,273 2.90 35 2.92 54 – – 3.64 1,362
Property – – 4.90 14–––– 4.90 14
Other
(iii)
2.55 262 2.55 – 2.55 4 2.55 2 2.55 268
Rate of return/total 5.20 2,370 5.85 141 5.30 127 2.55 2 5.24 2,640
(i) Includes investments in developed market equities; emerging market equities; debt and currency; and hedge funds.
(ii)
 
Includes investments in corporate bonds; ﬁxed-interest gilts; and index-linked gilts.
(iii) Includes cash and net current assets.
The expected rates of return on scheme assets are the average of the expected returns on the assets held by the scheme on 
31 December.
Rates of return for each class
 Return-seeking assets and property – the long term rates of return on these assets are derived from current risk free rates of return 
with the addition of an appropriate future risk premium from an analysis of historical returns, current market conditions and forward 
looking views of market participants
 Bonds – the rate reﬂects the yields available on the gilts and corporate bond holdings held at 31 December
 Cash and other net assets – the rate reﬂects current short term returns on cash deposits.
Estimated contributions expected to be paid to the Group’s principal deﬁned beneﬁt schemes during 2013
Balfour 
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2013
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Regular funding 29 2 31
Ongoing deﬁcit funding 73 1 74
Total 102 3 105
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement beneﬁt liabilities at 31 December 2012 to different actuarial assumptions
Obligations
Percentage
points/years
(Decrease)/
increase
 in obligations
%
(Decrease)/
increase
 in obligations
£m
Increase in discount rate 0.5% (7.9)% (241)
Increase in market expectation of RPI inﬂation 0.5% 6.6% 202
Increase in salary growth 0.5% 0.2% 7
Increase in life expectancy 1 year 3.5% 106 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 139
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
26 Retirement beneﬁt liabilities continued
26.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued 
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement beneﬁt assets at 31 December 2012 to changes in market conditions
Assets
Percentage
points
(Decrease)/
increase
 in assets
%
(Decrease)/
increase
in assets
£m
Increase in interest rates 0.5% (5.2)% (146)
Increase in market expectation of RPI inﬂation 0.5% 3.4% 96
Year end historical information for the Group’s retirement deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Present value of obligations (3,151) (2,915) (2,785) (2,757) (2,102)
Fair value of assets 2,813 2,640 2,344 2,171 1,841
Funded status (338) (275) (441) (586) (261)
Experience adjustment for obligations (39) (11) 62 (9) (17)
Experience adjustment for assets 75 131 119 137 (432)
26.3 Latest formal funding valuations
Balfour Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Date of last formal funding valuation 31/03/2010 31/12/2010
Scheme deﬁcit
Market value of assets 2,070 260
Present value of obligations (2,445) (268)
Deﬁcit in deﬁned beneﬁt scheme (375) (8)
Funding level 84.6% 97.0%
26.4 Company
Certain employees of the Company are members of the BBPF. Assets, liabilities, income and expenditure relating to this fund are 
allocated on an appropriate basis to Group companies participating in the scheme based on pensionable payroll for the year. The 
Company’s share of the net IAS 19 deﬁcit was £6m (2011: £4m). 
27 Share capital
27.1 Ordinary shares of 50p each
 Issued
Million £m
At 1 January 2011 686 343
Shares issued 11
At 31 December 2011 687 344
Shares issued 1–
At 31 December 2012 688 344
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid. Ordinary shares carry no right to ﬁxed income but each share carries the right to one vote at 
general meetings of the Company.
Ordinary shares issued during the year credited as fully paid
Ordinary
shares
 2012
Number
Consideration
2012
£m
Ordinary
shares 
2011
Number
Consideration
2011
£m
Savings-related share options exercised 866,427 2 665,516 2
Executive share options exercised 229,220 – 302,586 1
1,095,647 2 968,102 3
At 31 December 2012 there were 3,645,518 share options outstanding under the savings-related share option scheme (SAYE) which 
were granted between 2007 and 2010 (2011: 6,200,690 granted between 2006 and 2010). The weighted average exercise price is 
254.9p (2011: 263.5p). No options have been granted under the SAYE since 2010.
At 31 December 2012 there were 689,049 share options outstanding under the executive share options scheme (ESOS) which were 
granted between 2003 and 2004 (2011: 924,010 granted between 2002 and 2004). These options are normally exercisable between 
three and 10 years after the grant date. Performance conditions have been met for all outstanding options under the ESOS. The 
weighted average exercise price is 205.6p (2011: 203.9p). No options have been granted under the ESOS since 2004. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 140
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
27 Share capital continued
27.2 Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each
Authorised Issued
Million £m Million £m
At 31 December 2011 and 2012 177 2 112 –
All issued preference shares are fully paid. During the current and prior year no preference shares were repurchased for cancellation 
by the Company.
Holders of preference shares are entitled to a preferential dividend equivalent to a gross payment of 10.75p per preference share per 
annum, payable half-yearly. A preference dividend of 5.375p gross (4.8375p net) per cumulative convertible redeemable preference 
share of 1p was paid on 1 July 2012 in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2012 to holders of these shares on the register 
on 25 May 2012. A preference dividend of 5.375p gross (4.8375p net) per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share 
was paid on 1 January 2013 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2012 to holders of these shares on the register on 
23 November 2012. 
Any preference shares still outstanding are redeemable on 1 July 2020 at £1 each, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, 
unless the holder exercises any option granted by the Company to extend the redemption date. The maximum redemption value of 
all of the issued and outstanding preference shares, excluding any arrears or accruals of dividend, was £112m at 31 December 2012 
(2011: £112m).
At the option of the holder, preference shares are convertible on the ﬁrst day of the next calendar month following receipt of 
the conversion notice into new Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares effectively on the basis of 24.69136 ordinary shares for every 
100 preference shares, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. The Company is entitled to convert all outstanding preference 
shares into ordinary shares if there are fewer than 44,281,239 preference shares in issue or if the average of the closing mid-market 
price for a Balfour Beatty plc ordinary share during a 30-day period exceeds 810p, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
The preference shares carry no voting rights at a general meeting of the Company, except where the dividend is six months or more 
in arrears, or where the business of the meeting includes a resolution which directly affects the rights and privileges attached to the 
preference shares or a resolution for the winding up of the Company. On winding up the Company, holders are entitled to receive the 
sum of £1 per preference share, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, in priority to any payment on any other class of shares.
The preference shares are a compound instrument, comprising an equity and a liability component. The fair value of the liability 
component at the date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 13.5% 
for a similar non-convertible instrument. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and the fair value 
assigned to the liability component, representing the value of the equity conversion component, is included in equity holders’ equity, 
net of deferred tax.
Liability component recognised in the statement of ﬁnancial position
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Redemption value of shares in issue at 1 January 112 112
Equity component (17) (17)
Deferred tax and interest element (4) (5)
Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 91 90
Interest accretion 1 1
Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 92 91
The fair value of the liability component of the preference shares at 31 December 2012 amounted to £120m (2011: £124m). The fair 
value is determined by using the market price of the preference shares at the reporting date.
Interest expense on the preference shares is calculated using the effective interest method. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 141
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
28 Movements in equity
28.1 Group
Other reserves
Called-
up share
capital 
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Equity
component
of
preference
shares
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Share
of joint
ventures’
and
associates’
reserves
4
£m
Hedging
reserves
£m
PPP
ﬁnancial
assets 
£m
Currency
translation
reserve 
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Other
£m
Retained
proﬁts
4
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 343 59 16 30 144 (31) 19 74 249 23 230 4 1,160
Proﬁt for the year – – – – 75 – – – – – 111 – 186
Currency translation  
differences – – – – 3 – – 1 – – – – 4
Actuarial movements on 
retirement beneﬁt liabilities – – – – (7) – – – – – 60 – 53
Fair value revaluations
– PPP ﬁnancial assets – – – – 140 – 64 – – – – – 204
– PPP cash ﬂow hedges – – – – (154) (85) – – – – – – (239)
–  other cash ﬂow hedges – – – – 2 (2) – – – – – – –
–  available-for-sale 
investments in mutual funds – – – – – – – – – (2) – – (2)
Tax on items taken directly  
to equity – – 1 – 1 21 (16) – – 1 (20) – (12)
Total comprehensive  
income/(expense) for the year – – 1 – 60 (66) 48 1 – (1) 151 – 194
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – – – – – (88) – (88)
Joint ventures’ and  
associates’ dividends – – – – (54) – – – – – 54 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 1 2 – – – – – – – – – – 3
Recycling of revaluation 
reserves to the income 
statement on disposal – – – – (6) – – – – – – – (6)
Movements relating to
share-based payments – – – – – – – – – (5) 5 – –
Other transfers – – – (3) – – – – – – 3 – –
At 31 December 2011 344 61 17 27 144 (97) 67 75 249 17 355 4 1,263
Proﬁt for the year – – – – 97–– – – – (53)– 44
Currency translation  
differences –– – – (2) – – (54) – – – – (56)
Actuarial movements on 
retirement beneﬁt liabilities – – – – (5) – – – – – (121) – (126)
Fair value revaluations
– PPP ﬁnancial assets –– – – 374 – 31 – – – – – 405
– PPP cash ﬂow hedges –– – – (8) (12) – – – – – – (20)
–  other cash ﬂow hedges – – – – 1–– – – – – – 1
–  available-for-sale 
investments in mutual funds –– – – – – –– – 4 –– 4
Tax on items taken directly  
to equity –– – – (86) – (5) – – (1) 22 – (70)
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year – – – – 371 (12) 26 (54) – 3 (152) – 182
Ordinary dividends –– – – ––– – – – (96) (1) (97)
Joint ventures’ and  
associates’ dividends –– – – (58) –– – – – 58 – –
Issue of ordinary shares – 2 – – – – –– – – –– 2
Recycling of revaluation 
reserves to the income 
statement on disposal –– – – (48) –– – – – – – (48)
Movements relating to
share-based payments –– – – ––– – – (2) 9 – 7
Reserve transfers relating to 
joint venture and associate 
disposals
4
–– – – (72) –– – – – 72 – –
Other transfers –– – (2) ––– – – – 2 ––
At 31 December 2012 344 63 17 25 337 (109) 93 21 249 18 248 3 1,309
4
   Includes £52m transfers between the joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves and retained proﬁts relating to joint ventures disposed or liquidated in prior years. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 142
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
28 Movements in equity continued
28.2 Company
Other reserves
Called-up
share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Equity
component
of preference
shares 
£m
Special
reserve 
£m
Merger
reserve 
£m
Other 
£m
Retained
proﬁts
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 343 59 16 30 249 72 382 1,151
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – – 32 32
Actuarial movements on retirement beneﬁt 
liabilities – – – – – – 6 6
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – 1 – – – (3) (2)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 1 – – – 35 36
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – (88) (88)
Issue of ordinary shares 1 2 ––––– 3
Movements relating to share-based 
payments ––––– 2 1 3
Other transfers – – – (3) – – 3 –
At 31 December 2011 344 61 17 27 249 74 333 1,105
Proﬁt for the year – – –––– 84 84
Actuarial movements on retirement beneﬁt 
liabilities – – –––– (3) (3)
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – –11
Total comprehensive income for the year –––––– 82 82
Ordinary dividends –––––– (96) (96)
Issue of ordinary shares – 2 ––––– 2
Movements relating to share-based 
payments ––––– (2) 5 3
Other transfers ––– (2) – – 2 –
At 31 December 2012 344 63 17 25 249 72 326 1,096
The retained proﬁts of Balfour Beatty plc are wholly distributable. By special resolution on 13 May 2004, conﬁrmed by the court on 
16 June 2004, the share premium account was reduced by £181m and the £4m capital redemption reserve was cancelled, effective 
on 25 June 2004, and a special reserve of £185m was created. This reserve becomes distributable to the extent of future increases 
in share capital and share premium account, of which £2m occurred in 2012 (2011: £3m).
28.3 The retained proﬁts in the Group and the retained proﬁt of the Company are stated net of investments in Balfour Beatty plc 
ordinary shares acquired by the Group’s employee discretionary trust, the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust, to satisfy 
awards under the Balfour Beatty Performance Share Plan and the Balfour Beatty Deferred Bonus Plan. In 2012, 1.0m (2011: 1.2m) 
shares were purchased at a cost of £3.0m (2011: £3.9m). The market value of the 3.7m (2011: 3.7m) shares held by the Trust at 
31 December 2012 was £10.1m (2011: £9.7m). The carrying value of these shares is £11.8m (2011: £12.3m). Following conﬁrmation 
of the performance criteria at the end of the performance period in the case of the Performance Share Plan, and at the end of the 
vesting period in the case of the Deferred Bonus Plan, the appropriate number of shares will be unconditionally transferred to 
participants. In 2012, no shares were transferred to participants in relation to the April 2009 awards under the Performance Share Plan 
(2011: 0.5m shares for the April 2008 awards), and 1.0m shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the 
Deferred Bonus Plan (2011: 0.7m). The trustees have waived the rights to dividends on shares held by the Trust. Other reserves 
in the Group and the Company include £4.7m relating to unvested Performance Share Plan awards (2011: £4.8m), £2.9m relating 
to unvested share options (2011: £4.3m), and £3.4m relating to unvested Deferred Bonus Plan awards (2011: £4.2m). Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 143
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
29 Notes to the Statements of Cash Flows
Group 
2012
£m
Group
2011
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
29.1 Cash (used in)/generated from operations
Proﬁt/(loss) from continuing operations 74 243 104 (9)
Proﬁt/(loss) from discontinued operation – 4 – 59
Share of results of joint ventures and associates – continuing operations (97) (75) – –
Dividends received – continuing operations – – (130) (13)
Dividends received – discontinued operation – (5) – (5)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 64 70 – –
Amortisation of other intangible assets 49 66 – –
Pension deﬁcit payments 
– ongoing deﬁcit funding (58) (58) (2) (3)
– one-off deﬁcit funding (3) – – –
Pension past service cost credit (2) (2) – –
Pension curtailment cost 2 – – –
Movements relating to share-based payments 6 6 1 –
Proﬁt on disposal of investments in joint ventures (52) (20) – –
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment (7) (4) – –
Loss/(gain) on disposal of Barking – 1 – (54)
Loss on disposal of UK specialist rail manufacturing business – 7 – –
Write-down of investment in Exeter International Airport 12 – – –
Goodwill impairment in respect of Mainland European rail businesses 95 – – –
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5 – – –
Impairment of inventory 4 2 – –
Other non-cash items (1) 1 – –
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital 91 236 (27) (25)
Increase in operating working capital (310) (201) (52) (75)
Cash (used in)/generated from operations (219) 35 (79) (100)
Group 
2012
£m
Group 
2011
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
29.2 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and deposits 515 574 43 –
Term deposits 2 3 – –
PPP cash balances 25 18 – –
Bank overdrafts (10) (15) (56) (24)
532 580 (13) (24)
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of less than three months and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities 
in the statement of ﬁnancial position.
PPP 
2012 
£m
Other 
2012 
£m
Group 
2012 
£m
Group 
2011 
£m
Company
2012
£m
Company
2011
£m
29.3 Analysis of movement in net (borrowings)/cash
Opening net cash/(borrowings) (332) 340 8 248 (236) (55)
Currency translation differences – (17) (17) (2) – –
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 7(38) (31) 32 11 31
Proceeds from new loans (64) (286) (350) (282) (230) (212)
Repayment of loans 21 32 53 8 32 –
Repayment of ﬁnance leases –44 4 – –
Closing net (borrowings)/cash (368) 35 (333) 8 (423) (236)
29.4 Borrowings 
During the year ended 31 December 2012 the signiﬁcant movements in borrowings were: a drawdown of short term loans of £286m 
(2011: £212m); repayment of short term loans of £32m (2011: £nil); a £5m net decrease (2011: £19m decrease) in bank overdrafts; an 
increase of £64m (2011: £70m increase) in non-recourse loans funding the development of ﬁnancial assets in PPP subsidiaries; and 
repayment of £21m (2011: £8m) of non-recourse PPP loans. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 144
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
30 Acquisitions and disposals
30.1 Current year acquisitions
Notes Acquisition date Subsidiary
Percentage
acquired 
%
Cash
consideration
£m
Deferred
 consideration
£m
Contingent
consideration
£m
Fair value of
net assets
acquired 
£m
Goodwill
arising on
acquisition
£m 
Costs (ii) 
£m
30.1.1 31 December 2012 Subsurface Group Inc
(i)(iii)
100 1 8 1 1 9 –
(i)  As at 31 December 2012 the fair values of acquired assets, liabilities and goodwill for this business have been determined on a provisional basis, pending ﬁnalisation of the 
post-acquisition review of the fair values of the acquired net assets.
(ii) Costs directly attributable to the acquisition have been expensed within non-underlying items, refer to Note 8.
(iii) Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. 
30.1.1 On 31 December 2012 the Group acquired 100% of Subsurface Group Inc (Subsurface) for consideration of £10m, of which 
£1m was paid in cash before the year end and £8m was paid on 14 January 2013. £1m is payable over three years subject to certain 
provisions of the purchase agreement. 
The maximum consideration payable is £11m however the ﬁnal purchase price is contingent on the closing statement of ﬁnancial 
position, before fair value adjustments, and achieving a working capital and property, plant and equipment target value. The estimated 
consideration payable based on the provisional statement of ﬁnancial position at 31 December 2012 is £10m.
The acquisition of Subsurface enhances the Group’s capabilities in injection waste wells and depleted aquifer and reservoir storage. 
The provisional fair value of net liabilities acquired was £(2)m, intangible assets arising were £3m and goodwill of £9m has been 
recognised.
30.1.2 The following summary presents the Group as if Subsurface had been acquired on 1 January 2012. The amounts include the 
results of Subsurface, depreciation of the acquired net assets and amortisation of the intangible assets recognised on acquisition. 
The amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The results of Subsurface and contracts for the period 
before acquisition have not been adjusted to reﬂect the Group’s accounting policies nor to reﬂect the fair value adjustments made 
on acquisition. The information is provided for illustrative purposes only and does not necessarily reﬂect the actual results that would 
have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of the future results of the combined companies and contracts.
Total
*
 
£m
Group revenue 9,517
Proﬁt for the year 45
*
 Total Group ﬁgures had the acquisitions occurred on 1 January 2012.
Subsurface contributed £nil to Group revenue and £nil to proﬁt for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Recognised amounts 
of identiﬁable assets 
acquired and
liabilities assumed 
£m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – customer contracts 1
Intangible assets – customer relationships 1
Intangible assets – brand names 1
Trade and other receivables 5
Other working capital (5)
Deferred taxation (2)
Identiﬁable net assets 1
Goodwill 9
Total consideration 10
Satisﬁed by
Cash consideration 1
Deferred consideration 8
Contingent consideration 1
Total consideration 10
Net cash ﬂow 
on acquisitions 
£m
Cash consideration 1
Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired –
Net cash outﬂow on acquisitions completed in 2012 1
Deferred consideration paid during 2012 in respect of acquisitions completed in earlier years 3
Net cash outﬂow on acquisitions 4 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 145
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
30 Acquisitions and disposals continued
30.2 Contingent consideration arrangements
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Inc. 
£m
Howard
 S. Wright
£m
SpawMaxwell
£m
Subsurface
£m
Total
£m
Contingent consideration recoverable/(payable)
At 31 December 2011 16 (7) (3) – 6
Movements/discount unwind –(2) 2 (1) (1)
At 31 December 2012 16 (9) (1) (1) 5
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangements is estimated by applying the provisions of the purchase agreement to 
management’s assessment of possible outcomes and discounting the expected contract costs and insurance claim proceeds to their 
present value. The maximum amount that the Group could be required to pay or receive under the terms of the contingent consideration 
arrangements is: £11m payable or £16m receivable in respect of Parsons Brinckerhoff; £9m payable in respect of Howard S. Wright; 
£3m payable in respect of SpawMaxwell; and £1m payable in respect of Subsurface. 
In addition to the amounts shown above, at 31 December 2012 £2m (2011: £4m) and £1m (2011: £1m) relating to the acquisitions 
of Power Efﬁciency and Ofﬁce Projects respectively are held in escrow to be paid in 2013 subject to certain provisions of the 
purchase agreement.
30.3 Prior year acquisitions 
The fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities disclosed as provisional at 31 December 2011 in respect of Fru-Con Construction 
LLC and Howard S. Wright were ﬁnalised during 2012, giving rise to a decrease in both goodwill and amounts due to construction 
contract customers of £1m which is disclosed in the current year.
The fair values of all other assets and liabilities previously disclosed as provisional at 31 December 2011 have been ﬁnalised with no 
material changes. 
30.4 Current year disposals 
30.4.1 On 1 February 2012, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in the shares and loan notes issued by Transform Schools (North 
Lanarkshire) Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration of £18m. This disposal resulted in a gain of £8m being recognised within underlying 
operating proﬁt, comprising a loss of £2m in respect of the disposal of the investment in the joint venture and a £10m gain in respect 
of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement.
30.4.2 On 11 May 2012 the Group disposed of its 33.3% interest in the shares and loan notes issued by Health Management (UCLH) 
Holdings Ltd (HMU) for an agreed cash consideration of £66m. On this date the Group ceased to jointly control HMU by virtue of a put/
call structure with a preferred bidder. The other shareholders in HMU exercised pre-emption provisions in the shareholders’ agreement 
and the disposal was completed on 11 July 2012.
As a consequence of the disposal, £2m was donated to the UCLH Charity and treated as a cost of disposal. This donation would not 
have taken place had the disposal of HMU not taken place. Additional transaction costs of £1m were incurred in respect of the disposal. 
The disposal resulted in a net gain of £44m being recognised within underlying operating proﬁt, comprising a gain of £6m in respect of 
the disposal of the investment in the joint venture and a £38m gain in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement.
30.5 Prior year disposals 
30.5.1 On 3 May 2011, the Group disposed of its UK specialist rail manufacturing business for £37m. The fair value of net assets 
disposed comprise property, plant and equipment £26m and working capital £8m. No cash and cash equivalents were disposed. 
A total loss on disposal of £7m, including £7m goodwill written off and an onerous lease provision of £3m, was recognised within 
non-underlying items.
30.5.2 On 23 June 2011 the Group disposed of a 60% interest in its Connect Roads Ltd joint venture for a cash consideration of £16m. 
Connect Roads Ltd holds a 100% interest in Connect A50 Ltd. The disposal resulted in a total gain of £14m being recognised 
in underlying operating proﬁt, comprising £8m in respect of the gain on disposal of the investment in the joint venture and £6m in 
respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement. The Group retains a 25% interest in Connect Roads Ltd following 
the transaction.
30.5.3 On 7 November 2011 the Group disposed of its 50% interest in the shares and loan notes issued by Consort Healthcare 
Blackburn (Holdings) Ltd for a cash consideration of £12m. This resulted in a gain on disposal of £6m being recognised in underlying 
operating proﬁt. There were no revaluation reserves relating to Consort Healthcare Blackburn (Holdings) Ltd.
30.5.4 On 21 December 2011 the Group disposed of its effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd at its carrying value of £55m. 
Transaction costs of £1m were incurred resulting in a £1m loss on disposal being recognised within non-underlying items. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 146
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
31 Share-based payments
The Company operates four equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 
(SAYE), the Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS), the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP). The Group 
recognised total expenses relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions since 7 November 2002 of £6.5m in 2012 
(2011: £6.2m). Refer to the Remuneration Report for details of the various schemes and to Note 28.1. 
31.1 Movements in share options
SAYE options ESOS options
2012
Number
Weighted
average
exercise 
price 
2012
Pence
2011 
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
2011
Pence
2012 
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
2012
Pence
2011
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price
2011 
Pence
Outstanding at 1 January 6,200,690 263.5 9,014,115 269.9 755,224 203.2 939,706 201.6
Granted during the year –– –– –– ––
Forfeited during the year (683,176) 256.6 (1,526,224) 280.1 –– (1,482) 189.0
Exercised during the year (866,427) 249.4 (665,516) 273.8 (66,175) 177.4 (183,000) 197.2
Expired during the year (1,005,569) 311.8 (621,685) 304.1 –– ––
Outstanding at 31 December 3,645,518 254.9 6,200,690 263.5 689,049 205.6 755,224 203.2
Exercisable at 31 December 169,409 293.5 161,899 296.2 689,049 205.6 755,224 203.2
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those SAYE options exercised during the year was 298.2p (2011: 309.6p) 
and the weighted average remaining contractual life of SAYE options outstanding at 31 December 2012 is 1.6 years (2011: 2.1 years).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those ESOS options exercised during the year was 287.7p (2011: 303.4p) 
and the weighted average remaining contractual life of ESOS options outstanding at 31 December 2012 is 1.0 year (2011: 2.0 years).
31.2 Movements in share plans
PSP conditional awards DBP conditional awards
2012
Number 
2011
Number 
2012
Number 
2011
Number
Outstanding at 1 January 8,700,324 8,171,418 2,291,952 2,247,952
Granted during the year 4,177,096 3,235,874 916,940 738,975
Awards in lieu of dividends – – 117,718 101,666
Forfeited during the year (457,142) (464,604) (33,337) (71,671)
Exercised during the year – (412,560) (1,018,225) (724,970)
Expired during the year (2,731,693) (1,829,804) – –
Outstanding at 31 December 9,688,585 8,700,324 2,275,048 2,291,952
Exercisable at 31 December – – 16,727 –
The share price at the date of exercise for those PSP awards exercised during 2011 was 330.0p and the weighted average remaining 
contractual life of those PSP awards outstanding at 31 December 2012 is 1.4 years (2011: 1.4 years).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those DBP awards exercised during the year was 288.8p (2011: 333.8p) 
and the weighted average remaining contractual life of DBP awards outstanding at 31 December 2012 is 1.3 years (2011: 1.2 years).
The principal assumptions, including expected volatility determined from the historical weekly share price movements over the 
three-year period immediately preceding the award date, used by the consultants in the stochastic model for the 50% of the PSP 
awards in 2012 subject to market conditions, were:
Award date
Closing
share
price before
award date
Pence
Expected
volatility of
shares 
%
Expected
term of
awards
Years
Risk free
interest 
rate
%
Calculated
fair value 
of an
award 
Pence
16 April 2012 273.7 29.0 3.0 0.48 159.2
For the 50% of the PSP awards in 2012 subject to non-market conditions and for the DBP awards in 2012, the fair value of the awards 
is the closing share price before award date. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 147
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
32 Commitments
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for which has not been provided for in the ﬁnancial statements amounted to £14m 
(2011: £12m) in the Group and £nil (2011: £nil) in the Company.
The Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding and subordinated debt in PPP projects amounting to: £13m 
(2011: £34m) in respect of joint ventures and associates; £22m (2010: £37m) in respect of PPP subsidiaries; and £12m (2011: £15m) 
in respect of the military housing concessions of Balfour Beatty Investments US. The future cash ﬂow proﬁle of the Group’s share of 
further equity funding and subordinated debt is shown in Note 37(g). In addition the Group is expected to provide its share of equity 
funding and subordinated debt estimated at £77m for six PPP projects at preferred bidder stage (2011: £92m for eight PPP projects).
The Group leases land and buildings, equipment and other various assets under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The 
leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The lease expenditure charged to the income statement is disclosed 
in Note 4.1.
Future operating lease expenditure commitments 
Land and
buildings
2012
£m
Other
2012
£m
Land and
buildings
2011 
£m
Other
2011
£m
Group
Due within one year 71 62 81 49
Due between one and ﬁve years 191 55 197 56
Due after more than ﬁve years 109 1 61 –
 371 118 339 105
Company
Due within one year 3– 3–
Due between one and ﬁve years 3– 7–
 6– 10 –
Future committed operating lease income
Land and
buildings
2012
£m
Land and
buildings
2011
£m
Group
Due within one year 4 3
Due between one and ﬁve years 4 6
8 9
Company
Due within one year 3 3
Due between one and ﬁve years 3 6
6 9
33 Contingent liabilities 
The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into 
counterindemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Group’s own contracts and given guarantees in respect of their share of certain 
contractual obligations of joint ventures and associates and certain retirement beneﬁt liabilities of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and 
the Railways Pension Scheme. Where such agreements are entered into, they are considered to be and are accounted for as insurance 
arrangements. Guarantees are treated as contingent liabilities until such time as it becomes probable payment will be required under 
the terms of the guarantee.
Provision has been made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress. The Group 
takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on 
that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed, or that the Group cannot make a sufﬁciently reliable estimate of the potential obligation.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 148
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
34 Related party transactions
Joint ventures and associates
The Group has contracted with, provided services to, and received management fees from, certain joint ventures and associates 
amounting to £1,018m (2011: £851m). These transactions occurred in the normal course of business at market rates and terms. In 
addition, the Group procured equipment and labour on behalf of certain joint ventures and associates which were recharged at cost with 
no markup. The amounts due to or from joint ventures and associates at 31 December are disclosed in Notes 21 and 22 respectively.
Pension schemes
The Group recharged the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF) with the costs of administration and advisers’ fees borne by the Group 
amounting to £8m in 2012 (2011: £6m).
On 21 December 2011 the BBPF, acting through its Trustees, purchased the Group’s effective 25.5% interest in Barking Power Ltd at 
its carrying value of £55m which was considered to be its fair value. Refer to Note 10.
Key personnel
Remuneration of key personnel of Balfour Beatty plc
2012
£m
2011 
£m
Short term beneﬁts 3.957 4.329
Post-employment beneﬁts 0.139 0.305
Share-based payments 1.714 1.395
5.810 6.029
Key personnel comprise the executive Directors who are directly responsible for the Group’s activities and the non-executive Directors. 
The remuneration included above is that paid in respect of the period of the year during which the individuals were Directors. Further 
details of Directors’ emoluments, post-employment beneﬁts and interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 96.
35 Events after the reporting date
Infrastructure Fund
In January 2013, the Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners Fund reached ﬁrst close with US$317m of commitments, of which 
Balfour Beatty has committed US$110m. In February 2013, the commitments increased to US$420m and subsequent levels of close 
are expected during 2013, ultimately reducing the Group’s share in the fund to around 10%. Drawdowns will depend on the timing 
of investments by the fund, but Balfour Beatty expects its commitment to be invested over the next three to four years.
The fund will make investments in predominantly brownﬁeld operational assets in its key target sectors of transport, energy and 
utilities across the UK, Europe, and North America.
Bilateral facility
In February 2013 the BNP Paribas Fortis bilateral facility maturing April 2013 was extended to April 2018 and increased from £50m 
to £75m. 
US private placement
In March 2013 the Group raised US$350m through a US private placement of a series of notes with an average coupon of 4.94% 
over an average of 9.3 years.
The Group has designated the US$ denominated borrowings as a net investment hedge against changes in the value of the Group’s 
US net assets due to exchange movements. 
Disposal of Rail Spain
In March 2013, as the initial step in its policy of divesting of its Mainland European rail businesses, the Group sold its Spanish rail 
engineering business to its local management. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 149
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
36 Financial instruments
36.1 Capital risk management
The Group and Company manage their capital to ensure their ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital. The components of capital are as follows: equity attributable to equity holders of Balfour Beatty 
plc comprising issued ordinary share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 27.1 and 28; preference shares as 
disclosed in Note 27; US private placement as disclosed in Note 35; and cash and cash equivalents and borrowings as disclosed in 
Note 24.
The Group and Company maintain or adjust their capital structure through the payment of dividends to equity holders, issue of new 
shares and buyback of existing shares, and drawdown of new borrowings and repayment of existing borrowings. The policy of the Group 
and the Company is to ensure an appropriate balance between cash, negative working capital and the value in the PPP investment 
portfolio, other than the non-recourse borrowings of companies engaged in PPP projects and infrastructure investments.
The overall capital risk management strategy of the Group and the Company remains unchanged from 2011.
36.2 Group
Categories of ﬁnancial instruments
Group
Loans and
receivables
at
amortised
cost, cash
and cash
equivalents
2012
£m
Financial
liabilities 
at
amortised
cost
2012
£m
Available-
for-sale
ﬁnancial
assets
2012
£m
Held to
maturity
ﬁnancial
assets
2012
£m
Derivatives
2012
£m
Loans and
receivables
at
amortised
cost, cash
and cash
equivalents
2011
£m
Financial
liabilities at
amortised
cost
2011
£m
Available-
for-sale
ﬁnancial
assets
2011
£m
Held to
maturity
ﬁnancial
assets
2011
£m
Derivatives
2011
£m
Financial assets
Fixed rate bonds and treasury stock ––– 42 – ––– 46–
Mutual funds –– 52 –– –– 50––
PPP ﬁnancial assets –– 542–– –– 457––
Cash and cash equivalents 542–––– 595––––
Trade and other receivables 1,263––––1,434––––
Derivatives –––– 1 –––– 1
Total 1,805 – 594 42 1 2,029 – 507 46 1
Financial liabilities
Liability component
of preference shares –(92) – – – – (91) –––
Trade and other payables –(2,150) – – – –(2,326) –––
Unsecured borrowings – (478) – – – – (229) – – –
Secured borrowings – (4) ––– – (8) – – –
PPP non-recourse term loans – (393) – – – –(350) – – –
Derivatives –––– (143) –––– (130)
Total –(3,117) – – (143) –(3,004) – – (130)
Net 1,805 (3,117) 594 42 (142) 2,029 (3,004) 507 46 (129)
Current year comprehensive 
income/(expense) excluding share 
of joint ventures and associates 27 (46) 66 2 (12) 17 (38) 87 2 (87)
Derivatives
Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities
Current
2012
£m
Non-
current
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Current
2012
£m
Non-
current
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Current
2011
£m
Non-
current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Current
2011
£m
Non-
current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Foreign 
currency 
contracts
Held for trading at 
fair value through 
proﬁt and loss 1 – 1(1) –(1) 1 – 1(1) –(1)
Designated as
cash ﬂow hedges – – – (1) – (1) – – –(1) –(1)
Interest rate 
swaps
Designated as
cash ﬂow hedges – – – (18) (123) (141) – – – (8) (120) (128)
1– 1 (20) (123) (143) 1– 1 (10) (120) (130) Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 150
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
36 Financial instruments continued
36.2 Group continued 
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities. The table reﬂects the 
undiscounted contractual maturities of the ﬁnancial liabilities including interest that will accrue to those liabilities except where the 
Group is entitled to and intends to repay the liability before its maturity. The discount column represents the possible future cash ﬂows 
included in the maturity analysis, such as future interest, that are not included in the carrying value of the ﬁnancial liability.
Maturity proﬁle of the Group’s non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December 
PPP
non-recourse
project
ﬁnance
2012
£m
Other
borrowings
2012
£m
Other
ﬁnancial
liabilities
2012
£m
Total
non-
 derivative
ﬁnancial
liabilities
2012
£m
Total
discount
2012
£m
Carrying
value
2012
£m
Due on demand or within one year (14) (477) (2,011) (2,502) 13 (2,489)
Due within one to two years (11) (1) (66) (78) 13 (65)
Due within two to ﬁve years (65) (2) (61) (128) 48 (80)
Due after more than ﬁve years (577) (2) (209) (788) 305 (483)
(667) (482) (2,347) (3,496) 379 (3,117)
Discount 274 – 105 379
Carrying value (393) (482) (2,242) (3,117)
PPP
non-recourse
project
ﬁnance
2011
£m
Other
borrowings
2011
£m
Other
ﬁnancial
liabilities
2011
£m
Total
non-
derivative
ﬁnancial
liabilities
2011
£m
Total
discount
2011
£m
Carrying
value
2011
£m
Due on demand or within one year (24) (231) (2,204) (2,459) 14 (2,445)
Due within one to two years (16) (1) (43) (60) 15 (45)
Due within two to ﬁve years (65) – (65) (130) 62 (68)
Due after more than ﬁve years (610) (5) (224) (839) 393 (446)
(715) (237) (2,536) (3,488) 484 (3,004)
Discount 365 – 119 484
Carrying value (350) (237) (2,417) (3,004)
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its derivative ﬁnancial liabilities. The table reﬂects the undiscounted net 
cash inﬂows/(outﬂows) on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis (interest rate swaps) and undiscounted gross inﬂows/
(outﬂows) for those derivatives that are settled on a gross basis (foreign exchange contracts). When the amount payable or receivable 
is not ﬁxed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates, using the yield curves at the 
reporting date.
Maturity proﬁle of the Group’s derivative ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December 
Payable
2012
£m
Receivable
2012
£m
Net payable
2012
£m
Payable
2011
£m
Receivable
2011
£m
Net payable
2011
£m
Due on demand or within one year (205) 184 (21) (89) 75 (14)
Due within one to two years (27) 8 (19) (22) 7 (15)
Due within two to ﬁve years (60) 6 (54) (51) 4 (47)
Due after more than ﬁve years (121) – (121) (124) – (124)
Total (413) 198 (215) (286) 86 (200)
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks: market risk; credit risk; and liquidity risk. The Group’s ﬁnancial risk 
management strategy seeks to minimise the potential adverse effect of these risks on the Group’s ﬁnancial performance.
Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board. Group Treasury liaises 
with the Group’s operating companies to identify, evaluate and hedge ﬁnancial risks. The Board provides written principles for overall 
ﬁnancial risk management, as well as written policies covering speciﬁc areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit 
risk, use of derivative ﬁnancial instruments and non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance 
with policies and exposure limits is monitored through the Group’s internal audit and risk management procedures. The Group uses 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The Group does not trade in ﬁnancial instruments, including derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments, for speculative purposes. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 151
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
36 Financial instruments continued
36.2 Group continued 
(a) Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the ﬁnancial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The 
Group enters into a variety of derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
 forward foreign exchange contracts and options to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities transacted in a currency 
that is not the functional currency of the operating company
 interest rate swaps to mitigate the cash ﬂow variability in PPP concessions arising from variable interest rates on borrowings.
There has been no material change to the Group’s exposure to market risks and there has been no change in how the Group manages 
those risks since 2011.
(i) Foreign currency risk management
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from exposure to various currencies, primarily to US 
dollars, euros, Australian dollars, Hong Kong dollars and United Arab Emirate dirhams. Foreign exchange risk arises from future trading 
transactions, assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy requires operating companies to manage their transactional foreign exchange risk against their functional currency. 
At 31 December 2012 no individual entities within the Group had material ﬁnancial assets or liabilities in a functional currency other 
than their own. Group Treasury enters into forward contracts on behalf of operating companies to cover 100% of foreign exchange 
risk above pre-set materiality levels determined by the Chief Financial Ofﬁcer whenever a current or future foreign currency exposure 
is identiﬁed with sufﬁcient reliability. Hedge accounting is applied to these transactions. 
Refer to page 149 for details of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the reporting date in respect of foreign currency 
transactional exposures. 
As at 31 December 2012, the notional principal amounts of foreign exchange contracts in respect of foreign currency transactions where 
hedge accounting is not applied was £274m (2011: £116m) receivable and £287m (2011: £116m) payable. The period during which the 
cash ﬂows are expected to occur is up to ﬁve (2011: three) years and this will affect the income statement throughout the same periods.
The Group has designated forward exchange contracts with a notional principal amount of £21m (2011: £26m) receivable and £23m 
(2011: £26m) payable as cash ﬂow hedges against highly probable capital expenditure which is expected to occur in up to four 
(2011: three) years. Fair value gains on these contracts of £nil (2011: £nil) have been taken to hedging reserves within equity. 
The cumulative amounts deferred in the hedging reserves relating to cash ﬂow hedges at the reporting date is £nil (2011: £nil). 
The Group’s investments in foreign operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risks. The Group’s policy was amended in 
prior years and at the reporting date the Group no longer entered into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency 
denominated net assets. Since 2009 no translation risk has been hedged. 
No signiﬁcant amounts in relation to hedge ineffectiveness have been charged or credited to the income statement in relation to any 
foreign exchange cash ﬂow hedges. 
The hedging policy is reviewed periodically. At the reporting date there had been no change to the hedging policies since 2011. 
In March 2013 the Group raised US$350m through a US private placement which has been designated as a net investment hedge. 
Refer to Note 35.
(ii) Interest rate risk management
Interest rate risk arises in the Group’s PPP concessions which borrow funds at both ﬂoating and ﬁxed interest rates and hold available-
for-sale ﬁnancial assets.
Floating rate borrowings expose the Group to cash ﬂow interest rate risk. The Group’s policy to manage this risk is to swap ﬂoating rate 
interest to ﬁxed rate, using interest rate swap contracts. 
In an interest rate swap, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate interest amounts calculated on 
agreed notional principal amounts. The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by discounting the future cash ﬂows using the 
applicable yield curve at the reporting date. The net effect of a movement in interest rates on income would therefore be immaterial.
During 2012 and 2011, the Group’s PPP subsidiaries’ borrowings at variable rates of interest were denominated in sterling.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding PPP subsidiaries’ interest rate swaps outstanding at 31 December 2012 totalled 
£404m (2011: £365m) with maturities that match the maturity of the underlying borrowings ranging from one year to 24 years. 
At 31 December 2012, the ﬁxed interest rates range from 4.2% to 5.1% (2011: 4.2% to 5.1%) and the principal ﬂoating rates are LIBOR 
plus a ﬁxed margin.
(ii) Interest rate risk management continued
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate in which ﬁnancial instruments are held would lead to a £8m (2011: £19m) 
increase/£9m (2011: £21m) decrease in amounts taken directly to equity by the Group in relation to the Group’s exposure to interest 
rates on the available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets and cash ﬂow hedges of its PPP subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk also arises on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and non-PPP borrowings. A 50 basis point 
increase/decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which these ﬁnancial instruments are held would lead to a £nil (2011: £1m) 
increase/£2m (2011: £nil) decrease in the Group’s net investment income. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 152
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
36 Financial instruments continued
36.2 Group continued 
(a) Market risk continued
(iii) Price risk management
The Group’s principal price risk exposure arises in its PPP concessions. At the commencement of the concession an element of the 
unitary payment by the client is indexed to offset the effect of inﬂation on the concession’s costs. To the extent that inﬂation differs 
from the index used, the Group is exposed to a price risk.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in ﬁnancial loss. Credit risk arises from cash 
and cash equivalents, derivative ﬁnancial instruments and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed 
transactions. The Group has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of potential customers before entering into transactions. 
For cash and cash equivalents and derivative ﬁnancial instruments the Group has a policy of only using counterparties that are 
independently rated with a minimum long term credit rating of BBB+. At 31 December 2012 £37m (2011: £28m) did not meet this 
criterion due to the operational and relationship difﬁculties in transferring certain balances, however no losses are anticipated from 
these counterparties. The credit rating of a ﬁnancial institution will determine the amount and duration for which funds may be 
deposited under individual risk limits set by the Board for the Group and subsidiary companies. Management monitors the utilisation 
of these credit limits regularly. 
For trade and other receivables credit evaluation is performed on the ﬁnancial condition of accounts receivable using independent 
ratings where available or by assessment of the customer’s credit quality based on its ﬁnancial position, past experience and other 
factors. The Group’s most signiﬁcant customers are public or regulated sector entities which generally have high credit ratings or 
are of a high credit quality due to the nature of the customer.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of the above at 31 December is the carrying value of ﬁnancial assets recorded in the 
ﬁnancial statements, net of any allowance for losses.
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash balances and banking facilities, continuously monitoring forecast and 
actual cash ﬂows and matching the maturity proﬁles of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 
are set out in Note 24.1. The maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities is set out on page 150.
Fair value estimation
The Group holds a number of ﬁnancial instruments on the statement of ﬁnancial position at their fair values. The following hierarchy 
classiﬁes each class of ﬁnancial asset or liability depending on the valuation technique applied in determining its fair value.
Level 1 – The fair value is calculated based on quoted prices traded in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Group holds 
available-for-sale investments in mutual funds which are traded in active markets and valued at the closing market price at 31 December. 
Level 2 – The fair value is based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly or indirectly. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows 
utilising yield curves at the reporting date. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward 
exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign 
exchange contracts. 
Level 3 – The fair value is based on unobservable inputs. The fair value of the Group’s PPP ﬁnancial assets is determined in the 
construction phase by applying an attributable proﬁt margin that reﬂects the fair value of construction services performed. In the 
operational phase it is determined by discounting the future cash ﬂows allocated to the ﬁnancial asset at a discount rate which is 
based on long term gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets. The consequent movement in the fair value is 
taken to equity.
There have been no transfers between these categories in the current or preceding year.
Fair value measurement 2012 Fair value measurement 2011
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Available-for-sale mutual fund ﬁnancial assets 52 – – 52 50 – – 50
Available-for-sale PPP ﬁnancial assets –– 542 542 –– 457 457
Financial assets – foreign currency contracts –1 –1 –1 –1
Total assets measured at fair value 52 1 542 595 50 1 457 508
Financial liabilities – foreign currency contracts – (2) – (2) –(2) –(2)
Financial liabilities – PPP interest rate swaps –(141) –(141) – (128) – (128)
Total liabilities measured at fair value –(143) –(143) – (130) – (130)
In respect of the Level 3 PPP ﬁnancial assets, a change in the discount rate would have a signiﬁcant effect on the value of the asset 
and a 50 basis points increase/decrease, which represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in the risk 
adjusted discount rate, would lead to a £26m increase (2011: £16m)/£28m decrease (2011: £16m) in the fair value of the assets taken 
through equity. Refer to Note 18 for a reconciliation of the movement of the opening balance to the closing balance.
The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables and payables approximate to their fair values due to their 
short term nature. The fair value of ﬁnancial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash 
ﬂows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar ﬁnancial instruments. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 153
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
36 Financial instruments continued
36.3 Company
Categories of ﬁnancial instruments
Company
Loans and
receivables
at amortised
cost, cash
and cash
equivalents
2012
£m
Financial
liabilities
at
amortised
cost
2012
£m
Available-
for-sale
ﬁnancial
assets
2012
£m
Held to
maturity
ﬁnancial
assets
2012
£m
Derivatives
2012
£m
Loans and 
receivables
at amortised
cost, cash
and cash
equivalents
2011
£m
Financial
liabilities at
amortised
cost
2011
£m
Available-
for-sale
ﬁnancial
assets
2011
£m
Held to
maturity
ﬁnancial
assets
2011
£m
Derivatives
2011
£m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 43 –––– –– – – –
Trade and other receivables 1,169 – – – – 1,313 – – – –
Derivatives –– – – 2 –– – – 3
Total 1,212 – – – 2 1,313 – – – 3
Financial liabilities
Liability component of preference 
shares – (92) ––– –(91) – – –
Trade and other payables –(1,474) – – – –(1,603) – – –
Unsecured borrowings – (466) – – – –(236) – – –
Derivatives –– – – (3) – ––– (3)
Total –(2,032) – – (3) –(1,930) – – (3)
Net 1,212 (2,032) – – (1) 1,313 (1,930) – – –
Derivatives
Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities
Current
2012
£m
Non-
current
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Current
2012
£m
Non-
current
2012
£m
Total
2012
£m
Current
2011
£m
Non-
current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Current
2011
£m
Non-
current
2011
£m
Total
2011
£m
Held for trading at 
fair value through
proﬁt and loss 2– 2 (2) (1) (3) 213 (2) (1) (3)
The Company is responsible for executing all of the Group’s external derivative contracts, except for those in relation to PPP 
concessions. The Company’s external derivative contracts are matched with derivative contracts issued by the Company to the 
Group’s operating companies. The Company’s ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities measured at fair value are the derivative foreign 
currency contracts shown in the table above. The fair value of these foreign currency contracts is determined using quoted forward 
exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign 
exchange contracts.
The Company’s derivatives are classiﬁed as Level 2 in the fair value estimation hierarchy detailed above. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 154
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
36 Financial instruments continued
36.3 Company continued
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities gross maturity
Maturity proﬁle of the Company’s non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December
Borrowings
2012
£m
Other
ﬁnancial
liabilities
2012
£m
Total
non-
derivative
ﬁnancial
liabilities
2012
£m
Total
discount
2012
£m
Carrying
value
2012
£m
Due on demand or within one year (466) (1,461) (1,927) 12 (1,915)
Due within one to two years – (11) (11) 11 –
Due within two to ﬁve years – (35) (35) 32 (3)
Due after more than ﬁve years –(161) (161) 47 (114)
(466) (1,668) (2,134) 102 (2,032)
Discount –102 102
Carrying value (466) (1,566) (2,032)
Borrowings
2011
£m
Other
ﬁnancial
liabilities
2011
£m
Total
non-
derivative
ﬁnancial
liabilities
2011
£m
Total
discount
2011
£m
Carrying
value
2011
£m
Due on demand or within one year (236) (1,591) (1,827) 13 (1,814)
Due within one to two years – (11) (11) 11 –
Due within two to ﬁve years – (34) (34) 32 (2)
Due after more than ﬁve years – (173) (173) 59 (114)
(236) (1,809) (2,045) 115 (1,930)
Discount –115 115
Carrying value (236) (1,694) (1,930)
Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities gross maturity
Maturity proﬁle of the Company’s derivative ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December 
Payable
2012
£m
Receivable
2012
£m
Payable
2011
£m
Receivable
2011
£m
Due on demand or within one year (245) 195 (132) 130
Due within one to two years (4) 4 (10) 9
Due within two to ﬁve years (3) 4 (6) 6
Total (252) 203 (148) 145
Financial risk factors
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign currency risk management
For the Company, there would be no material effect of any strengthening/weakening in US dollar, euro, Australian dollar, Hong Kong 
dollar or United Arab Emirates dirham exchange rates against sterling. The Company’s external forward foreign exchange contracts 
hedge the currency risk on foreign currency loans entered into with Group companies or are offset by forward foreign exchange 
contracts with the Group’s operating companies where Group Treasury is hedging the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities 
on their behalf.
(ii) Interest rate risk management
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which ﬁnancial instruments are held would lead to an £8m 
(2011: £5m) increase/decrease in the Company’s net ﬁnance cost. This is mainly attributable to the Company’s exposure to UK interest 
rates on its cash and cash equivalents and term deposits and amounts due to and from its subsidiaries. There would be no effect on 
amounts taken directly by the Company to equity.
(b) Credit risk
The Company bears credit risk in respect to trade and other receivables and payables due from/to subsidiaries. There were no amounts 
past due at the reporting date. The maximum exposure is the carrying value of the ﬁnancial assets recorded in the ﬁnancial statements. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 155
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates
Country of
 incorporation
or registration
(a) Principal subsidiaries
Professional, Construction and Support services
Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc US
Balfour Beatty Construction Northern Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction Scottish & Southern Ltd Scotland
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services Ltd Scotland
Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc US
Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH Germany
Balfour Beatty Rail Inc US
Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd
Balfour Beatty Rail SpA Italy
Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions Ltd
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace Ltd
Mansell Construction Services Ltd
Parsons Brinckerhoff (Asia) Ltd Hong Kong
Parsons Brinckerhoff Australia Pty Ltd Australia
Parsons Brinckerhoff Group Inc US
Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc US
Parsons Brinckerhoff International Pte Ltd Singapore
Parsons Brinckerhoff Ltd
Infrastructure Investments PPP  
(refer Note 37 (d) and (e))
Balfour Beatty Communities LLC US
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investments Ltd
*
Balfour Beatty Investments Inc US
Balfour Beatty Investments Ltd
Other
Balfour Beatty Group Inc US
Balfour Beatty Investment Holdings Ltd
*
Balfour Beatty LLC US
Delphian Insurance Company Ltd
*
Isle of Man
Country of
 incorporation
or registration
Ownership
interest
%
(b) Principal joint ventures and associates
Professional, Construction and Support services
BK Gulf LLC Dubai 49.0
Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC Dubai 49.0
Gammon China Ltd Hong Kong 50.0
Romec Ltd 49.0
(c) Principal jointly controlled operations
The Group carries out a number of its larger contracts in joint 
arrangement with other contractors so as to share resources 
and risk. The principal joint projects in progress during the year 
are shown below.
South-East England Roads 65.0
South-West England Roads 73.0
Crossrail 26.7
M25 DBFO 50.0
M25 Maintenance 52.5
M74 Motorway Scotland 25.0
Scotland Transerv Scotland 70.0
Gotthard Base Tunnel Switzerland 25.0
Fort Riley Replacement Hospital US 70.0
Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center US 50.0
Parkland Acute Care Hospital US 40.0
DFW Terminal Development Program US 60.0
Utah Data Center US 40.0
Notes
(i)  Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose results did not, in the opinion 
of the Directors, materially affect the results or net assets of the Group are 
not shown.
(ii)  Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the equity capital is owned and companies 
are registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company 
are conducted in the country of incorporation.
* 
Indicates held directly by Balfour Beatty plc. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 156
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK PPP concessions
Roads
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 12 road and street lighting projects under Balfour Beatty’s Connect 
brand to construct new roads, to upgrade and maintain existing roads and to replace and maintain street lighting.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract in the roads concessions is the project agreement with the governmental highway 
authority setting out the obligations for the construction, operation and maintenance of the roads including lifecycle replacement by 
Connect for the life of the concession to speciﬁed standards. In the case of M1-A1, A30/A35 and A50 the inﬂation-indexed payment 
is related to trafﬁc volumes. In the case of M77/GSO and CNDR, the inﬂation-indexed payment is partly based on availability and 
partly on trafﬁc volumes, and is subject to any performance related deductions. In the case of M25, the inﬂation-indexed payment 
is wholly based on availability and is subject to any performance related deductions. Construction of the roads was subcontracted 
to construction joint ventures in which Balfour Beatty had a 50% interest or, in the case of the M77/GSO and CNDR, 100% to 
Balfour Beatty subsidiaries. On the street lighting projects, payment is by a periodic inﬂation-indexed availability payment subject to 
performance deductions and the replacement and maintenance obligations have been subcontracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. 
There are no provisions to reprice the contracts and all assets transfer to the client at the end of the concessions.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding
Financial
close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Connect M1-A1 Ltd M1-A1 30km road 290 50% March 1996 30 1999
Connect A50 Ltd A50 57km road 42 25% May 1996 30 1998
Connect A30/A35 Ltd (ii) A30/A35 102km road 127 85% July 1996 30 2000
Connect M77/GSO plc (ii) M77/GSO 25km road 167 85% May 2003 32 2005
Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd Street lighting apparatus 
in Sunderland
27 100% August 2003 25 2008
Connect Roads South 
Tyneside Ltd
Street lighting apparatus 
in South Tyneside
28 100% December 2005 25 2010
Connect Roads Derby Ltd Street lighting apparatus
 in Derby
36 100% April 2007 25 2012
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd M25 J16 – J23, J27 –J30 and 
A1(M) Hatﬁeld Tunnel
1,309 40% May 2009 30 2012
Connect CNDR Ltd Carlisle Northern 
Development Route
176 100% July 2009 30 2012
Connect Roads Coventry Ltd Street lighting apparatus 
in Coventry
56 100% August 2010 25 2015
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Ltd Street lighting apparatus 
in Cambridgeshire
51 100% April 2011 25 2016
Connect Roads Northamptonshire 
Ltd
Street lighting apparatus 
in Northamptonshire
64 100% August 2011 25 2016
Notes
(i)  Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Connect M77/GSO plc which conducts its principal 
operations in Scotland.
(ii)  Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of signiﬁcant matters related to the 
ﬁnancial and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider, as at the reporting date, the Group did not control this company and it has been accounted for as 
a joint venture. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 157
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK PPP concessions continued
Hospitals
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in seven hospital projects under Balfour Beatty’s Consort Healthcare 
brand to build hospital accommodation and to provide certain non-medical facilities management services over the concession period.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the NHS Trust. 
An inﬂation-indexed payment is primarily based upon availability of the hospital subject to any performance related deductions. The 
only projects where construction of the hospitals was subcontracted to construction joint ventures in which Balfour Beatty subsidiaries 
did not participate 100% is Edinburgh Royal Inﬁrmary where the Group’s share was 85%. The payments for the facilities management 
services are repriced every ﬁve years. All assets transfer to the client at the end of the concession, with the exception of Edinburgh 
Royal Inﬁrmary, where the client has the option to terminate the arrangement for the provision of the hospital and services in 2028.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Consort Healthcare (Durham) Ltd Teaching hospital 90 50% March 1998 30 2001
Consort Healthcare  
(Edinburgh Royal Inﬁrmary) Ltd
Teaching hospital and 
medical school
220 50% August 1998 30 2003
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Ltd Teaching hospital and mental 
health hospital
553 40% June 2006 40 2011
Consort Healthcare (Mid Yorkshire) Ltd Pinderﬁelds and Pontefract 
general hospitals
311 50% June 2007 35 2010
Consort Healthcare (Salford) Ltd Teaching hospital and 
medical school
136 50% September 2007 35 2012
Consort Healthcare (Tameside) Ltd General hospital 77 50% September 2007 34 2011
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd General hospital 170 50% April 2009 30 2011
Notes
(i)  Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Inﬁrmary) Ltd and 
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd which are registered in Scotland and conduct their principal operations in Scotland.
Schools
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 13 schools projects principally under Balfour Beatty’s Transform 
Schools brand to design, build or refurbish schools and to provide certain non-educational services over the concession period.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the local authority 
that provides for an inﬂation-indexed payment based upon availability subject to any performance related deductions. For projects other 
than Aura Newcastle Ltd, construction is subcontracted to construction joint ventures of Balfour Beatty subsidiaries and the facilities 
management services are subcontracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. Construction and facilities management services on Aura 
Newcastle are carried out by subsidiaries of other shareholders. The payments for the facilities management services are repriced 
every ﬁve years. All assets transfer to the client at the end of the concession.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Transform Schools (Stoke) Ltd Grouped schools project in
Stoke-on-Trent
84 50% October 2000 25 2005
Transform Schools (Rotherham) Ltd Grouped schools project in
Rotherham
113 50% June 2003 31 2006
Transform Schools (Bassetlaw) Ltd Grouped schools project in
Bassetlaw, Notts
127 50% July 2005 27 2007
Transform Schools (Birmingham) Ltd Grouped schools project 
in Birmingham
89 50% March 2006 33 2009
Aura Newcastle Ltd BSF project in 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne
47 20% July 2007 25 2012
Transform Schools (Knowsley) Ltd BSF project in Knowsley 163 100% December 2007 27 2010
Transform Islington Ltd (ii) BSF project in Islington 77 80% July 2008 26 2013
4 Futures Ltd (ii) BSF project in Southwark 70 80% May 2009 26 2014
Blackburn with Darwen 
and Bolton LEP Ltd (ii) BSF project in Blackburn 85 80% January 2010 25 2011
Derby City BSF Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF project in Derby 39 80% December 2010 25 2012
Future Ealing Ltd (ii) BSF project in Ealing 36 80% December 2010 25 2012
Oldham Education Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF project in Oldham 40 90% December 2010 25 2012
Hertfordshire Schools Building 
Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF project in Hertfordshire 55 80% January 2011 25 2012
Notes
(i)   Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales. 
(ii)   Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of signiﬁcant matters related to the 
ﬁnancial and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider, as at the reporting date, the Group did not control this company and it has been accounted for as 
a joint venture. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 158
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK PPP concessions continued 
Other concessions 
Summary The Powerlink project comprises two companies: UK Power Networks Services Powerlink Ltd (UKPNSPL), which operated 
the London Underground high voltage power system under a 30-year contract and was responsible for procuring various new power 
assets, and Power Asset Development Company Ltd (PADCO), which constructed the new-build power assets and leased them to 
UKPNSPL. Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd (PCDL) has a 25-year contract with the Environment Agency to maintain a shingle bank sea 
defence in East Sussex. Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd has a contract to design, build and ﬁnance the new Institute of Technical 
Education (ITE) College West in Singapore and provide long term facilities management services for the remainder of the 27-year 
project. Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd is contracted to design, construct, fund and provide facilities for 16 community ﬁre 
stations in Merseyside, Cumbria and Lancashire. UBB Waste (Essex) Ltd has a 28-year PPP contract to design, build and operate 
a new sustainable waste treatment facility for Essex County Council and Southend-on-Sea Borough Council. 
Contractual arrangements For the Powerlink project the principal project agreement is the power services contract between 
UKPNSPL and London Underground Ltd (LUL) that provided for an inﬂation-indexed availability payment subject to any performance 
deductions. UKPNSPL operates and maintains the power network using its own staff and is leasing the new power assets from 
PADCO, which subcontracted construction to a construction joint venture in which the Group had a 40% interest. LUL has exercised 
its right to terminate the contract in August 2013. PCDL’s principal contract is the ﬂood defence services agreement with the 
Environment Agency that provides for an inﬂation-indexed payment subject to any performance related deductions. For the Singapore 
project, the principal agreement is the project agreement with the ITE of Singapore that provides for an inﬂation-indexed availability 
based payment subject to any performance deductions. Construction is subcontracted to Gammon Pte Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Gammon China Ltd in which the Group has a 50% interest. The facilities management services under the ITE agreement are 
provided by a third party. The principal contract for Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd is the project agreement between the 
concession company and Cumbria County Council, Lancashire Combined Fire Authority and Merseyside Fire and Rescue Authority. 
This agreement provides for an inﬂation-indexed payment based upon availability subject to any performance related deductions. 
Construction and facility management services are subcontracted to Balfour Beatty subsidiaries. The principal contract for UBB Waste 
(Essex) Ltd is the project agreement between the concession company, Essex County Council and Southend-on-Sea Borough Council. 
This agreement provides for an inﬂation-indexed payment linked to both the availability of the plant and waste processed. Construction 
services are subcontracted to a joint venture in which the Group has a 30% interest and operations are subcontracted to a subsidiary of 
the other shareholder. There are no provisions to reprice contracts and all assets transfer to the client at the end of the concession.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
UK Power Networks Services Powerlink Ltd (ii) 
/Power Asset Development Company Ltd
London Underground
power system
184 10%/25% August 1998 30 2006
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd Sea defences 3 25% July 2000 25 n/a
Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd Technical education college 100 50% August 2008 27 2010
Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd Community ﬁre stations 55 100% February 2011 25 2013
UBB Waste (Essex) Ltd Waste processing plant 146 30% May 2012 28 2015
Notes
(i)  Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd which is registered in 
Singapore and conducts its principal operations in Singapore.
(ii)  The Group exercises signiﬁcant inﬂuence through its participation in the management of UK Power Networks Services Powerlink Ltd and therefore accounts for its interest 
as an associate.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 159
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued 
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments US PPP concessions
Military housing 
Summary Balfour Beatty through its subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities LLC is a manager, developer, and investor in a number 
of US military privatisation projects associated with a total of 47 US government military bases which includes 47 military family 
housing communities and one unaccompanied personnel housing community that are expected to contain approximately 37,000 
housing units once development, construction and renovation have been completed.
The projects comprise 11 military family housing privatisation projects with the United States Department of the Army (Army), ﬁve 
projects with the United States Department of the Air Force (Air Force) and two projects with the United States Department of the 
Navy (Navy). In addition, there is one unaccompanied personnel housing (UPH) project with the Army at Fort Stewart. 
Contractual arrangements The ﬁrst phase of the project, known as the initial development period, covers the period of initial 
construction or renovation of military housing on a base, typically lasting three to eight years. With respect to Army and Navy projects, 
the government becomes a member or partner of the project entity (Project LLC); the Air Force is not a named partner or member 
in Balfour Beatty Communities’ Project LLCs, however it contributes a commitment to provide a government direct loan to the 
Project LLC and has similar rights to share in distributions and cash ﬂows of the Project LLC. On each project, the Project LLC 
enters into a ground lease with the government, which provides the Project LLC with a leasehold interest in the land and title to the 
improvements on the land for a period of 50 years. Each of these military housing privatisation projects includes agreements covering 
the management, renovation, and development of existing housing units, as well as the development, construction, renovation and 
management of new units during the term of the project, which, in the case of the Army, potentially could extend for up to an additional 
25 years. The 50-year duration of each project calls for continuous renovation, rehabilitation, demolition and reconstruction of housing 
units. At the end of the ground lease term the Project LLC’s leasehold interest terminates and all project improvements on the land 
generally transfer to the government.
Preferred returns The projects will typically receive, to the extent that adequate funds are available, an annual, minimum preferred 
rate of return. On most existing projects, this annual minimum preferred rate of return ranges from 9% to 12% of Balfour Beatty 
Communities’ initial equity contribution to the project. During the initial development period, the project is precluded from distributing 
funds to pay the minimum preferred rate of return. The unpaid amounts will generally accrue and accumulate, and can be used to fund 
renovation and construction costs, if necessary. If the accumulated funds are not needed to fund renovation and construction costs, 
at the end of the initial development period they are distributed to pay accrued preferred returns to Balfour Beatty Communities and 
the government in accordance with the terms of the project agreements.
Allocation of remaining operating cash ﬂows Subsequent to the initial development period, any operating cash ﬂow remaining 
after the annual minimum preferred rate of return is paid is shared between Balfour Beatty Communities and the reinvestment 
account held by the project for the beneﬁt of the government. On most of the existing projects, the total amount that Balfour Beatty 
Communities is entitled to receive (inclusive of the preferred return) is generally capped at an annual modiﬁed rate of return, or 
cash-on-cash return, on its initial equity contribution to the project. Historically, these caps have ranged between approximately 9% 
to 18% depending on the particular project and the type of return (annual modiﬁed rates of return or cash-on-cash). However, in some 
of the more recent projects, there are either no annual caps or lower projected annual rates of return. The total capped return generally 
will include the annual minimum preferred return discussed above. The reinvestment account is an account established for the beneﬁt of 
the military, but funds may be withdrawn for construction, development and renovation costs during the remaining life of a privatisation 
project upon approval by the applicable military service. 
Return of equity Generally, at the end of a project term, any monies remaining in the reinvestment account are distributed to Balfour 
Beatty Communities and the Army, Navy or Air Force, as applicable, in a predetermined order of priority. Typically these distributions 
will have the effect of providing the parties with sufﬁcient funds to provide a minimum annual return over the life of the project and 
a complete return of the initial capital contribution. After payment of the minimum annual return and the return of a party’s initial 
contribution, all remaining funds will typically be distributed to the applicable military service. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 160
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments US PPP concessions continued
Military housing continued
Military privatisation project (i)(ii) Bases
Total project
funding 
£m Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Military family housing
Fort Carson Army base 109 November 2003 46 2004
– Fort Carson expansion 80 November 2006 43 2010
– Fort Carson GTA expansion 63 April 2010 39 2013
Fort Stewart/Hunter Airﬁeld Two army bases 234 November 2003 50 2012
Fort Hamilton Army base 38 June 2004 50 2009
Walter Reed Army Medical Center/Fort Detrick Two army bases 69 July 2004 50 2008
Navy Northeast Region Seven navy bases 306 November 2004 50 2010
Fort Eustis/Fort Story Two army bases 108 March 2005 50 2011
– Fort Eustis expansion 5 July 2010 45 2011
Fort Bliss/White Sands Missile Range Two army bases 264 July 2005 50 2011
– Fort Bliss expansion 30 December 2009 46 2011
– Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase I 101 July 2011 44 2014
– Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase II 92 November 2012 43 2016
Fort Gordon Army base 67 May 2006 50 2012
Carlisle/Picatinny Two army bases 52 July 2006 50 2011
– Carlisle Heritage Heights phase II 13 October 2012 44 2014
AETC Group 1 Four air force bases 222 February 2007 50 2012
Navy Southeast Region 11 Navy bases 352 November 2007 50 2013
Vandenberg Air force base 98 November 2007 50 2012
Fort Leonard Wood Army base 148 Acquired June 2008 47 2014
AMC West Three air force bases 271 July 2008 50 2015
West Point Army base 135 August 2008 50 2016
Fort Jackson Army base 112 October 2008 50 2013
Lackland Air force base 67 Acquired December 2008 50 2013
Western Group Four air force bases 203 March 2012 50 2017
Military unaccompanied personnel housing 
Fort Stewart UPH 22 January 2008 50 2010
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
(ii) The share of results of the military housing joint ventures of Balfour Beatty Communities is limited to a pre-agreed preferred return on funds invested.
Student accommodation
Summary Balfour Beatty through its subsidiary Balfour Beatty Campus Solutions, LLC serves as a manager and developer for one 
student accommodation project. 
Student accommodation project (i) Project
Total project
funding 
£m Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Florida Atlantic University Student housing 63 March 2010 30 2011
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations are conducted in the US. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 161
Our Accounts
Our Accounts 
|
 Notes to the Financial Statements
37 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(f) Non-PPP infrastructure investments
Summary Balfour Beatty is an investor in and a promoter and developer of non-PPP infrastructure investments.
Project descriptions Exeter and Devon Airport Ltd owns and operates Exeter International Airport. Blackpool Airport Ltd owns and 
operates Blackpool International Airport.
Company (i) Project
Total project
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Exeter and Devon Airport Ltd Exeter International Airport £60m 60% January 2007
Blackpool Airport Ltd (ii) Blackpool International Airport £14m 95% May 2008
Notes
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conducted in England and Wales.
(ii) Shareholding quoted is economic interest.
(g) Total future committed equity and debt funding for the PPP concession companies
Concessions
2013 
£m
2014 
£m
2015 
£m
2016 
onwards 
£m
Total 
£m
Roads –– 6 11 17
Hospitals –––––
Schools 34 – – 7
Other UK –56 – 11
39 12 11 35
Military housing 7 3 – 2 12
Total 10 12 12 13 47
In addition to the above the Group is expected to provide its share of equity funding and subordinated debt estimated at £77m for six 
PPP projects at preferred bidder stage (2011: £92m for eight projects).
38 Prior year comparisons
38.1 The 2011 Income Statement has been re-presented to separately disclose the gains on disposals of interests in PPP joint ventures 
on the face of the income statement. Previously this amount was included within other net underlying operating expenses and 
separately disclosed within the Notes to the Financial Statements. 
As
re-presented 
2011
£m 
As
previously
reported 
2011
£m
Gross proﬁt 1,136 1,136
Gain on disposals of investments 20 –
Other net underlying operating expenses (900) (880)
Underlying Group operating proﬁt 256 256
38.2 The 2011 trade and other receivables note has been re-presented to separately identify trade receivables and other receivables 
which were previously amalgamated (Note 21). 
As
re-presented 
2011
£m 
As
previously
reported 
2011
£m
Current
Trade receivables 970 1,094
Other receivables 124 –
Trade and other receivables 1,094 1,094
Non-current
Trade receivables 217
Other receivables 15 –
Trade and other receivables 17 17 162 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Shareholder Information 
163 Group Five-Year Summary
164 Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 163
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information 
|
 Group Five-Year Summary
Group Five-Year Summary
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Income
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 10,896 11,035 10,473 10,254 9,395
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (1,413) (1,541) (1,237) (1,300) (1,134)
Group revenue from continuing operations 9,483 9,494 9,236 8,954 8,261
Underlying proﬁt from continuing operations 309 331 325 259 208
Underlying net investment income/(ﬁnance costs) 1 3(19) (15)19
Underlying proﬁt before taxation 310 334 306 244 227
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (45) (62) (82) (48) (27)
Other non-underlying items (190) (26) (23) 48 48
Proﬁt from continuing operations before taxation 75 246 201 244 248
Taxation on proﬁt from continuing operations (31) (64) (44) (54) (74)
Proﬁt from continuing operations after taxation 44 182 157 190 174
Proﬁt/(loss) from discontinued operations after taxation – 4(14) 21 19
Proﬁt for the year attributable to equity holders 44 186 143 211 193
Capital employed
Equity holders’ funds 1,306 1,259 1,156 995 857
Liability component of preference shares 92 91 89 88 87
Net borrowings/(cash) 333 (8) (248) (324) (297)
 1,731 1,342 997 759 647
2012 
Pence
2011 
Pence
2010 
Pence
2009 
Pence
2008 
Pence
Statistics 
Underlying earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations
*
35.0 35.5 32.7 30.7 30.6
Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 6.5 26.7 23.0 33.4 33.3
Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 6.5 26.7 22.9 33.3 33.1
Proposed dividends per ordinary share 14.10 13.80 12.70 11.99 11.15
Underlying proﬁt from continuing operations before net investment income/
(ﬁnance costs) including share of joint ventures and associates as a percentage 
of revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 2.8% 3.0% 3.1% 2.5% 2.2%
Notes
*  Underlying earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations have been disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 164
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information
Financial calendar
2013
24 April Ex-dividend date for ﬁnal 2012 ordinary dividend
26 April Final 2012 ordinary dividend record date
16 May Annual General Meeting
22 May Ex-dividend date for July 2013 preference dividend
24 May July 2013 preference dividend record date
5 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms (see below)
1 July Preference dividend payable
5 July
*
Final 2012 ordinary dividend payable
14 August
*
Announcement of 2013 half-year results
6 December
*
Interim 2013 ordinary dividend payable
*
 Provisional dates.
9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time. Alternatively, 
you can log on to www.balfourbeatty-
shares.com and click on the link for 
International Payment Service.
Shareholder information on 
the internet and electronic 
communications
Our website www.balfourbeatty.com 
provides a range of information about the 
Company, our people and businesses and 
our policies on corporate governance and 
corporate responsibility. It should be 
regarded as your ﬁrst point of reference 
for information on any of these matters. 
The share price can also be found there. 
In conjunction with Capita Registrars, you 
can create a Share Portal account, through 
which you will be able to access the full 
range of online shareholder services, 
including the ability to: view your holdings 
and indicative share price and valuation; 
view movements on your holdings and 
your dividend payment history; register a 
dividend mandate to have your dividends 
paid directly into your bank account; 
change your registered address; sign up 
to receive e-communications or access 
the online proxy voting facility; download 
and print shareholder forms.
The Share Portal is easy to use.  
Please visit www.balfourbeatty-shares.
com. Alternatively, you can email: 
shareportal@capita.co.uk.
Gifting shares to your family 
or to charity
To transfer shares to another member 
of your family as a gift, please ask the 
Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer 
form. Alternatively, if you only have a small 
number of shares whose value makes it 
uneconomic to sell them, you may wish 
to consider donating them to the share 
donation charity ShareGift (registered charity 
no. 1052686), whose work Balfour Beatty 
supports. Any shares that you donate to 
ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when 
possible, and the proceeds will be donated 
to a wide range of other UK charities. 
Registrars
All administrative enquiries relating to 
shareholdings and requests to receive 
corporate documents by email should, 
in the ﬁrst instance, be directed to the 
Company’s Registrars and clearly state 
your registered address and, if available, 
your shareholder reference number. 
Please write to:
Capita Registrars, The Registry,  
34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent 
BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 
from the UK (calls cost 10p per minute 
plus network extras) and +44 20 8639 
3399 from outside the UK (Monday to 
Friday 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, UK time). 
Alternatively, you can email:  
ssd@capitaregistrars.com.
They can help you to: check your 
shareholding; register a change of address 
or name; obtain a replacement dividend 
cheque or tax voucher; record the death 
of a shareholder.
Dividends and dividend 
reinvestment plan
Dividends may be paid directly into your 
bank or building society account through 
the Bankers Automated Clearing System 
(BACS). The Registrars can provide 
a dividend mandate form. A dividend 
reinvestment plan (DRIP) is offered which 
allows holders of ordinary shares  
to reinvest their cash dividends in the 
Company’s shares through a specially 
arranged share dealing service. Full details 
of the DRIP and its charges, together  
with mandate forms, are available at 
www.balfourbeatty-shares.com.
International payment service
Shareholders outside the UK may elect 
to receive dividends paid direct into their 
overseas bank account, or by currency 
draft, instead of by sterling cheque. For 
further information, contact the Company’s 
Registrars on +44 20 8639 3405 (from 
outside the UK) or 0871 664 0385 from the 
UK (calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
extras). Lines are open Monday to Friday 
Since ShareGift was launched, over £16m 
has been given to more than 1,800 charities. 
The relevant share transfer form may be 
obtained from the Registrars. For more 
information visit www.ShareGift.org.
Share dealing services
Capita Share Dealing Services (a trading 
name of Capita IRG Trustees Limited) 
provide a telephone and online share 
dealing service for UK and EEA resident 
shareholders. To use this service, 
telephone: 0871 664 0364 from the UK 
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
extras) and +44 20 3367 2686 from 
outside the UK (Monday to Friday 8.00 am 
to 4.30 pm, UK time). Alternatively, you 
can log on to www.capitadeal.com.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited is 
authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority.
London Stock Exchange Codes
The London Stock Exchange Daily Ofﬁcial 
List (SEDOL) codes are: Ordinary shares: 
0096162. Preference shares: 0097820.
The London Stock Exchange “ticker” 
codes are: Ordinary shares: BBY. 
Preference shares: BBYB.
Capital gains tax (CGT)
For CGT purposes the market value on 
31 March 1982 of Balfour Beatty plc’s 
ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p 
per share. This has been adjusted for the 
1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, the 2 for 
11 rights issue in September 1996 and the 
3 for 7 rights issue in October 2009 and 
assumes that all rights have been taken up.
Consolidated tax vouchers
From (and including) the July 2013 
dividend payments, Balfour Beatty will 
provide a consolidated tax voucher. This 
will in future be issued annually to all 
shareholders who have their dividends 
paid direct to their bank accounts. If you 
would prefer to receive a tax voucher at 
each dividend payment date rather than 
annually, please contact the Registrars. 
A copy of the consolidated tax voucher 
may be downloaded from the Share Portal 
at www.balfourbeatty-shares.com.
Enquiries
Enquiries relating to Balfour Beatty’s 
results, business and ﬁnancial position 
should be made in writing to the 
Corporate Communications Department 
at the address shown below or by email 
to info@balfourbeatty.com.
Balfour Beatty plc Registered Ofﬁce: 
130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ 
Registered in England Number 395826 Forward-looking statements
This document may include certain forward-looking 
statements, beliefs or opinions, including statements 
with respect to Balfour Beatty plc’s business, ﬁnancial 
condition and results of operations. These forward-
looking statements can be identiﬁed by the use of 
forward-looking terminology, including the terms 
“believes”, “estimates”, “plans”, “anticipates”, 
“targets”, “aims”, “continues”, “expects”, ”intends”, 
”hopes”, ”may”, ”will”, ”would”, ”could” or “should” 
or in each case, their negative or other various or 
comparable terminology. These statements are made 
by the Balfour Beatty plc Directors in good faith based 
on the information available to them at the date of this 
report and reﬂect the Balfour Beatty plc Directors’ 
beliefs and expectations. By their nature these 
statements involve risk and uncertainty because they 
relate to events and depend on circumstances that 
may or may not occur in the future. A number of 
factors could cause actual results and developments 
to differ materially from those expressed or implied by 
the forward-looking statements, including, without 
limitation, developments in the global economy, 
changes in UK and US government policies, spending 
and procurement methodologies, failure in Balfour 
Beatty’s health, safety or environmental policies and 
those factors set out under “managing risk” on pages 
58 to 61 of this document.
No representation or warranty is made that any of 
these statements or forecasts will come to pass or that 
any forecast results will be achieved. Forward-looking 
statements speak only as at the date of this document 
and Balfour Beatty plc and its advisers expressly 
disclaim any obligations or undertaking to release 
any update of, or revisions to, any forward-looking 
statements in this document. No statement in 
the document is intended to be, or intended to be 
construed as, a proﬁt forecast or to be interpreted to 
mean that earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share for the 
current or future ﬁnancial years will necessarily match 
or exceed the historical earnings per Balfour Beatty plc 
share. As a result, you are cautioned not to place any 
undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Designed and produced by CON R AN DES I GN GROUP
Board photography by Andy Wilson
Printed in England by Pureprint
The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled 
content, of which 100% is de-inked post-consumer waste. 
All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free 
process (ECF). Printed in the UK by Pureprint using its 
 and environmental printing technology, 
with vegetable inks used throughout. Pureprint is a 
CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both the manufacturing mill and 
printer are registered to the Environmental Management 
System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 
(FSC) chain-of-custody certiﬁed. 130 Wilton Road 
London SW1V 1LQ
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7216 6800 
Facsimile: +44 (0) 20 7216 6950
www.balfourbeatty.com 
Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
