 Cape plc Annual Report 2015
Annual
Report
2015 Contents
Overview
IFC About Cape
1 2015 highlights
2 Cape at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement 2015
Strategic report
8 Our markets
12 Our strategy
14 Our business model
16 Key performance indicators
18 How we manage risk
20 Principal risks and viability
26 Chief Executive’s review
30 Business review
36 Chief Financial Offi cer’s 
review
40 Corporate and 
social responsibility
Governance
52 Introduction from the 
Chairman
53 Corporate governance 
compliance
54 Leadership: the Board 
and its Committees
59 Effectiveness
60 Nomination Committee 
report
61 Accountability
62 Audit Committee report
65 Directors’ remuneration 
report
78 Relationship with 
shareholders and 
share capital
80 Directors’ report
81 Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements
82  Independent auditor’s 
report to the members 
of Cape plc
90 Consolidated income 
statement
91 Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
92 Consolidated statement 
of fi nancial position
93 Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
94 Consolidated cash fl ow 
statement
95 Notes to the consolidated 
fi nancial statements
136 Parent company statement 
of comprehensive income
137 Parent company statement 
of fi nancial position
138 Parent company statement 
of changes in equity
139 Parent company cash fl ow 
statement
140 Notes to the parent 
company fi nancial 
statements
144 Five-year fi nancial summary 
(Unaudited)
About Cape
Cape is an international leader in the provision of 
critical industrial services principally to the energy 
and natural resources sectors. Cape provides a 
multi-disciplinary service offering including the 
traditional services of access, insulation, coatings 
and mechanical, and a range of specialist 
services including oil and gas storage tanks, 
heat exchanger replacement and refurbishment, 
and environmental services.
Cape is listed on the main market of the London 
Stock Exchange (symbol ‘CIU’).
Find out more online:
www.capeplc.com 1  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
2015 highlights
Order intake increased by 13% to 
£841m (2014: £744m); order book at 
31 December 2015 was 18% higher 
at £861m (2014: £731m)
Revenue increased by 3.0% to £711.4m 
(2014: £690.5m)
Adjusted operating profi t increased to 
£52.5m (2014: £52.3m) demonstrating 
the resilience of the business in 
challenging markets
Adjusted operating profi t margin fell 
slightly to 7.4% (2014: 7.6%), due to 
increasing market pricing pressures
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 
of 29.9 pence (2014: 30.0 pence) 
benefi tted from a favourable mix of 
post-tax earnings
Continued progress on strategy in both 
operational excellence and target areas for 
growth including geographic expansion 
and broadening of service offering
Adjusted operating cash fl ow up 29% 
to £43.9m (2014: £34.1m) resulting in 
adjusted net debt of £109.9m 
(2014: £101.0m)
Full year dividend maintained at 
14.0 pence (2014: 14.0 pence) 
Market conditions are expected to 
continue to weaken through 2016 with 
a resultant pressure on margins
Group statutory results 2015 2014*
Revenue 711.4 690.5
Operating profi t 39.9 39.7
Profi t before tax 29.1 30.0
Diluted EPS (pence) 12.7 8.6
Revenue:
(2014: £690.5m*)
Adjusted 
operating 
profi t:
(2014: £52.3m*)
Adjusted 
net debt: 
(2014: £101.0m)
Operating cash 
conversion:
(2014: 65.2%*)
Dividend per share:
(2014: 14.0 pence)
Adjusted diluted 
earnings per 
share (EPS):
(2014: 30.0 pence*)
£71 1.4m
£52.5m
£109.9m
83.6%
14.0p
29.9p
Throughout this statement various non-statutory measures are used and 
referred to as adjusted. These are defi ned and reconciled to their statutory 
equivalent in note 7 ‘Adjusted measures’ on page 104.
* Certain amounts do not correspond to the 2014 fi nancial statements and refl ect 
the adjustments detailed in note 2 ‘Prior period adjustments’ on page 95.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Asia Pacific
MENA
Adjusted operating profit by region 
UK, Europe & CIS
6.9 2015
6.8 2014
25.4 2015
21.1 2014
34.5 2015
38.5 2014
2  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Cape at a glance
Our international footprint
People are at the heart of our business. We employ 
c. 16,400 employees around the world. Our people 
are pivotal to the success of Cape and our core 
values encapsulate the behaviours that drive our 
long term success. 
16,400
Total employees
5,200
UK, Europe & CIS employees
8,900
MENA employees
2,300
Asia Pacifi c employees 3  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Our services
Cape targets its services to the industrial sector where our 
operational excellence and safety focus carries a premium. 
Access
Cape has been a leading supplier of scaffold and alternative access 
equipment and services such as rope access to onshore and offshore 
industrial clients for over 30 years. As well as attracting and training 
multi-skilled access personnel to the highest standards, we also have 
in-house designers for complex requirements and rope access 
specialists with full IRATA membership. 
Insulation
We have more than 50 years’ international experience working in high 
and low temperature insulation, which gives our clients confi dence in 
our expertise and understanding of potentially hazardous environments 
and our ability to manage them safely and cost-effectively. Cape has a 
particular expertise in cryogenic insulation for LNG plants. 
Specialist coatings and fi re proofi ng
Cape provides preparation and coating across a wide range of 
applications including clean rooms, shipyards, petrochemical plants, 
LNG plants and more, both onshore and offshore. Our skilled specialist 
teams also provide a range of fi reproofi ng techniques, including cement 
and fi brous sprays, fi re cladding and intumescent coatings.
Oil and gas storage tanks
As one of the world’s leading operators in this highly specialised fi eld, 
Motherwell Bridge offers comprehensive storage tank services, 
including storage tank design, engineering, manufacture, construction, 
repair and maintenance for site-built, above ground storage tanks.
Mechanical services
With the acquisition of Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited, now 
renamed Cape Engineering Services Limited, Cape provides a range 
of mechanical and engineering services, primarily to the UK market. 
Our capabilities include project management, structural steelwork, 
pipework repair and fabrication and related engineering services. 
Refractory lining
Cape has a world leading capability in both the design and installation 
of refractory materials, providing these services to clients around the 
world. Engineering capability is provided across the Group by our 
centre of excellence based in the UK. 
Environmental services
Cape provides a range of specialist industrial cleaning services across 
both onshore and offshore assets. These specialist services meet strict 
regulatory standards and enable our clients to operate their process 
plant to maximum effi ciency. 
Heat exchanger replacement and refurbishment
Cape provides both on-site and off-site overhaul of heat exchangers 
both onshore and offshore using our experienced workforce backed up 
by a dedicated facility in Scotland. 
Our sectors
Oil and gas
Split of revenue: £393m 55%
Over half of Group revenues are derived from the oil and gas sector 
both onshore and offshore, predominantly for the midstream and 
downstream sectors. Cape provides a range of multi-disciplinary 
services to both existing assets and new construction projects. 
Cape’s success is based on the long-term relationships we have 
built with our clients and on our reputation for excellence in delivery, 
providing a safe and effi cient service that delivers value for our clients. 
Our client base includes National and International Oil Companies 
who operate existing assets as well as Engineering, Procurement, 
Construction companies (EPCs) who undertake the new 
construction projects. 
Power generation
Split of revenue: £100m 14%
Cape offers exceptional experience and expertise in the UK power 
generation sector, as well as an ability to deliver a rapid emergency 
response to repairs and plant defects anywhere in the country. 
In the UK, Cape supports and maintains all main types of power 
generation plant.
Chemical and steel 
Split of revenue: £106m 15%
Cape provides a wide range of multi-disciplinary services across 
industrial plants including extensive access and insulation support to 
the construction and maintenance of major chemical, petrochemical, 
polymer and steel production plants, including the engineering, 
supply and installation of specialist gasholders for the steel industry. 
Mining
Split of revenue: £27m 4%
Cape provides expertise in the mining sector across construction 
support services and key maintenance services to clients. Cape’s 
multi-disciplinary approach helps reduce operational costs and 
eradicate waste, while enhancing effi ciency, productivity and safety. 
Other 
Split of revenue: £85m 12%
Cape also has an international presence in several other sectors, 
including the marine construction market, where Cape provides 
services supporting naval projects around the world and in other 
industrial areas where the Group’s specialist services provides 
environmental cleaning to a variety of other sectors including the 
pharmaceutical and food industries. Cape’s clients rely on the 
Group’s expertise and emphasis on safety to support large, secure 
industrial assets.
For more information:
Our markets 
Page 8
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 4  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Chairman’s statement 2015
“ Our strategic objective has been 
to achieve a balanced and broad 
business. Its successful implementation 
has provided stability in a diffi cult 
and challenging market. In 2015 we 
delivered a robust performance 
and are confi dent of delivering 
shareholder value even in a 
world of continued low oil 
and commodity prices.” 
 Tim Eggar
 Chairman
Adjusted diluted 
earnings per 
share:
29.9p
(2014: 30.0 pence)
Source: Chevron 5  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
A robust performance
2015 has been another year of good progress for Cape. Not only 
has the business delivered a strong set of results in challenging 
markets, but we have also moved forward on a number of our key 
strategic goals.
The benefi ts of our Operational Excellence programme have been 
seen in our performance and have also been recognised by a 
number of our key clients. The implementation of our new systems 
and processes has been an important element in a number of our 
recent successes in securing new work.
Our ambition to grow by expanding our range of services has been 
supported by the ongoing development of the Motherwell Bridge 
tank business both in the UK and Middle East and the acquisition 
during the year of Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited which has 
now been rebranded as Cape Engineering Services Limited (CESL). 
The opportunity to expand the services of these businesses further 
across the Cape Group remains substantial. We have taken the fi rst 
steps towards growth through geographic expansion by opening 
operations in Kuwait and Malaysia. I am confi dent both will deliver 
positive results in the years ahead.
Safety remains our top priority and is at the top of every Board 
agenda. We continue to strive for the highest level of safety 
performance across every one of our operations. I was pleased that 
we achieved a signifi cant improvement in the number of Lost Time 
Incidents during the year even though we saw a slight fall off in our 
Total Recordable Incident Rate.
We expect that 2016 will present additional challenges as market 
conditions are likely to weaken further. Nonetheless, I fi rmly believe 
we have the right strategy and the right team to steer the business 
through these challenges and to deliver long-term growth.
Financial results
In a year of particularly demanding market conditions, it is a 
pleasure to report that Cape has delivered a stable and robust set 
of results. Order intake was strong, demonstrating that our clients 
recognise the value and quality that Cape offers, and as a result we 
fi nished 2015 with a robust order book of £861 million, 18% higher 
than at the end of 2014. We achieved a steady increase in revenue 
of 3% to £711.4 million (2014: £690.5 million), driven by both a solid 
performance in a number of our markets such as the Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia (KSA), the Wheatstone contract in Australia and the 
contributions from the new businesses of Motherwell Bridge and 
CESL. With a slight erosion of margin due to market pricing 
pressures, we still delivered a steady result in earnings with 
adjusted diluted EPS only marginally down on the prior year at 
29.9p (2014: 30.0p).
Dividend
The Board is recommending a fi nal dividend for 2015 of 9.5 pence 
(H2 2014: 9.5 pence) refl ecting our confi dence in the delivery of our 
strategy and future prospects of the Group. With the interim dividend 
of 4.5 pence (H1 2014: 4.5 pence) this results in a full year dividend 
of 14.0 pence (2014: 14.0 pence). This is subject to shareholders’ 
approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2016 
and the fi nal dividend will be payable on 24 June 2016 to 
shareholders on the register as at 20 May 2016.
Board changes
I am delighted to welcome Samantha Tough, Steve Good and Brian 
Larcombe to the Board. All three bring a wealth of senior leadership 
experience across a range of industries and we are fortunate to be 
able to attract such high quality individuals to the business. 
Samantha has added experience of Australia’s energy, infrastructure 
and natural resources sectors; Steve has brought recent executive 
expertise and knowledge of the chemicals and plastics markets; while 
Brian brings perspectives from private equity and other plc boards.
As previously announced, both Brendan Connolly and Leslie Van 
de Walle decided to step down from the Board to reduce their travel 
time and concentrate on other interests. Both Brendan and Leslie 
played an important part in the transformation of Cape over the last 
three years and I thank both of them for their commitment and 
contribution to the Group. 
Cape people
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all our employees 
on their skill and hard work during 2015. This is refl ected in the 
delivery of good fi nancial results for our shareholders and vindicates 
the drive and dedication shown by all our people. 
Tim Eggar
Chairman
15 March 2016
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015 7  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
8 Our markets
12 Our strategy
14 Our business model
16 Key performance indicators
18 How we manage risk
20 Principal risks and viability
26 Chief Executive’s review
30 Business review
36 Chief Financial Offi cer’s review
40 Corporate and social responsibility
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 8  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Our markets
Market Market trend
During the year the oil price remained at low levels, decreasing from 
$57 per barrel in December 2014 to below $38 per barrel in December 
2015. Major oil companies continued to assess their capital 
expenditure leading to reductions in investment, in particular in the 
upstream sector. The downstream market performed well during 2015 
with refi ning margins at historically high levels, rising from US$28 per 
tonne in Q4 2014 up to US$54 per tonne in Q2 2015 before settling at 
US$38 per tonne in Q4 2015.
The largest cuts in spending have been made by the International Oil 
Companies (IOCs) with National Oil Companies (NOCs) tending to 
focus more on the long term, with comparably lower reductions in 
capital spend.
Natural gas prices have also remained subdued during 2015, in part 
driven by the increase in supply. Global gas consumption continues to 
grow with major consumers in Europe and Asia taking advantage of 
attractive pricing. Qatar remains the leading LNG exporter with 
Australia expected to increase production signifi cantly over the coming 
years as major projects are completed.
Driven by the UK government’s environmental policy, the UK power 
generation market is moving towards a mix of nuclear, gas and 
renewables with less emphasis on thermal coal power generation. 
The fi nal investment decision for the UK’s fi rst new nuclear power 
generation plant at Hinckley Point has continued to be subject to 
delay. In line with the UK government’s policy, thermal coal generation 
capacity is expected to fall with three UK coal-fi red power stations 
having announced in 2015 plans to close during 2016. 
Oil and gas
Power 
generation 9  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Impact and opportunities Primary geographies 
involved
Revenue and % of Group 
revenue
Cape’s revenues are predominantly from maintenance work for which 
demand is more resilient than new construction projects. The MENA 
business is largely exposed to the downstream sector and whilst the 
business has seen an increased focus on costs by its clients coupled 
with delays to some projects, investments by the NOCs at present 
remain committed in the major development projects in the region. 
The UK, Europe & CIS business is exposed to the UK North Sea 
market and the lower oil price has negatively affected both volume 
and margin in this part of the business. The development of the LNG 
projects in Australia is providing a positive increase in demand for the 
Asia Pacifi c business.
UK, Europe & CIS; 
MENA; Asia Pacifi c
£393m 
55%
Demand for Cape’s services from the coal power sector in the UK 
was reduced in anticipation of the planned closures of Eggborough, 
Longannet and Ferrybridge stations. Outside these stations 
maintenance and shutdown volumes remained steady both for the 
nuclear sector and remaining fossil fuelled power plants. New nuclear 
plant construction will provide a signifi cant opportunity for the Group, 
albeit that the timing of that opportunity remains unclear. 
UK, Europe & CIS
£100m 
14%
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 10  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Our markets
continued
Market Market trend
The petrochemical sector remained robust across all of the Group’s 
key operating regions through 2015, buoyed by the reduced cost of 
feedstocks and continued strong demand. The UK sector is investing 
in the development of its ethane import capability to take advantage of 
low cost feedstocks from US shale gas production. Asian and Middle 
Eastern plans for investment in new petrochemical capacity continued 
to progress throughout the year.
Investment in steel production facilities, in particular in the UK, have 
been negatively impacted by the low global steel prices.
Continued low commodity prices, in particular for iron ore which fell 
from US$69 per tonne on 31 December 2014 to below US$40 per 
tonne on 31 December 2015, has resulted in all major mining 
companies reducing investment and seeking ways to reduce their 
operating costs. This situation is expected to persist until commodity 
prices recover. 
Cape has a presence in a variety of sectors including marine 
construction, pharmaceutical and food industries across all regions. 
Demand from these sectors has remained solid through 2015. 
Chemical 
and steel
Mining
Other 11  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Impact and opportunities Primary geographies 
involved
Revenue and % of Group 
revenue
Maintenance demand from the petrochemical sector remained robust 
across all regions within the Group. The investment in new ethane 
import facilities in the UK has provided opportunity for both the 
traditional Cape services and the tank construction business within 
Cape Specialist Services. Bidding activity remains robust for new 
petrochemical projects in both the MENA and Asia Pacifi c regions. 
Demand for both maintenance activity and gasholder construction for 
the steel industry has been low and is expected to remain suppressed 
until global steel prices recover. 
UK, Europe & CIS; 
MENA
£106m
15%
The Group’s Asia Pacifi c business in Australia has experienced both 
low volumes and severe pricing pressure from the mining sector. The 
business has responded by developing solutions for its clients that 
reduce the overall cost of managing their maintenance activities and 
also by adjusting our overhead base to match the level of demand. 
Asia Pacifi c
£27m 
4%
The Group continues to seek opportunities to deliver its full range of 
services to a range of sectors and, in doing so, increase the breadth 
of sectors served. 
UK, Europe & CIS; 
MENA; Asia Pacifi c
£85m 
12%
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 12  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Our strategy
Description Benefi ts of success
Operational excellence
We will differentiate ourselves 
from our competitors by being 
the operational leader in our 
industry, providing safe, on-time, 
high quality services in the most 
effi cient manner. 
Through continuous 
improvement we will stay at the 
forefront of our industry.
 – Margin protection and 
enhancement 
 – Ensures quality of service 
delivery 
 –Enhances safety
 – Helps secure new revenue by 
attracting new clients with 
innovative solutions
 – Improves asset utilisation
Customer intimacy
We create value for our clients 
through a deep understanding of 
their needs, both now and in the 
future, delivering solutions to 
meet those needs. This will 
achieve higher client satisfaction 
and better client retention.
 – Stability of revenue streams 
with key clients 
 – Ability to add more value 
to clients
 – Enables Cape to win 
contracts for other services 
through enhanced trust
Balanced business
We aim to achieve stable revenues 
by having a balanced business 
across the maintenance and new 
construction segments and with 
a broad geographical spread.
 – Stability of revenue streams 
from maintenance business
 – Geographic spread protects 
us from a downturn in one 
specifi c country
 – Balance between NOCs and 
IOCs spreads risk
Broaden portfolio
We will expand the range of 
critical services we offer to our 
clients by adding new specialist 
services adjacent to our core 
existing offerings. 
We seek to: 
 – Introduce new specialist 
services to other regions
 – Secure contracts for all our 
services with our existing 
clients.
 
 – More value-add and technical 
differentiation 
 – More opportunities to be 
successful on every project 
or site as a complete 
service offering
 – Growth through pull-through 
of new services onto existing 
projects or sites
 – Increases addressable market
 – Provides specialist entry point 
into new markets and clients
Geographic expansion
Our aim is to achieve market 
leading positions in our key 
markets, delivering better service 
to our clients and superior returns 
to our shareholders. We seek to 
achieve the maximum potential 
from our existing territories whilst 
seeking out opportunities to 
enter new high-growth markets.
 – Experience shows a high 
market share generates 
better returns
 –Spreads risk 
 – Projects provide an entry 
point for long-term 
maintenance
 – Increases overall growth 
potential for the Group 
through selection of new 
higher growth markets
KPIs
A: Order intake
B: Operating cash conversion
C: Return on invested capital
D: Annual growth in maintenance revenue
E: Adjusted operating profi t margin
F: Total recordable incident rate
G: Working capital as a percentage of revenue
H: Adjusted diluted EPS
 See page 16 for details on KPIs
Our strategic intent is to be the leading 
provider of critical industrial services in 
our chosen geographic markets.
We achieve this through the fi ve key 
elements of our strategy which deliver 
both stability of earnings and provide 
the engine for long-term growth. 13  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
What we have achieved in 2015 Short/medium-term goals Relevant KPIs
 – Roll out of standardised tools and processes onto 
priority sites 
 – Established Centres of Excellence for sharing knowledge 
across the Group
 – Focussed the Cape Management Development 
Programme (CMDP) on training our supervisors to drive 
cultural change at the grass roots level 
 – Completion of the fi rst Senior Leaders Development 
Programme (SLDP) and Future Leaders Development 
Programme (FLDP) cohorts 
 – Established a global asset management function to 
improve asset utilisation 
 – Develop next generation of site systems
 – Roll-out across the Group
 – Continue to build in-house leadership talent
 – Develop process to embed best practice
 – A, B, C, D, E, F, 
G, H
 – Investment made in increasing business development 
capacity across the Group’s regions
 – Developed an account management toolkit
 – Continue to develop a deep 
understanding of key customer needs
 – Increase the range of solutions provided 
to key clients
 – A, E, H
 – Secured key Asia Pacifi c maintenance wins in Singapore 
(ExxonMobil), Thailand (Dow), Australia (Woodside) at key 
targeted maintenance sites 
 – Maintained strong maintenance revenue base year-on-year
 – Continue to expand maintenance in 
all regions
 – A, D, H
 – Acquired Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited in May 
2015 and quickly achieved revenue synergies by securing 
offshore mechanical work with a Cape client 
 – Secured fi rst contract in the UAE for Motherwell Bridge 
storage tanks
 – Invested in Cape Specialist Services team in MENA region
 – Further develop CSS in the MENA region
 – Secure work for our new disciplines by 
‘fi lling the white space’ with existing clients
 – Explore addition of new capabilities 
through acquisition
 – A, E, H
 – Secured fi rst contract in Kuwait on a key construction 
project in the downstream oil and gas sector 
 – Established joint venture in Malaysia with a local oilfi eld 
services company to address a major downstream 
construction project and the domestic maintenance 
market
 – Invest in a dedicated team to develop 
new territories
 – Establish the next phase of regional 
expansion
 – A, C, E, H
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 14  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Critical Industrial Services
Traditional services: access, insulation, passive fi re protection, 
coatings and surface preparation, mechanical.
Specialist services: refractory linings, environmental services, 
storage tank construction and maintenance, gasholders, heat 
exchanger repair and maintenance.
We seek to create value by bringing additional services to clients 
to whom we currently only provide one or more disciplines.
We deploy our assets in line with our strategy 
Maintenance and 
construction markets
Cape has a broad geographical footprint. We supply our services 
across the globe to both the maintenance environment and to 
major construction projects, working with EPCs and the plant 
owner/operators. Cape’s maintenance business has grown 
steadily over the last fi ve years and it provides a stable base, with 
strong cash generation, from which construction projects can be 
selectively targeted. In new territories the construction segment is 
the usual entry point and Cape wins in this environment when the 
local supply base lacks the capability and assets to deliver major 
projects. These construction projects can then often act as an 
entry point for the wider maintenance market.
Our business model
1. Maintenance 67%
2. Construction 33%
People
Our people are pivotal to the success of Cape and to our 
ability to serve our clients. We invest signifi cant resources in 
identifying exceptional people, developing their skills, and 
retaining them. Through our values and culture we seek to 
create an environment that drives the behaviours that deliver 
success for the long term.
Fixed assets
Cape has a signifi cant asset base that is spread across our 
footprint and which can be mobilised quickly to react to our 
clients’ needs. We continue to invest in our assets to ensure we 
can offer clients the most appropriate, innovative and effi cient 
solution to meet their requirements. Through our bespoke 
systems we are able to maximise asset utilisation.
Knowledge and IP
Cape is a world leader in its fi eld and we have developed a 
signifi cant body of intellectual property in specialist know-how 
and processes. As part of our Operational Excellence 
programme we are ensuring that these processes are 
consistently deployed across our footprint to ensure we are 
operating to best practice throughout the Group. We seek to 
continuously improve these processes as they are a key 
differentiator for Cape.
2
1
Assets 15  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Geographic footprint
We seek to create value by transferring specialist services from the 
core country where a specialist service is based to other countries 
in the Cape footprint where these specialist services are not yet 
provided. We then use our strong client relationships to grow our 
revenues in these new service areas.
Markets 
We provide our critical industrial services to a broad range of 
markets. Oil and gas is approximately half of our business and we 
work both onshore and offshore, predominantly in the downstream 
and midstream sectors. Our business supports a variety of other 
sectors including the power generation sector; chemical and 
steel industry; and mining sector as well as a wide range of other 
markets from marine services to food processing and large 
general industrial operations. This diverse market base provides 
stability to revenue streams.
1. Oil and gas 55%
2. Power generation 14%
3. Chemical and steel 15%
4. Mining 4%
5. Other 12%
2
1
3
4
5
1. UK, Europe & CIS 56%
2. MENA 24%
3. Asia Pacifi c 20%
2
1
3
Create value for stakeholders
Employees
We believe our one team approach provides a supportive 
environment where people can learn and are provided with 
opportunities for growth and development. We are committed to 
develop and train our people and we aim to always operate with 
integrity to provide a positive working environment. Pivotal to all of 
this is ensuring we keep our people safe and healthy in everything 
that they do. As our business grows we create new opportunities 
for our people.
Shareholders
We believe our strategy will deliver fi nancial stability and growth. 
Through improved operational performance we seek to protect 
and enhance our margins; our local scale enables cost effi ciency 
and higher returns; we will deliver growth by driving new 
specialist services around our footprint and through targeted 
geographic expansion.
Customers
Clients trust Cape to deliver safely, on-time, to cost and quality. 
Cape’s ability to mobilise rapidly to meet clients’ needs helps to 
reduce downtime and saves clients’ costs. We aim to work with 
clients to understand their needs and to develop and deliver 
solutions to those needs. Our broad geographical spread and 
wide service offering gives us the capability to support clients 
across a range of territories and provide a multi-disciplinary 
service offering, saving them both time and money.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 16  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Key performance indicators
B. Operating cash conversion (%)
83.6%
Description
Operating cash fl ow divided by adjusted operating profi t.
How we have performed
Operating cash conversion was 83.6% (2014: 65.2%) refl ecting the 
decrease in working capital. 
* Restated for discontinued operations. 
65.2 2014*
150.7 2013
149.8 2012
83.6 2015
42.0 2011
D. Annual growth in maintenance revenue (%)
-0.8%
Description
The annual growth in revenue that is related to maintenance contracts. 
Our target is to achieve year-on-year positive growth of our 
maintenance business.
How we have performed
Maintenance revenues decreased by 0.8% (2014: 14.1% increase) with 
increased construction revenues in Asia Pacifi c although maintenance 
revenues increased in UK, Europe & CIS and MENA. 
* Restated for discontinued operations. 
14. 1 2014*
5.0 2013
8.1 2012
5.5 2011
-0.8 2015
A. Order intake (£m)
£841m
Description
Orders received in the twelve-month period ending 31 December 
2015. All orders are supported by a signed contract or purchase order. 
Note that this information was not reliably measured until 2012.
How we have performed
Order intake was £841 million in 2015, signifi cantly ahead of the 
£744 million secured in 2014.
Note 1
Prior to 2012 the data was not collected in a way that makes it comparable to the 
data collected since 2012. 
* Restated for discontinued operations. 
841 2015
744 2014*
625 2013
619 2012
2011
1
C. Return on invested capital (%)
21.9%
Description
Defi ned at Group level as adjusted operating profi t divided by the 
accounted value of equity plus adjusted net debt. At regional level it is 
defi ned as adjusted operating profi t divided by net trading assets.
How we have performed
Return on invested capital decreased to 21.9% in 2015.
* Restated for discontinued operations. 
22.9 2014*
21.2 2013
11.8 2012
21.9 2015
16.8 2011 17  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
E. Adjusted operating profi t margin (%)
7.4%
Description
Adjusted operating profi t (as defi ned in note 7) divided by revenue.
How we have performed
Adjusted operating margin decreased slightly to 7.4% in 2015 
(2014: 7.6%).
* Restated for discontinued operations. 
7.6 2014*
6.0 2013
3.7 2012
7.4 2015
11.2 2011
G. Working capital as a percentage of revenue (%)
12.9%
Description
Working capital as a percentage of revenues (trailing six months 
multiplied by two).
How we have performed
Working capital, as a percentage of revenue, was 12.9% (2014: 12.2%) 
and remains in line with our targets.
* Restated for discontinued operations. 
12.2 2014*
11.3 2013
11.4 2012
12.9 2015
16.6 2011
H. Adjusted diluted EPS (in pence)
29.9p
Description
Defi ned as profi t after tax on continuing operations excluding 
Exceptional and Other items expressed as a percentage of the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the 
year, adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive 
ordinary shares.
How we have performed
EPS is in line with prior year at 29.9p (2014: 30.0p).
* Restated for discontinued operations. 
30.0 2014*
23.3 2013
12.7 2012
29.9 2015
43.8 2011
F. Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
1.271
Description
The total number of incidents divided by the number of hours worked 
during the year. This is measured on a per million basis.
How we have performed
TRIR increased to 1.271 (2014: 1.028) but we remain well ahead 
of industry norms.
1.028 2014
0.920 2013
1.656 2012
1.271 2015
1.580 2011
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 18  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
How we manage risk
How we manage risk 
Following Cape’s values in everything we do
Whilst Cape is focussed on seeking opportunities and delivering our 
objectives, we are passionate that we will do this by working in line 
with our values. We fi rmly believe that adopting responsible behaviour 
at every level and in every aspect of the business is key to our success 
and is our fi rst line of defence in risk management. Our values, visible 
adherence to our values and the reinforcement of them has created a 
strong culture of risk awareness within the business.
 For more information go to page 41
Operations are accountable and maintain an effective 
risk framework
Our employees work across many different geographies and provide a 
wide range of services, carrying a range of risk types. Our employees 
take accountability for effectively managing risks, using the Group’s 
thorough system of policies and procedures to do so. Internal control 
procedures are maintained on a day-to-day basis, risk registers are in 
place and training needs are assessed, to ensure the appropriate 
knowledge and skills are everywhere that they are needed. 
Our independent risk management and compliance functions 
determine appropriate frameworks for managing risk 
Independent functions determine the appropriate frameworks, set 
standards for managing risk, provide oversight for specifi c risk areas 
and ensure standards are implemented by process owners consistently 
across Cape. Independent functions such as health and safety, 
fi nance, legal, commercial and Operational Excellence operate as 
centres of quality and collaborate with process owners on controls 
to mitigate identifi ed risks. 
Internal audit provides independent challenge
Our internal audit department reviews fi nancial controls and risk 
management procedures throughout Cape, identifying risks, issues 
and opportunities for improvement and then reporting to the 
executive management and Audit Committee on these matters 
including updates on progress made against open items. 
Cape recognises that in a complex 
operational environment, it is 
essential that we actively manage 
our risks and opportunities to allow 
us to deliver the Group’s strategic 
objectives. Our risk management 
procedures allow the Group to 
identify, assess and manage risk to 
an acceptable level whilst in pursuit 
of our strategic objectives. 
Strategy
– Operational excellence
– Customer intimacy
– Balanced business
– Broaden portfolio
– Geographic expansion
Cape’s risk activity
Regional 
risk 
registers
Group 
risk 
register
Internal resources
– People
– Fixed assets
– Knowledge and    
processes (IP)
Recognition
Aggregation
Mitigation
Management
Governance review
Strategic assessment
Selection Evaluation 
Flexing
External environments
– Economic
– Political
– Security
Executive
management
Board
Principal 
risks
Viability 
statement
Risk 
appetite
Cape’s 
values
Cape’s risk process 19  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Risk heatmap
Arrows show direction of change
Our risk monitoring process
Analysing risks 
 – Risks are evaluated to establish potential fi nancial and non-fi nancial 
impacts, the likelihood of occurrence and the root cause. 
A bottom-up risk assessment is undertaken by all business units 
every six months which results in a prioritised register of risks. 
A top-down assessment of operational and strategic risk is 
undertaken by the Board and Executive Committee at least 
annually. The two processes are compared for profi le and gaps 
and are factored into Cape’s fi nal risk analysis.
Risk mitigation 
 – We review the nature, adequacy and appropriateness of our 
current controls to mitigate these risks. If new, different or 
additional risks are identifi ed or if additional controls are 
required, these are developed and appropriate responsibilities 
to discharge are assigned. Acquisition and other investment-
related risks are identifi ed and assessed before key investment 
decisions are made.
Reporting and monitoring
 – Risks are monitored throughout the year by the executive 
management and summarised to the Board. Emerging risks 
are identifi ed, reported and reviewed on an ongoing basis, with 
particular focus on capturing emerging risk and monitoring all 
changing risk during monthly business reviews. Management 
is responsible for monitoring weakness in controls and 
progress of actions taken by business units to mitigate the 
key risks; this is supported through the Group’s internal audit 
programme. The results of the risk management process 
are reported to the Audit Committee every six months. 
 For more information go to page 61 to 64
F
J
A
D
I
K
G
H
B
C
Increasing impact
Increasing likelihood
E
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
The Board and Executive Management are our fi nal line 
of defence
The Board and Executive Management are actively engaged in 
assessing strategic risk and providing oversight. The Audit 
Committee formally reviews the results of the risk management 
process twice a year and reviews internal audit assurance work 
throughout the year. We are looking to strengthen this by formalising 
executive management’s role in risk management. We have 
commenced this in 2015 with further development planned for 2016. 
 For more information go to page 61
2015 assessment of principal risks
The risk assessment exercise is undertaken by each region and 
Group function to conduct a formal review of risk that could impact 
the Group. The assessment includes the perceived level of risk and 
likelihood of occurrence, both before and after mitigating controls. 
The impact of risks are quantifi ed across a range of factors including: 
fi nancial, health and safety, environmental, enforcement and 
reputational. The Executive Committee separately discussed the 
Group’s principal risks in December 2015 to form a top-down 
assessment and oversight from a Group-wide view. The Board 
performed a top-down review in August 2015 and again in January 
2016 and subsequently reviewed and challenged both bottom-up 
and top-down assessments to arrive at the agreed principal risks.
Subsequent to the risk management process, the Board identifi ed 
eleven principal risks which are set out in the table below:
Risk appetite
The Group’s risk appetite drives strong commercial risk controls, 
high standard of health, safety and environmental compliance and 
fi nancial management that collectively allow growth whilst limiting 
the Group’s risk exposure to an acceptable level. The level of risk is 
considered appropriate for Cape to accept in achieving our strategic 
objectives and is determined in accordance with the Board’s 
strategic reviews and risk assessments during the year. 
A  Global political, security 
and economic conditions
B  Key client and market 
dependency
C  Health, safety and 
environmental risks
D  Recruitment and retention 
of key executives and 
skilled employees
E  Contract acceptance risk 
F  Operational and project 
performance risk
G  Investment and asset 
integrity 
H  Compliance and business 
conduct risk 
I  Industrial Disease Claims 
– provision adequacy 
risks on existing scope of 
liability provision
J  Industrial Disease Claims 
– widening of the scope 
and liability
K  Taxation 20  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Principal risks and viability
Risk Risk description Link to strategy
A. Global 
political, security 
and economic 
conditions
There is a potential impact on the Group from political, security and 
economic conditions globally. We operate across the globe and 
therefore may be exposed to adverse situations with potential risk to 
our people, property and business operations. Examples of such risks 
would be geo-political events, sanctions, terrorist events, disease 
outbreaks or environmental hazards. Deterioration in commodity 
prices affecting customer capital and operational expenditure is a key 
risk. Although we operate over a number of sectors, we are at risk of 
declining revenue streams, contract renegotiation and incurring costs 
not supported by revenue during economic downturns.
 – Geographic expansion
 – Balanced business
 – Operational excellence
B. Key client 
and market 
dependency
Loss of key clients or decline in a key market could adversely affect 
Cape’s revenues. The Group’s top ten clients represented 45% of 
revenue (2014: 42%) and if we are unable to continue working for one 
or more of our key clients then the Group’s future prospects may be 
impacted. There is the risk of revenues being too concentrated on a 
particular market. Working capital may be impacted if key customers 
look to extend payment terms or reject claims.
 – Customer intimacy
 – Balanced business
C. Health, 
safety and 
environmental 
(HSE) risks
The Group may suffer commercial and reputational damage as a 
result of a safety or environmental incident involving our employees, 
members of the public or third-party partners. Failure to maintain high 
HSE standards could result in injury or loss of personnel, breach of 
regulations, fi nancial loss and reputational damage. Financial 
penalties may be incurred for HSE incidents which in the UK are 
signifi cantly increasing.
 – Operational excellence
D. Recruitment 
and retention of 
key executives 
and skilled 
employees
The inability to recruit or retain both key executives and skilled 
employees could adversely impact the Group both operationally and 
fi nancially. Key executives, senior management and skilled employees 
possess the industry knowledge and experience without which the 
strategic objectives may not be advanced. 
 – Geographic expansion
 –Broaden portfolio
 – Operational excellence 21  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Mitigation Change in risk during 2015 For more information
 – A diverse portfolio reduces exposure to each specifi c location. 
 – Monitor travel by Cape employees and restrict travel to countries 
deemed unsafe or too high risk. 
 – Dedicated Group Head of Security in place. 
 – Regular security and risk assessments and monitoring.
 – Contingency plans and exit strategy in place.
 – Monitor any changes in sanctions by legal counsel. 
 – Senior management presence in all regions.
 – Insurance policies taken as appropriate.
 – Wide range of geographies and sectors provide diverse 
revenue streams. 
 – Reviews of Group’s forecast and market trends are completed 
quarterly along with the Group’s strategic annual planning process 
to ensure impacts from the economic environment are managed. 
 – Contract performance reviewed monthly by fi nance and 
commercial management, with those deemed high risk escalated 
to the Audit Committee. This allows any changes to expected 
performance or impact of economic downturns to be identifi ed 
early and any necessary action taken. 
 – Operational Excellence initiatives seek to increase effi ciencies 
and improve customer relations and satisfaction.
 Corporate and social 
responsibility 
section (security)
page 43
Our markets 
page 8
 – Client relationships are built at multiple levels from site supervisors 
to senior management. 
 – Multi-year contracts in place. 
 – Group strategy focussed on creating a broad portfolio of clients 
and markets. 
 – Acquisitions brought new client relationships and wider 
opportunities.
 – Revenue generated across numerous markets, across different 
geographies providing greater stability and robustness of 
revenue streams. 
 – Work performed throughout asset life cycles providing 
opportunities at each stage.
 – Monthly contract performance reviews by fi nance and commercial 
management to identify and escalate high risk areas. 
 Our markets 
page 8
 – High number of HSE personnel in all regions.
 – Investment in training to improve staff skills and ensure 
qualifi cations are up to date. 
 – HSE initiatives rolled out throughout the year to raise awareness.
 – HSE policies and procedures in place and monitored throughout 
all regions.
Corporate and social 
responsibility section 
(health and safety) 
page 43 to 47
 – Monitor employee turnover and conduct exit interviews.
 – Training programmes implemented at all levels of Cape including 
programmes aimed at executives, senior leaders, future leaders 
and supervisors. Skilled employees’ training is monitored and 
refreshed as required. 
 – Executive remuneration is reviewed against market data to ensure 
awards are competitive. Long-term incentive plans are in place to 
encourage the retention of the key management group. 
 – Availability of skilled employees has improved in some 
geographies as projects complete and some projects become 
impacted by the economic conditions.
 – Software to track status of applicants introduced across all regions. 
Directors’ remuneration report 
page 65 to 77
Corporate and social 
responsibility section 
(people) 
page 42
 Increase Decrease Unchanged  Link to 
Viability 
statement
Key
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 22  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Principal risks and viability
continued
Risk Risk description Link to strategy
E. Contract 
acceptance risk 
There is a risk that Cape may fail to manage contract risk and 
commit to contractual terms and conditions that expose the Group 
to excessive fi nancial risks and potential cost overruns. 
 – Operational excellence
 –Broaden portfolio
F. Operational 
and project 
performance risk
Ineffi cient project execution and management could lead to additional 
costs being incurred, affecting overall project performance and the 
Group’s fi nancial performance. As our range of services and 
geographies broaden, the number of project types and styles expand, 
increasing this risk. 
 – Operational excellence
 – Customer intimacy
 –Broaden portfolio
G. Investment 
and asset 
integrity 
Return on invested capital may decrease if there is a failure to achieve 
satisfactory returns on assets, acquisitions, joint ventures or other 
investments. Cape holds £80.2 million of property, plant and equipment 
assets around the globe and the inadequate management and fi nancial 
control of these assets may expose the Group to loss of operational 
control, assets, fi nancial data or data integrity. Implementation of new 
ERP systems could pose a transitional risk to the fi nancial management 
of these assets and the business.
 – Operational excellence
 – Geographic expansion
H. Compliance 
and business 
conduct risk 
Cape is exposed to the risk of non-compliance and breach of 
applicable laws and regulations including anti-bribery and anti-
corruption, sanctions, health and safety regulations and tax. A lack of 
knowledge of relevant legislation across the countries we operate in 
could result in a breach of law or regulation. 
 – Geographic expansion
 – Operational excellence 23  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Mitigation Change in risk during 2015 For more information
 – Policies and procedures in place for contract approval include 
bid approval models, peer review and Board approval of key 
contracts. 
 – Dedicated commercial teams are in place in all regions. 
 – Experienced management teams in place for all service offerings 
with the relevant technical and industry knowledge. 
 – Large majority of contracts being cost reimbursable and 
preference of management for this basis. 
 – Commercial management report on high risk contracts to senior 
executives and the Audit Committee.
 Audit Committee report 
page 62 to 64
 – Operational Excellence initiatives have been implemented and 
subsequently further developed each year as part of continuous 
improvement programmes; implementing a global project 
management toolkit and standardised project delivery system 
framework; continuing to develop and formalise best practice; 
and knowledge sharing across the Group. 
 – Cape Management Development Programme provides training to 
all levels of employees and includes project management and 
fi nancial management skills. 
 – Centres of excellence share knowledge across the Group. 
 – Monthly project performance reviews are undertaken involving 
fi nance, commercial and operational personnel. 
 – Audit Committee regularly review commercial contract risks with 
the Group Commercial Director and Chief Executive. 
 
Audit Committee report 
page 62 to 64
 – Due diligence and assessments made prior to acquisitions. 
 – Detailed assessments of joint venture arrangements and other 
investments, including legal and fi nancial due diligence where 
appropriate. 
 – Asset counts performed annually including impairment 
assessments. 
 – Group Head of Assets responsible for the co-ordination and 
supply of assets worldwide. 
 – Asset control policies and procedures in place globally. 
 – Standardised asset management systems being rolled out. 
 – New ERP systems being evaluated for staged implementation. 
 Note 34, ‘Business 
acquisitions’
Audit Committee report 
page 62 to 64
 – Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and training is provided 
globally. 
 – HSE specialists are based in each region we operate in to ensure 
knowledge of local HSE regulations is in place and monitored 
frequently. 
 – Whistle-blowing procedures are in place globally. 
 – Compliance is monitored by the relevant Group functions 
including tax and treasury, legal, fi nancial, and HSE. 
 – Cape’s values drive a culture where integrity, honesty and 
compliance are an integral part of day-to-day business at all levels.
For further information 
of Cape’s corporate 
responsibility please 
refer to our website
www.capeplc.com/
corporate-responsibility
 Increase Decrease Unchanged  Link to 
Viability 
statement
Key
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 24  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Principal risks and viability
continued
Risk Risk description Link to strategy
I. Industrial 
Disease Claims 
(IDC) – provision 
adequacy risks 
on existing scope 
of liability 
provision
Cape receives claims from individuals and insurance companies in 
relation to the historical alleged exposure to asbestos. There is a risk 
that Cape materially underestimates IDC funding requirement due to 
inherent uncertainty associated with the future level of asbestos 
related IDC and of the costs arising from such claims. 
 – Operational excellence
J. Industrial 
Disease Claims 
(IDC) – widening 
of the scope and 
liability
Legal precedent in this area is constantly evolving and the Group is 
subjected to new claim types over time. These may give rise to 
uncertainty in both the future level of asbestos-related IDC and of 
the legal and other costs arising from such claims. 
One such example of this are the speculative product liability claims 
being brought by certain insurers which are described more fully in 
note 35 ‘Industrial disease claim provision and contingent liabilities’
 – Operational excellence
K. Taxation We operate across a number of economies and jurisdictions which 
therefore exposes the Group to a range of tax laws that vary 
signifi cantly and are rapidly evolving toward global transparency and 
harmonisation. The Group is required to interpret laws and treaties and 
must manage its tax affairs within these laws or else risk incurring fi nes 
and/or charges from the tax authorities. In some cases, it is not clear 
where lines should be drawn and the Group may disagree with the tax 
authorities. If this is the case, then it may be necessary to get the 
courts involved to interpret the laws.
 – Broaden portfolio 
 – Geographic expansion 25  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Mitigation Change in risk during 2015 For more information
 – The court-approved 2006 Scheme of Arrangement protects the 
interests of future IDC claimants whilst at the same time protecting 
the Group from the impact of extreme adverse change in the 
claims environment. 
 – Triennial scheme valuation carried out by external actuaries using 
the Group’s cumulative claims history and updated economic 
assumptions. 
 – Annual review carried out by external actuaries and external 
auditors of Cape’s accounting note on valuation of IDC. 
 – Half yearly review of economic assumptions reviewed by the 
Board. 
 – Regular Board review of IDC litigation. 
 – Dedicated internal legal function and external claims handlers 
to proactively manage cases and monitor changes in the legal 
environment. 
 – Specialist external legal advisors and claims handlers engaged. 
Note 2 ‘Summary of signifi cant 
accounting policies’
Note 4 ‘Signifi cant 
judgements and estimates’
Note 28 ‘Provisions’
 
Note 35 ‘Industrial disease 
claim provision and 
contingent liabilities’
 – Regular Board review of IDC litigation. 
 – Dedicated internal legal function monitors changes in the 
legal environment. 
 – Specialist external legal and other advisors engaged. 
Note 2 ‘Summary of 
signifi cant accounting 
policies’
Note 4 ‘Signifi cant 
judgements and estimates’
Note 28 ‘Provisions’ 
Note 35 ‘Industrial disease 
claim provision and 
contingent liabilities’
 – Communication and strong tone from top concerning compliance 
with local tax laws.
 – Formal policies and procedures regularly updated.
 – Embedded tax expertise in all major businesses along with central 
Group tax team support. 
 – Ongoing reviews conducted by the Group tax and legal team to 
monitor compliance.
 – External advisors used to support local teams on specifi c tax 
matters. 
 – Legal opinion sought requiring interpretation of tax legislation and 
principals when needed.
 – Active engagement with relevant tax and government authorities.
 
Note 2 ‘Summary of signifi cant 
accounting policies’
Note 12 ‘Income tax’
Note 20 ‘Deferred income tax’
Note 27 ‘Current income 
tax liabilities’
Viability statement 
In accordance with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the directors have assessed the prospect for the Group over a longer 
period than the twelve-month going concern provision. 
The directors’ assessment of the Group’s prospects for the 
three-year period is based on the review and analysis described 
below. The directors consider this to be a reasonable process which 
therefore allows them to form a reasonable expectation of the 
Group’s prospects in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty 
of a three-year period. The time period was selected to represent the 
duration of the Group’s contract base with construction contracts 
having a typical duration of two to three years with a change in 
provider for maintenance contracts taking around one to two years. 
Additionally the revaluation of both the IDC and pension liabilities 
takes place on a three-year cycle. 
The Group performs a strategic review each year, in which the 
Board reviews Cape’s current position, strategy and risks and 
opportunities alongside current and expected market conditions 
and trends. Our viability assessment was based upon the Group’s 
strategy and planning information and assessed the selected principal 
risks, individually and on a combined basis. This analysis considers 
cash fl ows, covenant projections and liquidity and other key fi nancial 
measures over the period. The strategy model has been stress tested 
against selected key risks that could affect the future viability of the 
Group. These risks are highlighted on pages 20 to 25 and include the 
following key downside risks: political and security instability in one 
region; acceptance of a new contract with unfavourable terms; poor 
operational performance on an existing contract; new scope of 
liability and new claims emergence relating to IDC; loss of a key 
client and increase in interest rates and tax liabilities.
Based upon the robust assessment of the principal risks to the 
Group’s prospects, the directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities 
as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment. 
 Increase Decrease Unchanged  Link to 
Viability 
statement
Key
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 26  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’s review
Adjusted 
operating profi t 
margin:
7.4%
(2014: 7.6%)
“ Cape achieved a robust performance 
in 2015 despite the substantial 
challenges in the oil and gas industry, 
demonstrating the progress we have 
made in implementing our strategy. 
The results are a testament to both 
the dedication of all the people at 
Cape and the progress we have 
made in making Cape into a 
strong and resilient business.” 
 Joe Oatley
 Chief Executive 27  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Overview
I am delighted to announce a robust set of results for 2015 
demonstrating the resilience of our business model in testing market 
conditions. We remain committed to our strategy of investing in both 
operational excellence in parallel with the pursuit of a number of 
avenues for growth. Whilst the challenging market conditions have 
clearly impacted our short-term growth, I am pleased to be able to 
report that we achieved a strong order intake with a closing order 
book of £861 million, up 18% on prior year (2014: £731 million).
We have made good progress on a number of our target growth 
areas. We entered both the Kuwaiti and Malaysian markets in the 
second half of 2015 with initial activity anticipated in both during 
2016. In May 2015 we announced the acquisition of Redhall 
Engineering Solutions Limited, which adds a range of mechanical 
and engineering maintenance services to the Group including 
specialist pipe repair, tank repair and shutdown services. We have 
established a dedicated team in the MENA region to develop our 
specialist services and the MENA business has secured its fi rst tank 
refurbishment maintenance contract from Gasco in the UAE, which 
is expected to run for a three-year period.
Our joint venture in Azerbaijan is now operating from a fi rm footing 
delivering both construction and maintenance work in the country 
and the Group reported its fi rst profi t from this joint venture in 2015. 
We strengthened our Australian business by both streamlining 
operations and securing a key contract with Woodside to provide 
multi-disciplinary services to the Karratha Gas Plant Life Extension 
project through a newly formed joint venture with UGL.
Although our business has proven to be resilient through 2015, we 
remain subject to the effects of reduced spending by our key clients 
across a number of sectors, in particular upstream oil and gas. 
As oil, gas and iron ore prices continue to remain low, we expect 
that 2016 will prove to be a challenging year for the business with 
pressure on both volumes and prices.
Market conditions 2015
The price of crude oil ranged between $47 and $68 per barrel for 
the fi rst half of the year before falling signifi cantly in the fi nal quarter 
of 2015 to a low of $36 per barrel in December. This continued low 
price of oil drove both a reduction in volume and signifi cant pressure 
on pricing in the upstream oil and gas sector. Demand from the 
downstream and industrial markets remained solid throughout the 
year with the refi ning and petrochemical sectors committing to 
investment in both maintenance and upgrading of facilities. Overall 
the Group saw increasing pricing pressure across all of its core 
geographies in the fi nal quarter of the year.
Overall demand in the UK, Europe & CIS region reduced in 2015, 
largely driven by the weakening upstream oil and gas sector in the 
UK. The UK offshore business saw both project and refurbishment 
work in the North Sea reduce signifi cantly as our clients sought to 
reduce both capital and operating expenditures. The UK onshore 
business also experienced a reduction in demand from the UK coal 
based power generation sector as Longannet, Ferrybridge and 
Eggborough power stations announced plans for closure in 2016. 
The refi ning and petrochemical sector was boosted by the reduced 
cost of feedstock and this fed through to robust demand for the 
Group’s services from this sector. Demand in Azerbaijan was strong, 
driven by new projects such as Shah Deniz 2 and Sangachal and 
steady maintenance activity.
The overall level of demand for our services remained solid in MENA, 
although there was signifi cant variation across the region. Construction 
activity remained robust in KSA and whilst we experienced delays to 
a number of projects within the country, such as the Jizan new 
refi nery, investment remains committed and key projects continue 
to move forward. Progress on the Sohar refi nery expansion and 
other new projects in Oman has been slower than expected and 
construction activity in both UAE and Qatar remained low. The 
construction market in Kuwait continued to grow with major projects 
such as the KNPC Clean Fuels project moving forward. Demand for 
maintenance activities remained solid for the region as a whole, 
although the business experienced an increased focus from its 
customers on cost and pricing across both construction and 
maintenance work in the second half of 2015.
Market conditions across Asia Pacifi c remained mixed. Demand 
from the LNG construction sector in Australia grew as activity on the 
Gorgon, Wheatstone and Ichthys projects all increased during the 
year, with this sector also driving construction demand in Asia where 
a number of the modules for these projects are being built. The 
mining sector in Australia continues to be extremely challenging as 
our clients seek to reduce their operational costs to offset the falling 
price of commodities, in particular iron ore. Outside of the LNG 
module construction work in the Asian yards, other construction 
activity in Asia remained relatively low throughout the year. 
2015 operating performance 
Despite challenging market conditions, Cape performed well in 2015.
Order intake grew by 13% to £841 million (2014: £744 million) with the 
UK business securing the key Federal Maintenance contract renewal 
with BP and a number of new contract wins across the Group 
including the Karratha Life Extension project with Woodside in 
Australia and a multidisciplinary maintenance contract with 
ExxonMobil at Fawley in the UK. As a result the Group concluded 
2015 with a healthy closing order book of £861 million, up 18% on 
prior year (2014: £731 million) with 56% of that order book due for 
delivery within 2016. The SOCAR-Cape joint venture in Azerbaijan 
also secured a number of key contracts, both for maintenance and 
construction work, not included in the order intake and order book 
values above, in accordance with our accounting policies. 
 
Revenue was 3% higher than the prior year at £711.4 million, 
(2014: £690.5 million), as the business benefi tted from a full year 
of the Motherwell Bridge business and the acquisition of Redhall 
Engineering Solutions Ltd in May 2015. At constant currency, 
excluding the contribution from acquisitions, underlying revenues 
decreased by 2% with growth in Australia partly mitigating reductions 
in demand from the UK, the UAE and Qatar. Adjusted operating profi t 
increased slightly to £52.5 million (2014: £52.3 million) as the benefi ts 
of improved performances in Azerbaijan and Australia offset the 
effects of increased pricing pressures in the UK and, latterly, in the 
MENA region. 
Adjusted net debt increased to £109.9 million (2014: £101.0 million) 
driven primarily by acquisition costs of £5.5 million and an increase 
in capital expenditure. 
 
Progress on strategy
The successful implementation of our strategy has delivered a 
resilient business, well positioned to cope with the current 
challenging market conditions. Although our markets have changed 
considerably over the last year, we are convinced that our strategy 
remains valid and will enable us to continue to deliver shareholder 
value over the long term. Our ambition remains to be the market 
leader for our chosen services in each of our key markets. Our 
strategy to achieve this is built upon fi ve key pillars: Operational 
excellence; Customer intimacy; Balanced business; Growth through 
broadening our range of services; and Growth through geographic 
expansion. We have made progress in all these areas during the last 
twelve months and as a result the Group is well placed to weather 
the current challenging market conditions and is also well positioned 
to capture opportunities as our markets recover.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 28  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’s review
continued
Operational excellence
The goals of our Operational Excellence programme remain 
unchanged: to attract, retain and develop the best people; to simplify 
and standardise our business systems and processes; and to ensure 
that knowledge and best practice are shared around the Group. Our 
middle and senior management development programmes are now 
well established within the business and are enabling us to develop 
more of our management talent in-house. We have now extended 
our investment in training and development to a Group-wide 
programme for all front line supervisors to ensure that all of the 
people who are responsible for putting our employees to work and 
for overseeing the delivery of our services at the workface are trained 
to the same high standard. 
We are continuing to develop our systems to ensure that we have 
the best tools available to measure and manage our work, and drive 
better productivity. These systems are recognised by many of our 
clients as industry-leading and they have been instrumental in 
securing several of the new contracts that the Group has been 
awarded in the last year. Our improved communications tools and 
our more open, collaborative culture provide the basis for the sharing 
of best practice around the Group.
Operational excellence is the bedrock upon which the long-term 
success of the Group is founded and it continues to provide the 
basis for high quality delivery to our clients and sustainable returns 
to our shareholders.
Customer intimacy
We have built long-term relationships with several of our key customers 
including EDF, BP and SABIC over a number of years. Through these 
relationships we have developed a deep understanding of their 
businesses and we use this to develop solutions, both commercial 
and technical, that deliver real value to these clients. This process of 
developing a close relationship with our key clients is an important 
differentiator for our business and enables us to deliver signifi cant 
benefi t to our clients as we develop and extend our range of services 
with them.
Balanced business
Cape already has a balance of business across a range of 
geographies, which gives the Group an inherent stability against 
fl uctuations in demand from any one particular region and this will 
continue to develop as we expand into new countries and regions 
around the world. In addition, we have been actively growing our 
maintenance business to provide stability against the natural 
variability in demand from the construction project market. I am 
pleased to be able to report that the Group’s revenue from 
maintenance activity has remained stable in absolute terms at 
£474 million, only a slight reduction of 1% compared to £478 million 
in the prior year. The proportion of Cape’s business derived from 
maintenance activities in 2015 was 67% (2014: 69%). 
Growth through broadening our range of services
In May we added a new service line to our UK business through the 
acquisition of Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited, which has since 
been renamed Cape Engineering Services Limited (CESL). CESL is a 
highly regarded provider of mechanical and engineering maintenance 
services in the UK including specialist welding, pipe repairs and 
shutdown management. The addition of these services to our UK 
business has signifi cantly expanded our addressable market and we 
have already achieved revenue synergies by taking these new 
services to our existing client base. 
Cape Specialist Services (CSS) is the grouping of our businesses 
that have more specialist technical content and we have continued 
to invest in these businesses during 2015. CSS is progressing well 
with new project work including the construction of a large liquefi ed 
ethane storage tank for a key client in the UK, a project that is utilising 
the combined strength of the Motherwell Bridge tank construction 
expertise and the traditional Cape services of insulation, access and 
coatings. We secured our fi rst storage tank maintenance contract in 
the UAE in the second half of the year and are now in the process of 
delivering this contract. We will continue to invest in order to build 
our specialist services capability across the Cape footprint around 
the world.
Growth through geographic expansion
We aim to have the leading market share for our services in each 
of our key geographies. In practice we seek to grow market share 
wherever possible and to defend our leading positions in our more 
mature businesses. We have been successful in growing our share 
of the market in Australia with contract wins such as the Karratha Life 
Extension project in Australia and have maintained our leading 
position in the UK with key wins such as the Fawley refi nery contract 
for ExxonMobil. Our KSA business continues to grow both in 
maintenance and project activities and our SOCAR-Cape joint 
venture has cemented its leading position in Azerbaijan by securing 
both key project work and an extension of its core maintenance 
contract with BP.
We have also established operations in Malaysia and Kuwait, two 
countries we have been targeting for future growth based upon the 
expected increase in construction project work in these territories 
over the medium term. I expect that we will be actively delivering our 
services in both these countries during the next twelve months.
Organisation and people
As a service provider with over 16,000 employees across Cape’s 
global footprint, our people are central to the current and future 
success of the business. We continue to invest in developing our 
people and ensuring that everyone can achieve their potential at Cape. 
We now have well established management and leadership 
development programmes both for our current and future senior 
leaders and we continued to invest in these programmes during 2015. 
Our biggest new people development effort for 2015 went into a 
Group-wide comprehensive training programme for all 1,600 of our 
site supervisors. Every day our supervisors are the individuals who are 
responsible for ensuring that our work is carried out in a safe, high 
quality manner, to meet our customers’ requirements. As such they 
are a critical contact point for our customers, the face of our business 
and at the front line in making sure that we keep our people safe. We 
now have a programme that ensures all of our supervisors are trained 
to the same standards wherever they are working in the world. 
Safety
The safety of our people and of those people around us is central 
to everything we do at Cape. We continue to seek out new ways to 
drive a better safety culture and resultant safety performance. One 
such initiative during 2015 was a programme called The ‘Line of Fire’ 
which we rolled out across every member of the Group. The ‘Line of 
Fire’ was a video campaign using employees’ family members as a 
trigger to remind people to stop and assess the safety requirements 
of their day-to-day work situations. It has been a very powerful 
reminder for every one of us about the importance of remaining 
focussed on safety in everything we do.
In December 2015, a severe storm hit the Caspian Sea resulting in 
major structural damage to a number of offshore assets and a fi re on 
Shallow Water Gunashli, platform 10. Two of the personnel from our 
Azerbaijan joint venture are still missing, presumed dead, along with 
20 workers employed by other contractors. Our thoughts are with all 
involved in this tragic situation. 
Our Lost Time Injury Frequency record (LTIF) has improved 
signifi cantly in 2015 almost halving the LTIF rate to 0.184 incidents 
per 1,000,000 hours worked, from 0.323 in 2014. The business is 
also now focussing on forward-looking measures of safety 
performance such as the number of safety orientated senior 
leadership site tours carried out per month, the delivery of safety 
inspection programmes and the timely close out of safety 
observations and incidents. Our energy and focus on safety will be 
continued in 2016 as we seek to build on the improvements made 
over the last few years. Cape continues to strive to achieve a safe 
work environment with zero harm to our employees, partners and 
third parties.  29  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Outlook
The robust performance in 2015 is a refl ection of the resilience of 
our business. Nonetheless, the Group is not immune to the effects of 
deteriorating market conditions. Approximately 22% of the Group’s 
revenue is related to the upstream oil and gas sector and it is 
anticipated that this sector will be particularly challenging in 2016, 
with oil prices currently remaining near to the lows experienced 
during the fi nal quarter of 2015. The midstream/downstream oil and 
gas market, which represents approximately 33% of Group’s revenue, 
is less directly affected by the fall in oil price, with maintenance 
demand from this sector remaining solid. Nonetheless, we are now 
seeing a signifi cantly increased focus on cost across all geographies 
from our customers in the midstream/downstream oil and gas sector 
and therefore expect that this will translate into downward pressure 
on pricing and margins across the Group. With the announcement 
of forthcoming closures of three UK coal-fi red power stations, the 
Group expects the demand for its services from this sector to decline 
in 2016, with the demand from the nuclear power generation sector 
remaining robust.
The Board currently anticipates that the 2016 result will be similar to 
2015 in terms of volume of activity, with some contraction in margins 
as our continued drive for operational performance partly mitigates 
the effects of increased pricing pressure in our core markets. We 
remain committed to making the investments required to deliver our 
strategy, both for growth and for continuous improvement in our 
operational performance.
Whilst the current market conditions are clearly challenging, our 
business has demonstrated its resilience to short-term volatility and 
the long-term drivers of demand for our services remain robust. 
Although the timing of new construction activity is inherently 
uncertain, the key projects that the Group is targeting across both 
MENA and Asia Pacifi c continue to move ahead with committed 
investment from the end-user. Maintenance demand is intrinsically 
more stable and the progress we have made over the last three years 
in increasing our exposure to the maintenance sector has been a key 
element of the Group’s resilience. I remain confi dent that our strategy 
will deliver increased shareholder value over the medium to long term 
through our focus on operational performance and growth in both 
our service offering and geographic reach.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
15 March 2016
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Case study
Line of Fire, HSEQ initiative
Region
All regions
As part of our HSEQ aspiration of ‘zero harm’ to people and 
the environment, we have devised a series of short fi lms that 
encourage our employees to make an emotional connection with 
and consider the consequences of making an unsafe decision. 
We call this a ‘Trigger Moment’.
The fi lms were made capturing Cape employees performing their 
everyday jobs in a variety of environments, from sites to offi ces. 
When the footage shows an individual about to do something that 
is unsafe which may put themselves or others in the ‘line of fi re’, 
we introduce their family members, creating their ‘trigger moment’. 
The family member then acts as a reminder that what they are 
doing is not right, and if they continue, what they could lose. 
We launched these fi lms as part of a Group-wide ‘Line of Fire’ 
week along with other material to promote longevity of the 
campaign. The fi lms have also been delivered in 13 different 
languages to help ensure worldwide usage. 
The materials have been made freely available both within Cape 
and also externally, including to other contractors and our clients 
as Cape’s contribution to improving the safety programme of our 
entire industry. 
The campaign forms part of our constant drive to achieve a safe 
and healthy workplace for all of our employees around the world. 
  Revenue by type
1. Maintenance 81%
2. Construction 19%
2
1
Revenue by sector
1. Oil and gas 48%
2. Power generation 24%
3. Chemical and steel 13%
4. Other 15%
2
1
3
4
30  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Business review
UK, Europe & CIS 
£m 2015 2014 Change
Order intake
1
443 444 0%
Order book
1
447 401 +11%
Revenue
1
395.8 388.5 +1.9%
Adjusted operating profi t 34.5 38.5 -10.4%
Adjusted operating profi t margin 8.7% 9.9% -120bps
1 Excludes value in respect of the SOCAR-Cape joint venture.
Order intake remained robust at £443 million, in line with prior year 
(2014: £444 million), with a number of signifi cant contract awards 
including the two-year renewal of the BP Federal Maintenance 
contract in the UK and a fi ve-year contract with ExxonMobil at the 
Fawley refi nery to provide both access and insulation services. Other 
important contract awards were the renewal of a fi ve-year multi-
disciplinary maintenance contract with Sakhalin Energy Investment 
Company, the BP Clair Ridge contract to support the hook-up and 
commissioning of BP’s two new bridge-linked Clair Ridge platforms, 
cleaning and tank maintenance at Sullom Voe, a number of contracts 
with Perenco for scaffold, insulation, painting and mechanical 
services, and a 60m diameter gasholder for Tata Steel in Scunthorpe. 
The order intake for 2015 includes the value of the order book from 
CESL, acquired in May 2015.
Adjusted revenue was 1.9% higher than prior period at £395.8 million 
(2014: £388.5 million) with a 9.0% benefi t from the full period impact 
of the Motherwell Bridge acquisition completed in March 2014 and 
the acquisition of CESL in May 2015. At constant currency, organic 
revenues fell by 6.2% driven by a reduction in demand from the 
North Sea and UK thermal coal power station sectors. Sakhalin 
performed well with revenue from maintenance activities growing 
steadily, however organic growth of 12.6% was negated by 
unfavourable foreign exchange movement.
The business continues to be largely maintenance driven with 
81% of revenues (2014: 82%) derived from maintenance and 
shutdown activities.
The UK business continued to be successful in the energy and 
power sectors completing a total of 14 power station outages over a 
nine-month period. The work covered both coal-fi red and nuclear 
power stations and required over 1,400 additional personnel to 
complete the work within the required time frame. 
CESL has performed exceptionally well and has now been integrated 
into Cape’s UK business. CESL contributed £27.6 million of revenue 
in the year, spread over a range of blue-chip companies. The 
business provides a range of maintenance services including 
specialist pipe welding and repair, tank repair, bundle pulling and 
shutdown services. 
Azerbaijan had a strong performance in 2015 with the award of 
signifi cant project work through the SOCAR-Cape joint venture in the 
fi rst half of the year followed by the award of a two-year extension 
contract by BP for the provision of fabric maintenance services in the 
second half; in line with our accounting policy these orders are 
excluded from the Group order intake and order book. The SOCAR-
Cape joint venture is progressing well with a signifi cant increase in 
revenue compared to the prior period driven by both project work 
on Shah Deniz 2 and the Sanaghal terminal upgrade projects, and 
ongoing steady demand for maintenance work.
Operating margins in the UK were adversely impacted by higher 
than expected start-up costs on the contract at Fawley and the 
deterioration in market conditions in the upstream oil and gas sector 
which led to both pricing pressure and a change in mix with less 
higher margin specialist services work. This pressure on margins 
was partly mitigated by cost reduction actions initiated early in the 
year within the UK and the fi rst profi t attributable to Cape from the 
SOCAR-Cape joint venture of £2.8 million. The decreased 
operating margin of 8.7% (2014: 9.9%) led to a 10.4% reduction 
in operating profi t compared to the prior year, to £34.5 million 
(2014: £38.5 million). 
The continued weakness in the oil price in early 2016 has resulted in 
continued pressure on pricing and margins in the upstream oil and 
gas sector in particular. The business continues to both review its 
own cost base to ensure it is appropriate to current market 
conditions and also to work with its customers to fi nd ways 
to reduce their overall operating costs.  31  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Case study
Clair Ridge
Region
UK, Europe & CIS
Services provided
Multi-discipline contract
Clair Ridge is a multi-billion pound investment in the second phase 
of development on the BP Clair fi eld, which lies 75km to the west 
of the Shetland Islands. The development, which includes two new 
bridge-linked platforms, will have the capability to produce an 
estimated 640 million barrels of oil over a 40-year period. 
Cape has secured the contract with BP to support both 
construction and commissioning work scopes. As part of the 
Clair Ridge project team, Cape is providing scaffolding; corrosion 
and fi re protection coatings; rope access rigging; and insulation 
services. Securing this construction project complements our 
current maintenance contract with BP and demonstrates the 
project support capabilities of Cape.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 32  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Business review
continued
Case study
Petro Rabigh Phase ll
Region
MENA
Services provided
Multi-discipline contract
Petro Rabigh Phase II project is a major expansion of the existing 
Petro Rabigh integrated petroleum refi ning and petrochemical 
complex, located 165 kilometres north of Jeddah on the Red Sea 
coast in Saudi Arabia, a joint venture between Sumitomo 
Chemical and Saudi Aramco. The Phase II project is expected 
to produce more than 1.3 million tonnes per annum of a diverse 
range of petrochemical products. 
Cape was awarded a multi-discipline contract from GS 
Construction Arabia Ltd for executing scaffolding, painting, 
insulation and fi reproofi ng services on this project, with work 
starting in December 2013.
Our client approached us to discuss their requirement to 
accelerate the programme of work for the pipe coating and how 
Cape could help them achieve this. The revised schedule required 
an increase in our production rate of 300%, a challenge which 
was compounded by the technical requirement for a range of 
different piping materials, painting systems and coating suppliers, 
which had to be segregated at all times.
Working closely with our client to understand their requirements, 
our experienced project team was able to react quickly to develop 
new plans to deliver according to the customer’s needs through 
an investment in dedicated automation, focussing on operational 
effi ciency and drawing on the regional resourcing capability. 
The contract continues in 2016, predominantly focussed on 
insulation and access, and Cape looks forward to contributing 
to the development of this important project.  Revenue by type
1. Maintenance 50%
2. Construction 50%
2 1
Revenue by sector
1. Oil and gas 60%
2. Power generation 3%
3. Chemical and steel 31%
4. Other 6%
2
1
3
4
33  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Middle East & North Africa (MENA) 
£m 2015 2014 Change
Order intake 212 204 +4%
Order book 180 135 +33%
Revenue 174.6 175.6 -0.6%
Adjusted operating profi t 25.4 21.1 +20.4%
Adjusted operating profi t margin 14.5% 12.0% +250bps
Order intake increased by 4% compared to the prior year at 
£212 million (2014: £204 million). The largest proportion of the order 
intake continues to come from the downstream oil and gas sector 
across the region with the most signifi cant awards being an extension 
of the existing maintenance contract with QNFS for RasGas in Qatar, 
the provision of access and refractory services for SABIC in KSA and 
insulation services for Bapco in Bahrain. Order intake in the region 
continues to be made up of a large number of smaller contracts, 
both maintenance and construction, which provides some stability to 
the overall performance of the region. In line with the Group’s 
geographic expansion strategy, we secured our fi rst contract in 
Kuwait to provide blasting and painting works on the Kuwait National 
Petroleum Company’s Clean Fuel Project. Bidding activity remains 
high in the region. However, the business has experienced some 
delays to work releases in both maintenance and project work as 
clients seek to manage their spend.
Revenues were broadly in line with prior period at £174.6 million 
(2014: £175.6 million) with an 8% benefi t from foreign exchange 
offsetting an underlying decrease of organic revenue of 8%. The 
reduction in organic revenue was largely driven by a reduction in 
demand for construction work in UAE and Qatar being partially offset 
by continued growth in activities in KSA. The KSA business remained 
strong with 2.6% organic growth on the prior year driven by both 
maintenance and construction project work with activity continuing 
on the Petro Rabigh II project and continuing maintenance work with 
SABIC and the Saudi Arabia Refi neries Company. 
The region continues to make good progress on the Group’s strategy 
to achieve a balanced business with the proportion of revenue 
derived from maintenance activities growing to 50% (2014: 47%).
In line with the Group’s strategy to drive growth through the 
internationalisation of its specialist service offering, the business has 
invested in building a team dedicated to growing these services 
across the MENA region. The business was successful in securing 
its fi rst tank refurbishment project in UAE during the year, expected 
to be delivered over a three-year period. This team continues to build 
the pipeline of specialist service opportunities across the region.
Operating margins increased to 14.5% (2014: 12.0%), driven by 
a strong performance in the fi rst half of the year as the business 
achieved a favourable result from the close out of a number of 
contracts across the region. Adjusted operating profi t grew strongly 
to £25.4 million, a 20.4% increase compared to the prior year (2014: 
£21.1 million) due to an 8.7% favourable impact of foreign exchange 
movement and an underlying organic increase of 10.8%. We 
continued to make solid progress on the onerous contract in Qatar; 
as at the end of December the project was 99% complete with only 
a very small number of personnel involved in its completion during 
January 2016. 
As a result of the continued weakness in the price of oil, the business 
is seeing an increased focus from its clients on reducing costs 
across the region in both construction projects and maintenance. 
Although the strength of Cape’s business in the region gives some 
resilience to the effects of this, we are experiencing signifi cantly 
increased pressure on pricing and margins. As a result, we anticipate 
that operating margins going forward are likely to be lower than the 
previously targeted 12-13%. 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 34  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Business review
continued
Case study
UGL|CAPE joint venture
Karratha Gas Plant Life 
Extension Programme, 
Western Australia
Region
Asia Pacifi c
Services provided
Multi-discipline contract
The Woodside operated North West Shelf Project’s facilities, 
of which the Karratha Gas Plant is a key part, is currently 
undergoing signifi cant work. The Karratha Gas Plant Life 
Extension Program (KLE) aims to sustain the technical integrity 
and reliability of the plant. Cape and UGL formed a joint venture 
(UCJV) in 2015 to provide a broad-ranging multidisciplinary 
capability for the KLE and in October 2015 this joint venture 
was successful in securing a contract award as part of this 
programme. The services to be provided by the UCJV include: 
the detailed planning and execution of access, fi re protection, 
blasting and painting, cladding and insulation, mechanical, 
pipe-spool equipment replacement and electrical services. 
The key drivers for Woodside are that the KLE programme 
must be safe, protect the integrity and reliability of the Karratha 
Gas Plant and have minimum impact on production. Together 
with our joint venture partner, Cape has been able to demonstrate 
our ability to meet those needs. Cape’s proven expertise in 
dealing with corrosion under insulation and our world leading 
approach to operational excellence, allied to UGL ’s proven 
expertise in mechanical and electrical services made for a 
winning combination.
With mobilisation deliverables met, site execution works were 
authorised to commence mid-January 2016. 
Source: Woodside 35  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Asia Pacifi c 
Restated
£m 2015 2014 Change
Order intake 186 96 +94%
Order book 234 196 +19%
Revenue 141.0 126.4 +11.6%
Adjusted operating profi t 6.9 6.8 +1.5%
Adjusted operating profi t margin 4.9% 5.4% -50bps
Revenue by sector
1. Oil and gas 70%
2. Mining 19%
3. Other 11%
2
1
3
Revenue by type
1. Maintenance 46%
2. Construction 54%
2 1
Order intake grew very strongly to £186 million, up 94% on the prior 
year (2014: £96 million) with important contract wins in both Asia and 
Australia. Key new awards include a contract with Samsung Heavy 
Industries in South Korea for the installation of insulation to the 
cryogenic pipework on Shell’s Prelude Floating Liquefi ed Natural Gas 
(FLNG) vessel, announced in February 2016; a multi-disciplinary 
services contract for Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding on a large 
petrochemical plant in Singapore and a contract secured by a newly 
formed joint venture with UGL for multi-disciplinary services on the 
Woodside operated Karratha Gas Plant Life Extension Program 
(KLE) in Western Australia. The formation of a project-specifi c joint 
venture with UGL was a key element of securing the contract from 
Woodside which was won through our innovative approach and 
combined service offering with our contract partner.
Revenue increased by 11.6% compared to prior year, rising to 
£141.0 million (2014: £126.4 million) despite an adverse movement 
of 7.6% due to foreign exchange effects, with the resultant 20.8% 
organic growth primarily driven by ramp-up of activity on the 
Wheatstone project. The business anticipates that volumes will 
continue to increase on Wheatstone to reach peak levels during 
2016. Within Australia, activity levels remained low outside the 
Wheatstone project as the mining sector in particular remained 
depressed. Within Asia increased volumes on the LNG module 
work in Thailand for Ichthys and on other projects in Asia partially 
mitigated the effects of the reduction in volume from completion 
of projects in 2014 and early 2015 in Singapore and Papua 
New Guinea. 
Overall, the region shifted more towards construction activity due 
to a reduction in shutdown work combined with an increase in 
construction work, in particular on the Wheatstone project. 
Pricing pressures in the Australian market remain severe, 
exacerbating the effect of low demand from the resources sector. 
In order to remain competitive and to mitigate the effects of this 
pressure, the Australian business carried out a restructuring 
programme during the year to ensure that it was both able to provide 
the correct level of support to the growing Wheatstone and KLE 
contracts whilst remaining competitive for the remainder of the 
market. The costs of this exercise were expensed during the year 
with the benefi ts being delivered in the second half of 2015.
Adjusted operating profi t increased slightly to £6.9 million 
(2014: £6.8 million) with 6.5% being attributable to organic growth 
with a 5.0% reduction as a result of unfavourable foreign exchange 
movement. The business achieved a signifi cant improvement in 
operating margin in the second half of the year compared to the fi rst 
(H1 2015: 3.0%; H2 2015: 6.7%) as the benefi ts of the restructuring in 
Australia and increased volumes on Wheatstone offset a negative 
effect of a shift in mix of work in Asia with more project volume and 
less shutdown work. 
Market conditions remain mixed across the region with weakness in 
the Australian mining sector and low levels of offshore activity in Asia 
mitigated by robust activity levels from the LNG sector, particularly 
from the construction phase of the Wheatstone, Icythys and Prelude 
projects. Increased volumes in Australia, combined with the benefi ts 
of the restructuring already carried out there are expected to offset 
any weakness in Asia and deliver a continued steady margin 
performance through 2016.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 36  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Chief Financial Offi cer’s review
“ Robust business performance 
evidences the strength of our 
strategy in challenging markets.”
 Michael Speakman
 Chief Financial Offi cer 37  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
A summary income statement from continuing operations with 
explanatory discussion of the key items is provided below:
2015 £m Restated 2014 £m
Revenue 711.4 690.5
Adjusted operating profi t 52.5 52.3
Adjusted operating profi t % 7.4% 7.6%
Other items (3.4) (1 1.7)
Exceptional items (9.2) (0.9)
Operating profi t 39.9 39.7
Revenue
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 3.0% to £711.4 million 
(2014: £690.5 million) with a 5.0% increase resulting from the benefi t 
of a full year of Motherwell Bridge and the acquisition of Redhall 
Engineering Solutions Limited (rebranded Cape Engineering Services 
Limited (CESL)) in May 2015, and an underlying organic decrease of 2. 1%. 
There were some strong performances across the Group, in particular 
in KSA, the Wheatstone project in Australia and on other projects in 
Asia, which taken together compensated for the weaker market 
conditions seen in the North Sea and Australian mining sector. There 
was an overall negligible impact of foreign exchange of 0.1% 
We have maintained a good balance between maintenance and 
construction revenue with £474 million derived from maintenance 
contracts (2014: £478 million). Maintenance revenue increased in the UK, 
Europe & CIS to £322 million (2014: £319 million), a similar increase was 
seen in MENA with revenue from maintenance contracts of £87 million 
(2014: £82 million). A decrease in maintenance revenues from the mining 
sector was responsible for a reduction in maintenance in Asia Pacifi c 
to £65 million (2014: £77 million). Globally revenue from construction 
projects increased to £237 million (2014: £212 million) mainly as a 
result of increased activity on the Wheatstone project in Australia.
KPI: D. Annual growth in maintenance
Cape’s largest client, across numerous individual contracts, 
represented 12% of Group revenue (2014: 15%) and largely related 
to activities in the UK, Europe & CIS, with a smaller amount in MENA 
and Asia Pacifi c. The Group’s top ten clients represented 45% of 
revenue (2014: 42%).
Adjusted operating profi t
Adjusted operating profi t from continuing operations increased slightly 
to £52.5 million (2014: £52.3 million), consisting of a favourable foreign 
exchange impact of 0.7%, a 4.9% benefi t of the Motherwell Bridge 
and CESL acquisitions and an organic performance decrease of 
5.4%. The Group’s organic results are driven by a number of factors 
including pricing pressure and reduced volume in the North Sea and 
UK coal power stations, higher than expected start-up costs on the 
contract at Fawley, the benefi t of the Wheatstone project partially 
offset by pricing pressure in the Australian mining sector, reduced 
volume of activity in Asia due to a number of project completions, and 
MENA continuing to record a strong performance across the region. 
KPI: E. Adjusted operating profi t margin (%)
Revenue split by geography 
£m
UK, Europe 
& CIS MENA
Asia
 Pacifi cTotal
2015
H1 194.9 95.4 69.1 359.4
H2 200.9 79.2 71.9 352.0
FY 2015 395.8 174.6 141.0 711.4
2014 restated
H1 180.4 89. 1 48.8 318.3
H2 208.1 86.5 77.6 372.2
FY 2014 388.5 175.6 126.4 690.5
Revenue
£m
Adjusted 
operating
profi t
£m
Adjusted 
operating 
profi t margin
%
Year ended 2015
Restated
2014 2015
Restated
2014 2015
Restated
2014
Region
UK, Europe 
& CIS 395.8 388.5 34.5 38.5 8.7 9.9
MENA 174.6 175.6 25.4 21.1 14.5 12.0
Asia Pacifi c 141.0 126.4 6.9 6.8 4.9 5.4
Central – – (14.3) (14. 1) n/a n/a
711.4 690.5 52.5 52.3 7.4 7.6
Other items
Other items decreased to £3.4 million (2014: £11.7 million) and 
comprise £3.6 million (2014: £3.3 million) of post-acquisition charges, 
including amortisation of acquired intangible assets relating to 
Motherwell Bridge and CESL and a credit of £0.2 million (2014: 
£8.4 million charge) comprising IDC expenses of £0.4 million offset 
by an actuarial adjustment to the IDC provision of a £0.6 million credit. 
Share of post-tax result of joint venture 
In 2015 the SOCAR-Cape joint venture made a profi t with the value 
attributable to Cape recognised as a post-tax profi t of £2.8 million 
(2014: £nil).
Exceptional items
Exceptional items total £9.2 million (2014: £0.9 million) and comprise 
of a non-cash £8.8 million goodwill impairment in Asia which is a 
refl ection of the level and distribution of business activity across this 
geographically diverse regional business, and £0.4 million 
transaction costs relating to the acquisition of CESL in May 2015.
Operating profi t
Operating profi t was £39.9 million (2014: £39.7 million) and refl ects an 
adjusted operating profi t of £52.5 million (2014: £52.3 million), other 
items of £3.4 million (2014: £11.7 million) and exceptional items of 
£9.2 million (2014: £0.9 million).
Finance costs
Net fi nance costs amounted to £10.8 million (2014: £9.7 million) 
including the annual £3.3 million (2014: £3.4 million) non-cash charge 
relating to the unwinding of the discount on the long-term IDC 
provision and interest income in the IDC Scheme funds in the period 
of £0.3 million (2014: £0.5 million). 
Adjusted fi nance costs increased to £7.9 million (2014: £7.6 million) 
with interest cover (calculated by dividing adjusted operating profi t by 
the adjusted fi nance costs) decreasing to 6.6 times (2014: 6.9 times).
Taxation
The tax charge on adjusted profi t before tax (which excludes 
exceptional and other items), excluding share of post-tax result from 
joint ventures, was £8.0 million (2014: £9.2 million) representing an 
effective tax rate of 19.1% (2014: 20.2%) which is lower than 
anticipated primarily as a result of a regional one-off tax incentive 
being obtained. The cash tax paid during the period was £9.3 million 
(2014: £8.4 million) which is in line with expectations. The total tax 
charge on profi t before tax was £8.1 million (2014: £7.4 million).
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 38  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Chief Financial Offi cer’s review
continued
Discontinued operations
Due to limited opportunities of growth within Hong Kong, the Board 
has taken the decision to exit this geographical market and is 
pursuing an exit through the sale of its current legal entity. As a result 
of this decision, the assets and liabilities within Hong Kong have 
been reclassifi ed as directly associated within a disposal group held 
for sale in the 2015 results. 
A £5.2 million loss has been recognised within loss from 
discontinued operations in the income statement in 2015 (2014: 
£12.2 million loss) with £5.8 million relating to Hong Kong, including 
£3.4 million for impairment of goodwill. The majority of the remaining 
balance is attributable to the exit from Kazakhstan, which was 
discontinued in 2014, and was completed within the level of costs 
estimated and provided for during the prior year, resulting in a credit 
of £0.9 million to discontinued operations in 2015. The prior year 
£12.2 million loss primarily relates to the exit from Kazakhstan. 
Earnings per share
For continuing operations the adjusted diluted earnings per share 
(EPS) was 29.9 pence (2014: 30.0 pence) and adjusted basic 
earnings per share was 30.0 pence (2014: 30.0 pence). EPS was 
enhanced by the geographic distribution of earnings, which resulted 
in low earnings attributable to non-controlling interests and a 
benefi cial tax rate, not expected to repeat in 2016. The diluted 
weighted average number of shares increased to 121.6 million 
(2014: 121.1 million).
KPI: H. Adjusted diluted EPS
Dividend
After considering the 2015 fi nancial results, current market 
conditions and the underlying prospects of the Group, the Board 
is proposing a fi nal dividend for 2015 of 9.5 pence (2014: 9.5 pence) 
per share in line with the 2014 fi nal dividend. In addition to the interim 
dividend of 4.5 pence per share (2014: 4.5 pence) paid on 
9 October 2015, the total dividend for the year will be 14.0 pence 
per share (2014: 14.0 pence). Subject to shareholders’ approval at 
the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2016, the fi nal dividend will 
be payable on 24 June 2016 to shareholders on the register as at 
20 May 2016.
Acquisitions
In line with the Group strategy to expand the range of critical services 
we offer, Cape announced its acquisition of UK based Redhall 
Engineering Solutions Limited in May 2015 for an enterprise valuation 
of £6.2 million including debt of £5.3 million and a working capital 
contribution of £0.7 million. The business predominantly operates in 
the process and downstream oil and gas industries and provides a 
range of maintenance services including specialist pipe repair, tank 
repair and shutdown services. The fair value of net liabilities acquired 
was £2.1 million and goodwill of £2.3 million arising from the 
acquisition is attributable to the value of the assembled workforce, 
expected synergies and other benefi ts arising from combining the 
rebranded CESL operations into the Group.
Working capital
Trade and other receivables and inventories decreased by 
£3.8 million to £211.5 million (2014: £215.3 million) which, along 
with a decrease in trade and other payables of £3.5 million to 
£120.8 million (2014: £124.3 million), resulted in an overall decrease 
in net working capital of £0.3 million (at balance sheet rates) to 
£90.7 million (2014: £91.0 million). Working capital, as expected, 
reduced by £28.3 million in the second half of 2015. 
KPI: G. Working capital, as percentage of revenue
Capital expenditure
The Group continues to manage its capital expenditure carefully 
whilst investing in upgrading and replacing equipment where 
appropriate. The Asset Replacement Ratio (calculated by dividing 
gross capex spend by the depreciation charge) increased to 126% 
(2014: 84%), in line with expectations with scaffold asset purchases 
to meet clients’ demands largely across MENA and in the UK.
 
Free cash fl ow
The Group’s free cash fl ow of £27.7 million (2014: £19.3 million) 
is more than suffi cient to fund, in cash terms, the full value of the 
proposed dividend of £17.0 million (2014: £16.9 million).
Financing and banking facilities
The Group’s adjusted net debt increased year-on-year by £8.9 million 
to £109.9 million (2014: £101.0 million) including fi nance lease 
obligations of £3.0 million (2014: £2.2 million). Balance sheet gearing 
(calculated by dividing adjusted net debt by total equity), excluding 
ring-fenced IDC Scheme funds, increased to 85.0% (2014: 79.2%).
Operating and free cash fl ow
2015
£m
Restated
2014
£m
Adjusted operating profi t 52.5 52.3
Depreciation 15.9 18. 1
Adjusted EBITDA 68.4 70.4
Non-cash items (11.5) (3.9)
Decrease/(increase) in working capital* 4.6 (18.3)
Net capital expenditure (17.6) (14. 1)
Operating cash fl ow 43.9 34.1
Operating cash fl ow to adjusted operating profi t 83.6% 65.2%
Net interest (6.9) (6.4)
Tax (9.3) (8.4)
Free cash fl ow 27.7 19.3
Dividends paid (17.0) (16.9)
Acquisitions (including settlement of debt and working capital) (6.2) (36.9)
Investment in SOCAR – Cape joint venture (1.0) (3.6)
Net transfer to restricted funds (5.8) –
Discontinued operations 0.3 5.8
Other movements in adjusted net debt (6.9) (8.5)
Movement in adjusted net debt (8.9) (40.8)
Opening adjusted net debt (101.0) (60.2)
Closing adjusted net debt (109.9) (101.0)
* At average rates of exchange.  39  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
The ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA increased to 
1.6 times (2014: 1.4 times). A reconciliation of adjusted net debt and 
adjusted EBITDA can be found in note 7, ‘Adjusted measures’.
In 2014 the Group entered into an interest rate cap for a period of 
three years, commencing in 2015 and terminating in February 2018. 
The derivative is for £70 million and gives protection to the Group 
against its Sterling borrowings when LIBOR exceeds the strike price 
of 2.5%.
Provision for pension
The defi ned benefi t pension schemes had a net surplus of £11.3 million 
(2014: £11.8 million) as at 31 December 2015 which continues to be 
restricted to nil in the accounts under IFRIC 14. The agreed monthly 
contribution rate of £14,600 ceased in June 2015.
Provision for estimated future asbestos related liabilities 
and IDC Scheme funds
The discounted provision decreased to £95.5 million (2014: £98.2 million) 
refl ecting the unwinding of the discount of £3.3 million in the year 
(2014: £3.4 million), credit of £0.6 million for actuarial adjustments 
(2014: £8.2 million charge) and £5.4 million (2014: £7.7 million) of 
settlements. The actuarial adjustment of £0.6 million relates to the 
changes in signifi cant external economic variables. The level of 
Scheme cash settlements remains in line with actuarial assumptions. 
The ring-fenced IDC Scheme funds increased to £32.1 million 
(2014: £29.3 million) benefi ting from a cash injection from the Group’s 
funds of £6.2 million (2014: nil), interest received of £0.3 million 
(2014: £1.7 million) and offset by the cash settlements on scheme 
claims in the year of £3.7 million (2014: £3.7 million).
Currencies
The vast majority of operating costs are matched with corresponding 
revenues of the same currency and as such there is very little 
transactional currency risk in the Group. Currency translation 
favourably impacted both revenue and operating profi t in 2015 by 
0.1% and 1.1% respectively. In 2015, 25% (2014: 28.5%) of revenues 
were contracted in US dollars or US dollar pegged currencies and 
16% (2014: 13.8%) in Australian dollars.
The following signifi cant exchange rates applied:
2015 2014
Closing Average Closing Average
AUD 2.03 2.09 1.91 1.83
USD 1.48 1.51 1.56 1.65
Treasury policies
Cape has a centralised treasury function whose objectives are to 
monitor and manage the treasury risks across the Group and to 
ensure that suffi cient liquidity is available to meet the requirements 
of the business. Group treasury is not a profi t centre and operates 
within a framework of policies and procedures. All hedging is carried 
out centrally and speculative trading is specifi cally prohibited by 
Group treasury policies.
Return on invested capital
Return on invested capital is defi ned at Group level as adjusted 
operating profi t divided by the accounting value of equity plus 
adjusted net debt. Return on invested capital in 2015 was 21.9%, 
slightly down on the prior year (2014: 22.9%).
KPI: C. Return on invested capital %
Principal risks
Cape operates globally in the energy and natural resources sectors and 
in varied geographic markets. Cape’s performance and prospects 
may be affected by risks and uncertainties in relation to the industry 
and the environments in which it undertakes its operations around 
the world. Those risks range from external geo-political, security and 
economic conditions such as geo-political events, sanctions, terrorist 
events, disease outbreaks or environmental hazards; key client and 
market dependency risks; operational risks including HSE, contracting, 
project execution; and generic fi nancial risks. In 2015 the price of oil 
has remained low; the Group has assessed this risk and will continue 
to monitor the situation closely and respond with mitigating actions 
as appropriate. 
There are two specifi c sources of risk associated with the Group’s 
historical IDC legacy liabilities. The fi rst relates to the inherent 
uncertainty in predicting the future level of asbestos-related industrial 
disease claims and of the costs arising from such claims relating to 
the existing liabilities for which the Board believes the Group to be 
liable. There can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to 
estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the 
actual costs that may be incurred. As such, the provision may be 
subject to potentially material revisions from time to time if new 
information becomes available as a result of future events. 
The second source of IDC risk relates to any change in legal 
precedent or judgement that leads to a material expansion of the 
scope of liability for which the Group is held to be liable in the future. 
The Group has previously disclosed an increase in the number of 
product liability claims received from insurance companies (Insurer 
PL Claims) that have been experienced by the Group. The Board has 
received legal advice from leading counsel that these Insurer PL 
Claims place very substantial evidential burdens upon the insurer 
claimants, are based upon novel legal arguments, and are without 
precedent. Accordingly, the Board believes these claims to be 
without merit and the Group is vigorously defending them. The risks 
relating to industrial disease claims and the associated impact on the 
Group and its stakeholders are described in note 35 ‘Industrial 
disease claim provision and contingent liabilities’.
 
We operate across a number of economies and jurisdictions which 
therefore exposes the Group to a range of tax laws that vary 
signifi cantly and are rapidly evolving toward global transparency and 
harmonisation. Uncertainty may occur when the Group is required to 
interpret laws and treaties. The risks relating to taxation are described 
in more detail on pages 24 to 25. 
The Group is alert to the challenges of managing risk and has 
systems and procedures in place across the Group to identify, 
assess and mitigate major business risks. As part of the long term, 
strategic Operational Excellence programme the Group continues 
to improve its detailed process of project risk identifi cation and 
mitigation from contract tender through to project completion. 
The directors have reviewed the principal risks and uncertainties 
and are satisfi ed that they are relevant. A full review of the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties is given on pages 18 to 25.
Michael Speakman 
Chief Financial Offi cer 
15 March 2016
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 40  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Corporate and social responsibility
We fi rmly believe that acting 
responsibly makes good business 
sense. Through integrity, honesty and 
strong employee engagement we 
build lasting relationships with our 
clients and deliver safe, consistent and 
high quality operations. This supports 
our strategic intent to be the leading 
provider of critical industrial services 
in our chosen geographic markets. 41  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Our values
Our values describe the culture and underlying behaviours that 
we strive to create through the Group. We believe that having the 
right culture in our business is fundamental to the long-term 
success of the Group.
Our business is defi ned by our values, with integrity, safety and 
employee welfare at the heart of our business. Cape’s success is 
built on lasting relationships with our clients and employees to 
deliver safe, consistent and high quality operations. 
Integrity
Acting with integrity is fundamental to the way we do business. 
Operating with a culture of openness and honesty means that 
issues are surfaced early and we can trust each other to work in 
the best interests of the Group and its stakeholders. We will not 
only be compliant with all local laws and regulations but also aim 
to set the standard for ethical behaviour wherever we work.
Commitment to deliver
We recognise the importance of delivering in line with our 
promises and we strive to embed a culture where every 
employee is committed to deliver. All our people around the world 
are held accountable and take personal responsibility for 
delivering successful results. Our employees are passionate 
about our business and driven to create value for our clients.
Relentless pursuit of excellence
To achieve our ambition of being the leader in our chosen 
markets we recognise that we must continuously seek new, 
better and more effi cient ways to deliver our services to our 
clients. It is this relentless pursuit of excellence that will enable 
us to achieve market leadership and sustain that position for 
the long term.
Commitment to our people
Cape is a business built on its people. We recognise and fulfi l 
our responsibility to ensure all of our employees have a safe 
environment in which to work. We invest in our people to both 
give them the systems and tools to do their jobs effectively and 
also to develop and grow their skills. We aim to provide a 
supportive work environment in which all of our employees can 
enjoy their work and achieve their full potential at Cape.
High performing team
Cape has great diversity, capability and knowledge, spread 
across its business around the world. We aim to work together 
as one high performing team both across our regions and across 
our functions to share knowledge and resources in order to 
deliver the best result for our clients and shareholders.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 42  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
People
Cape employs over 16,400 people around the world and their 
professionalism, competency and commitment are key to the 
delivery of our business.
Our human resources (HR) strategy is designed to ensure that Cape 
is able to recruit and develop the best employees in our sector. 
This strategy is clearly aligned with Cape’s business priorities and 
is aimed at delivering the right people in the right place at the right 
time, ensuring they are appropriately skilled and managed by 
experienced leaders.
Cape’s HR strategy continues to be focussed on three key areas: 
Best practice: The majority of the HR team is highly devolved 
within the regional businesses. To support their activities we have 
developed a framework of best practice for the key aspects of HR 
that balances clear, consistent guidelines whilst giving the local HR 
teams the freedom to react and tailor their response to local issues.
We have also selected a number of areas that are now being 
standardised across the Group. The HR teams and senior leaders 
within the business are aligned to allow for more effective sharing 
and development of our resources. 
Talent: We continue to devote considerable resources into the 
development of talent at different levels throughout the organisation.
We have commenced a more structured approach to the 
identifi cation of high potential employees and how best to develop 
them. The development of succession plans for our leadership 
teams has allowed us to both improve the targeting of our training 
interventions and also address gaps through selective hiring of 
critical skills. The result is that each business within the Group has 
a defi ned approach to talent issues and a clear assessment of 
areas on which to focus for development.
We provide a number of tailored leadership development programmes 
targeted at different levels of the organisation including supervisory 
training, senior leadership training, and training for future leaders.
Resourcing: One of Cape’s great strengths is our ability to recruit 
and mobilise large numbers of appropriately qualifi ed employees to 
meet our customers’ requirements, ensuring that these employees 
are well trained to do the role safely and to a high standard.
We continue to invest to improve further our capability in this area, 
including the roll out of global applicant tracking systems to support 
our recruitment processes. We have established a number of 
preferred relationships for the provision of labour from India and 
Nepal to ensure a fair hiring process of employees including 
pre-mobilisation training to ensure the new joiners are ready to 
start immediately on arrival at the client’s site.
Employees
UK, Europe 
& CIS MENA Asia Pacifi cHead Offi ce Group total
Female 270 12 237 23 542
Male 4,866 8,932 2,086 36 15,920
2015 5,136 8,944 2,323 59 16,462
Board
Female 1
Male 6
Senior managers
Female 2– 2 1 5
Male 22 14 13 13 62
2014 employees* 4,947 9,883 2,110 55 16,995
Changes 189 (939) 213 4 (533)
* 2014 employee numbers have been restated for discontinued operations.
Corporate and social responsibility
continued 43  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
In December 2015 a severe storm hit the Caspian Sea resulting in 
major structural damage to a number of offshore assets and a fi re on 
Shallow Water Gunashli, platform 10. Two of the personnel from our 
Azerbaijan joint venture are still missing presumed dead along with 
20 workers employed by other contractors. Our thoughts are with all 
involved in this tragic situation. 
Security
Our Group security function ensures that our employees operate 
securely around the globe. It assesses the threats to the security of 
our people, assets, projects, operations and reputation. 
The security team works with all our staff to ensure awareness is 
maintained regarding travel and security procedures and is fully 
committed to creating a secure working and travel environment for 
all our personnel while ensuring the security of our physical assets. 
 
There have been no signifi cant security issues within Cape during 2015.
Health and welfare
High standards of staff health and welfare are essential to the 
success of Cape and as such we continue to strengthen our medical 
assessment and rehabilitation processes supported by our health 
and welfare service providers to ensure:
 – that prior to an offer of employment a robust medical assessment 
has been completed to ensure the candidate is fi t for work. These 
medicals are specifi cally tailored to assess the risks associated 
with the operation the individual will be performing
 – we deliver risk mitigation plans, specifi cally focussed on the 
risks our operatives face in often diffi cult and harsh conditions, 
e.g. initiatives such as warm-up exercise, diet regimes, reviewing 
tools and equipment
 – an individual’s health is not being adversely affected by the work 
we are asking them to do. Our ongoing health surveillance 
programme has been identifi ed by a number of our major 
international clients as best practice and is designed to monitor 
the specifi c risks associated with each activity to ensure 
appropriate monitoring is conducted. 
Our remote and offshore facilities have on-site medical teams and 
occupational health support which is freely offered to our employees. 
Cape runs comprehensive programmes to monitor the health of 
our employees. 
Throughout 2015 we continued to audit and monitor the quality of 
the accommodation we provide to over 9,000 employees, 
predominately in Asia Pacifi c and MENA, so that we can ensure that 
we treat everyone with dignity and care. A signifi cant audit 
programme was undertaken where the quality of these facilities was 
monitored against an international standard for welfare and Cape 
standards. This programme identifi ed no signifi cant non-conformities 
during the year. However, we aim to set the benchmark in our sector 
for employee welfare and have enhanced our standards to help to 
deliver an even better living experience when our employees live 
away from home, including:
 – improvements in meal quality and diversity
 – access to better recreational facilities such as fi tness equipment 
and games
 – better internet and telephone communication facilities so that easy 
contact can be maintained with home, and
 – reduced accommodation population density, limiting the number 
of individuals per room to provide more space. 
Health and safety
Safety
Our vision is to create a work environment where everyone can 
work safely with zero harm to themselves and their colleagues. We 
often work in challenging locations and environments, carrying out 
potentially hazardous activities, so we are continuously seeking ways 
to improve our safety performance, both in terms of process and 
culture to achieve our vision of zero harm.
During 2015 we continued to focus on behavioural safety training 
and improved competence programmes with specifi c emphasis on 
our supervisory workforce who are on the front line of delivering our 
company standards. We have rolled out an enhanced supervisor 
training syllabus across the Group in 2015. We have also increased our 
practical on-the-ground trade skills training of our workforce, developing 
regional training facilities to deliver recognised international training 
programmes to country, regional and industry standards. 
 
During 2015 our Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) improved 
signifi cantly, reducing the Group’s LTIF to 0.184 incidents per 
1,000,000 hours worked, the best performance we have ever 
recorded. This improvement is a signifi cant achievement delivered 
by our operational teams around the world. It is hoped that with 
continued focus, vigilance and commitment from all within Cape that 
our ongoing journey towards ‘Zero every day’ – no harm to our 
employees will ultimately be achieved. It was disappointing that we 
registered a slight increase in the Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR) in the year, due in part to an initiative within the business to 
improve the quality of our reporting. Our performance remains better 
than industry norms and we continue to receive a number of 
prestigious awards from our blue-chip clients that are testament 
to both individual and collective safety performance on-site.
In 2012, within our UK operations, a tragic accident resulted in the 
fatality of one of our employees, John Altoff, and injuries to two other 
colleagues. As a consequence, and after extensive enquiries by the 
statutory enforcement body, the Health and Safety Executive, with 
which Cape co-operated fully, Cape Industrial Services Limited along 
with a co-accused, was fi ned £600,000 for a breach of section 2 of 
the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974. This incident has been 
analysed in great depth by the business with the support of health 
and safety consultants to identify which of our systems and 
procedures require further improvement. A number of changes have 
been implemented throughout the business over the last three years 
to strengthen our already comprehensive systems and to mitigate 
the risk of similar incidents occurring in the future.  44  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Corporate and social responsibility
continued
Eight-year accident statistics (OGP reporting) – Group controlled entities
Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Total man hours worked 41,632,374 41,209,332 50,232,770 54,966,914 62,207 ,917 61,924,383 55,649,784 54,271,421
Restricted work cases 23 33 28 23 34 19 14 9
Medical treatment cases 113 90 51 47 48 26 25 50
Lost day work cases 60 53 16 16 20 12 17 10
Fatalities 0001101 0
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 4.71 4.27 1.89 1.58 1.656 0.920 1.028 1.271
Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) 1.44 1.28 0.32 0.3 0.338 0.194 0.323 0.184
KPI: F. Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
  TRIR = Recordable injuries x 1,000,000
 Total man hours
  LTIF = Lost time incidents x 1,000,000
 Total man hours
0
1
2
3
4
5
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Total Recordable Incident Rate and Lost Time Incident Frequencies 45  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Audit
All of Cape’s operations are accredited to international standards, 
ISO 9001 (Quality) and OHSAS 18001 (Health and Safety) or their 
equivalents as these standards are seen as a strong indicator of our 
commitment to operational excellence. Furthermore, the vast 
majority of the Group’s operations are also certifi ed to the ISO 14001 
environmental standard. This accreditation is completed by an 
external organisation through a wide-ranging series of studies and 
audits of Cape’s global management systems. The accreditation 
body completed a triennial review during 2015 to ensure compliance 
and reissued the appropriate certifi cates. The external review is also 
reinforced by rigorous internal audit and inspection processes at 
local, regional and Group level. 
Oversight of these processes is provided by the Group health, safety 
and environmental function which actively monitors each aspect 
against the Group’s objectives. These processes are recognised as 
a key element of managing the risks to the organisation from health, 
safety and environmental issues. We benchmark our performance 
against available internal and external data, monitoring our overall 
performance with a range of key performance indicators (KPIs). These 
KPIs have been designed to look at both leading and lagging factors 
such as training, competency assessment, near miss reporting, quality 
system non-conformities and delivery of audit and inspection 
programmes. The results of these measures are reported monthly to 
the Executive Committee and to the Board and where opportunities 
for improvement exist the action plans are monitored to ensure 
delivery. We are pleased to state that at the end of the year the 
number and nature of non-conformance to these stretching targets 
continues to improve.
As part of our drive for operational excellence, whenever the 
business expands its operations via organic growth or acquisition 
we aim to embrace the new entity into our accreditation process. In 
August 2015, Motherwell Bridge achieved certifi cation to ISO 18001 
across its three permanent UK locations in Motherwell, Wakefi eld 
and Telford. As a consequence our Motherwell Bridge subsidiary 
is now certifi cated to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001 
international standards. The achievement of ISO 18001 accreditation 
is refl ective of continuous improvements in health and safety 
performance which was recognised by the presentation of the 
Order of Distinction Award from the Royal Society for the Prevention 
of Accidents (RoSPA) in September 2015 in recognition of 21 years 
of excellence in health and safety at work.
Asbestos management and operating licences
Asbestos remediation and removal services continue to be 
delivered to the market at the highest recognised international 
standards. In all operational areas where asbestos management is 
only permitted by the respective enforcing authorities under relevant 
licence arrangements, Cape have applied for or renewed our 
licences and in all cases received the appropriate approvals issued 
by the pertinent legislative enforcement bodies. The Group manages 
this activity under strict controls to ensure compliance against the 
highest of standards by a comprehensive programme of inspection 
and audits with a central co-ordinating team monitoring our 
performance. All audits, both internal and external, found our 
systems to be robust and with no material issues raised.
CapeSafe
We use the CapeSafe banner across our business to deliver a 
consistent message about driving better safety behaviours and 
performance. We have continued to drive campaigns throughout 
2015 to improve our safety performance, including:
 – Line of Fire ‘Trigger moments’ materials – aimed at establishing an 
emotional connection with our employees to make them stop and 
think before taking a decision to act unsafely – see case study on 
page 29
 – continued focus on dropped objects – which for a business that 
has large numbers of employees working at height is a key safety 
consideration
 – hazard awareness training – utilising cutting edge 360 imaging 
technology for trainees to be dynamically taken inside a virtual 
work environment to help them identify potential hazards while 
at work, and
 – automatic heart defi brillators – Cape have taken the initiative to 
install automatic heart defi brillators in all premises where more 
than 10 employees are at work. We have provided training at over 
60 units worldwide. 46  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Health and safety awards 
Our commitment to deliver superior execution with an 
uncompromising approach to safety remains paramount. The Cape 
brand provides our clients with the reassurance that critical support 
services for their plant maintenance and construction needs will be 
provided effi ciently and safely. This was again acknowledged by our 
clients with many prestigious awards including:
Health and safety awards
Region Date Award Site Client
UK, Europe & CIS 2015 SABIC European Contractor Gold Award for 2014 HSSE 
performance across UK SABIC Teesside sites
Teesside, UK SABIC
UK, Europe & CIS 2015 Certifi cate for achievement of eight years without an LTI Dungeness B, UK EDF
UK, Europe & CIS Feb 2015 Gold Tiger Award Fawley, UK Exxon Mobil
UK, Europe & CIS Sep 2015 Contractor of the year Sakhalin Exxon Neftegaz
MENA Dec 2015 Award for 40 million man hours without an LTI Turaif, Ma’aden 
Phosphate
Fluor Arabia
MENA 2015 Certifi cate of Appreciation for successful completion of fi ve years 
without an LTI
Oman GPS (Gulf Petro 
Chemicals Services)
MENA June 2015 Award for outstanding safety performance during 2014 Qatar Chevron Phillips
Asia Pacifi c Aug 2015 HSE Excellence Award for three years without an LTI Philippines Transfi eld Worley 
Parsons
Asia Pacifi c 2015 Safe contractor of the year for signifi cant contribution to Safety 
Health Environmental Services
Papua New Guinea Clough Curtain Joint 
Venture (CCJV)
Corporate and social responsibility
continued 47  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Cape is continuously striving to develop innovative safety 
campaigns to raise awareness of health and safety. When people 
are working in the same environment for long periods of time their 
perception of risk can be lowered, sometimes losing awareness 
of the hazards they face every day. In order to counter this Cape 
has created a novel and engaging way to present safety training 
focussing on hazard awareness and assessment. 
Using virtual reality headsets Cape has created a 360 degree 
interactive virtual reality simulation of an industrial working 
environment whereby the user experiences a range of 
hazardous ‘real life’ situations whilst remaining in the safety 
of the training room.
The technology enables training to be held at any site, both on 
and offshore to maximise coverage, with over 2,000 employees 
trained to date. The feedback from users has been universally 
positive with the learning delivered in a realistic, hard hitting way 
that is different to the normal communication and training methods.
Cape continues to revolutionise its health and safety training. 
The use of 360 degree imagery of a real working environment 
presented using immersive virtual reality technology is having a 
real impact on employees throughout the organisation.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Case study
Hazard awareness
Region
All regions 48  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Corporate and social responsibility
continued
Methodology 
In 2015 an independent audit of the methodology utilised to provide 
greenhouse gas emissions data provided in our Annual Report 
since 2013, was completed by Ecometrica without any material 
issues identifi ed.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the 
Quoted Companies Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013. 
The overall result for the Group was a 15% reduction in the calculated 
Intensity Ratio (the ratio of CO
2
 emissions expressed against the level 
of activity of the business which is best measured in number 
of hours worked by our employees) for the year when compared to 
2014. There was a corresponding signifi cant decrease in the 
absolute level of CO
2
 emissions of approximately 10 million 
kilogrammes (17% reduction) for the Group as a consequence 
of local energy saving initiatives plus a signifi cant reduction in the 
emissions associated with transporting our manpower across 
the globe.
Community
Employment opportunities
With over 16,400 employees worldwide, Cape impacts signifi cantly 
on local labour markets and, wherever practical, employment 
opportunities are made available to local communities. 
In the UK, through partnership with local governmental bodies, Cape 
is extremely active in supporting the long-term unemployed into 
meaningful employment, through training to ensure new entrants 
meet the required skills of the roles within Cape.
 
In MENA we have undertaken a wholesale review of our labour 
supply chain to ensure that practises are consistent with our values, 
and not in contravention of our commitment to support fair 
recruitment and working practises. 
In Australia, Cape provides free training in underprivileged areas, 
in particular to areas with high indigenous populations and have 
successfully placed participants into roles within Cape.
On a global basis, our graduate and internship programmes, 
apprenticeships and military leavers initiative continue to provide 
employment opportunities for members of the local communities.
Supporting local communities
Cape continues to support local communities wherever possible; this 
includes the sponsorship of an orphanage in the metro Manila area 
of the Philippines, supporting the needs of orphaned or abandoned 
children. This support includes our employees regularly volunteering 
to spend their own time supporting the orphanage. 
Cape also supports employees in their own charitable interests 
across a range of challenges and initiatives to raise funds for a 
number of good causes including Cardiomyopathy UK, Kidney 
Research UK, Chest Heart & Stroke Scotland and the Philippines 
Red Cross.
 
Human rights
The Group has a policy to operate in accordance with the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and take account of other 
internationally accepted human rights standards.
Environment
Impact on the environment
Energy Savings Opportunities Scheme (ESOS)
The UK Government established ESOS to implement Article 8 
(4 to 6) of the EU Energy Effi ciency Directive (2012/27/EU) which is a 
mandatory energy assessment scheme for organisations in the UK 
that meet the qualifi cation criteria. Organisations that qualify for 
ESOS must carry out ESOS assessments every four years. These 
assessments are audits of the energy used by their buildings, 
industrial processes and transport to identify cost-effective energy 
saving measures.
Cape has measured energy used in its depot network and transport 
fl eet since 2010 as part of the Achilles verifi ed Certifi ed Emissions 
Measurement and Reduction Scheme (CEMARS); as a result 
complying with the requirements of ESOS was straightforward. 
The independently verifi ed audits identifi ed several areas where Cape 
can further reduce energy consumption and these fi ndings will be 
adopted within the business.
Environmental reporting
We are pleased to report greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) in a 
manner consistent with UK legislation for 2015.
The emission categories captured within the defi nitions which are 
applicable to the Group and which are material are:
 – Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions. The scope applicable for the 
Group focusses on directly purchased fuel for our transport fl eet, 
ancillary equipment fuel usage (compressors and generators), 
heating oil or gas for space heating boilers and process emissions 
from our polyisocyanurate foam production facility in Abu Dhabi
 – Scope 2 – Electricity indirect emissions. The applicable scope 
covers electricity purchased from the respective local suppliers 
for site, offi ce or accommodation camp usage
 – Scope 3 – Other indirect GHG emissions. The signifi cant scope 
applicable to the Group includes provided services, goods and 
raw materials. The largest material GHG emissions factor is the 
worldwide transport of personnel by air.
Throughout the year we capture the relevant data on the Group’s 
health, safety, security and environment web-based system, MyOsh. 
This data is captured at a local country level and inputted into our 
global system in line with the UK Government’s guidance on how to 
measure and report GHG emissions. The results are reported below.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
CO
2
e, kg rounded to the nearest 10,000
2015 CO
2
e 2014 CO
2
e*
Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions) 26,613,086 33,930,350
Scope 2 (electricity indirect emissions) 3,978,839 5,580,408
Scope 3 (other indirect GHG emissions) 25,869,992 28,464,881
Total gross emissions 56,461,917 67 ,975,638
Intensity Ratio 1.040 1.23
* Restated to ensure consistency of calculation methodology with 2015.
Notes:
The Intensity Ratio is defi ned as: total CO
2
e kg/million man hours worked, as this 
measure is deemed the most relevant to the Group’s operations.
Scope 1 includes fuel vehicles (litres), fuel other (litres), units electricity (kWh) and 
units of gas (kWh). All major geographies within the Group’s international operations 
are included in the reported data. The data were converted into the CO
2
 equivalent 
using calculations provided within the ‘2015 update of UK Government Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting GHG conversion factors’. 49  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Case study
Nepal fundraising
Region
MENA
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape employs over 3,000 people from Nepal and the terrible 
impact of the earthquake there in April 2015 was felt right across 
the Group. Cape employees across the world held numerous 
fundraising events to help with the relief effort and with Cape plc 
matching the funds, raised in excess of £120,000. 
In the UK and Asia Pacifi c, funds were donated to the Red Cross 
to support their work across communities in Nepal. In the MENA 
region a different approach was taken with a large number of 
Nepalese employees in MENA that were heavily impacted by the 
disaster. Cape identifi ed those employees who were affected and 
used the money directly with the employees to help them to get 
their lives back on track in Nepal by providing housing, essential 
shelter or other materials to meet their needs. 
Business ethics
Cape operates in a wide range of countries across the globe and, 
whilst it is the Group’s policy that it always conducts business in 
accordance with applicable local laws and regulations, the Group 
also seeks to ensure that there is a common standard of business 
integrity and ethics across all its businesses and operations. This will, 
in many instances, result in Cape operating well above local law and 
regulatory standards in certain jurisdictions.
Business integrity and ethics, particularly with regards to anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption policies, are increasingly important to regulators, 
clients and other stakeholders, including employees, who rightly 
require assurance that the Group operates a safe and sustainable 
business. Maintaining its good reputation is therefore of critical 
importance to the Group. 
The Board, its Committees, the executive directors and the Executive 
Committee all play key roles in the promotion and monitoring of the 
Group’s business integrity and ethics and in safeguarding the 
Group’s reputation.
Compliance training is provided to employees to support their 
understanding of, and commitment to, Group policies in order to 
ensure that employees adhere to the common standards of business 
integrity and ethics. The training includes the training of managers in 
their responsibilities for employees, commercial contracts and 
structures, and for the protection of Group assets and is delivered 
across the Group’s operations through online training programmes 
as well as face to face seminars and individual training. The Group’s 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy applies to all Group entities, 
employees and third parties engaged by the Group and adheres to 
the standards set out in the UK Bribery Act 2010. Employees are 
required to complete online anti-bribery and anti-corruption training.
The Group operates a confi dential whistleblowing procedure that has 
been outsourced to an external service provider which encourages 
employees, workers or any other persons to disclose concerns 
relating to any forms of malpractice such as fraud or other illegal or 
improper conduct. The policy and procedures were reviewed and 
updated during the course of the year. Any whistleblowing allegations 
are routed directly to the Group General Counsel, who independently 
investigates the matter with the assistance of the Compliance and 
Investigations Manager.
Cape’s Business Integrity and Ethics Code is available on the 
website at www.capeplc.com 50  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
51  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Governance
52 Introduction from the Chairman
53 Corporate governance compliance
54 Leadership: the Board and its 
Committees
59 Effectiveness
60 Nomination Committee report
61 Accountability
62 Audit Committee report
65 Directors’ remuneration report
78 Relationship with shareholders and 
share capital
80 Directors’ report
81 Directors’ responsibilities 52  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Introduction from the Chairman
“ The Board remains focussed on 
maintaining a strong corporate 
governance environment with clear 
and transparent leadership. The 
addition of new non-executive 
directors during the year further 
strengthens the Board and brings a 
wealth of expertise and experience 
to complement our existing Board.”
Dear Shareholder,
In 2015, the Board initiated further improvements in Cape’s 
performance and governance controls while responding to new 
regulatory requirements. The principal theme that runs through a 
number of the new statutory requirements is the need for greater 
corporate transparency. Accordingly, under the leadership of the 
executive team, we continue to review our business and improve  
its ability to ensure such transparency. The Board will continue to 
monitor the implementation of these actions over the coming year.
Brendan Connolly and Leslie Van de Walle have both stepped 
down from the Board this year and their non-executive roles have 
been filled by Samantha Tough, Steve Good and Brian Larcombe. 
Samantha has added experience of Australia’s and Asia’s energy, 
infrastructure and natural resources sectors; Steve has brought 
knowledge of the speciality chemicals and plastics markets, 
while Brian has brought perspectives from private equity and 
other plc boards.
 
Following on from its externally moderated Board review in 2014,  
the Board has conducted an internal Board and Committee review  
in 2015. We will monitor the implementation of the actions arising 
from this review.
This section includes the Nomination Committee report, the Audit 
Committee report and the directors’ remuneration report. In these 
reports we set out for our stakeholders the governance structures 
that we have embedded at Cape. We aim to maintain the high 
standards of corporate governance and corporate integrity, which  
we believe will provide a secure future for our customers and 
employees, and the best prospects for long-term financial 
performance for our shareholders. 
I am confident that Cape is led by a highly-motivated and effective 
team who will drive the business to deliver consistent financial 
performance for the long term. With the support of you, the 
shareholders, the non-executive directors look forward to working 
with the senior management team in the year ahead.
Tim Eggar
Chairman
15 March 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
53  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Corporate governance compliance
Introduction 
Cape plc (the ‘Company’) is a holding company. During the year, its 
subsidiary undertakings’ (together with the Company, the ‘Group’) 
main activities included the traditional services of access, insulation, 
coatings and mechanical, and a range of specialist services including 
oil and gas storage tanks, heat exchanger replacement and 
refurbishment, and environmental services, principally to the energy 
and natural resources sectors. Further details on the Group’s 
development and performance during the year are provided in the 
overview and strategic report sections.
Cape aims to deliver all its services safely, ethically and professionally 
across all its operations and is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance, details of which are given in this directors’ 
governance report. The Company’s Board endeavours to deliver 
long-term shareholder value and believes that good governance, 
combined with the effective identification, analysis and management 
of risk within defined parameters, is an integral element for success 
in this respect.
Applicable law and regulations
In this report, citations of the Company’s current articles of 
association (the ‘Articles’) and the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 (the 
‘Law’) are references only and the relevant provisions of the Articles 
or the Law should be consulted if further information is required.
As a Jersey-incorporated company with premium-listed shares on 
the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, certain UK statutory 
and regulatory requirements do not apply to Cape. However, in the 
interests of transparency, the Company has chosen to comply 
voluntarily with such disclosure requirements set out in applicable 
UK statutes and regulations. The Company is, however, required by 
the United Kingdom Listing Authority to adopt the September 2014 
version of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC). 
Code compliance statement
As set out above, the Company is required to comply with the Code, 
which is available at www.frc.org.uk. The Company’s policy is to 
achieve best practice in our standards of business integrity in all our 
operations around the world. This includes conducting our business 
in accordance with the Code and applying the principles set out in 
the Code. This directors’ governance report describes how the 
Board has complied with the provisions of the Code and applied its 
main principles during the year. 
The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of the 
Code throughout the financial year ending 31 December 2015. In 
forming this opinion the Board has, in particular, considered whether 
Brendan Connolly met the test of independence of character and 
judgement as a non-executive director during his tenure in office:
 – Code provision B.1.1 indicates that the Board should state its 
reasons if it determines that a director is independent 
notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances 
which may appear relevant to its determination, including if the 
director has been an employee of the Company or Group within 
the last five years.
 – On 29 March 2012, Martin May, who was then the Company’s 
Chief Executive, stepped down from the Board. Brendan 
Connolly, who was then serving as an independent non-executive 
director agreed to fulfil the role of acting Chief Executive until a 
suitable replacement could be found. In order to do so, Brendan 
stepped down as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
 – Brendan was re-appointed to such Committees on 29 June 2012, 
following the appointment on the same date of Joe Oatley as 
Chief Executive. 
 – Despite the fact that Brendan Connolly has served as an 
employee of the Company during the last five years (for a period  
of just 92 days in 2012), the Board considers that: (a) the highly 
unusual and particular circumstances of his service as an 
employee; (b) the short duration of the relevant period; and (c) the 
passage of time since the short period of employment; means 
that the fact of such employment has not impinged upon his 
independence of character and judgement. 
 – Accordingly, the Board regarded Brendan Connolly as truly 
independent in character and judgement and as having satisfied 
the test of independence as set out in Code provision B.1.1.
  54  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Leadership: the Board and its Committees
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.
Composition of the Cape plc Board as at the date of signing  
the financial statements. 
1. Tim Eggar
Chairman; Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of 
the Remuneration Committee; age 64. Tim joined Cape on 1 May 2011. 
Tim’s parliamentary career between 1979 and 1997 included the key 
government appointment of Minister for Energy from 1992 to 1996. 
His extensive international experience includes being Global Head of 
Integrated Energy Corporate Finance at ABN AMRO, Chief Executive 
of Monument Oil and Gas, Chairman of Harrison Lovegrove and 
Chairman of Indago Petroleum. Tim Eggar is currently Chairman of 
MyCelx Technologies Corporation and Haulfryn Group Limited. 
2. Steve Good
Independent non-executive director; Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees; 
age 55. Steve joined Cape on 6 July 2015. Steve has a BA in Economics 
and Finance and is a Chartered Accountant with extensive international 
experience leading specialty chemicals and plastics businesses. He 
was formerly Chief Executive at FTSE Low & Bonar plc, the industrial 
textile manufacturing business, from 2009 to 2014, when he retired 
from full time executive roles. Steve also serves as a non-executive 
director on the boards of three other companies: Elementis plc; 
Zotefoams plc; and Anglian Water Services Ltd. Steve has recently 
been appointed Chairman Designate at Zotefoams plc.
3. Brian Larcombe
Independent non-executive director; age 62. Brian joined Cape  
as a non-executive director on 21 January 2016. Brian spent most  
of his career in private equity with 3i Group. After leading the UK 
investment business for a number of years, he became Finance 
Director ahead of its flotation on the London Stock Exchange and 
then Chief Executive from 1997 to 2004. Since his retirement from  
3i, Brian has served on the boards of several private and public 
companies, including Gallaher Group Limited, F&C Asset 
Management PLC and gategroup Holding AG. He is currently the 
Senior Independent Director of Smith & Nephew plc and a director  
of Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited.
4. Michael Merton
Independent non-executive director; Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees; Senior Independent Director; age 64. Michael is a 
Chartered Accountant with extensive experience in the international 
resources industry, having spent most of his executive career at Rio 
Tinto in senior operational roles around the world. Michael is also a 
non-executive director of BlackRock Commodities Income Investment 
Trust plc and Chairman of the J Sainsbury Pension Scheme and its 
Investment Committee, in addition to being a director of various 
subsidiaries for the aforementioned companies. He is a trustee of 
the Universities Superannuation Scheme and the HALO Trust. 
5. Joe Oatley
Chief Executive; age 47. Joe joined Cape as Chief Executive on 
29 June 2012. Previously he was Chief Executive of Hamworthy plc, 
a global oil and gas engineering business, which he joined in 2007 
and led until its takeover by Wartsila in 2012. Prior to this, Joe spent 
most of his career in the engineering sector in a broad range of roles 
including Managing Director, strategy development and acquisitions. 
Joe Oatley has no external appointments. 
6. Michael Speakman
Chief Financial Officer; age 51. Michael has over 30 years of 
experience with public and private companies across a range of 
industries, holding senior operational, divisional and corporate roles, 
within TI Group plc and Smiths Group plc between 1982 and 2004, 
before his appointment as Chief Financial Officer for the oilfield 
services company Expro International Group plc (Expro). At Expro, 
Michael played a key role in its development from a FTSE small cap 
company to one on the verge of breaking into the FTSE 100 when it 
was successfully auctioned and taken private in 2008. Michael holds 
a BSc in engineering and he is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants. Michael is also a non-executive director 
of FrontRow Energy Partners Limited, WellCentric Limited and 
Interventek Subsea Engineering Limited.
7. Samantha Tough
Independent non-executive director; member of the Audit Committee 
from 29 June 2015; age 50. Samantha joined Cape as a non-executive 
director on 1 January 2015. Samantha has extensive experience in 
a diverse mix of private and publicly listed oil and gas, energy, 
engineering services and infrastructure sector businesses. She is 
currently Chairman of Aerison Pty Ltd and Molopo Energy Ltd and a 
director of Electricity Generation and Retail Corporation (Synergy), 
Saracen Mineral Holdings Ltd, Strike Resources Ltd and the Western 
Australian Academy of Performing Arts. Her executive experience 
spans roles in general management at North West Shelf Woodside 
Energy Ltd, as a Strategy Director at Strategy Hardman Resources 
Ltd, as a Project Director at Pilbara Power Project and as a 
Resources Advisor at the Commonwealth Bank. Samantha has a 
law degree from the University of Western Australia. Samantha is 
also a former director of Enerji Ltd, Murchison Metals Ltd and 
Southern Cross Goldfields Ltd. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
55  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
 
Key director and senior management 
role and responsibilities
Board Chairman
Tim Eggar
The Chairman’s role (and division of responsibility with the CEO)  
is formally set out and includes:
 – Leadership and effectiveness of the Board
 – Board agenda setting, adequacy of information flow to the Board, 
and adequacy of consideration of strategic issues
 – Promoting culture of openness of debate at Board level and 
between non-executive and executive directors/members of the 
Executive Committee.
Chief Executive
Joe Oatley
The Chief Executive’s role (and division of responsibility with the 
Chairman) is formally set out and includes:
 – Management of the Group’s business and implementation of the 
Company’s strategy and policies 
 – Maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman
 – Leading the Executive Committee.
Chief Financial Officer
Michael Speakman
 – Responsible for the financial stewardship, navigation and control 
activities of the Group
 – Supporting the Chief Executive in the execution of the Group’s 
strategy.
Committee Chairmen
Tim Eggar, Michael Merton, Steve Good
 – Leadership and effectiveness of the relevant Committee
 – Committee agenda setting, adequacy of information flow to 
the Committee and adequacy of consideration of issues before 
the Committee
 – Discharge of the duties of the Committee as set out in the relevant 
Committee terms of reference.
The Senior Independent Director
Michael Merton
 – Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an 
intermediary with the other Board directors
 – Available to shareholders to air concerns which have not been 
addressed through other formal channels
 – Conducting review of performance of the Chairman.
Non-executive directors
 – Scrutiny of management performance in meeting agreed 
objectives
 – Monitoring of performance reporting
 – Monitoring the integrity of financial information, financial and 
non-financial controls, and systems of risk management.
Chairman
Tim Eggar
Board of directors of Cape plc
Chairman, two executive directors, four non-executive directors  
(including the Senior Independent Director)
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Executive directors
Chairman
Tim Eggar 
+ two independent  
non-executive directors 
Chairman
Michael Merton 
+ two independent  
non-executive directors
Chairman
Steve Good 
+ one independent 
non-executive director,  
and Tim Eggar
Joe Oatley (CEO)
Michael Speakman (CFO)
Cape’s governance structure 56  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Leadership: the Board and its Committees continued
Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the overall conduct and performance of the Group’s business. Its powers and duties are set out in the 
Company’s Articles and in the relevant laws of its place of incorporation, Jersey. The Board is responsible for the setting of, and overseeing 
the execution of, Group strategy and for the overall management, control and performance of the Cape business. It is accountable to 
shareholders for the proper and successful conduct of the business, taking into account the interests of all relevant stakeholders. The Board 
is also responsible for the effectiveness and reporting of the Group’s system of internal controls and its system of corporate governance. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its own decision. A copy of this schedule can be found on the Group’s 
website at: www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility/corporate-governance. The formal schedule of reserved matters is replicated in 
internal delegation of authorities within the Group that enable the operating businesses to operate with flexibility whilst ensuring that strategic 
matters are always considered and decided upon by the Board. The schedule is reviewed annually. Matters delegated by the Board to its 
standing Committees are set out below.
The Board has also appointed a standing sub-committee comprising any two directors to attend to routine administrative issues. The 
sub-committee may only be convened in exceptional circumstances and with prior notification to the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior 
Independent Director. 
The Board receives regular reports on performance against budget, the general economic climate, market conditions and competitor activity. 
Directors receive briefing papers distributed in advance of Board and Committee meetings and also receive periodic business reports from 
senior managers regarding their area of the business. The briefing papers comprise a detailed health, safety and environment report, Chief 
Executive report which addresses key issues facing the Group, and a Chief Financial Officer report which records performance in the period 
since the last meeting, all measured against defined performance indicators and budget. Open and frank dialogue is encouraged and all 
directors have the opportunity to challenge and seek further information or clarification as appropriate. In addition to routine Board meetings,  
the Board meets at least annually to consider the Group’s strategy. Members of the Executive Committee attend strategy and Board meetings 
by invitation. 
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense. An agreed procedure exists for the taking of such advice. During 2015, no director sought independent legal advice 
pursuant to the policy.
 
Composition of the Board
The directors of the Company who were in office at the date of signing the financial statements (with the exception of Brendan Connolly and 
Leslie Van de Walle) were:
Role Comments Non-executive director tenure
Brendan Connolly Non-executive director Appointed 16/11/2011 
Acting CEO 29/3/2012 to 29/6/2012
42 months
Tim Eggar Chairman Appointed 4/5/2011 58 months
Steve Good Non-executive director Appointed 6/7/2015 8 months
Brian Larcombe Non-executive director Appointed 21/1/2016 2 months
Michael Merton Non-executive director and 
Senior Independent Director
Appointed 4/5/2011. 
Senior Independent Director 
since 29/6/2012
58 months
Joe Oatley Executive director (CEO) Appointed 29/6/2012 NA
Michael Speakman Executive director (CFO) Appointed 6/12/2012 NA
Samantha Tough Non-executive director Appointed 1/1/2015 15 months
Leslie Van de Walle Non-executive director Appointed 22/8/2012 36 months 
As at 31 December 2015, the Board comprised of the non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive 
directors. The directors’ biographical details appear on page 54. The Board regards each of the four non-executive directors as being fully 
independent in character and judgement (see page 53). The non-executive directors draw from a broad range of business and commercial 
experience to scrutinise and challenge independently and constructively the executive management team’s performance.
Board Committees
The Board has established a number of formal Committees to assist in the discharge of its duties. The Board Committees’ compositions are 
summarised below:
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee
Brendan Connolly
1
Member Member Chairman
Tim Eggar Chairman Invited to attend Member
Steve Good
2
Member Member Chairman
Michael Merton Member Chairman Member
Joe Oatley Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items
Michael Speakman Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items
Samantha Tough
3
Invited to attend on certain items Member Invited to attend on certain items
Leslie Van de Walle
4
 Member Member Member
1  Brendan did not stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM on 12/5/2015.
2  Steve was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company as of 6/7/2015.
3  Samantha became a member of the Audit Committee as of 29/6/2015.
4  Leslie resigned as a non-executive director of the Company as of 26/8/2015. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
57  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
The Board’s three formal Committees, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, have formally delegated duties and responsibilities 
and their terms of reference can be found at www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility/corporate-governance/board-committees. Each 
Committee’s terms of reference is reviewed annually to ensure that it complies with current legal and regulatory requirements and reflects 
best corporate practice and improvements in the way the Committees are managed. Each Committee’s Chairman reports formally to the 
Board after each Committee meeting. Additionally, from time to time, the Committees submit reports and recommendations to the Board 
on any matter which they consider significant to the Group. An informal Executive Committee was formed in 2012 to act as an advisory 
Committee managed by the Chief Executive and to improve the effectiveness of strategic, operational and financial performance. The 
Executive Committee is not a formally-constituted Committee of the Board.
 
Each Committee’s structure and terms of reference are summarised below. Further details of each Committee’s work are given in the 
respective reports on pages 60, 62 and 65.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee
Summary of 
responsibilities (see 
terms of reference, as 
above, for full details)
 – Review of Board balance and 
composition of the Board and 
Committees 
 – Advice to Board on appointment 
and removal of executive and 
non-executive directors and 
Committee membership 
 – Succession planning.
 – Review of the effectiveness of 
the external auditor including 
the consideration and 
recommendations for appointment 
and removal and re-appointment 
of the external auditor
 – Review of the Company’s critical 
accounting policies and 
associated judgements including 
reviewing the integrity of reported 
financial information and reviewing 
reporting issues and judgements
 – Monitoring the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal financial 
controls, to include compliance, 
whistleblowing and fraud.
 – Determine and agree with 
Board framework/policy for 
remuneration of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive, executive 
directors and first layer of senior 
management below the Board
 – Determine total package and 
structure for the Chairman 
and executive directors
 – Selection and recruitment of 
remuneration consultants
 – Design and structure of 
performance-related Group 
remuneration schemes and 
share plans
 – Determine vesting for 
performance related and 
share schemes.
Membership All of the independent non-executive 
directors, with the exception of 
Samantha Tough and Brian 
Larcombe.
All of the independent non-executive 
directors, with the exception of 
Brian Larcombe.
All of the independent non-executive 
directors and Board Chairman, with 
the exception of Samantha Tough 
and Brian Larcombe.
Chairman Tim Eggar Michael Merton Steve Good
Attending by 
invitation
The Company Secretary, 
the Chief Executive and the Chief 
Financial Officer (when appropriate).
The Board Chairman, Company 
Secretary, the Chief Executive, Chief 
Financial Officer, Director of Group 
Internal Audit, Head of Group Tax 
and Treasury, Group Financial 
Controller and external auditor  
(when appropriate).
The Company Secretary, the Chief 
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer 
and the external remuneration 
adviser (when appropriate).
Quorum Two independent non-executive 
directors.
Two independent non-executive 
directors.
Two independent non-executive 
directors.
Number of meetings 
per year
At least twice per year. At least three times per year. At least three times per year.
Committee report Page 60 Page 62 Page 65
Other Committee Chairman to be
available to shareholders at 
the AGM.
N/A Remuneration of the non-executive 
directors is a matter for the Chairman 
and the Board’s executive members. 
Remuneration of the Chairman is 
determined by the Remuneration 
Committee within the terms of the 
agreed policy and in consultation 
with the Chief Executive. 58  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Leadership: the Board and its Committees continued
Board and Board Committee attendance
The Board met formally six times during the period and informally on other occasions. Non-executive directors are also available throughout 
the year and are available to attend additional Board meetings as necessary. The table below shows attendance by directors at meetings of 
the Board and the Board Committees during the year ended 31 December 2015:
Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee
Number
attended
Number of 
meetings
Number 
attended
Number of 
meetings
Number 
attended
Number of 
meetings
Number 
attended
Number of 
meetings
Tim Eggar 6 6 N/A N/A 3 3 3 3
Brendan Connolly
1
2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1
Steve Good
2
3 3 2 2 1 1 2 2
Michael Merton 6 6 4 4 3 3 3 3
Joe Oatley 6 6 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Michael Speakman 6 6 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Samantha Tough
3
5 6 3 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Leslie Van de Walle
4
4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2
1  Brendan did not stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM on 12/5/2015.
2  Steve was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company as of 6/7/2015. 
3  Samantha became a member of the Audit Committee as of 29/6/2015.
4  Leslie resigned as a non-executive director of the Company as of 26/8/2015.
Directors’ interests, indemnity arrangements and other significant agreements
Each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the Company in respect of claims made and liabilities incurred whilst in the proper 
performance of his or her duties. The Company also maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against directors of the 
Company and its subsidiaries.
Other than the deed of indemnity referenced above, or as noted in the Remuneration Committee report, no director had a material interest 
at any time during the year in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Board has reviewed the interests of each non-executive director and the potential impact of any such interests on director independence. 
None of the non-executive directors have had any material business interests with the Group with the exception of Brendan Connolly who, 
as set out on page 53 stepped in as an interim Chief Executive for a period of 92 days in 2012. As set out on page 53, the Board and the 
Committee have satisfied themselves that Brendan Connolly remained independent in character and judgement for the duration of his term 
as a non-executive director of the Company. Accordingly, the Board considers that there are no agreements in place between the Group and 
any non-executive director that impacts the non-executive directors’ independence.
The Board recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the Group, of executive directors taking on external appointments. Accordingly, 
directors are permitted to accept external appointments subject to the approval of the Board and the Remuneration Committee and provided 
that the additional appointments do not interfere with the directors’ ability to discharge their duties effectively. The executive directors’ 
commitments outside the Group are detailed in the Remuneration Committee’s report on page 71. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
59  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Effectiveness
Board evaluation/effectiveness review and review of directors
The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group. 
Accordingly, the Nomination Committee undertakes an annual 
exercise to evaluate the performance of the Board, its Committees 
and individual directors. In 2015, the Committee met to plan the 
evaluation process in detail. It considered Code provision B.6.2 
which requires that evaluation of Board effectiveness should be 
externally facilitated every three years.
 
As it is not a constituent of the FTSE 350 the Company is not 
required to conduct an externally facilitated Board review and 
external facilitation therefore is a matter of discretion for the 
Committee. However, the Committee appointed Lintstock 
(www.lintstock.com) to advise on and facilitate an externally 
managed Board review process in 2014. The review covered a 
diverse range of Board activities including the operations of the 
Board itself and of its Committees, the performance of the Chairman 
and specifically the strategic review conducted by the Board of the 
Group’s activities.
The Committee considered that an internally managed Board review 
would be more appropriate for 2015, using the general methodology 
used in 2014. Subsequently, an internal Board review was conducted 
using a scoring system (where appropriate) to allow for quantitative 
trend analysis of performance.
Each Committee and the Board, in open sessions, considered the 
reports on the reviews and monitored the implementation of a list of 
actions arising from such reviews during the financial year.
During the course of the year, as required by provision A.4.2 of the 
Code, to appraise the Chairman’s performance, the Chairman held 
a number of meetings with the non-executive directors in the 
absence of the executive directors and the Senior Independent 
Director held meetings with the non-executive directors in the 
absence of the Chairman. 
Selection, appointment and support of directors
During the year, the Nomination Committee appointed specialist 
external recruitment consultants to search for new independent 
non-executive directors to replace Brendan Connolly and Leslie Van 
de Walle. The process identified a number of suitable candidates and 
after a formal and rigorous assessment and interview, the Nomination 
Committee made the following recommendations to the Board. 
Samantha Tough was recommended to be appointed as an 
additional non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2015, 
and as a member of the Audit Committee from 29 June 2015. Steve 
Good was recommended to be appointed as a non-executive 
director and chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect 
from 6 July 2015. Brian Larcombe was recommended to be 
appointed as an additional non-executive director with effect from 
21 January 2016. Samantha has added experience of Australia’s and 
the Asia-Pacific’s energy, infrastructure and natural resources 
sectors; Steve has brought knowledge of the speciality chemicals 
and plastics markets, while Brian has brought helpful perspectives 
from private equity. Samantha and Steve received a tailored and 
detailed induction. Brian will receive a tailored and detailed induction 
over the coming months.
As set out on page 56, directors are provided, in a timely manner, 
with the quality and depth of information appropriate to enable them 
to discharge their duties.
Rules on appointment and removal of directors
Subject to applicable law, a director may be appointed by an ordinary 
resolution of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by 
the Board or a member (or members) entitled to vote at such a 
meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the director chooses to 
seek re-election at a general meeting. Under Jersey law, a director 
may be removed by the Company, pursuant to the Company’s 
Articles of association, or by a resolution of the Company.
Re-election of directors
All the directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to be 
held on 11 May 2016. The Nomination Committee has confirmed to 
the Board that the contributions made by the directors offering 
themselves for re-election at the AGM in May 2016 continue to be 
effective and that the Board should support their re-election. The 
election or re-election of each director is recommended by the Board. 
The Board is satisfied that all the directors will continue to be able to 
devote sufficient time to their duties as directors.
Directors’ engagement terms
With effect from 1 January 2013, the Board adopted a policy that 
non-executive directors’ terms of engagement should provide for a 
maximum initial term of three years terminable at any time by three 
months’ notice from either party. It is the Board’s current policy not 
to extend the aggregate period of service of non-executive director’s 
beyond nine years. Any proposal to extend a non-executive director’s 
aggregate period of office beyond six years will be the subject of 
rigorous review.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are 
employed under service agreements which are terminable on twelve 
months’ written notice by either party. 
Copies of the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment will  
be on display at the AGM, together with the executive directors’ 
service agreements and are generally available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office. Further details of the service contracts 
for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the 
non-executive directors are set out on page 70.
Significant commitments of the Chairman
Tim Eggar is currently Chairman of MyCelx Technologies Corporation 
and Haulfryn Limited, neither of which cause any conflict, potential 
conflict, nor impact upon the time commitment Tim requires to act 
as Chairman for the Group. 60  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Nomination Committee report
“ The Committee considers that the 
Company has strengthened the 
effectiveness of Cape’s governance 
structures and refreshed the senior 
management team.”
Tim Eggar
Chairman, Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee’s role and objectives
The Committee’s terms of reference are summarised on page 57  
and can be found in full in the corporate responsibility section of the 
Company’s website (www.capeplc.com). The Committee remains 
focussed on overseeing the Board’s effectiveness and composition 
and in ensuring robust succession planning at Board and senior 
management levels.
The Nomination Committee’s composition and meetings
The Committee is comprised of the Board Chairman and two 
independent non-executive directors. It is chaired by Tim Eggar, 
whose biographical details and other directorships are summarised 
on page 54. All three members meet the Group’s criteria for 
independence. The Committee’s membership is set out on  
page 57. The Committee met formally on three occasions in  
2015. An attendance summary is provided on page 58. 
The Nomination Committee’s main activities during the year
The Committee performed three main activities during the year 
being: the annual evaluation of Board effectiveness, where the 
Committee met to plan and to review the outcome of the Board 
effectiveness review; succession planning and renewal of director 
appointments; and the recruitment review process for new 
non-executive directors. 
Matters considered at the Committee’s meetings during 2015 are 
summarised below:
Board performance Review and consideration of Board 
diversity. 2015 Board evaluation 
process including planning of 
evaluation process and review of 
evaluation findings – the key areas  
of focus included Board composition 
and diversity and non-executive 
directors’ time commitment.
Committee performance Annual review of effectiveness of the 
Committee’s performance and review 
of the Committee’s terms of reference.
Director performance Annual review of director 
performance and recommendation 
for re-election at AGM.
NED recruitment process Review of the search criteria and 
arrangements for new non-executive 
directors and management of the 
search and recruitment process.
Board diversity
The Board recognises the very considerable advantages that can 
flow from diversity in challenging embedded practices, refreshing 
Board and organisational culture and improving Board effectiveness 
in the broadest sense. In this context, the Board views diversity as 
encompassing diversity of experience, background, perspective, 
psychological type and personal attributes and believes that this can 
be provided, though not exclusively, through ethnic and gender 
diversity. The Committee’s terms of reference expresses the 
desirability of expanding the diversity of the Board.
Re-election of directors and appointments
Following the completion of the 2015 Board evaluation process, the 
Committee met on 20 January 2016 and determined that all of the 
directors who are the subject of annual re-election will retire at the 
forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The evaluation of the Board described on page 59 concluded that the 
directors offering themselves for re-election continue to demonstrate 
commitment to their particular role and perform effectively. Whilst no 
non-executive director has served for more than six years, the Nomination 
Committee would conduct a particularly rigorous review of any such 
relevant non-executive director’s performance in such circumstances 
before recommending his or her reappointment to the Board.
The Nomination Committee led the process for the recruitment of 
three non-executive directors and received advice from external 
recruitment consultants, Russell Reynolds and the Zygos Partnership 
(advisors with no other connection to the Company).
Samantha Tough was appointed to the Board as an additional 
non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2015, and as a 
member of the Audit Committee as of 29 June 2015. Steve Good 
was appointed to the Board as a new non-executive director with 
effect from 6 July 2015. Steve is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee and the 
Audit Committee. Brian Larcombe was appointed to the Board as  
a new non-executive director with effect from 21 January 2016. 
In accordance with our Articles, Samantha, Steve and Brian shall 
stand for election at the AGM to be held on 11 May 2016.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive directors’ 
letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours, by prior arrangement. 
They will also be available for inspection at the venue of the AGM, prior 
to the AGM, details of which are contained in the AGM meeting notice.
The Committee considers that the Company has strengthened the 
effectiveness of Cape’s governance structures and refreshed the 
senior management team and is committed to overseeing further 
progress during 2016. 
Tim Eggar
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
15 March 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
61  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Accountability
Internal control
Each director’s responsibilities in connection with the Annual Report 
are set out on page 81.
The Board’s overall responsibility for the Group’s internal control 
systems is demonstrated through the directors’ attention to their 
effective implementation and operation. Such controls are designed 
to identify, evaluate and manage the business’s principal risks rather 
than eliminate them. Therefore, they are not designed to guarantee 
the achievement of business objectives but are aimed at providing 
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Throughout the reporting period, and up to the date of approval of 
the Annual Report, the Company has operated a process for the 
identification, evaluation and management of the principal risks faced 
by the Group. The Board regularly reviews and amends this process.
Further details on risk management, principal risks and viability are 
set out on pages 18 to 25.
In addition, during the period, the directors undertook a review of the 
Group’s systems of internal control utilising the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Guidance on risk management, internal control and related 
financial and business reporting. The assessment included a joint report 
from the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Group Internal Audit 
to the Audit Committee, a discussion on the key elements of the Group’s 
overall internal control system and an analysis of the appropriateness 
and effectiveness of the control measures. In reviewing the effectiveness 
of the control systems, the directors have taken into account the nature 
and quality of regular and annual reporting undertaken during 2015.
Based on their review, the directors concluded that overall systems 
of internal control have been enhanced over the year and still remain 
appropriate. Nonetheless, the Group should derive further benefit 
from the standardisation of processes across all geographic territories 
and from ensuring that existing controls continue to operate effectively.
Key features of the Group’s systems of internal control include:
 – strategic and financial planning – the Group produces a 
five-year plan, together with detailed annual budgets and 
objectives which are closely monitored and against which regular 
reports are prepared for consideration by the Board;
 – investment appraisal – material contracts and capital 
expenditure are reviewed in advance by senior management and, 
when appropriate, approved by the Board;
 – financial monitoring – profitability, margin return, cash flow, capital 
expenditure and return on capital are all closely monitored and key 
financial information reported to the Board on a regular basis, along 
with explanations of variances between actual and budgeted 
performance and action plans to rectify any such variances;
 – delegated authority matrix – there is a clearly defined system 
of approval limits for key business decisions, including contract 
approvals, material transactions, acquisitions, disposals, capital 
purchases and operating expenditures; and
 – structure – the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and 
the Board also review the integrity of the financial and consolidation 
processes and the completeness and accuracy of financial information.
Principal internal control and risk management mechanisms
The Board has overall responsibility for managing risk within the 
business and delegates responsibility for review of the risk 
management systems’ adequacy to the Audit Committee. The 
principal internal control mechanisms used to identify, assess, 
manage and control risk are:
 – risk registers – every six months, the internal audit function 
assists all business units, including the Group functions, in the 
assessment of each business area’s risk and updates the risk 
registers accordingly; material changes to the risk registers are 
reported to the Audit Committee and the Board on a regular 
basis; in 2015, the Audit Committee tested the integrity of the 
register by performing a high-level review of the key risks to the 
business, which tested the reliability of the detailed review;
 – risk appraisal – before any decisions are taken which could have 
a significant impact upon the Group’s business the related risks 
are assessed in advance and kept under review prior to 
finalisation of any decision;
 – six-monthly certification process – senior managers within 
each of the Group’s business units certify detailed questionnaires 
that cover (amongst other things) their unit’s conduct of business 
and regulatory compliance;
 – internal audit – this function operates a risk based audit 
approach; the Director of Group Internal Audit reports to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee; the internal audit team reports 
its proposed scope of work for the following year to the Audit 
Committee, which reviews the plan and assesses the 
effectiveness of the internal audit function against those agreed 
objectives; the internal audit team also provides objective 
assurance on risk and controls to senior management, the Audit 
Committee and the Board;
 – whistleblowing – the Group operates a confidential whistleblowing 
procedure that has been outsourced to an external service 
provider which encourages employees, workers or any other 
persons to disclose concerns relating to any forms of malpractice 
such as dangerous working practice, fraud or other illegal or 
improper conduct; the policies and procedures were reviewed 
and updated during the course of the year; any whistleblowing 
allegations are routed directly to the General Counsel, who 
independently investigates the matter with the assistance of the 
Group Compliance and Investigations Manager, and report 
findings and actions taken directly to the Audit Committee;
 – anti-bribery and anti-corruption – the Group’s anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption policy, which is underpinned by the Group’s 
Business integrity and ethics code, applies to all Group 
employees and to any agents or other third party acting for, or on 
behalf of, the Group. This policy includes a clear statement on the 
Group’s commitment to anti-bribery and anti-corruption practices;
 – conflict register – a register of interests, including business 
interests and other appointments, is maintained as part of the 
Company’s procedure for identifying conflicts of interest between 
key personnel and the Group. Any conflicts detected are dealt 
with accordingly. This register is reviewed and updated regularly.
The Audit Committee and the Board have oversight function of all 
internal control and risk management issues.
Risk framework
The Board is committed to enhancing the Group’s risk management 
capability. The effective management of risk and opportunity is 
essential to the delivery of the Group’s strategy, achievement of 
sustainable shareholder value and the protection and enhancement 
of its reputation. The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the 
oversight of the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. The Board aims to ensure that the Group’s systems 
in place for the identification and management of risks are appropriate 
while ensuring that, within an agreed risk tolerance, the business is 
able to optimise enterprise value. 
The executive directors lead the focus on the identification of risk and 
its remediation. This aids the strengthening of internal controls, internal 
financial reporting and the direction of the internal audit function.
The senior management team promotes a culture where, as a matter 
of good business practice, both risks and opportunities are identified 
and managed, thereby ensuring more informed and effective 
business decisions are made to help the Group achieve its objectives 
and targets. The Board reviews risk tolerance to ensure that it is 
calibrated to the Group’s strategic objectives. Risk is assessed 
formally at business segment level through risk workshops and via 
the maintenance of risk registers. The updating of the risk registers is 
a continuous process, formalised every six months, involving the 
effective identification, evaluation and management of risks by 
individual managers. A comprehensive and rigorous bid authorisation 
model is used to manage the Group’s risks when bidding for work.
To support the Board and the Audit Committee in discharging their 
responsibilities, the internal audit function delivers a comprehensive 
risk based assurance plan and regularly advises the Audit 
Committee of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the 
control environment. During the reporting year management, the 
internal audit function and the external auditors have all made control 
improvement recommendations. This process of controls 
improvement is ongoing and will continue to be closely monitored by 
the Audit Committee. 62  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Audit Committee report
“ The Committee considers that the 
Company has made considerable 
progress during 2015 in strengthening 
its internal commercial and financial 
controls, and is committed to 
overseeing further progress  
during 2016.”
Michael Merton
Chairman, Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s role and objectives 
The Committee’s terms of reference are summarised on page 57 
and can be found in full in the corporate responsibility section of our 
website (www.capeplc.com). The Committee remains focussed on 
overseeing the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, the 
effectiveness of its internal financial controls and risk management 
systems, and the effectiveness of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee’s composition and meetings 
The Committee is comprised of the three independent non-executive 
directors and is chaired by Michael Merton. The appointments of 
Samantha Tough on 29 June 2015 and Steve Good on 6 July 2015 
have brought fresh business and financial experience to the 
Committee. All three members meet the Group’s criteria for 
independence. The Chairman of the Committee is deemed by the 
Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, as required 
under the UK Corporate Governance Code. The membership of the 
Committee is set out on page 56. 
The Committee met formally on four occasions in 2015. An attendance 
summary is provided on page 58. The Chairman of the Committee has 
met during the year separately with both the Director of Group Internal 
Audit and with the external auditor without management being present. 
The Committee invites the Chief Financial Officer to attend meetings 
and also invites the Group Head of Tax and Treasury, the Director of 
Group Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller to attend 
meetings covering the financial results of the Group. The Chairman 
and Chief Executive are frequently invited to attend the Committee 
meetings. At least part of some meetings are held alone with the 
external auditor, without the presence of management.
Review of the Company’s critical accounting policies and 
associated judgements
The Committee considered the integrity of the Group’s 2015 financial 
statements and reviewed the appropriateness of its critical accounting 
policies, and the judgements made in applying them. The year-end 
and interim financial statements were reviewed and discussed with 
Ernst & Young (EY) and relevant individuals from Group finance. 
 
In discharging its responsibility for overseeing the integrity of the 
Group’s financial statements, the Committee considered, among 
others, the following specific matters:  Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
63  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Matter Issue and nature of judgement Factors considered and conclusion reached
Carrying value of 
goodwill
The Group balance sheet holds an amount of 
£118.0 million of goodwill as at 31 December 
2015. The Directors are required to determine 
annually whether those assets have suffered 
any impairment. 
Detailed value-in-use calculations are prepared and reviewed annually. 
Management explained the processes for preparing the annual 
goodwill impairment test, the controls over the data and assumptions 
used and considered this against the Group’s strategic plan. 
The Committee concluded that the approach taken was sensible  
and the judgements made were appropriate.
Industrial disease 
claims
At 31 December 2015, the Group holds a 
provision of £95.5 million in relation to the 
industrial disease claims liability. The 
Committee determined the appropriateness  
of the provision held. 
The Committee discussed the latest actuarial valuation and 
management documentation; it reviewed key macro assumptions 
including the appropriateness of the discount rate and inflation 
assumptions. It also considered the appropriateness of scheme-
specific assumptions, including the likely quantum, incidence and 
composition of projected future awards, and the protections afforded 
by insurance. Additionally, the Committee considered the 
assumptions made with regard to the likely future scope of eligible 
claims by individuals and insurance companies. The Committee 
satisfied itself as to management’s processes for ensuring the 
accuracy of claims source data and the appropriateness of 
sensitivities to the likely outcome. 
The Committee concluded that the provision held was adequate  
and that management’s processes for determining it were robust. 
Carrying value of 
property, plant 
and equipment
Due to the nature of Cape’s business, the 
Group holds a significant amount of fixed 
assets, primarily scaffold assets. The Group 
must ensure that the carrying value of the 
scaffold assets is represented by physical 
scaffold. The Committee assesses the 
appropriateness of controls and procedures  
to verify the existence and carrying value of 
scaffold assets. 
During 2015, the Director of Group Internal Audit presented his 
findings regarding physical scaffold counts, the locations and extent 
of the counts, the quality of procedures and quality of the 
reconciliations to accounting records.
Management presented during the year on initiatives to strengthen the 
internal controls surrounding scaffold assets and progress updates 
including the implementation of asset management software. The 
Committee noted the new appointment of a Group Asset Manager. 
The Committee concluded that the existence and valuation of assets 
in the financial statements was appropriate. 
Long-term contracts 
and revenue 
recognition
A material proportion of the Group’s earnings 
are derived from long-term contracts whereby 
revenue is recognised over time in accordance 
with the Group’s revenue recognition policy. 
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the policy and the 
controls that are in place to ensure compliance with it. 
Procedures for bid approvals and contract controls were discussed 
with internal audit. Accounting for key contracts, such as the 
Wheatstone project, was reviewed and discussed with management, 
as were uncertainties regarding the appropriateness of the 
assumptions made. Commercial and credit risks around specific 
contracts were reviewed by the Committee on a regular basis.
The Committee concluded that the contract control environment had 
been strengthened and that the Group’s processes and controls around 
revenue recognition were consistent and effective during the year. 
Taxation The Group’s financial statements include 
provisions and accruals for tax and assessment 
of these at year-end. 
The Committee considered the adequacy of the Group’s processes 
to ensure that all probable tax liabilities were recorded in the balance 
sheet and that any tax returns which were disputed by a tax authority 
in any jurisdiction, including HMRC, had been given particular 
consideration. The Committee agreed that the assumptions and 
estimations made in relation to taxation were appropriate.
 
The Committee considered the adequacy of the assumptions 
regarding the recoverability of the deferred tax asset in Australia and 
concluded that the assumptions were appropriate.  64  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Audit Committee report continued
Monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s internal financial 
controls and risk management systems
There are a number of policies, processes and functions that the 
Committee considered in 2015 in relation to internal financial controls 
and risk management which are detailed below. 
 – Internal audit. The internal audit function is responsible for the 
review of the Group’s risk and control processes according to an 
annual internal audit plan that is agreed with the Audit Committee 
in advance. As part of this review process the Committee 
considered the adequacy of internal audit resources and the 
scope of the audit plan. The Committee monitored the scope, 
effectiveness and findings of the activities of internal audit through 
formal reporting by the Director of Group Internal Audit, and 
reviewed remediation plans where appropriate and ensured 
timely remediation. 
 – Internal control environment. The six-monthly internal controls’ 
questionnaire (which requires regional management to confirm 
compliance or non-compliance with a prescribed list of regulatory 
and internal policies) has proven to be a highly effective tool in 
monitoring compliance with the Group’s internal controls and 
rectification of non-compliance with such controls. The 
Committee obtained assurance that the necessary rigour and 
diligence were applied by management in completing this 
Group-wide process. The Director of Group Internal Audit 
provided regular updates on key financial and commercial internal 
controls to the Committee, including any control or process 
changes and a summary of the current internal control 
environment. The Committee encouraged and monitored 
management’s progress in standardising processes for asset 
management and contract accounting, and received regular 
updates from the Chief Financial Officer on this matter. 
 – Risk analysis. The Committee monitored and, with assistance 
from the Director of Group Internal Audit, reviewed changes to the 
risk register (which itemises the relative significance of perceived 
risks). Each principal risk and any re-rating during the year are 
discussed by the Committee, with actions set out to mitigate the 
impact of the identified risk. The Committee particularly 
considered whether the risk register properly reflected the Group’s 
actual experience in the preceding years, as well as the adequacy 
of mitigating controls.
 – Business integrity and ethics. The Group General Counsel 
regularly reports to Committee meetings on the findings and 
progress of any investigations into fraudulent or potentially 
fraudulent activities. Periodic reports are also provided on 
changes to material identified risks. Whistleblowing reports are 
provided frequently to the Committee by the Group General 
Counsel with details of any cases raised, investigations and 
recommended action. 
 – Conflict of interest register. The register of interests is reviewed 
and updated regularly.
 – Commercial assurance. During 2015, the Committee further 
strengthened its commercial assurance by implementing a 
commercial assurance review and update at each Committee 
meeting. The Chief Executive and Group Commercial Director 
report to the Committee on a regular basis on specific commercial 
contract risks. The Committee discussed challenges and actions 
being taken on key contracts. Any significant loss making contracts, 
concerns over build-up of work in progress, debt or significant 
other commercial issues were discussed. 
The Committee considers that the Company has made considerable 
progress during 2015 in strengthening its internal financial controls, 
business integrity and ethics, and commercial assurance. The 
Committee is committed to overseeing further progress during 2016.
Effectiveness of external auditors 
The Committee considered the objectivity, effectiveness and 
independence of the external auditors. 
At the AGM on 12 May 2015, a resolution of the Company was 
passed to re-appoint EY as the Company’s external auditors. EY 
were first appointed as the Company’s external auditors in 2013.  
The partner responsible for the audit first worked on the appointment 
in 2013. 
During the year, the Committee reviewed the policies relating to 
external auditors including: appointment and termination; audit fees; 
non-audit work; reporting of control weaknesses; and hire of staff.
The Committee discussed EY’s audit process at its meetings in 
March, August and November 2015. The findings from the 2014 
financial year audit cycle were reviewed and feedback received from 
the business and the Chief Financial Officer on the effectiveness of 
the external audit process. The Committee reviewed the quality and 
cost-effectiveness of the external audit, and the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors. The findings of EY’s interim review 
and the accounting treatment of significant items raised were 
discussed in August 2015 and the 2016 external audit plan was 
reviewed in November 2015. The Committee and the Board are 
committed to maintaining the highest standards of external audit quality.
In assessing auditor independence the Committee had regard to the 
Smith Guidance for Audit Committees and required the auditors to 
confirm that their independence and ethics policies complied with 
the requirements of the ICAEW.
The Audit Committee has been careful to ensure EY’s independence. 
It discharges this duty through: obtaining confirmation from the 
auditors that they are, in their professional judgement, independent 
of the Group; periodic assessment of relevant developments within 
the audit firm; and its formal policy regarding the provision by the 
external auditor of non-audit services. EY have confirmed to the 
Committee that they remain independent and maintain internal 
safeguards to ensure their objectivity. No contractual obligations 
exist that restrict the Group’s choice of external auditor and the Audit 
Committee is satisfied that the external auditor remains independent. 
Additionally, the Committee reviewed the most recent report from the 
Financial Reporting Council on the quality of EY’s audit practices. 
During the year EY have charged the Group £1.1 million for audit and 
audit-related work. Further details of the fees paid to EY for both 
audit and non-audit work can be found in note 10 ‘Auditor’s 
remuneration’ to the consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee has established policies determining the 
non-audit services that the external auditors can provide and the 
procedures required for pre-approval of any such engagement. Such 
policies provide for the auditors to be engaged only for work that is 
not prohibited by professional or other regulatory requirements. The 
policies state that in most cases general non-audit services should 
not be provided by the external auditor and does not allow the 
external auditor to provide internal audit, accounting services, 
valuation services or assignments that present a potential self-review 
conflict. Even where the Group’s policies allow for the external 
auditor to be engaged to provide non-audit services, prior approval 
is required from the Audit Committee for all assignments over 
£25,000. In any one year the sum of all permitted non-audit fees 
must not exceed £500,000 or 50% of the total annual external audit 
fee of the Group, whichever is the lesser. These approvals operate in 
addition to the Group’s general procurement policies which require 
material contracts to be subject to a formal tender process. Annually, 
the Chief Financial Officer submits a report of fees charged and 
services provided by the auditors and this is reviewed by the Audit 
Committee to ensure policies have been complied with. The 
Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board identifying 
any matters where procedures could be improved.
The Audit Committee received a report from EY describing the 
arrangements that had been made to identify, report upon and 
manage any conflict of interests that might arise and to ensure the 
maintenance of external auditor independence. On the basis of the 
matters outlined above, and notwithstanding that EY provided 
non-audit services of £0.2 million during the reporting year, the 
Committee considers that EY’s objectivity was not impaired.
Michael Merton
On behalf of the Audit Committee
15 March 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
65  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ remuneration report
“ The remuneration policy, approved 
at the Company’s 2014 AGM, whilst 
demanding in terms of the controls 
on remuneration policy, has proven 
sufficiently flexible to achieve the 
balance needed between 
performance and appropriate  
levels of reward. Accordingly, the 
Committee will not be seeking any 
changes at the 2016 AGM.”
Steve Good
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Chairman’s statement 
The Committee’s three-year remuneration policy was introduced in 
2014 and the Committee believes that it continues to provide the 
conditions necessary to promote the long-term success of the 
Company and the delivery of long-term value for shareholders. 
Accordingly, the Committee will not be seeking any changes to the 
policy at the 2016 AGM.
We recognise that the remuneration of senior executives is the 
subject of much scrutiny and we are mindful of the principles of 
remuneration published by stakeholder representatives such as the 
Investment Association (IA), Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) 
and others, and of the revisions to governance by the Department of 
Business, Innovation and Skills. We believe that this report seeks to 
be open and transparent in reporting on the Company’s and the 
Group’s remuneration structures.
Previously, the Committee invested considerable time and effort in 
structuring executive director remuneration – ensuring that it was 
transparent, stretching and rigorously applied to attract, motivate and 
retain executive talent to deliver the business strategy – and 
accordingly, there have been no material changes in directors’ 
remuneration during the year.
The Committee considered the following items of business during 2015:
 – Executive directors’ and senior executives’ salary levels;
 – Annual bonus performance measures and targets;
 – Out-turn of bonus for 2014; 
 – 2015 long-term incentive award levels; 
 – Structure of 2016 long-term incentive award; and
 – Reviewing and updating the Terms of Reference.
Performance and reward for 2015
Market conditions were challenging in 2015 as lower oil prices 
impacted activity levels and competitive intensity in the Group’s oil 
and gas activities. Nevertheless and as described in the strategic 
report, 2015 was a year of further progress in; delivering robust 
underlying profit, improved operating cash conversion, and 
substantial progress against a number of strategic milestones.
In considering how our business performance translated into  
reward, achieving an adjusted EPS of 29.9 pence, operating  
cash conversion of 84%, working capital/revenue ratio of 15.3%  
and meeting strategic objectives, 2015 annual bonuses were  
earned at 62% and 59% of the maximum for the executive directors.
With regard to the long-term incentives granted in 2013 under the 
Company’s Performance Share Plan (PSP), these are due to vest in 
March 2016 (subject to continued services) with performance 
assessed against EPS growth targets in the three years ended 
31 December 2015. The threshold EPS target was 29.0 pence, whilst 
the maximum EPS target was 36.0 pence. Both the threshold and 
maximum EPS targets were determined separately from the 
standard annual growth rates of RPI + 3% for threshold target and 
RPI + 10% for maximum target. As a result of delivering EPS of 
29.9 pence, the award is expected to vest at 39%.
  66  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
The Committee is comfortable that the above incentive pay is 
appropriate in light of the level of performance achieved in delivering 
a successful turnaround and growth of the Company over the past 
three years. 
Application of Remuneration Policy for 2016 
The Board has concluded that after a robust performance in 2015, 
delivered against a back-drop of challenging market conditions, that 
the Group should reduce operating costs in affected geographies 
whilst continuing to invest to support growth through the five 
principle initiatives outlined in the strategic report. The five key 
elements remain: operational excellence; customer intimacy; a 
balanced business; a broader portfolio; and geographical expansion 
(see page 12).
For 2016, the Committee will continue to incorporate many of these 
elements into the setting of bonus and PSP performance target 
whilst also taking into account the worsening market conditions 
impacting the Group’s activities particularly in the oil and gas sectors. 
The ‘stability of earnings’ goal focusses on cash generation, 
operational excellence and health and safety improvements amongst 
other specific targets in the bonus plan. This alignment of goals is 
also reflected at the next level of management in the Group. The 
Board also reviewed the proposed Budget for 2016 in detail. 
The Committee, acting on the outcome, has set financial parameters 
in the bonus and long-term incentive plans which are no less 
challenging taking into consideration current events in the oil and gas 
sector. Salary increases for executive directors in 2016 will be 2.5%. 
As a result, and noting that our overall remuneration arrangements are 
biased towards long-term performance through the operation of our 
PSP and share ownership guidelines, we remain comfortable that 
our overall remuneration structure continues to support our 
Company’s long-term growth strategy.
We also looked at our own Committee performance this year, and an 
internal review of the Committee’s performance has given us a useful 
insight into areas to focus on in 2016. 
In summary, the discussions in the Committee continue to be 
rigorous and challenging and I am satisfied that we continue to 
ensure that the executive directors are focussed on the strategy and 
motivated to deliver it in the interests of our shareholders. 
Steve Good
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
15 March 2016
 
Remuneration Committee report
Voluntary adoption of UK reporting regulations
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendments) Regulations 2013 (the ‘Regulations’) came 
into force in the UK on 1 October 2013 in relation to companies 
incorporated in the UK. With effect from 13 December 2013, the UK 
Listing Authority’s Listing Rules were also amended in the case of 
premium-listed companies incorporated in the UK to reflect the 
Regulations. The effect of the changes is that all premium-listed 
companies incorporated in the UK are required to offer shareholders 
(i) a binding vote on the Company’s forward-looking remuneration 
policy (i.e. the remuneration policy) which must take place at least 
every three years and (ii) a separate advisory vote on the 
implementation of the Company’s existing remuneration policy in 
terms of the payments and share awards made to directors during 
the year (i.e. the annual remuneration report). As a Jersey-
incorporated company, the Company is not subject to such 
regulations or amended requirements of the Listing Rules in this 
regard. However, in line with best practice for overseas listed 
companies, the Company complied with the new regulations last 
year as if it were a premium listed Company incorporated in the UK 
(to the extent that such requirements were different from the 
provisions of the Listing Rules which it is required to comply with in 
any event).
 
Since we are not seeking to amend the remuneration policy for which 
we received overwhelming support from our shareholders in 2014, we 
are not seeking shareholder approval for a revised remuneration policy 
this year. However, at the AGM on 11 May 2016, in line with the 
Regulations, we shall seek shareholder approval by way of an advisory 
vote on the application of our remuneration policy and payments made 
to directors during the year under review. For completeness and 
transparency, however, this part of the report includes a summary of 
the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM 
and intended to operate until the 2017 AGM.
Where references were made in the remuneration policy report to 
specific levels of pay in a particular year these have been removed 
with the relevant information relating to 2016 included in the Annual 
Report on remuneration which follows. The full policy report 
approved by the Company’s shareholders at the 2014 AGM can be 
found in the 2013 Annual Report, which is available on our website 
(www.capeplc.com). 
In the sections and tables in the report that follows, data labelled as 
‘audited’ has been audited by the Group’s external independent 
auditors, EY. The remuneration report has been approved by the 
Board and the Company’s Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’). Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
67  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
The directors’ remuneration policy
This part of the directors’ remuneration report sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Company. 
Policy overview
The directors’ remuneration policy (the ‘Remuneration Policy’) is 
based on the following broad principles set by the Committee to: 
provide a transparent, stretching and competitive remuneration 
package to attract, motivate and retain high quality individuals to 
promote the Company’s long-term success; align remuneration to 
drive the overall objectives of the business; align the interests of 
management with the interests of shareholders; and set the 
remuneration of the executive directors and Chairman with due 
account taken of: (1) pay and employment conditions throughout the 
Group; and (2) corporate governance best practice.
The Remuneration Policy was approved by a binding vote of the 
shareholders at the Company’s 2014 AGM for a binding vote and 
accordingly the policy applied from 14 May 2014 and will continue to 
apply until the 2017 AGM. Thereafter the policy will be re-presented 
to shareholders for approval every three years or sooner where there 
is a material change to the policy.
The objective of the Remuneration Policy is aligned with the 
recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code as they 
relate to directors’ remuneration. That is to provide a level of 
remuneration to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality 
required to run the Company successfully, but avoid paying more 
than is necessary for this purpose. As explained below, a significant 
proportion of executive directors’ remuneration is structured to link 
rewards to corporate and individual performance.
The Committee ensures that account is taken of environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) risks when setting remuneration and 
is comfortable that remuneration packages do not raise any ESG 
risks. The Committee review performance measures and targets 
on an annual basis to ensure they do not encourage or motivate 
irresponsible behaviour. Furthermore, the performance review will 
take into account any ESG events when determining variable 
out-turn. 
The Committee is cognisant of its overall responsibility to ensure the 
Remuneration Policy operates within a sound risk framework. The 
Committee will review incentive arrangements regularly to ensure 
they comply with the risk management systems and that controls are 
operating effectively. The Committee also ensures that inappropriate 
operational/financial risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded 
through the Company’s remuneration policies and, that instead, a 
sensible balance is struck between fixed and variable pay, short and 
long-term incentives and cash and equity. The Committee has 
access to the Audit Committee and its members to discuss any 
matters of risk assessment as and when required. 
The Committee uses aspects of the Remuneration Policy to align 
executives with long-term shareholder interests and to ensure they 
are consistent with our focus on structuring remuneration so that it 
does not encourage undue risk taking. The table below summarises 
our policy for the three-year period, effective as of 14 May 2014.
Executive director policy table
Purpose and link
to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Salary
To provide a 
competitive base 
salary which 
recognises the skills  
and experience of 
the individual and 
the scope and 
responsibilities of  
the role they perform.
Reviewed annually.
Positioned at a market competitive  
level for similar roles within 
comparable companies.
Takes periodic account against 
companies with similar characteristics 
and sector comparators.
The review also considers pay and 
employment conditions in the wider 
Group, other inflationary pressures  
and internal relativities.
Salary levels will be eligible for 
increases during the three-year period 
that the Remuneration Policy operates 
from the effective date.
 – During this time, salaries may be 
increased each year (in percentage 
of salary terms) in line with those of 
the wider workforce (after taking into 
account of the annual salary budget 
and performance-related increases 
within the overall salary budget). 
 – Increases beyond those linked to the 
workforce (in percentage of salary 
terms) may be awarded in certain 
circumstances such as where there 
is a change in responsibility, 
experience or a significant increase 
in the scale of the role and/or size, 
value and/or complexity of the Group.
The Committee considers both 
individual and Company performance in 
a broad context when determining base 
salary increases.
Other benefits
To provide competitive 
cost-effective benefits 
in line with market
practice.
Executive directors receive a  
car allowance, private medical 
insurance, critical illness protection  
and life assurance.
 – Other employment benefits may 
be offered to executive directors, 
generally on the same terms as  
other employees, from time to time.
In 2015, the maximum cost of 
providing benefits (based on taxable 
value of the benefits) was £44,099 for 
all executive directors.
 – The cost of providing employment 
benefits will vary from year to year 
as they are dependent on 
third-party supplier charges.
We do not expect the maximum 
amount to exceed £50,000.
N/A 68  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Purpose and link
to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Pension
To provide a  
competitive  
contribution towards 
making provisions for 
retirement.
Defined contribution.
Cash alternative may
be offered.
Monthly employer contribution of 
15% of base salary.
N/A
Annual bonus
Incentivise delivery 
of performance
linked to the  
Company’s business 
objectives.
 – Measured over a one-year  
performance period
 – Paid as cash
 – Not pensionable
 – Clawback provisions apply and  
are operable for three years  
following the payment of a bonus  
in any year
Chief Executive maximum: 120% 
of salary.
CFO maximum: 100% of salary.
The bonus is determined against a 
range of key performance indicators 
with the majority of the annual bonus 
measured against financial targets and 
a minority against strategic objectives. 
 – Financial targets are set around the 
budgeted level of performance for 
the year and may include adjusted 
EPS, cash flow and/or other key 
financial metrics as deemed 
appropriate by the Committee 
 – Strategic objectives are based 
around the Committee’s and 
executive’s view of the key objectives 
that need to be met in the current 
year to achieve the overall Group 
strategy 
 – The Committee determines the 
extent to which the executive 
directors have met their strategic 
targets by assessing the overall 
achievement in the relevant year. 
Achieving the threshold performance 
level against the financial metrics 
would generally result in 0% of the 
relevant bonus amount being 
earned. Bonus against financial 
metrics is generally earned on a 
straight line basis from threshold to 
target (50%) and then target to the 
maximum (100%) level
 – The Committee reserves the right to 
modify the financial payment.
Long-term incentive plan (PSP)
To drive long-term 
performance linked to 
the Company’s  
strategic objectives.
Aid retention.
Align the interests of 
executive directors  
with shareholders.
 – Annual grant of performance shares 
with vesting conditional on the 
Group’s performance against 
challenging long-term performance 
conditions.
 – The Committee may clawback 
awards up to three years after 
vesting if the Group’s accounts  
have been materially misstated  
or there has been an error in the 
calculation of any performance 
condition.
Chief Executive: 140% of salary 
performance shares.
Chief Financial Officer: 140% of salary
performance shares.
In exceptional circumstances awards 
may be granted up to 175% of salary.
 – Performance targets are set that 
relate to the Company’s long-term 
key performance indicators
 – Financial targets will determine 
vesting in relation to a majority of an 
award (e.g. EPS growth) 
 – At threshold performance 30% of 
the award vests
 – The Committee reserves the right to 
modify the financial targets within 
the plan.
Share ownership guidelines
To provide alignment
between executives  
and shareholders.
Executives are required to retain half  
of the shares vesting (net of tax) under 
the long-term incentive plan until the 
guideline is met. Vested nil cost  
options count towards the  
shareholding guideline on a  
notional post-tax basis.
150% of salary holding for 
Chief Executive.
100% of salary holding
for Chief Financial Officer.
N/A
Executive director policy table (continued) Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
69  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Purpose and link
to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Fees
To provide a 
compensation which 
reflects the skills and 
experience of the 
individual and the time 
commitments and 
responsibilities expected 
of the role they perform.
Reviewed on a periodic basis.
Takes periodic account against 
companies with similar characteristics 
and sector comparators. If actual time 
spent is materially greater, then
additional fees may be paid
on a pro-rata basis.
Fees may be increased during the 
three-year period that the remuneration 
policy operates from the effective date 
(in percentage terms) to ensure that the 
fee level set captures the time 
commitment required of the role and/or 
the responsibilities associated with 
fulfilling the non-executive duties.
N/A
Operation of variable pay incentives
The Remuneration Committee has the responsibility for overseeing the operation of the above annual bonus plan and long-term incentive 
plan according to the relevant plan rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. However, the quantum 
and performance targets set will be in accordance with the policy stated above. As part of this process, the Committee may be required to 
use judgement in a number of regards. These actions will typically include the following: 
 – participants of the plans
 – timing of grant of award and/or payment
 – size of an award and/or a payment
 – setting performance measures for the annual bonus plan and long-term incentive plan from year to year, the weightings to be applied and 
the targets to be set 
 – determination of vesting, including assessment of performance conditions 
 – how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group
 – how to determine a good/bad leaver status in accordance with the relevant scheme rules and ABI guidelines
 – if any adjustments are required in certain circumstances (e.g. a capital structure change such as with a rights issue or other corporate 
restructuring).
The Committee also retains the right, in exceptional circumstances, to make necessary adjustments to annual bonus and long-term incentive 
plan performance measures, including the targets, weightings and/or setting different measures if a material event occurs (e.g. major acquisition 
or divestment of a Group business) whereby the original performance condition is no longer considered appropriate. Any changes would be 
made so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy. All historic awards that were granted 
but remain outstanding (as detailed on page 74 of the remuneration report), remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
Choice of performance metrics
As detailed in the Chief Executive’s review on page 26, the Group remains fully aligned with delivering profitable growth both through organic 
growth and acquisition. For the annual bonus plan, the policy is to have a strong focus on financial measures, with further reward for 
achieving strategic or personal targets which are each aligned with the Company’s longer-term strategic objectives. The Remuneration 
Committee and the Board believe that the most appropriate performance metric for the Company to be measured against on a long-term 
basis remains growth of adjusted EPS. In order to ensure that the long-term incentive plan is delivering significant shareholder value, the 
Committee believes it is appropriate to measure growth in EPS.
Employees’ views and global pay and employment policies across the Group
The Committee does not actively consult employees for their views on executive remuneration policy. This is in line with standard market 
practice and reflects the Committee’s view that it will not provide cost-effective engagement at this stage in the Company’s development. 
However, when setting executive directors’ base salaries, annual bonus awards and long-term incentive plan allocations, the Remuneration 
Committee is made aware of and takes into account comparative data relating to the pay and benefits of other Group employees. The 
Remuneration Policy of the Group remains consistent in all countries and at all levels of the Company with the overriding consideration being 
to pay competitive salaries in line with the appropriate country and sector and to provide opportunities to increase earnings to higher levels 
through superior performance. Lower aggregate incentive quantum operates at below executive level with levels driven by market 
comparatives and the impact of the role and for certain senior roles that are compliance focussed. Long-term incentives are reserved for 
those anticipated as having the greatest potential to influence Group performance levels and the creation of shareholder value. Accordingly, 
approximately 60 of our c. 16,400 employees globally are invited to participate in the long-term incentive plan, but this number will change 
from year to year according to the particular policy utilised by the Committee.
How shareholders’ views are taken into account
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at a meeting following the AGM. 
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time, is then considered as part of the Company’s 
annual review of remuneration policy.
Non-executive directors’ policy table 70  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Recruitment and promotion policy
The Committee will follow the guidelines outlined below when considering a new executive appointment:
Remuneration element Policy
Base salary – Set to reflect the skills and experience of the individual 
 – Takes account of market data against companies with similar characteristics and sector comparators
 – Salary levels may be set below the perceived market competitive range (e.g. to reflect an individual’s limited 
plc Board experience), with the aim to offer phased above inflationary increase to re-position salary at the 
desired level over a two to three-year period, subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Benefits – Benefits as provided to current executive directors 
 – Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of relocation expenses, legal fees and other 
allowances that the Committee considered appropriate.
Pension – Defined contribution or cash supplement alternative
 – Maximum of 15% of salary, as offered to the current executives.
Annual bonus – Operate as outlined for current executives
 – Maximum opportunity of up to 120% of salary
 – Different performance measures and targets may be set initially, dependent on the timing of appointment. 
Long-term incentives – Operate as outlined for current executives
 – Performance share awards will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current executive directors
 – An award may be made shortly after an appointment (subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period) 
 – Maximum opportunity of up to 140% of salary (175% of salary in exceptional circumstances)
 – For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period, subject to their original 
terms and conditions.
Buy-out award – To facilitate an external recruitment, it may be necessary to buy-out remuneration which would be forfeited 
on leaving their previous employer. When determining the quantum and structure of any buy-out awards the 
Committee will consider, but not be limited to, the following factors:
 – the form of remuneration (cash or shares);
 – timing of expected payment/ vesting; and
 – expected value (i.e. taking into account the likelihood of achieving the existing performance criteria) 
 – Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Company’s existing share plans to the extent possible 
(i.e. up to 175% of salary under the long-term incentive plan), although awards may also be granted outside 
of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Directors’ service contracts and non-executive directors’ terms of appointment 
The Committee’s policy on service contracts for executive directors is that they should provide for twelve months’ notice of termination by the 
Company and the executive. The Chief Executive’s and the Chief Financial Officer’s contracts operate on a rolling basis with a twelve month 
notice period. There are no enhanced provisions on a change of control. The current executive directors’ service contracts contain the key 
terms shown below, and the policy for a new hire would be based on terms that are consistent with these provisions:
Provision Terms
Notice period – Rolling twelve months by either Company or director
Termination payment – Twelve months’ salary plus employer pension contributions in lieu of notice (excluding bonus and all other 
contractual benefits)
 – No special change of control provisions
Remuneration entitlements – Salary, pension and benefits
 – Company car cash allowance
 – Eligible to participate in the executive annual bonus scheme and long-term incentive plan (PSP)
 – Life, private health and income protection insurance
Non-competition – During employment and for six months after leaving
Change of control – None
Under the terms of the annual bonus plan, executive directors must be in employment and not ‘under notice’ at the time the bonus is paid in 
order to be eligible to receive a bonus award. However, should they leave service as a result of certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances such as 
death, ill health, disability, redundancy, retirement, transfer or sale of the Group, or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, 
they may be eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the period of employment.
The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an executive director will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. For 
awards granted under the long-term incentive plan, which was introduced when Cape moved to the Official List in 2011, ‘good leaver’ status 
may be determined in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, illness, injury or disability, redundancy, an executive’s employment 
being sold out of the Group or any other reason determined by the Committee. If defined as a good leaver, awards will remain subject to 
performance conditions, which will be measured over the performance period from grant to date of cessation unless the Committee decides 
to test performance as at the original vesting date in which case the performance period shall be the original performance period of three 
years. A pro-rata reduction to the number of shares initially granted will also apply. The Committee retains the discretion to disapply time 
pro-rating in exceptional circumstances. 
Non-executive directors
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office, 
but are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment. In January 2012, all non-executive terms of appointment were amended to fixed terms 
of three years (normally renewable for an additional three-year term if both parties agree) and subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
The terms of appointment are terminable either by the non-executive director or the Company on three months’ written notice. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
71  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
The Company may invite non-executive directors to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms subject to a particularly 
rigorous review of performance and taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board. Under the Company’s Articles, all 
directors are required to stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years. However, in line with accepted best practice, 
the Board has agreed that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the non-executive directors who served during the year and up until the 
reporting date:
Engagement date Appointment date Date of expiry of current three-year term
Brendan Connolly 16/11/2011 16/11/2011 N/A – stepped down on 12/5/2015
Tim Eggar (Chairman) 1/5/2011 4/5/2011 4/5/2017
Steve Good 6/7/2015 6/7/2015 6/7/2018
Brian Larcombe 21/1/2016 21/1/2016 21/1/2019
Michael Merton 10/1/2011 4/5/2011 4/5/2017
Samantha Tough 1/1/2015 1/1/2015 1/1/2018
Leslie Van de Walle 22/8/2012 22/8/2012 N/A – stepped down on 26/8/2015 
Annual Report on remuneration
The Remuneration Committee’s role and objective
The Committee’s terms of reference are summarised in the corporate governance report on page 57 and can be found in full in the corporate 
responsibility section of our website. The Committee remains focussed on ensuring that remuneration structures for executive directors and 
senior managers both enable the Group to attract, motivate and retain the executive talent required to deliver the business strategy and align 
the interests of the executive team with delivering long-term value to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee’s composition and meetings
The membership of the Committee is set out on page 56 and it is chaired by Steve Good who was appointed on 6 July 2015. Prior to this 
date the Committee was chaired by Brendan Connolly. 
The Committee met formally on three occasions in 2015 and an attendance summary is given on page 58. The Committee liaises closely  
with the Audit Committee to ensure that remuneration targets are appropriate and sufficiently challenging. 
External advisers to the Committee
The Committee has appointed independent remuneration consultants, New Bridge Street (NBS), to advise on all aspects of senior executive 
remuneration. During the year under review, NBS has reported to the Committee on macro-changes in the remuneration climate, relevant 
guidance on shareholder voting, as well as the structure of the 2016 long-term incentive award and post-cessation share retention for 
executive directors. NBS has no other connection with the Group other than in the provision of advice on executive and employee 
remuneration. NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in 
relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. NBS’s terms of engagement are available from the Company Secretary on request. 
The total cost for advice received from New Bridge Street during the 2015 financial year was £14,971, charged on a time and materials basis.
The executive directors and other senior management may attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman. 
However, no director takes part in any discussion directly concerning their own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary 
to the Committee.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The key responsibilities of the Committee remain to: determine the remuneration policy and elements for the remuneration of the executive 
directors and the key Group managers; determine all individual elements of the remuneration of the executive directors; select and appoint 
any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee; and approve the design of, and determine the targets for, the performance-related 
remuneration schemes operated by the Company. Non-executive director remuneration is a matter for the Chairman and the executive 
members of the Board. The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by the Committee in consultation with the Chief Executive. No director or 
manager is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration. The non-executive directors’ fees were last revised in 2014 and details are 
set out on page 74.
External appointments 
The Company recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the Group, of executive directors taking on external appointments as non-
executive directors. Subject to the approval of the Committee and to such conditions as the Committee may apply, in its discretion, an 
executive director may accept such appointments at other companies or similar advisory or consultative roles. Whether the executive director 
is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services or whether such fees are remitted to the Company will be determined on a ‘case by 
case’ basis. Joe Oatley currently has no such external appointments. Michael Speakman has external appointments and is currently a 
non-executive director of Wellcentric Limited, FrontRow Energy Partners Limited and Interventek Subsea Engineering Limited.
Shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM
At the AGM on 12 May 2015, 99.39% of votes cast were in favour of approving the directors’ remuneration report for 2014, which the 
Committee believes illustrates the strong level of shareholder support for the Company’s executive remuneration framework. 
Total number 
of votes % of votes cast
For 100,802,812 99.39
Against 614,325 0.61
Total votes cast (for and against) 101,417 ,137 100
Votes withheld* 1,138 0.0
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 101,418,275 100
* A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution. 72  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Single total figure of remuneration (executive directors)
This section provides the details of the actual payments and awards made to directors who served during the year. Information which required 
the Company’s external independent auditors to report on can be found on pages 72 to 76 unless otherwise stated.
Base salary Taxable benefits
1
Short-term  
incentives
Long-term  
incentives Pension Other
2
Total
remuneration
Audited £’000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 452.0 441.0 15.8 15.9 336.2 483.0 233.0 – – 27.6 76.2 47.5 1,1 13.2 1,01 5.0
Michael Speakman 336.2 328.0 11.5 11.6 200.1 308.5 177.6 – – – 58.8 57.3 784.2 705.4
1 Taxable benefits include a company car and private health insurance.
2 Other includes income protection insurance and life assurance, as well as a payment in lieu of pension for the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
The maximum level of bonus award for the Chief Executive of 120% of salary remains unchanged. For the Chief Financial Officer the maximum 
bonus payable of 100% also remains unchanged.
Single total figure of remuneration (non-executive directors)
Fees Taxable benefits
Short-term  
incentives
Long-term  
incentives Pension Other
Total
remuneration
Audited £’000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Non-executive directors
Brendan Connolly
1
21.0 56.7 – – – – – – – – – – 21.0 56.7
Tim Eggar
2
160.0 150.0 – – – – – – – – – – 160.0 150.0
Steve Good
3
28.1 – – – – – – – – – – – 28.1 –
Michael Merton
4
57.5 56.7 – – – – – – – – – – 57.5 56.7
Samantha Tough
5
50.0 – – – – – – – – – – – 50.0 –
Leslie Van de Walle
6
32.7 48.3 – – – – – – – – – – 32.7 48.3
1 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. Left the Company on 12 May 2015.
2 Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee. 
3 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. Joined the Company on 6 July 2015.
4 Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
5 Member of the Audit Committee from 29 June 2015.
6 Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. Left the Company on 26 August 2015.
Details of fixed remuneration for executive directors
Salary
As detailed in last year’s annual report on remuneration the increases to the base salary levels of the executive directors was limited to 2.5% 
with effect from 1 January 2015.
The base salaries as at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015 for the executive directors are shown in the table below. 
Audited £’000 Position 2015 2014
Joe Oatley Chief Executive 452.0 441.0
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer 336.2 328.0
Benefits
Benefits in kind provided for executive directors are principally a car allowance, private medical and income protection insurance and life 
assurance. Benefits in kind are not pensionable and are not taken into account when determining base salary for performance-related 
remuneration. Further details are provided in the tables on page 70. 
Pension
Executive directors are entitled to become members of one of the Group’s pension schemes or to receive a payment of a fixed percentage of 
salary. The current Chief Executive receives a payment of 15% of salary each month in lieu of pension. The current Chief Financial Officer 
receives a payment of 15% of salary each month in lieu of pension. The total cost to the Company this year amounted to £118,230 (CEO: 
£67,800 and CFO: £50,430). Further information about this pension scheme is provided in note 19 ‘Retirement benefit obligation’.
Details of variable remuneration for executive directors
Annual bonus
The Committee believes that it is important to incentivise executive directors, by ensuring that a significant portion of their total remuneration is conditional 
on achievement of business objectives across both annual and longer-term time periods. An annual cash bonus may be earned for the attainment of 
stretching performance targets. These targets are set by the Committee at the start of the financial year or upon appointment. The maximum annual 
bonus opportunity is determined by the Committee from time to time, taking account of the internal and external business and market context.
The annual bonuses awarded to executive directors are shown in the table below:
2015 2014
Audited Maximum bonus potential £’000 % salary £’000 % salary
Joe Oatley Chief Executive 120% 336.2 74 483.0 110
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer 100% 200.1 59 308.5 94 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
73  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
For each executive director, achievement against the bonus targets set is detailed below:
Details of bonus calculation (Chief Executive):
Proportion of total
bonus available
Resulting bonus
out-turn
% of maximum 
bonus 
opportunity % of salary Actual performance achieved % of maximum % of salary
EPS of between 27.65p (0% pay-out), 29.10p 
(50% pay-out) and 32.01p (full pay-out) 40% 48% Actual EPS result was 29.9p 25% 31%
Cash flow of between £37.31m (0% pay-out), 
£39.27m (50% pay-out) and £43.2m (full 
pay-out) 12.5% 15.0% Actual cash flow result was £40.23m 8% 9%
Working capital/revenue ratio between 15.1% 
(0% pay-out), 14.40% (50% pay-out) and 
13% (full pay-out) 12.5% 15.0%
Actual working capital/revenue ratio  
was 15.3% 0% 0%
Strategic objectives (scored from zero  
(zero pay-out) to 100% (full pay-out)) 35% 42% Strategic objectives were 82% met 29% 34%
Total 100% 120% 62% 74%
The strategic targets set for the Chief Executive in 2015 remain commercially sensitive, because they would potentially provide a commercial 
advantage to our direct competitors, if highlighted specifically. However, his targets included the delivery of specific organic and acquisitive 
growth projects, embedding Operational Excellence in the business and the development of the HR strategy. The strategic objectives also 
included a year-on-year health and safety target performance that included the implementation of standardised supervisor training 
throughout the Group. Achievement of strategic targets was measured at 82%.
Details of bonus calculation (Chief Financial Officer):
Proportion of total
bonus available
Resulting bonus
out-turn
% of maximum 
bonus 
opportunity % of salary Actual performance achieved % of maximum % of salary
EPS of between 27.65p (0% pay-out) and 
32.01p (full pay-out) 40% 40% Actual EPS result was 29.9p 25% 25%
Cash flow of between £37.31m (0% pay-out) 
and £43.20m (full pay-out) 12.5% 12.5% Actual cash flow result was £40.23m 8% 8%
Working capital/revenue ratio between 15.1% 
(0% pay-out) and 13% (full pay-out) 12.5% 12.5%
Actual working capital/revenue ratio  
was 15.3% 0% 0%
Strategic objectives (scored from zero 
pay-out) to 100% (full pay-out) 35% 35% Strategic objectives were 75% met 26% 26%
Total 100% 100% 59% 59%
The Chief Financial Officer’s strategic targets are commercially sensitive because they potentially provide a commercial advantage to our 
direct competitors, if specifically highlighted. Broadly, the targets included implementing improved management accounting reports, 
year-on-year improvement in working capital, delivering key internal audit projects, defining a new Group-wide ERP solution and meeting 
Group health and safety targets. Achievement of strategic targets was measured at 75%.
Long-term incentive plan awards granted in the year
Under the Company’s PSP, the Company is permitted to make annual awards of up to 175% of salary over shares. In 2015, the Company 
made awards of 140% of salary to executive directors, the value of shares awarded determined according to the average of the mid-market 
price of the Company’s shares at the close of business for the six months immediately preceding the award date. The details of awards made 
to executive directors in the year ended 31 December 2015 are set out below:
Scheme
Date of  
grant
Number 
of shares 
awarded Basis of award
Face value
of shares 
awarded (£) Vesting period Performance conditions
Executive directors
Joe Oatley PSP 19/3/2015 260,412 Award of nil-cost options 
over 260,412 ordinary 
shares. The actual award 
being equivalent to 140% 
of annual salary using the 
award price calculated 
from 19/3/2015, with 
awards being made on 
19/3/2015.
632,801 Awards were made 
in the form of 
performance shares 
that, subject to the 
fulfilment of 
performance 
conditions, will vest on 
the third anniversary 
of the grant.
RPI +3% for 30% 
vesting and RPI +10% 
for 100% vesting, 
based on 2014’s EPS 
of 29.9p.
Michael Speakman PSP 19/3/2015 193,695 Award of nil-cost options 
over 193,695 ordinary 
shares. The actual award 
being equivalent to 140% 
of annual salary using the 
award price calculated 
from 19/3/2015, with 
awards being made on 
19/3/2015.
470,679 Awards were made  
in the form of 
performance shares 
that, subject to the 
fulfilment of 
performance 
conditions, will vest on 
the third anniversary 
of the grant.
RPI +3% for 30% 
vesting and RPI +10% 
for 100% vesting, 
based on 2014’s EPS 
of 29.9p. 74  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Performance share awards 
Details of the awards made under the PSP are set out below. Details of the performance conditions that have applied to PSP awards are 
shown below.
During 2015
Audited
Grant date 
opportunity 
Market price 
at date of 
grant
(pence) 
At 31 
December
2014
performance 
achieved Granted Exercised Lapsed
 At 31 
December 
2015
Market price
 at date of 
exercise
Date from 
which
exercisable/
awards vest Expiry date
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 19/3/2015 243.0 – 260,412 – – 260,412 – 19/3/2018 19/3/2020
31/3/2014 312.5 224,828 – – – 224,828 – 31/3/2017 31/3/2019
 31/3/2013 313.5 248,942 – – – 248,942 – 31/3/2016 31/3/2018
29/6/2012 263.3 96,522 – – (96,522) – – 19/4/2015 18/4/2017
Michael Speakman 19/3/2015 243.0 – 193,695 – – 193,695 – 19/3/2018 19/3/2020
31/3/2014 312.5 167,219 – – – 167,219 – 31/3/2017 31/3/2019
31/3/2013 313.5 189,670 – – – 189,670 – 31/3/2016 31/3/2018
Notes:
Awards under the PSP, other than 2013, are subject to a three-year EPS performance target, with 30% of awards vesting for annual EPS growth of RPI +3%, rising on a  
pro-rata basis to full vesting for annual EPS growth of RPI +10%. The share price at 31 December 2015 was 235p, with the minimum and maximum share price during the 
financial year being 186.75p and 269.0p respectively. Details for 2013 awards are shown below.
For the awards due to vest on 31 March 2016, the performance period ended on 31 December 2015. EPS growth was required to achieve 
threshold vesting at 29.0p rising to 36.0p for full vesting. Based on an adjusted diluted EPS of 29.9 pence for the year ending 31 December 2015, 
39% of the award will vest (subject to the remaining service condition being met). The estimated value attributable to each Executive Director 
shown in the table below is based on the average three-month share price to 31 December 2015 of 240.04 pence. 
Audited
Number of 
awards 
originally 
granted
Estimated 
vesting
Estimated 
value on 
vesting 
£’000 
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 248,942 39% 233.0
Michael Speakman 189,670 39% 177.6
Non-executive directors
The annual rates of non-executive director fees for the year ended 31 December 2015 are shown in the table below:
Audited position
Audited fees 
£’000
Chairman 160.0
Non-executive director 50.0
Additional fee for Committee Chairman 7.5
Additional fee for Committee member –
The Board reviewed the remuneration structure for the non-executive directors during the year and determined that no changes were 
necessary.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment and do not receive compensation for loss 
of office. Effective from 23 January 2012, fixed terms are for three years, non-executive directors are normally appointed for two three-year 
terms if both parties agree and subject to annual re-election by shareholders, and terminable either by the non-executive director or the 
Company on three months’ written notice.
The Company may invite non-executive directors to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms subject to a particularly 
rigorous review of performance and taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board. Under the Company’s Articles of 
association, all directors are required to stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years. However, in line with accepted 
best practice, the Board has agreed that all directors should be subject to annual re-election. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
75  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ interests and transactions in the ordinary shares of the Company
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in office as at 31 December 2015 and at 16 March 2016 are shown below:
Number of ordinary shares
As at 
16 March
 2016
As at 
31 December 
2015
Market price 
per share 
(pence) 
31 December 
2015
£k
Total
% of salary 
held in  
shares
Shareholding
guideline met?
Target shares
to be retained
to meet 
threshold
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 72,000 72,000 235.0 169.2 37.4 No 288,511
Michael Speakman 44,060 44,060 235.0 103.5 30.8 No 143,064
Non-executive directors
Tim Eggar 66,807 66,807 – – – N/A N/A
Steve Good – – – – – N/A N/A
Michael Merton 10,000 10,000 – – – N/A N/A
Samantha Tough – – – – – N/A N/A
Brian Larcombe – – – – – N/A N/A
To reinforce the linkage between directors and shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted a shareholding policy that applies to 
executive directors eligible to receive awards conditional on performance under its long-term incentive arrangements. Such directors are 
required to build up and retain a personal shareholding worth an equivalent of a minimum of 150% of their prevailing base salary, in the case 
of the Chief Executive and 100% in the case of the Chief Financial Officer. It is expected that the required shareholding will be built up over a 
number of years by the relevant director retaining a specified percentage of shares vesting under a long-term incentive arrangement (net of 
tax liability arising upon vesting) until the required shareholding level is met. The Committee has discretion to waive the requirement in 
exceptional circumstances. Once attained, a subsequent fall below the required level may be taken into account by the Committee when 
determining the grant of future awards.
Total shareholder return performance (TSR)
The graph below shows the TSR for holders of Cape plc £0.25 ordinary shares over the last seven financial years, measured against the 
FTSE All-Share Index (excluding investment trusts) and the FTSE All-Share Oil and Gas Index. These indices are seen as the most appropriate 
to represent the Company’s relative performance over the last seven financial years given the Company’s move to the Official List of the 
London Stock Exchange from AIM in 2011. The calculation of TSR follows the provisions of the Regulations and is broadly the change in 
market price together with reinvestment of dividend income.
Total Shareholder Return
Source: Datastream
Total Shareholder Return (rebased)
FTSE All-Share Oil and Gas index
FTSE All-Share (excluding investment trusts)
Cape
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
2014 2015 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
This graph shows the spot value of £100 invested in Cape plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 
All-Share Index (excluding investment trusts) and the FTSE All-Share Oil and Gas Index. The intermediate points are the spot values on the 
Company’s financial year ends. 76  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Table of historic performance
Year Chief Executive
Chief Executive single 
figure of total remuneration
£’000
Annual bonus payout
against maximum opportunity
 %
Long-term incentive vesting
rates against maximum 
opportunity  
%
2015 Joe Oatley 1,113.2 62 39
2014 Joe Oatley 1,015.0 91 N/A
2013 Joe Oatley 804.6 59 N/A
2012 Joe Oatley 461.2 81 N/A
Brendan Connolly 137.3 N/A N/A
Martin May 831.7 Nil 100
2011 Martin May 930.2 57 100
2010 Martin May 1,151.4 100 100
2009 Martin May 1,066.0 100 100
Note: Martin May stood down on 29 March 2012. Brendan Connolly served as Acting Chief Executive for the period from 29 March 2012 to 29 June 2012. Joe Oatley was 
appointed on 29 June 2012.
Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of Chief Executive
% change year on year
Chief 
Executive All employees
1
Base salary 2.5% 1.2%
Taxable benefits (0.5%) 20.2%
Short-term incentives (30.4%) (66.7%)
1 UK employees were selected as the appropriate comparator. Note that the ‘All employees’ figures reflect a broad range of pay grades, manual and non-manual 
employees, and include various office and site locations throughout the UK.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table sets out the change in dividends and total employee remuneration costs in 2015 compared to 2014.
2015
£m
Restated  
2014
£m
Year on year 
change
%
Dividend
1
17.0 16.9 0.6
Employee remuneration costs
2
442.3 406.6 8.8
1 Dividend are the interim and final dividends paid to Group shareholders in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 and the interim dividend paid and the 
final dividend recommended to Group shareholders in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
2 Employment benefit expense by continuing operations. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
77  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 (unaudited)
The table below provides details of the remuneration for executive directors for the current financial year and highlights any changes to the 
implementation of the remuneration policy (where relevant).
Element
Expected maximum in
current financial year Performance targets Changes for 2016
Salary (see page 72) Chief Executive: £463,300 N/A 2.5% salary increase
CFO: £344,605 2.5% salary increase
Short-term Incentive 
(see page 72)
Chief Executive: maximum 120%  
of salary
CFO: maximum 100% of salary
Adjusted EPS targets, working capital/revenue ratio 
and strategic objectives 
Financial targets are set around the budgeted level of 
performance for the year
Strategic objectives vest based on the Committee’s 
assessment of the extent to which executive directors 
have met the range of targets set for them at the start 
of the year
Performance targets are considered to be commercially 
sensitive at this stage but the Committee will endeavour 
to disclose on a retrospective basis in next year’s 
report where these concerns have fallen away
No change to % award
Removal of cash flow 
target in favour of 
expanded working 
capital/revenue  
ratio target.
Long-term Incentive 
Plan (see page 73)
Chief Executive: 140% of salary 
performance shares
CFO: 140% of salary performance 
shares
Performance measured over three years
Based on EPS growth against RPI
At threshold (30% vests): EPS growth at least RPI + 3% 
p.a. over specified EPS. At maximum: EPS growth at 
least RPI + 10% p.a. over specified EPS  
Pro-rata on a straight line basis between these points
No change to % award.
For the 2016 plan the 
range of adjusted EPS 
targets has been set 
taking into account 
internal growth plans, 
analyst expectations,  
the overall trading 
environment of the  
Group and global 
inflationary expectations.
Pension
(see page 72)
Monthly employer contribution of 
15% of base salary
N/A No change
Other benefits
(see page 72)
N/A N/A No change
Share ownership 
guidelines
(see page 75)
150% of salary
holding for Chief Executive
100% of salary
holding for CFO
N/A No change
With regards to the operation of clawback provisions in the Company’s incentive plans (as detailed on pages 67 and 68), they enable the 
recovery of excess payments made in the event of a material misstatement or an error in the calculation procedure for up to a three year 
period. The process through which the Committee may seek to recover excess payments is (i) through the withholding of future incentive pay 
or (ii) through requesting a repayment (on a net of tax basis) from the individual.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Steve Good
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
15 March 2016 78  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Relationship with shareholders and share capital
Shareholder engagement
The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with the 
Company’s shareholders. Whilst the Chairman assumes overall 
responsibility for the effective communication of shareholder views 
and concerns to the Board, shareholder communications are 
primarily maintained by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer. The Chief Executive reports to the Board on a regular  
basis regarding feedback from institutional investors (including key 
market issues raised by shareholders) and on investor relations 
objectives and activities, share price performance and the share 
register profile. The Chairman is available to meet with institutional 
investors generally. The Senior Independent Director and the 
remaining non-executive directors are available to meet with 
shareholders on request.
The Company’s investor relations programme includes: formal 
presentations of full-year and half-year results (available to all 
shareholders to download from the Group’s website at  
www.capeplc.com/investors/financial-results-and-presentations); 
briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders in relation to 
those results; dialogue between the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and shareholders; publication of the Company’s Annual 
Report and other regulatory reports as appropriate; and a section 
dedicated to investors on our website at www.capeplc.com/investors 
which includes all formal reports and announcements by the Company 
and any analyst or investor presentations that have been held. 
This Annual Report, together with other public announcements, is 
designed to present a fair, balanced and understandable view of the 
Group’s activities and prospects. The performance review, on pages 
26 to 49, provides an assessment of the Group’s business. This 
Annual Report is despatched to eligible shareholders at least  
20 working days before the AGM and the accompanying proxy form 
provides for a shareholder to vote in favour or against, or to indicate 
abstention as an alternative on each separate resolution. The Annual 
Report, together with trading updates, significant contract wins and 
health and safety achievements are published via a Regulatory 
Information Service, where applicable, and on the Company’s 
website at www.capeplc.com/investors.
Dividends 
Details of the final dividend proposed by the Board are given in the 
Chief Financial Officer’s review on page 38.
Substantial holdings
As at 31 December 2015, the Company had been notified pursuant 
to DTR5 of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company:
Institution No. of shares % holding
Prudential plc group of companies 16,944,402 13.99
Schroders plc 16,666,711 13.76
JO Hambro Capital Management 
Group Ltd 11,407,528 9.42
Ruffer LLP 8,718,766 7.20
Artemis Investment Management LLP 6,043,304 4.99
Invesco Perpetual 4,360,560 3.60
As at 15 March 2016, no other notifications were received under 
DTR5 between 31 December 2015 and 15 March 2016. 
The Company has not received notification of any other interests held 
by persons acting together which at 15 March 2016 represented 3% 
or more of the issued ordinary share capital.
Share capital
Ordinary shares of 25 pence. The Company’s ordinary shares, 
together with the £1 Scheme Share referenced below, represent 
100% of the Company’s issued share capital. At a meeting of the 
Company every member present in person or by proxy shall have 
one vote for every ordinary share of which they are the holder. 
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends. On a 
winding-up or other return of capital, holders are entitled to a share  
in any surplus assets pro-rata to the amount paid up on their 
ordinary shares. The ordinary shares are not redeemable at the 
option of either the Company or the holder. There are no restrictions 
on the transfer of ordinary shares. Further details of the issued share 
capital of the Company are given in financial statement note 30 
‘Share capital and reserves’.
Scheme Share of £1. The Company has one ‘Scheme Share’ in 
issue (the Scheme Share), issued to the trustees of a Scheme of 
Arrangement entered into by the Company in 2006 (the Scheme). 
The Scheme Share carries two votes for every vote which the 
holders of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise 
on any resolution proposed during the life of the Scheme to engage 
in certain activities specified in the Articles. The Scheme Share is 
held by the scheme trustees on behalf of the Scheme creditors. 
The Company will not be permitted to engage in certain activities 
specified in the Company’s Articles without the prior consent of the 
holder of the Scheme Share. The rights attaching to the Scheme 
Share are designed to ensure that Scheme assets are only used to 
settle Scheme claims and ancillary costs. The Scheme Share does 
not confer any right to receive a distribution or any right to receive a 
return of surplus capital. The Scheme Shareholder has the right to 
require the Company to redeem the Scheme Share at par value on 
or at any time after the termination of the Scheme. Further details 
are provided in the financial statements’ note 30 ‘Share capital 
and reserves’.
Treasury shares
The Company currently holds no ordinary shares in treasury. 
However, the Group has an employee benefit trust holding shares to 
satisfy the exercise of share options.
Issue of shares
Subject generally to Jersey law relating to authority and pre-emption 
rights, and specifically to any requirements for a resolution of the 
Company in a general meeting, all unissued shares of the Company 
shall be at the disposal of the directors and they may allot (with or 
without conferring a right of renunciation), grant options over or 
otherwise dispose of them to such persons, and at such times, and 
on such terms as they consider appropriate. Shareholders approved 
a resolution to authorise the Company’s directors to allot or sell 
shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount 
of £10,091,994.75 in connection with a pre-emptive issue (which 
represented approximately 33% of the Company’s ordinary share 
capital in issue as at 27 March 2015), and otherwise up to a 
maximum aggregate nominal value of £1,513,799 (which represented 
approximately 5% of the total ordinary share capital of the Company 
in issue as at 27 March 2015). Notwithstanding the passing of these 
resolutions, the Company did not issue or allot shares in 2015.
Authority to purchase own shares
At the Company’s AGM held on 12 May 2015, shareholders 
approved a resolution to authorise the Company to make one  
or more market purchases of the issued ordinary shares of the 
Company up to a maximum aggregate number of 12,110,394 
ordinary shares (representing 10% of the Company’s issued share 
capital as at 27 March 2015). No shares were purchased under this 
authority during the year. No purchases have been made pursuant  
to this authority and a resolution will be put to shareholders to renew 
this authority for a further year at the 2016 AGM. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
79  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Annual General Meetings (AGM)
The Board considers that the AGM is an important opportunity for 
effective communications between the Board and shareholders. The 
Company’s 2016 AGM will be held at the Cape offices, Drayton Hall, 
Church Road, West Drayton, Middlesex UB7 7PS, United Kingdom 
at 10.00 on Wednesday 11 May 2016 for eligible shareholders. 
Further details of the AGM venue and the resolutions to be proposed, 
together with explanatory notes, will be set out in a notice of meeting 
which will be issued to eligible shareholders at least 20 working days 
prior to the AGM and are also published on the Company’s website 
at www.capeplc.com/investors. All resolutions at the AGM are each 
on separate substantive issues and are decided on a poll in 
accordance with best practice and will be voted upon separately. 
The proxy votes cast (including details of votes withheld) are 
disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting. In accordance with 
Code provision E.2.2, the voting results (including the number of 
shares in respect of which proxy appointments have been validly 
made, all votes cast for or against each resolution and those 
withheld) will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and 
made available on the Company’s website as soon as practicable 
after the meeting. As in previous years, the form of proxy will make 
it clear that a ‘vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be 
counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against 
a resolution. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
 – The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are 
set out in the Articles 
 – The Articles may only be changed by the shareholders by 
special resolution 
 – Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any 
class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the 
holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the 
issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an 
extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of 
the holders of those shares 
 – At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two 
persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in 
nominal value of the issued shares of the class (calculated 
excluding any shares held as treasury shares) 
 – The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, 
unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to 
those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of 
further shares ranking pari passu with them
 – Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or 
restrictions as to voting attached by, or in accordance with, the 
Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every member 
who is present in person at a general meeting shall have one vote 
and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy 
shall have one vote for every share of which he/she is the holder 
 – Where shares are held by trustees/nominees in respect of the 
Group’s employee share plans and the voting rights attached to 
such shares are not directly exercisable by the employees, it is the 
Company’s practice that such rights are not exercised by the 
relevant trustee/nominee
 – Members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a 
member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to 
attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting 
or class meeting. A member may appoint more than one proxy  
in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that 
each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a 
different share or shares held by that member. A member that  
is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on  
its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a  
corporate representative
 – No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be 
entitled in respect of any share held by him/her to vote either 
personally or by proxy at a shareholders’ meeting or to exercise 
any other right conferred by membership in relation to 
shareholders’ meetings if any call or other sum presently payable 
by him/her to the Company in respect of that share remains 
unpaid. In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he/she 
has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company 
with information concerning interests in those shares required to 
be provided under the Law.
The Articles require that any shares issued wholly for cash must be 
offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing 
shareholding unless authorised to the contrary by a resolution of 
the shareholders. 80  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ report
This directors’ report is comprised, as required under UK Company 
law, of the information below together with the directors’ governance 
report. As a Jersey incorporated company with premium-listed 
shares on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, certain 
UK statutory and regulatory requirements do not apply to Cape. 
However, in the interests of transparency, the Company has chosen 
to comply voluntarily with such disclosure requirements set out in 
applicable UK statutes and regulations.
Employees
Cape recognises that the quality of our people is fundamental to our 
success. The Board firmly believes in the equality of opportunity and 
inclusivity regardless of an individual’s age, gender, ethnicity, sexual 
orientation, religious belief, disability or family status and this is 
reflected in the breadth and diversity of cultures and environments 
that we operate in, and also in our Group diversity and inclusivity 
policies. Fairness and mutual respect are integral to the decision 
making process at Cape and judgements about employees are 
based on aptitudes, skills, competencies, qualifications, attitude and 
fitness to work in the relevant environment. Accordingly, applications 
from disabled persons would always be fully considered on this 
basis. It is the Group’s policy that the training, career development 
and promotion of disabled persons (including those who become 
disabled whilst employees of the Group) should, as far as is 
reasonably possible, be identical to those of other employees. The 
Board remains committed to fostering and developing a culture of 
employee involvement in the Group’s business through pro-active 
communication with employees and appropriate consultation with 
employees embedded within general good management practice. 
The Group operates various incentive schemes to encourage 
employee participation in the performance of the Group and ensures 
that employee communications contain relevant information about 
the ongoing performance of the Group. 
Political donations
There were no political donations in 2015 (2014: £nil).
Post balance sheet events
There are no significant post balance sheet events to report. 
Principal subsidiaries and branches 
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries are listed in the financial 
statements’ note 38 ‘Subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures’.
Research and development 
Given the nature of the Group’s activities it does not carry out any 
material research and development work.
Significant agreements – change of control 
There are a number of agreements with provisions that may take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
such as bank facility agreements and employee share scheme rules. 
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely 
impact on the normal course of business for the Group.
Treasury policy and risk
The Group’s policy on treasury and financial risk (see note 25 
‘Financial instruments’) is set by the Board and is subject to regular 
reporting and review. The main risks faced by the Group relate to 
foreign currency risk and liquidity risk. A significant proportion of the 
Group’s business is conducted overseas. The Group is therefore 
subject to exchange rate risk when translating the results and assets 
of its overseas subsidiaries into Sterling. Where significant 
transactional exchange rate risks are identified, then appropriate 
currency contracts are used to hedge these transactions. The 
Group’s committed facilities all carry interest rates based on LIBOR 
and therefore the Group is exposed to interest rate movements.  
As at 31 December 2015, 36.8% of the Group borrowings were 
hedged (2014: 43.1%).
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
CO
2
e, kg rounded to the nearest 10,000
2015 CO
2
2014 CO
2
*
Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions) 26,613,086 33,930,350 
Scope 2 (electricity indirect emissions) 3,978,839 5,580,408 
Scope 3 (other indirect GHG emissions) 25,869,992 28,464,881 
Total gross emissions 56,461,917 67,975,639 
Intensity Ratio 1.040 1.23
*  2014 CO
2
e restated to ensure consistency of calculation methodology with 2015.
Notes:
The Intensity Ratio is defined as: total CO
2
e kg/million man hours 
worked, as this measure is deemed the most relevant to the Group’s 
operations.
Scope 1 includes fuel vehicles (litres), fuel other (litres), units of 
electricity (kWh) and units of gas (kWh). All major geographies within 
the Group’s international operations are included in the reported 
data. The data was converted into the CO
2
 equivalent using 
calculations provided within the ‘2014 Guidelines to Defra/DECC’s 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting’.
Please see page 48 within the Corporate and social responsibility 
section for further details of the Group’s GHG emissions.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the performance review on pages 26 to 49. The Group’s financial 
position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described on pages 36 to 39. The performance review includes a 
description of the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its: capital; financial risk management objectives; financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
The Group has adequate financial resources together with long-term 
relationships with a number of customers and suppliers in different 
countries and industries. As a result, the directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully 
despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and 
the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future, and for a period of not less than 
twelve months from signing the financial statements. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
annual financial statements.
Auditors 
The Company, as at 15 March 2016, confirms that:
 – so far as each director is aware (taking account of their individual 
capacity), there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware; and 
 – each director has taken all steps that he/she ought to have taken 
as a director (taking account of their individual capacity) in order 
to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that 
information.
For and on behalf of the Board
Richard Allan
Group Company Secretary
Cape plc
47 Esplanade, St Helier
Jersey JE1 0BD
Channel Islands Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
81  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations. The directors are also responsible for the preparation 
of the directors’ remuneration report, which they have chosen to 
prepare, being under no obligation to do so under Jersey law. The 
directors are also responsible for the preparation of the directors’ 
governance report under the Listing Rules.
Jersey company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial period in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles prescribed for the purposes of the 
law. Pursuant to that law, the directors have prepared the Group 
consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Company at the period’s end and 
also the profit or loss of the Company for the period then ended. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors should:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 – make judgements and estimates that are reasonable;
 – state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the ‘going concern’ basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business, in which case there should be supporting 
assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records which are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and as such to disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the law. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement under the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
Each of the current directors, whose names and functions are listed 
on page 54, confirms that, to the best of his/her knowledge:
 – the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 – the directors’ governance report (including the corporate 
governance report and the Audit Committee report) on pages 52 
to 81 and the regional and Chief Financial Officer’s reviews on 
pages 30 to 39 include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face as set out in the risks and uncertainties review on 
pages 18 to 25.
Directors’ statement under the Corporate Governance Code
The strategic report and this directors’ governance report (including 
the remuneration report) were reviewed and approved by the Board 
on 15 March 2016. The Board confirms that, taken as a whole, these 
reports represent a fair, balanced and understandable report on the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Michael Speakman
Chief Financial Officer
15 March 2016 82  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Cape plc
Our opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion:
 – Cape plc’s group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s and the parent company’s profit for 
the year then ended;
 – the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
What we have audited
Cape plc’s financial statements comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2015 Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended  
31 December 2015
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 
31 December 2015
Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2015
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 
31 December 2015
Cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2015
Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended  
31 December 2015
Related notes 1 to 12 to the financial statements
Related notes 1 to 39 to the consolidated financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Overview of our audit approach
Risks of material misstatement – Industrial disease claim valuation (IDC)
 – Goodwill impairment (and other intangible assets where indicators are present) 
 – Revenue recognition
 – Construction contract (IAS 11) accounting
 – Time and materials (IAS 18) accounting
 – Taxation: specific key judgements and potential exposures 
 – Uncertain tax positions
 – Deferred tax asset recoverability
Audit scope – We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 13 components and audit procedures 
on specific balances for a further 17 components.
 – The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 98% of profit 
before tax, 95% of revenue and 85% of total assets.
Materiality – Overall Group materiality of £1.57m which represents approximately 4.1% of adjusted pre-tax profit. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
83  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Our assessment of risk of material misstatement 
We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the 
procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any 
opinion on these individual areas.
Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded to the 
Audit Committee
Industrial disease claim valuation 
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 62; accounting policies on page 95; and notes 28 and 35 of the consolidated financial statements 
(pages 125 and 131)
As at 31 December 2015, Cape 
plc holds a provision of £95.5m 
(31 December 2014: £98.5m) in 
relation to the IDC liability. 
The valuation of this liability has 
been designated a significant 
risk due to the inherent 
complexities associated with 
estimating the liability; including 
the process, methodology, 
judgement and degree of 
estimation involved determining 
underlying assumptions and 
analysis/use of data available 
as inputs.
Legal precedent in this area 
continues to evolve and new 
developments and types of 
claims give rise to inherent 
uncertainty in both the future 
level of related claims and of the 
costs arising from such claims. 
If any such claim were to be 
successful, it might lead to 
additional future claims against 
the Group which may result in 
additional liability above that 
recognised currently.
Note 35 discloses certain 
specific product liability claims 
from Aviva plc and RSA Group. 
An adverse decision of the 
court could have a material 
impact on the Group and level 
of provision required. 
Due to the level of judgement 
involved in determining this 
position and associated 
outcome we have concluded 
that this represents a key risk.
We obtained the updated IDC actuarial papers and calculations, which 
were prepared by management and their external actuarial advisors using a 
roll-forward technique from the last full triennial valuation. 
Our EY IDC actuarial specialist and the audit team discussed these  
findings with management and their external advisors and undertook a 
comprehensive assessment of the papers and calculations, including 
thorough challenge of key assumptions, the range of estimates and the 
sensitivities applied to the model and their assessment of reserve 
uncertainty.
We corroborated estimates and explanations where possible to market 
data and assessed the competence and objectivity of the specialists 
utilised in this area of the audit.
We challenged management’s assessment of the best estimate of the 
liability within the range calculated by the actuarial advisors. This included 
determining the risks posed by changes in the claims and legal 
environment as well as management’s view of macro assumptions such as 
inflation rates and a risk-free discount rate appropriate to the expected 
length of the liability.
To address the product liability claims, we held discussions with 
management, group legal counsel and our EY specialist as well as 
inspecting all relevant Board papers and legal advice received by 
management. We used this information to form a conclusion on whether  
any change to the provision is required.
We completed independent testing of the current period actual claims data 
in order to validate the reasonableness of claims forecast data used in the 
full triennial valuation.
We corroborated our understanding and results through discussions with 
in-house and externally appointed legal professionals.
We verified that the disclosures made in note 28 and 35 to the Group 
financial statements are compliant with IAS 37.
In addressing this risk area, audit procedures were performed by the Group 
audit team which covered 100% of the risk amount. 
We are satisfied that the process 
adopted by management and 
assumptions used are 
reasonable and the level of 
provision as at 31 December 
2015, as determined by 
management’s actuarial advisors, 
is within an acceptable range.
We noted that the methodology 
used to determine key 
assumptions and calculate the 
liability is reasonable and 
consistent with the prior year. 
With regards to legal 
developments including product 
liability claims, management have 
concluded that any potential 
future liability is not probable at 
the balance sheet date and 
cannot be accurately estimated 
at this time and as such, there is 
no basis to recognise a provision. 
They have however concluded 
that it is necessary to disclose a 
contingent liability. We concur 
with this position and that 
appropriate disclosures have 
been made. 84  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Cape plc continued
Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded to the 
Audit Committee
Goodwill impairment (and other intangible assets where indicators are present) 
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 62; accounting policies on page 95; and note 15 of the consolidated financial statements (page 110)
Cape plc has a goodwill asset 
balance in the balance sheet 
amounting to £118.0m at 
31 December 2015 (2014: 
£127.2m). Under IFRS, as 
adopted by the EU, 
management must assess 
goodwill for impairment at 
least annually.
Due to the degree of estimation 
involved in calculating the 
expected future cash flows 
from the cash-generating units 
(CGU) and determining 
appropriate long-term growth 
rates and discount rates 
specific to each CGU we have 
identified a key risk regarding 
impairment of the goodwill 
balance.
We understood management’s process for preparing the annual goodwill 
impairment test and identified controls over the data and assumptions used.
We challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions used by 
management in the value-in-use calculation, namely: cash flow forecasts, 
discount rates and long-term growth rate. We assessed the historical 
accuracy of budgets and we used our EY internal specialist to assist us 
with our consideration of the discount rate and long-term growth rate. This 
audit work involved corroboration of the assumptions to internal forecasts 
or market data and discussion with local audit teams and management to 
support the cash flows.
We verified the appropriate allocation of assets, liabilities and post-tax cash 
flows to the Group’s cash-generating units and challenged management on 
the assumptions used in building up the budgets that formed the basis of 
the underlying cash flow forecasts.
We performed sensitivity analysis as part of our assessment of key 
assumptions (disclosed in note 15 to the group financial statements) and 
available headroom.
We ensured that the disclosures made in note 15 to the group financial 
statements are in line with IAS 36.
In addressing this risk area, audit procedures were performed by the Group 
audit team, with support provided by component teams over regional cash 
flow forecasts, which covered 100% of the risk amount. 
From the procedures performed, 
we conclude that the 
methodology used by 
management is in accordance 
with the requirements of the 
standard and the key 
assumptions and cash flows 
applied are reasonable and within 
an acceptable range.
Management has recorded an 
£8.8m impairment of goodwill for 
the Asia CGU. This has arisen 
primarily due to the competitive 
climate in the region reducing 
management’s future cash flow 
assumptions.
Our sensitivity analysis showed 
that the remaining CGUs have 
sufficient headroom to allow for 
any downside variances during 
the upcoming years’ budgets 
before any impairment is seen. 
The disclosures prepared by Cape 
in relation to their impairment 
review are thorough and highlight 
the key assumptions used in 
numerical form.  Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
85  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded to the 
Audit Committee
Revenue recognition 
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 62; accounting policies on page 95; and notes 5 and 21 of the consolidated financial statements 
(pages 101 and 118)
Construction contract (IAS 11) accounting
Cape plc has a number of 
construction contracts whose 
revenue recognition can be 
dependent on a high level of 
judgement over the percentage 
of completion, based on their 
best estimate of the costs 
to complete. 
There is a risk for the Group 
in managing the recognition 
of revenue through incorrect 
estimation of stage of 
completion; principally costs 
to complete as a result of 
inaccurate estimates made by 
management. Additionally this 
may result in management 
inaccurately assessing the 
completion/profitability of 
a contract.
There is also a risk that 
management may influence 
the significant judgements and 
estimates in respect of revenue 
recognition in order to achieve 
performance targets to meet 
market expectations or 
bonus targets.
We assessed the contract acceptance and authorisation procedures to 
confirm that there were appropriate levels of review and approval based on 
the size and risk of contracts.
We understood the contract and other related contractual provisions to 
understand the nature and scope of the arrangements with the customer.
We assessed the cost variation reports as at the reporting date and tested 
the report for appropriateness and accuracy which included a robust 
assessment of the rigour of management’s cost to complete calculation 
including corroboration with operational staff.
We assessed costs to complete, including contingency provisions, by 
challenging project personnel to justify the basis of their cost estimates in 
light of our understanding of the project. We also understood from these 
operational staff any identified uncertainties in their cost estimates and the 
estimated range of possible outcome. We corroborated this understanding 
through attendance of management contract meetings.
We assessed the costs incurred to date recorded on the balance sheet for 
existence and recoverability by examining underlying invoices, signed 
contracts/statements of work/variation orders, certifications of work and 
proof of subsequent payment.
We assessed material variation orders and the appropriateness of 
recognition of additional revenue or cost.
We assessed any contract claims made by Cape by corroborating to 
written evidence to ensure they were appropriately accepted by the 
customer.
We ensured that the disclosures made in note 21 to the Group financial 
statements are compliant with IAS 11.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 
five locations, which covered 95% of the risk amount. 
As a result of our procedures 
performed we have not identified 
any material misstatements in 
relation to this risk. We note the 
following key judgements 
involved which have been 
covered through our procedures:
In MENA there is a loss making 
contract which is 99.82% 
completed at the balance sheet 
date. Based on the results of the 
procedures performed on the 
contract, we conclude that the 
provision for estimated future 
losses for this project at 31 
December 2015, is not materially 
misstated and the percentage of 
completion is reasonable. 
In Australia, the Wheatstone 
contract is 31.8% completed at 
the balance sheet date. This is a 
significant contract for the Group 
and based on the results of the 
procedures performed we 
conclude that the percentage of 
completion determined by 
management is reasonable. 
Time and materials accounting
A significant proportion of Cape 
plc’s revenue is service revenue 
recognised on a time (multiplied 
by agreed rate) and materials 
basis. There is often a time lag 
between these revenues being 
recorded and billed and as 
such revenue is accrued at 
period ends. 
Due to this time lag there is a 
risk of overstatement of revenue 
recognised on these contracts. 
There is also a risk that 
management may influence 
the significant judgements and 
estimates in respect of revenue 
recognition in order to achieve 
performance targets to meet 
market expectations or 
bonus targets.
We assessed the contract acceptance and authorisation procedures to 
confirm that there were appropriate levels of review and approval based on 
the size and risk of contracts.
We understood the contract and other related contractual provisions to 
understand the nature and scope of the arrangements with the customer.
We performed transaction testing on both costs and revenue to verify  
the transactions to underlying invoices, signed contracts/statements of 
work/variation orders, certifications of work and proof of subsequent 
payment.
We obtained the underlying calculations for the accruals made at year end 
and agreed these to signed contracts/statements of work/variation orders, 
certifications of work and subsequently raised invoices where possible.
We assessed variation orders and the appropriateness of recognition of 
additional revenue or cost. 
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 
16 locations, which covered 95% of the risk amount.
As a result of our procedures 
performed we have not identified 
any material misstatements in 
relation to this risk.  86  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Risk Our response to the risk
What we concluded to the 
Audit Committee
Taxation: specific key judgements and potential exposures
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 62; accounting policies on page 95; and notes 12, 20 and 35 of the consolidated financial 
statements (pages 106, 116 and 131)
Uncertain tax positions
HMRC have raised an inquiry 
with regard to the UK tax 
consequences of a transfer of 
intellectual property (IP) to 
Singapore in 2011. Specifically, 
HMRC has challenged the 
accounting treatment adopted in 
the audited financial statements 
and the resultant gain. 
An unfavourable outcome could 
have a material impact on the 
financial statements affecting 
current and deferred taxation 
balances. Due to the level of 
judgement involved in 
determining this position and 
associated outcome we have 
concluded that this represents 
a key risk.
We engaged our international tax specialists to advise us on the tax 
technical issues in order to form a view on this risk. 
We obtained and inspected all advice sought by management on this 
matter, any communication from HMRC and any other information during 
the current year to make our assessment.
We considered the impact of judgements in similar cases on Cape’s 
position and disclosure.
In addressing this risk area, audit procedures were performed by the Group 
audit team.
Management have concluded 
that at this stage there is no basis 
to recognise a tax liability in line 
with the relevant accounting 
standards. They have, however, 
concluded that it is necessary to 
disclose a contingent liability. 
As a result of the procedures 
performed we concur with 
management’s position and have 
ensured that the disclosure is 
appropriate and in line with our 
results.
Deferred tax asset recoverability
There are material deferred tax 
assets recognised as at the 
balance sheet date. These 
assets primarily relate to tax 
losses and are recognised on 
the basis that there will be 
taxable profit within the Group 
to utilise these losses. The 
assets are primarily in Australia. 
We challenged the profitability forecasts used by management for 
recoverability testing to ensure consistency with the Board approved 
forecasts used for goodwill impairment and going concern assessments.
We assessed the historical forecasting accuracy of management as a factor 
in determining the reliability of profitability forecasts.
In addressing this risk area, audit procedures were performed by the Group 
audit team, with support provided by component teams over regional cash 
flow forecasts, which covered 100% of the risk amount. 
We are satisfied there is sufficient 
certainty over the ability of the 
Group to utilise these losses and 
that recognition of the related 
deferred tax assets is appropriate. 
The above risk areas are consistent with those in the prior year with the exception of Asset impairment and existence: Scaffold assets, as this 
was considered to be an area of audit focus for the 2015 audit. This change was made following our risk assessment which considered the 
nature of the assets and concluded that whilst the risk has a higher likelihood of occurrence; it is within the lower end of the range of 
magnitude of potential misstatement on the consolidated financial statements. As such we consider it no longer constitutes a significant 
proportion of our audit effort or strategy.
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Cape plc continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
87  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
The scope of our audit 
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our 
allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for 
each entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form 
an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into 
account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and 
effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business 
environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results 
when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the group financial 
statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of 
significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 124 reporting 
components of the Group, we selected 25 components covering 
entities within the UK, MENA, and Asia Pacific which represent the 
principal business units within the Group.
Of the 25 components selected, we performed an audit of the 
complete financial information of 13 components (full scope 
components) which were selected based on their size or risk 
characteristics. For the remaining twelve components (specific scope 
components), we performed audit procedures on specific accounts 
within that component that we considered had the potential for the 
greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements 
either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. 
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures 
accounted for 98% (2014: 83%) of the Group’s adjusted PBT 
measure used to calculate materiality, 95% (2014: 94%) of the 
Group’s revenue and 85% (2014: 89%) of the Group’s total assets. 
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 123% 
(2014: 133%) of the Group’s adjusted PBT measure used to calculate 
materiality, 91% (2014: 89%) of the Group’s revenue and 64% (2014: 
73%) of the Group’s total assets. The profit before tax coverage of 
123% represents ten components having a positive contribution of 
138% offset by three components having a negative contribution 
of 14%. 
The specific scope component contributed -25% (2014: -54%) of 
the Group’s adjusted PBT measure used to calculate materiality, 
4% (2014: 5%) of the Group’s revenue and 21% (2014: 15%) of the 
Group’s total assets. The profit before tax coverage of -25% 
represents six components having a positive contribution of 10% 
offset by six components having a negative contribution of 35%. 
The audit scope of all specific scope components may not have 
included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will 
have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for 
the Group.
We also instructed three locations to perform analytical procedures 
over their reported income statement and statement of financial 
position (review scope). These components contributed 10% of the 
Group’s adjusted PBT measure used to calculate materiality, 1% of 
the Group’s revenue and 2% of the Group’s total assets.
The remaining 96 components, together representing -7% of total 
Group adjusted profit before tax, 3% of revenue and 13% of total 
assets, were subjected to other procedures, namely:
 – Aggregated analytical review procedures designed to respond 
to any potential risks of material misstatement to the group 
financial statements;
 – Specific bank confirmations for five components to increase our 
coverage of the consolidated cash balance.
Each of these locations represents an average of 0% of the total 
Group adjusted profit before tax.
We also obtained an understanding of the Group-wide entity level 
controls over all components, including the level of Chief Executive, 
Chief Financial Officer and other Group management visits, oversight 
and review, and the scope of the annual internal audit programme 
and the results of those visits. 
Involvement with component teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each 
of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or 
by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating 
under our instruction. Of the 13 full scope components, audit 
procedures were performed on three of these directly by the primary 
audit team. For the twelve specific scope components, where the 
work was performed by component auditors, we determined the 
appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that 
sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our 
opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned 
visits that has been designed to ensure that the senior members of 
the audit team including the Engagement Partner or his designate 
visit all full scope components. During the current year’s audit cycle, 
visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component 
teams in the UK, MENA and Australia. These visits involved 
discussing the audit approach with the component team and any 
issues arising from their work, reviewing key working papers and 
challenging conclusions on significant risk and judgement areas and 
attending meetings with local management. In addition, the Group 
audit team attended, in person or by call, all planning and closing 
meetings for each full and specific scope location which included the 
component team’s discussion of fraud and error. 
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams 
where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were 
responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. This, 
together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, 
gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the group 
financial statements. 88  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the 
audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit 
and in forming our audit opinion. 
Materiality
We have used an earnings based measure as our basis for 
materiality. We determined materiality for the Group to be 
£1.57 million (2014: £1.59 million), which is approximately 4% (2014: 
4%) of adjusted profit before tax. We believe that adjusted pre-tax 
profit is a key performance measure for the Group and is also a key 
metric used by the Group in the assessment of the performance of 
management. The adjustments that we consider to be unusual or 
exceptional are those that do not typically recur in each reporting 
cycle and therefore, this differs to the adjustments that management 
present in note 8 to the accounts. We therefore, considered this 
measure to be the most appropriate performance metric on which to 
base our materiality calculation as we considered that to be the most 
relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity. The 
Group audit team has audited each non-recurring item identified.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and 
as the actual profit of the Group did not differ significantly we 
retained materiality at £1.57m. 
Performance materiality
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment 
of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that 
performance materiality was 50% (2014: 50%) of our planning 
materiality, namely £0.79m (2014: £0.79m). We have set performance 
materiality at this percentage due to our consideration of past 
misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected. 
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit 
coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken 
based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The 
performance materiality set for each component is based on the 
relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and 
our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the 
current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to 
components was £0.08m to £0.51m (2014: £0.08m to £0.55m). 
• Add back Goodwill Impairment: £8.8m
• Take 4.1% of adjusted basis: £1.57m
• Prot before tax: £29.1m
Starting
basis
Adjustments
Materiality
Reporting threshold
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.08m (2014: £0.08m), 
which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences 
below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the 
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of 
other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have 
formed. 
Opinion on other matters
In our opinion:
 – the information given in the strategic report and directors’ 
governance report are consistent with the financial statements; 
 – the information given in the corporate governance statement set 
out on pages 52 to 81 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial 
statements; and
 – the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be described as 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis 
of preparation described therein.
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Cape plc continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
89  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
ISAs (UK and 
Ireland) reporting
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the  
Annual Report is: 
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of 
the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
 – otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider 
the Annual Report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, business model and strategy; 
and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the 
Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Companies (Jersey) 
Law 1991
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or proper returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Listing Rules review 
requirements
We are required to review:
 – the directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 80, and longer-term viability, 
set out on page 25; and
 – the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have no 
exceptions 
to report.
Statement on the directors’ assessment of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the entity
ISAs (UK and 
Ireland) reporting
We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention 
to in relation to:
 – the directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of 
the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future 
performance, solvency or liquidity;
 – the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated;
 – the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any 
material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve 
months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and
 – the directors’ explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and 
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have 
nothing 
material to 
add or to 
draw 
attention to.
Kevin Harkin 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP 
Reading
15 March 2016
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Cape plc website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on 
the website.
2.  Legislation in the Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  2015
Restated*
2014
Note
Business
performance 
£m
Exceptional
and other
items
£m
Total 
£m
Business
performance 
£m
Exceptional
and other
items
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue from continuing operations 5 711.4 – 711.4 690.5 – 690.5
Operating profit before other items 49.7 – 49.7 52.3 – 52.3
Other items 8 – (3.4) (3.4) – (11.7) (11.7)
Operating profit before exceptional items 6 49.7 (3.4) 46.3 52.3 (11.7) 40.6
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 18 2.8 – 2.8 – – –
Exceptional items 8 – (9.2) (9.2) – (0.9) (0.9)
Operating profit 6 52.5 (12.6) 39.9 52.3 (12.6) 39.7
Finance income 11 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.8 0.5 1.3
Finance costs 11 (7.9) (3.3) (11.2) (7.6) (3.4) (11.0)
Net finance costs (7.8) (3.0) (10.8) (6.8) (2.9) (9.7)
Profit before tax 44.7 (15.6) 29.1 45.5 (15.5) 30.0
Income tax (expense)/credit 12 (8.0) (0.1) (8.1) (9.2) 1.8 (7.4)
Profit from continuing operations 36.7 (15.7) 21.0 36.3 (13.7) 22.6
(Loss) from discontinued operations 8,13 (0.3) (4.9) (5.2) (1.3) (10.9) (12.2)
Profit for the year 36.4 (20.6) 15.8 35.0 (24.6) 10.4
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc 15.5 10.4
Non-controlling interests 0.3 –
 15.8 10.4
Earnings per share attributable to the owners of Cape plc
Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic
Continuing operations 30.0 17.1 30.0 18.7
Discontinued operations (0.3) (4.3) (1.1) (10.1)
Total operations 14 29.7 12.8 28.9 8.6
Diluted
Continuing operations 29.9 17.0 30.0 18.7
Discontinued operations (0.3) (4.3) (1.1) (10.1)
Total operations 14 29.6 12.7 28.9 8.6
*  Certain amounts shown here do not correspond to the 2014 consolidated financial statements and reflect adjustments made to reclassify the results of 
discontinued operations.
90  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Profit for the year 15.8 10.4
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods
Currency translation differences 3.2 (0.1)
Net other comprehensive income/(expense) to be reclassified to profit or loss in  
subsequent periods 3.2 (0.1)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Re-measurement of defined benefit pension plan 19 (0.8) (4.9)
Tax effect 20 – –
(0.8) (4.9)
Movement in restriction of retirement benefit asset in accordance with IFRIC 14 19 0.9 4.0
Movement in restriction of interest income in accordance with IFRIC 14 19 0.4 –
Tax effect 20 (0.1) 1.0
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 0.4 0.1
Other comprehensive income for the year 3.6 –
Total comprehensive income for the year 19.4 10.4
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc 19.0 10.2
Non-controlling interests 0.4 0.2
19.4 10.4
91  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2015 92  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of financial position
at 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15 138.6 148.1
Investment property 16 2.0 2.0
Property, plant and equipment 17 80.2 77.3
Investments accounted for using the equity method 18 2.8 –
Derivative financial assets 25 – 0.2
Deferred tax assets 20 20.7 24.3
Restricted deposits 23 9.0 9.0
Total non-current assets 253.3 260.9
Current assets
Inventories 21 12.7 15.0
Trade and other receivables 22 198.8 200.3
Cash and cash equivalents 23 81.4 78.0
Restricted deposits 23 23.3 20.9
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale 13 1.0 2.6
Total current assets 317.2 316.8
Total assets 570.5 577.7
Equity
Share capital 30 30.3 30.3
Share premium account 1.0 1.0
Special reserve 30 1.0 1.0
Other reserves 30 9.6 9.5
Translation reserve 30 99.4 96.3
Retained (losses) (14.9) (13.4)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 126.4 124.7
Non-controlling interests 2.9 2.8
Total equity 129.3 127.5
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 24 190.2 177.1
Retirement benefit obligations 19 13.3 12.4
Deferred tax liabilities 20 5.4 7.5
Provision for industrial disease claims 28 90.2 93.5
Other provisions 28 2.7 2.9
Total non-current liabilities 301.8 293.4
Current liabilities
Borrowings 24 0.1 –
Derivative financial instruments 25 – 0.2
Trade and other payables 26 120.8 124.3
Current income tax liabilities 27 6.0 7.6
Provision for industrial disease claims 28 5.3 4.7
Other provisions 28 5.5 17.7
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for sale 13 1.7 2.3
Total current liabilities 139.4 156.8
Total liabilities 441.2 450.2
Total equity and liabilities 570.5 577.7
The consolidated financial statements on pages 90 to 135 were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 March 2016 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Joe Oatley  Chief Executive
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
93  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium
account
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
attributable
to parent
£m
Non- 
controlling
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2015 30.3 1.0 1.0 9.5 96.3 (13.4) 124.7 2.8 127.5
Profit for the year – – – – – 15.5 15.5 0.3 15.8
Other comprehensive  
(expense)/income:
Currency translation differences – – – – 3.1 – 3.1 0.1 3.2
Re-measurement of defined benefit 
pension plan – – – – – (0.8) (0.8) – (0.8)
Movement in restriction of retirement 
benefit asset in accordance with  
IFRIC 14 – – – – – 0.9 0.9 – 0.9
Movement in restriction of interest 
income in accordance with IFRIC 14 – – – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Tax effect on retirement benefit asset – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for 
the year – – – – 3.1 15.9 19.0 0.4 19.4
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – – (17.0) (17.0) – (17.0)
Transfer to disposal group liabilities – – – – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Share options
– value of employee services – – – – – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4)
– deferred tax on options – – – 0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
– – – 0.1 – (17.4) (17.3) (0.3) (17.6)
At 31 December 2015 30.3 1.0 1.0 9.6 99.4 (14.9) 126.4 2.9 129.3
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Special 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
attributable 
to parent
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2014 30.3 1.0 1.0 9.3 96.6 (7.6) 130.6 2.6 133.2
Profit for the year – – – – – 10.4 10.4 – 10.4
Other comprehensive  
(expense)/income:
Currency translation differences – – – – (0.3) – (0.3) 0.2 (0.1)
Re-measurement of defined benefit 
pension plan – – – – – (4.9) (4.9) – (4.9)
Movement in restriction of retirement 
benefit asset in accordance with  
IFRIC 14 – – – – – 4.0 4.0 – 4.0
Tax effect on retirement benefit asset – – – – – 1.0 1.0 – 1.0
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year – – – – (0.3) 10.5 10.2 0.2 10.4
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – – (16.9) (16.9) – (16.9)
Share options:
– value of employee services – – – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
– deferred tax on options – – – 0.2 – – 0.2 – 0.2
– – – 0.2 – (16.3) (16.1) – (16.1)
At 31 December 2014 30.3 1.0 1.0 9.5 96.3 (13.4) 124.7 2.8 127.5 94  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015
£m
Restated*
2014
£m
Operating activities
Cash generated from operating activities – continuing operations 32a 51.6 44.7
Interest received 0.1 0.8
Interest paid (7.0) (7.2)
Tax paid (9.3) (8.4)
Net cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations 35.4 29.9
Net cash flows from operating activities – discontinued operations 32a 0.3 1.2
Net cash flows from operating activities 35.7 31.1
Investing activities
Continuing operations
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2.9 1.3
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 17 (20.1) (15.3)
Purchase of intangibles 15 – (0.1)
Net transfer to restricted funds 32b (5.8) (0.6) 
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired 34 (0.2) (30.2)
Loans (to) joint ventures (1.0) (3.6)
Cash paid into escrow for deferred consideration – (2.1)
Net cash used in investing activities – continuing operations (24.2) (50.6)
Discontinued operations
Proceeds from sales of assets held for sale – 3.6
Net cash realised from investing activities – discontinued operations – 3.6
Financing activities
Continuing operations
Repayment of facility – (130.6)
Settlement of debt arising on acquisition 34 (5.3) –
Drawing on borrowings 33 13.2 167.9
Finance lease principal payments – (0.1)
Dividends paid to shareholders (17.0) (16.9)
Net cash flows used in financing activities – continuing operations (9.1) 20.3
Net cash flows used in financing activities – discontinued operations – –
Net foreign exchange difference 1.0 –
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 33 3.4 4.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 78.0 73.6
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 23 81.4 78.0
*  Certain amounts shown here do not correspond to the 2014 consolidated financial statements and reflect adjustments made to reclassify the results of 
discontinued operations and the presentation of cash flows relating to joint ventures as detailed in note 2. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
95  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1 Corporate information
The consolidated financial statements of Cape plc and its 
subsidiaries, collectively ‘the Group’, for the year ended 
31 December 2015 were authorised for issue in accordance with a 
resolution of the directors on 15 March 2016. Cape plc, ‘the 
Company’ or ‘the Parent’, is a limited company incorporated in 
Jersey and domiciled in Singapore and Jersey whose shares are 
publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. The registered office 
is located at 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE1 0BD.
The Group is principally engaged in the provision of critical industrial 
services focussed on the energy and natural resources sectors.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 
(IFRS). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of 
financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative 
instruments) at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity 
with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It 
also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process 
of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a 
higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where 
assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated 
financial statements are disclosed in note 3 ‘Group specific 
accounting measures’ and note 4 ‘Significant judgements 
and estimates’.
Changes to accounting policies and disclosures
a) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted by 
the Group
Several new standards and amendments apply for the first time in 
2015, however they do not have a significant impact on the annual 
financial statements of the Group. These new standards and 
amendments are listed below:
 – Amendments to IAS 19: Defined Benefit Plans: Employee 
Contributions (early adopted)
 – Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle (early adopted)
 – Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle
Except as noted above, the Group has not yet early adopted any 
other standard, interpretation or amendment that has been issued 
but is not yet effective.
b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The following standards and interpretations in issue which will have 
an effect for the Group, have not been adopted by the Group:
Effective dates
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in 
Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification 
of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and 
Amortisation 1 January 2016
Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for 
Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
The Group is currently assessing the impact of these standards and 
plans to adopt the new standards on the required effective date.
c) Prior period adjustments
As a result of the discontinuation of operations in Hong Kong 
during 2015, the prior period figures in the consolidated income
statement have been restated, together with any associated notes.
The comparative amounts in the consolidated cash flow statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been restated to include 
loans to joint ventures of £3.6 million within investing activities.
Basis of consolidation
a) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of the Group and its subsidiaries (including special 
purpose entities) as at 31 December 2015. Where the Group has 
control over an investee, it is classified as a subsidiary. The Group 
controls an investee if all three of the following elements are present: 
power over the investee, exposure to variable returns from the 
investment and the ability to use its power to affect those variable 
returns. Control is re-assessed whenever facts and circumstances 
indicate that there may be a change in any of these elements 
of control.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result 
in control. To support this presumption and when the Group has less 
than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the 
Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing 
whether it has power over an investee, including:
 – the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the 
investee;
 – rights arising from other contractual arrangements;
 – the Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date 
that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business 
combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities 
incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests 
issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair 
value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent 
consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The 
Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an 
acquisition-by-acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the 
non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the recognised 
amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition 
date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in 
the acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any 
gains or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognised in 
profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is 
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes 
to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be 
an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ either in profit 
or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not 
re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for 
within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling 
interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net 
assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in the 
income statement. 96  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated upon 
consolidation. Profits and losses resulting from intercompany 
transactions that are recognised in assets are also eliminated upon 
consolidation. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been 
changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the Group.
All subsidiary undertakings have year-end dates of 31 December.
b) Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries without change 
of control
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss 
of control are accounted for as equity transactions, that is, as 
transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The 
difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the 
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the 
subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to 
non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
c) Disposal of subsidiaries
When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the 
entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, 
with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. The fair 
value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently 
accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or 
financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if 
the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This 
may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income are reclassified to profit or loss.
d) Joint ventures
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of 
the joint arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed 
sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when 
decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of 
the parties sharing control.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate a share of the 
results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures using the equity method 
of accounting, whereby the investment is carried at cost plus 
post-acquisition changes in the share of net assets of the joint 
venture, less any provision for impairment. A joint venture is an entity 
established to engage in economic activity which the Group jointly 
controls with its fellow venturers. Losses in excess of the 
consolidated interest in joint ventures are not recognised except 
where the Group has a constructive commitment to make good 
those losses. The results of joint ventures acquired or disposed of 
during the year are included in the consolidated income statement 
from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of 
disposal, as appropriate.
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested whenever there is an event which indicates that 
the carrying amount may not be recoverable or, as a minimum, 
annually, for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash-
generating unit for the purpose of impairment testing. Any 
impairment is recognised immediately through the consolidated 
income statement and is not subsequently reversed. The allocation is 
made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating 
units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in 
which the goodwill arose.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated 
financial statements.
Foreign currencies
a) Functional and presentational currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s 
entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (functional currency). The 
consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling which is 
the parent company’s functional and presentational currency.
b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional 
currency using exchange rates prevailing at the date of the 
transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period 
end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow 
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash 
equivalents are presented in the consolidated income statement 
within operating profit. All other foreign exchange gains and losses 
are included in operating profit. Changes in the fair value of monetary 
securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available for 
sale are analysed between translation differences resulting from 
changes in the amortised cost of the security and other changes in 
the carrying amount of the security. Translation differences related to 
changes in amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss, and other 
changes in carrying amount are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of their historic cost 
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the 
date of their initial transaction.
c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a 
functional currency different from the presentational currency are 
translated into the presentational currency as follows:
 – assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate at 
the date of the statement of financial position
 – income and expenses for each income statement are translated at 
average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on 
the transaction dates, in which case the income and expenses are 
translated at the rate on the dates of the transaction)
 – all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate 
component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation 
of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and 
other currency instruments designated as hedges of such 
investments, are taken to other comprehensive income. When a 
foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange 
differences that were recognised in equity are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a 
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing exchange rate, with exchange 
differences arising recognised in other comprehensive income.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and machinery and fixtures and fittings are stated at 
cost net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for 
impairment. Cost comprises purchase cost together with any 
incidental costs of acquisition. Interest is capitalised on qualifying 
assets as defined by IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’. Certain land and 
buildings are held at previous revalued amounts less accumulated 
depreciation as these amounts have been taken as their deemed 
cost at the date of transition to IFRS in accordance with the 
exemption under IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of IFRS’. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
97  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated 
residual value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their 
estimated useful economic lives with the exception that no 
depreciation is provided on freehold land. The assets’ residual values 
and useful economic lives are reviewed, and adjusted as appropriate, 
at the date of each statement of financial position. The following 
useful economic life is applied:
 – freehold buildings – 50 years
 – leasehold land and buildings – the shorter of 50 years and the 
period of the lease
 – plant and machinery – 3 to 15 years
 – fixtures and fittings – 3 to 10 years.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within 
operating profit before other items in the consolidated income 
statement. When re-valued assets are sold, the amounts included in 
other reserves are transferred to retained earnings.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether its property, 
plant and equipment may be impaired. If any such indication exists, 
the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An 
asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less 
costs to sell and its value in use. In assessing value in use, the 
estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial 
recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a 
business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. 
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less 
any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite 
or infinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful 
economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The 
amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible 
asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each 
reporting period. The amortisation expense on intangible assets 
arising from business combinations with finite lives is recognised in 
the consolidated income statement as an ‘other item’ (see note 3a). 
The following useful life is applied:
 – software – amortised on a straight line basis over three years
 – trademarks – amortised on a straight line basis over 20 years
 – design library – amortised on a straight line basis over 20 years
 – supply agreement – amortised on a straight line basis over 
three years
 – order book – amortised on a straight line basis over two years
 – customer relationships – amortised on a straight line basis over 
ten years.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are 
tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-
generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed 
annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be 
supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is 
made on a prospective basis.
Investment property
The Group applies the cost model in accounting for investment 
property. The investment property relates to land held at cost less 
any provision for impairment.
Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease 
is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the 
lease. The arrangement is (or contains) a lease if fulfilment of the 
arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets; 
and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even 
if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement. Leases in 
which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are 
retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments 
made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the 
lessor) are charged to the consolidated income statement on a 
straight line basis over the period of the lease.
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. Leases of 
property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all 
of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement 
at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value 
of the minimum lease payments.
Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and 
finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance 
charges, are included in borrowings. The interest element of the 
finance cost is charged to the consolidated income statement over 
the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. Property, 
plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated 
over the term of the lease or the useful economic life, if shorter.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation, 
either legal or constructive, as a result of a past event, it is probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation 
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures 
expected to be required to settle the obligation applying a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current risks specific to the liability. Where 
there is appropriate insurance in place, the benefit of any insurance 
reimbursement is recognised only when virtually certain.
There is a history of claims being made against the Group for 
compensation arising from alleged exposure to products previously 
manufactured which contained asbestos. Where the Group has 
deemed that it is appropriate to do so, settlement has been made. 
Provision has been made for the costs which the Group is expected 
to incur in respect of lodged and future industrial disease claims to 
the extent that such costs can be reliably estimated.
The provision includes the cost of claims that are made under the 
Scheme of Arrangement (see note 36) and other industrial 
disease claims.
Contingent consideration arising on a business combination is 
initially measured at its fair value. Contingent consideration 
arrangements classified as liabilities arising from a business 
combination should be subsequently measured at fair value through 
profit or loss.
Inventories
Inventories which include raw materials and finished goods are 
stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is 
determined using the first-in first-out method. The cost of finished 
goods comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and 
related production overheads (based on normal operating capacity).
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business less selling expenses. Allowance is made for 
obsolete and slow moving items based on annual usage.
Revenue recognition
The revenue recognition policy in relation to construction contracts 
and maintenance contracts is shown below. Revenue is shown net of 
value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. Claims on customers are claims made for 
work outside of contractual terms and, as such, are only recognised 
in revenue once accepted by the customer.
Construction contracts
Construction contracts relate to services provided to customers 
undertaking construction projects either on a short or long 
term basis. 98  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
For short-term contracts, revenue is recognised where persuasive 
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or 
services have been rendered, the risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can 
be reliably measured and collection of the related receivable is 
reasonably assured.
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised under the percentage 
of completion method, based upon the percentage of costs to date 
compared to the total estimated contract costs, contractual 
milestones or performance. An expected loss on the construction 
contract is recognised as an expense immediately. When the 
outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, 
revenue is recognised only to the extent that contract costs are 
probable of being recoverable, and contract costs are recognised as 
an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Maintenance contracts
Revenues from maintenance contracts are recognised where 
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred 
or services have been rendered, the risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can 
be reliably measured and collection of the related receivable is 
reasonably assured.
Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) 
using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted and are expected to apply to the accounting period.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial 
statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if 
they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax 
is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the 
time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or 
loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the date of the 
statement of financial position and are expected to apply when the 
related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income 
tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not be reversed 
in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a 
legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either 
the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an 
intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying 
amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when 
the sale is highly probable and the disposal group is available for sale 
in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale 
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed 
sale within one year from the date of classification.
The losses and cash flows that relate to the businesses that have 
been classified as held for sale and which meet the definition of 
discontinued operations as per IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations’ are presented separately from 
continuing operations within the consolidated income statement and 
consolidated cash flow statement.
Employee benefits
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution 
pension schemes.
Defined contribution pension schemes
A defined contribution pension scheme is a scheme to which the 
Group makes fixed contributions with no legal or constructive 
obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold 
sufficient assets to settle its post-employment benefits. The pension 
expense for defined contribution schemes represents contributions 
payable in the year.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial 
position in respect of the defined benefit scheme is the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation at the period end date less the fair 
value of the plan assets. The defined benefit scheme is closed to 
new participants. The defined benefit obligation is calculated 
tri-annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit 
method and this valuation is updated at the date of the statement of 
financial position. The present value of the defined benefit obligation 
is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows 
using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are 
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and 
that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related 
pension liability.
Current and past service costs and finance costs are charged to 
operating profit. In addition, interest on the net defined benefit 
pension obligation is recognised in profit or loss calculated using the 
discount rate used to measure the pension obligation. Actuarial gains 
and losses arising from new valuations and from updating the latest 
actuarial valuation to reflect conditions at the date of the statement of 
financial position are recognised in full in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income.
The pension schemes’ deficits or surpluses (to the extent that any 
surpluses are considered recoverable) are recognised in full and 
presented on the face of the consolidated statement of
financial position.
Under IFRIC 14 the recoverability of a surplus must be assessed 
against the minimum funding requirements of the pension scheme.
The Group operates gratuity schemes in certain overseas countries. 
These are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 ‘Employee 
Benefits’ and accounting follows the same principles as for a defined 
benefit scheme.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction 
costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised 
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) 
and the redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest method. Issue costs together with finance costs are charged 
to the consolidated income statement over the term of the 
borrowings and represent a constant proportion of the balance of 
capital repayments outstanding.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has 
an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
twelve months after the date of the statement of financial position.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
99  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which 
are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get 
ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those 
assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their 
intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific 
borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is 
deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
Foreign exchange movements on foreign currency denominated 
borrowings are recognised within operating profit. All other borrowing 
costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period
in which they are incurred.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater 
than twelve months after the date of the statement of financial 
position date. These are classified as non-current assets. The 
Group’s loans and receivables comprise of ‘trade and other 
receivables’ in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised and carried at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any provision for 
impairment. The amount of the provision is the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on 
call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in 
the consolidated statement of financial position unless a cash 
pooling arrangement is in place.
Restricted funds, being cash balances held for the purpose of settling 
tax liabilities and the costs of industrial disease claims made under the 
Scheme of Arrangement (see note 36) are excluded from cash and cash 
equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and 
hedging activities
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate 
swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and 
interest rate fluctuations. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently 
re-measured at their fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to 
market values of similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
 – net investment hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the 
value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations
 – cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows 
that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The Group formally designates and documents the relationship 
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the 
inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management 
objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
The documentation also includes identification of the hedging 
instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk 
being hedged and how the Group will assess the effectiveness of the 
hedging instruments in offsetting the exposure to changes in the fair 
value of the hedge or the cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. 
The Group also documents its assessment, both at inception and on 
an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the 
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair 
values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of 
derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the 
consolidated income statement. The treatment of gains and losses 
arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments 
depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows:
a) Net investment hedges
For net investment hedges, the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised 
directly in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the 
consolidated income statement when the foreign operation is 
partially disposed of or sold.
b) Cash flow hedges
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective 
portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement. Amounts 
taken to equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement 
when the hedged transaction affects the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised 
without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is 
revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time 
remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is 
ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement. When a 
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative 
gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to 
the consolidated income statement.
Fair value measurement
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed 
in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 – Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities
 – Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable
 – Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial 
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of 
each reporting period.
Refer to note 25 (e) for further details.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or 
options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Share based payments
The Group issues equity settled share based payments to certain 
employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as 
an expense in the consolidated income statement with a 
corresponding increase in equity. The fair values of these payments 
are measured at the dates of grant using option pricing models, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards 
are granted. The fair value is recognised over the period during which 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to 
the Group’s estimate of the number of awards which will lapse, either 
due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to 
non-market based performance conditions not being met. 100  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates 
of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the 
revision to original estimates, if any, in the consolidated income 
statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. When the 
options vest, the Company issues new shares which are then held in 
an employee benefit trust account until the options are exercised. 
Proceeds received on the exercise of share options, if any, are 
credited to share capital and share premium. Where the exercise 
price of an option is lower than par value of the issued share the 
difference is funded by debiting the Company’s retained earnings.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the 
grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant 
itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash settled transaction.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the 
internal reporting provided to and regularly reviewed by the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The CODM, who is responsible 
for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating 
segments, has been identified as the Board.
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market 
risk (including currency, cash flow interest rate and fair value interest 
rate risks), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk 
management programme focusses on the unpredictability of 
financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on 
the Group’s financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury department 
under policies approved by the Board of Directors. Group treasury 
identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation 
with the Group’s operating units. The Board provides written 
principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies 
covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange, interest rate and 
credit risks, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative 
financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. 
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. In the 
case of interim dividends to equity shareholders, this is when 
declared by the directors. In the case of final dividends, this is when 
approved by the shareholders at the AGM.
Foreign exchange
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in two key currencies. 
The movements in exchange rates against Sterling for these two 
currencies are detailed below:
Year ended
31 December 2015
Year ended
31 December 2014
Closing Average Closing Average
AUD 2.03 2.09 1.91 1.83
USD 1.48 1.51 1.56 1.65
3 Group specific accounting measures
To be able to provide readers with clear, meaningful and consistent 
presentation of financial performance, the Group reflects its 
underlying financial results in the ‘business performance’ column 
within the consolidated income statement. Business performance 
excludes ‘Other items’ and ‘Exceptional items’, which are considered 
non-operational in their nature and which are reported separately in a 
different column within the consolidated income statement.
a) Other items
Other items are those items which the directors believe are relevant to 
the understanding of the results for the year and which are excluded 
from the adjusted measures. Other items include administration 
expenses, financial incomes and financial costs associated with 
industrial disease claims and certain post-acquisition charges, including 
amortisation of acquired intangibles arising from business combinations.
b) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items which are of a non-recurring 
nature and, in the judgement of the directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence. Items which 
may be considered exceptional in nature include significant 
write-downs of goodwill and other assets, significant changes in 
asset values as a result of changes in accounting estimates, 
business acquisition costs and restructuring costs.
4 Significant judgements and estimates
Certain of the Group’s accounting policies described in note 2 
require critical accounting estimates that involve subjective 
judgements and the use of assumptions, some of which may relate 
to matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change.
a) Judgements
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the 
amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are:
(i) Revenue recognition and assessment of long-term contract 
performance
The Group generally accounts for long-term construction contracts 
using the percentage of completion method as performance of the 
contract progresses. This method requires judgement to determine 
accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards contract 
completion and may involve estimates of the total contract costs, 
remaining costs to completion, total revenues, contract risks and 
other judgements.
(ii) Carrying value of property, plant and equipment
Assessing whether property, plant and equipment may be impaired 
requires a review for indicators of impairment and, where such 
indicators exist, an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount by 
reference to value in use. Management are required to exercise 
significant judgement in reviewing for and identifying asset indicators 
of impairment and subsequently calculating value in use.
(iii) Trade and other receivables
The Group provides for likely non-recovery of receivables to the 
extent that the carrying value is more than the present value of 
expected future cash flows. Assessing the value of the provision 
requires significant management judgement and review of individual 
receivables based upon individual customer creditworthiness, 
current economic trends and analysis of historical bad debts.
(iv) Deferred tax assets
The Group recognises deferred tax assets on all applicable 
temporary differences where it is probable that future taxable profits 
will be available for utilisation. This requires management to make 
judgements and assumptions regarding the amount of deferred tax 
that can be recognised based on the magnitude and likelihood of 
future taxable profits.
(v) Defined benefit pension plans
The cost and the obligation of the Group’s defined benefit pension 
plan is based on a number of selection assumptions. These include 
the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth, longevity and 
expected return on the assets of the plan. Differences arising from 
actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected 
in future periods. The effect of changing these assumptions is 
described in note 19.
b) Estimates
The key assumptions affected by future uncertainty that have a 
significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying value of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year are:
(i) Onerous contracts
Provision is made for future losses on long-term contracts where it is 
considered that the contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in 
future years. Estimating future losses involves assumptions of 
contract performance targets and likely levels of future cost 
escalation over time. A provision for onerous contracts of £3.1 million 
is recorded at 31 December 2015 (2014: £9.7 million).
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
101  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
4 Significant judgements and estimates (continued)
(ii) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. This requires estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill 
is allocated. Calculation of value in use requires estimation of expected future cash flows from each of the cash-generating units and also to 
determine a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2015 was 
£118.0 million (2014: £127.2 million).
(iii) Provision for industrial disease claims
To the extent that such costs can be reliably estimated as at 31 December 2015, a provision has been made for the costs which the Group is 
expected to incur in respect of lodged and future industrial disease claims for which the Board believes the Group to be liable arising on 
alleged exposure to previously manufactured asbestos products, notwithstanding the matters disclosed under note 35 ‘Industrial disease 
claim provision and contingent liabilities’. The most recent full actuarial valuation was performed in 2013 and the next full valuation is 
scheduled to be completed in early 2017 in respect of the period up to 31 December 2016. The amount of the provision is based on historic 
patterns of claim numbers and monetary settlements as well as published tables of projected disease incidence. Key assumptions made in 
assessing the appropriate level of provision include the period over which future claims can be expected, the nature of claims received, the 
rate at which claims will be filed, the rate of successful resolution as well as future trends in both compensation payments and legal costs. 
Management monitors claims received on an ongoing basis as well as any other factors which would require a change to the assumptions or 
trigger a full actuarial review in the current year. When determining the appropriate level of provision, the Board has considered various 
potential, threatened and actual claim types which, relying on appropriate legal advice, it does not believe to have legal merit and which are, 
accordingly not provided for.
During 2015, changes in macroeconomic conditions necessitated a revision to the discount rate and inflation rate assumptions, giving rise to 
a decrease in the amount of the provision of £0.6 million (2014: increase of £8.2 million) with an equivalent credit to profit or loss (2014: 
charge). The value of the provision at 31 December 2015 is £95.5 million (2014: £98.2 million). See note 28 for details of movements on the 
provision during the year.
(iv) Income tax
Group entities can be subject to routine tax audits and also a process whereby tax computations are discussed and agreed with the 
appropriate authorities. Whilst the ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot be determined with certainty, management 
estimates the level of required tax provisions on the basis of professional advice and the nature of current discussions with the tax 
authority concerned.
5 Segment information
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board (Chief Operating Decision Maker ‘CODM’) 
that are used to make strategic decisions. The CODM considers the business from a geographic perspective and the Group reports three 
regional segments and a central support function. The main profit measure used by the CODM in its review is adjusted operating profit.
Each regional segment derives its revenues from the provision of critical industrial services focussed on the energy and natural resources 
sectors. No operating segments have been aggregated.
The segment information for the year ended 31 December 2015 is as follows:
2015
UK, Europe
& CIS
£m
MENA
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 395.8 174.6 141.0 – 711.4
Adjusted operating profit /(loss) before joint ventures 31.7 22.0 2.6 (6.6) 49.7
Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 2.8 – – – 2.8
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) after franchise fees 34.5 22.0 2.6 (6.6) 52.5
Other and exceptional items (12.6)
Net finance costs (10.8)
Profit before tax 29.1
2014 Restated
UK, Europe
& CIS
£m
MENA
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 388.5 175.6 126.4 – 690.5
Adjusted operating profit /(loss) before joint ventures 38.5 16.6 1.6 (4.4) 52.3
Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures – – – – –
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) after franchise fees 38.5 16.6 1.6 (4.4) 52.3
Other and exceptional items (12.6)
Net finance costs (9.7)
Profit before tax 30.0
Segmental adjusted operating profit/(loss) in the table above is shown after charging franchise fees. Adjusted operating profit before franchise
fees is set out in note 7.
There were no significant sales between segments in either year. 102  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
5 Segment information (continued)
Other segment items included in the consolidated income statement are as follows:
2015
UK, Europe
& CIS 
£m
MENA
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Depreciation (excluding discontinued operations) 5.2 6.5 4.2 – 15.9
Amortisation 3.4 – – – 3.4
2014
UK, Europe
& CIS 
£m
MENA
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Depreciation (excluding discontinued operations) 5.0 6.3 6.7 0.1 18.1
Amortisation 2.6 – – – 2.6
The geographical origin of revenue based on location of the entity is analysed as follows:
Note
2015
£m
Restated
2014
£m
Continuing operations
United Kingdom 385.7 378.4
Australia 113.6 96.7
Abu Dhabi 34.6 39.5
Qatar 54.6 56.6
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 70.0 63.2
Singapore 0.8 2.9
Rest of the world 52.1 53.2
Revenue from continuing operations 711.4 690.5
Discontinued operations 13 5.3 10.3
Total revenue 716.7 700.8
The strategic report section in this Annual Report provides an analysis of revenues between maintenance support services (being services to plant 
operators to assist with their maintenance and production support activities) and construction support services (being services to engineering and 
contracting companies to support major construction projects). This split in customer base and revenue does not represent an operating segment 
as multi-discipline services are provided to all customers and as such the segmental analysis is only presented by geographic segments.
Revenue from continuing operations derived from maintenance support services was £474 million (67%) (2014: £478 million (69%)) and 
revenue derived from construction support services was £237 million (33%) (2014: £212 million (31%)).
Revenue from the largest client represented 12% of total revenue (2014: 15%) relating to activity across all geographic segments and the top 
ten clients represented 45% of revenue (2014: 42%).
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2015 and capital expenditure for the year are as follows:
2015
UK, Europe
& CIS
£m
MENA
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Unallocated
£m
Group
£m
Assets – continuing 174.5 162.6 74.4 23.6 134.4 569.5
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale 
(note 13) 0.2 – 0.8 – – 1.0
Total assets 174.7 162.6 75.2 23.6 134.4 570.5
Non-current assets included in total assets
Goodwill and intangibles – continuing 61.6 48.3 28.6 0.1 – 138.6
Other – continuing 35.5 30.9 18.4 0.2 29.7 114.7
Total – continuing 97.1 79.2 47.0 0.3 29.7 253.3
Non-current assets – discontinued operations – – – – – –
Total non-current assets 97.1 79.2 47.0 0.3 29.7 253.3
Liabilities – continuing 59.2 55.6 23.5 102.4 198.7 439.4
Liabilities – discontinued operations – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for 
sale (note 13) 0.5 – 1.2 – – 1.7
Total liabilities 59.7 55.7 24.7 102.4 198.7 441.2
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment 
(note 17) 8.5 9.1 2.5 – – 20.1
Included within Asia Pacific’s total non-current assets of £47.0 million (2014: £65.8 million) is £2.1 million (2014: £2.1 million) that is located in 
Singapore. The geographical origin of non-current assets held by the Group has not been disclosed as the necessary information is not 
available and the cost to develop it would be excessive.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
103  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
5 Segment information (continued)
Liabilities of discontinued operations of £0.1 million (2014: £0.3 million) relate to liabilities held in India. Assets and liabilities held for sale in both 
2015 and 2014 relate to the discontinuation of operations in Hong Kong and Kazakhstan respectively.
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2014 and capital expenditure for the year are as follows:
2014
UK, Europe
& CIS
£m
MENA
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Unallocated
£m
Group
£m
Assets – continuing 120.8 115.6 82.3 124.0 132.4 575.1
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale 
(note 13) 2.6 – – – – 2.6
Total assets 123.4 115.6 82.3 124.0 132.4 577.7
Non-current assets included in total assets
Goodwill and intangibles – continuing 59.5 47.1 41.4 0.1 – 148.1
Other – continuing 29.8 25.3 24.4 – 33.3 112.8
Total – continuing 89.3 72.4 65.8 0.1 33.3 260.9
Non-current assets – discontinued operations – – – – – –
Total non-current assets 89.3 72.4 65.8 0.1 33.3 260.9
Liabilities – continuing 59.2 55.1 27.4 115.7 190.2 447.6
Liabilities – discontinued operations – 0.3 – – – 0.3
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for 2.3 – – – – 2.3
sale (note 13)
Total liabilities 61.5 55.4 27.4 115.7 190.2 450.2
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment 
(note 17) 8.3 2.9 3.9 0.2 – 15.3
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, investments, intangible assets, inventories and trade and other 
receivables. Segment liabilities consist of operating liabilities.
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise:
Note
2015 2014 
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Deferred tax 20 20.7 5.4 24.3 7.5
Current tax 27 – 6.0 – 7.6
Cash 23 81.4 – 78.0 –
Restricted funds: current 23 23.3 – 20.9 –
Restricted funds: non-current 23 9.0 – 9.0 –
Current borrowings 24 – – – –
Non-current borrowings 24 – 187.3 – 174.9
Derivatives 25 – – 0.2 0.2
Total unallocated 134.4 198.7 132.4 190.2
6 Operating profit
 Note
2015
£m
Restated
2014
£m
Analysis of operating profit
Continuing operations
Revenue 711.4 690.5
Cost of sales (587.9) (575.3)
Gross profit 123.5 115.2
Operating expenses (73.8) (62.9)
Operating profit before joint ventures and other items and exceptional items 49.7 52.3
Other items 8a (3.4) (11.7)
Exceptional items 8b (9.2) (0.9)
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 18 2.8 –
Operating profit 39.9 39.7
Cost of sales consists principally of direct labour, materials and other direct costs which include foreign exchange gains and losses and 
operating lease payments. 104  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
6 Operating profit (continued)
The following items have been charged to the consolidated income statement:
Note
2015
£m
Restated
2014
£m
Employee benefit expense (excluding discontinued operations) 9 442.3 406.6
Depreciation (excluding discontinued operations) 17 15.9 18.1
Amortisation 15 3.4 2.6
Operating lease payments including hire of plant and machinery 11.7 13.4
Foreign exchange (gains) (0.5) (1.6)
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 32a (0.4) 0.1
Auditors’ remuneration 10 1.3 1.5
7 Adjusted measures
The Group seeks to present a measure of underlying performance which is not impacted by exceptional or other items, both considered 
non-operational in nature. These measures are described as ‘adjusted’ and are used by management to measure and monitor performance. 
Other items and exceptional items have been excluded from the adjusted measures:
Note
2015
£m
Restated
2014
£m
Profit before tax 29.1 30.0
Other items 8a 3.4 11.7
Exceptional items 8b 9.2 0.9
Interest income on restricted funds 11 (0.3) (0.5)
Unwind of discount on provision for industrial disease claims 11 3.3 3.4
Adjusted profit before tax 44.7 45.5
Operating profit 39.9 39.7
Other items 8a 3.4 11.7
Exceptional items 8b 9.2 0.9
Adjusted operating profit 52.5 52.3
Adjusted operating profit margin 7.4% 7.6%
Adjusted operating profit 52.5 52.3
Depreciation – continuing operations 17 15.9 18.1
Adjusted EBITDA 68.4 70.4
Net debt 76.6 69.2
Unamortised borrowing arrangement costs 2.0 2.9
Restricted funds 23 32.3 29.9
Less: cash transferred to assets of disposal group held for sale 13 (1.0) (1.0)
Adjusted net debt 109.9 101.0
Finance costs (11.2) (11.0)
Unwind of discount on provision for industrial disease claims 3.3 3.4
Adjusted finance costs (7.9) (7.6)
Certain central operations and management are based in the Group’s International Headquarters (IHQ) in Singapore with responsibility for 
management and development of non-UK intellectual property. Franchise agreements facilitate the charging of franchise fees from IHQ to the 
Group’s non-UK trading businesses with such costs being reported through segment operating profit.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
105  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
7 Adjusted measures (continued)
The segmental adjusted operating profit before franchise fee charges is as follows:
2015
UK, Europe
& CIS
£m
MENA
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Revenue 395.8 174.6 141.0 – 711.4
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 31.7 25.4 6.9 (14.3) 49.7
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 2.8 – – – 2.8
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 34.5 25.4 6.9 (14.3) 52.5
2014 Restated
UK, Europe
& CIS
£m
MENA
£m
Asia Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Group
£m
Revenue 388.5 175.6 126.4 – 690.5
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 38.5 21.1 6.8 (14.1) 52.3
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures – – – – –
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 38.5 21.1 6.8 (14.1) 52.3
8 Other items and exceptional items
a) Other items
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
Continuing operations
In operating profit:
 Amortisation of intangibles arising on business acquisitions 15 3.4 2.6 
 Post-acquisition management compensation 0.2 0.7
 Actuarial (credit)/charge to provision for industrial disease claims (0.6) 8.2
 Other industrial disease claims expenses 0.4 0.2
Other items from continuing operations included within operating profit 3.4 11.7
b) Exceptional items
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
(i) Continuing operations
 Acquisition related costs 34 0.4 0.9
 Impairment of goodwill 8.8 –
Exceptional items from continuing operations included within operating profit 9.2 0.9
Note
2015
£m
2014
£m
(ii) Discontinued operations
In loss from discontinued operations:
 Impairment of goodwill 13 3.4 6.1
 Impairment of investment in joint venture 13 – 0.8
 Impairment of assets held for sale 13 1.8 2.8
 Other 13 0.4 –
 (Release)/charge of provision for exit costs 13 (0.7) 1.2
Exceptional items included within loss from discontinued operations 4.9 10.9 106  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
9 Employee benefit expense
Note
2015
£m
Restated
2014
£m
Wages and salaries 398.5 366.5
Social security costs 29.6 28.1
Share options granted and awarded to directors and employees 30 (0.4) 0.6
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 19 13.2 9.2
Pension costs – defined benefit plans 19 – (0.7)
Other employee benefit costs 19 1.4 2.9
Total (excluding discontinued operations) 442.3 406.6
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) in 2015 was 16,462 (2014: 16,995). The remuneration paid to 
directors of the Group is disclosed in note 37 ‘Related party transactions’ and the directors’ remuneration report on pages 65 to 67.
10 Auditor’s remuneration
2015
£m
2014
£m
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor and associates for:
The audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.5
The audit of the Company’s subsidiary company financial statements 0.7 0.8
Tax compliance and advisory services 0.2 0.2
Total 1.3 1.5
Included in the 2015 total balance is an amount of £0.1 million relating to negotiated over runs for the 2014 audit which has been allocated to 
the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements (2014: £0.3 million of over runs for the 2013 audit, of which 
£0.2 million was allocated to the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements and the remaining £0.1 million to the 
audit of the Company’s subsidiary company financial statements).
11 Finance income and costs
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Interest income: 
 Short-term bank deposits 0.1 0.1
 Interest on pension assets – 0.7
 Interest on restricted funds (included in other items) 0.3 0.5
Finance income 0.4 1.3
Interest expense:
 Bank borrowings (7.7) (7.4)
 Finance leases (0.2) (0.2)
 Unwind of discount on provision for industrial disease claims (included in other items) 28 (3.3) (3.4)
Finance costs (11.2) (11.0)
Net finance costs (10.8) (9.7)
12 Income tax
2015 
£m
Restated 
2014 
£m
Current tax:
UK 2.1 1.5
Overseas 6.8 6.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.1) (0.4)
Deferred tax:
UK 1.0 0.5
Overseas (0.2) (0.7)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.5) 0.3
Income tax expense 8.1 7.4
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
107  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
12 Income tax (continued)
The difference between the actual tax charge and the charge that would have arisen using Jersey’s standard corporate income tax rate of 0% 
(2014: 0%) is explained in the table below:
2015 
£m
Restated 
2014 
£m
Profit before tax 29.1 30.0
Tax calculated at the standard rate of corporate income tax in Jersey of 0% (2014: 0%) – –
Adjustments in respect of prior year (1.6) (0.1)
Share option charge – 0.1
Effect of different overseas tax rates 6.1 5.5
Goodwill write-off 1.8 –
Unrelieved overseas tax 2.2 0.2
Deferred tax asset not recognised in respect of losses (0.3) 0.3
Tax in respect of joint ventures (0.6) 0.1
Expenses non-deductible 1.1 2.2
Income not taxable (0.8) (0.8)
Change in tax rates 0.2 (0.1)
Tax charge 8.1 7.4
Included within the tax charge of £8.1 million (2014: £7.4 million) is a tax charge of £0.1 million (2014: credit of £1.8 million) relating to 
exceptional and other items. The local tax rate is applied to the underlying costs or income, however certain exceptional costs due to their 
very nature will not have an associated tax charge or credit. The overall effective rate applied to these costs will vary year upon year 
depending on the location and the nature of the cost.
Factors affecting current and future tax charges
As a Group involved in worldwide operations, Cape is subject to several factors that may affect future tax charges, principally the levels and 
mix of profitability in different jurisdictions, tax rates imposed and tax regime reforms. Legislation has been enacted in the UK to reduce the 
standard rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020. Any UK deferred tax balances have therefore been 
measured at an appropriate rate depending on when the deferred tax balance is expected to unwind.
13 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale
Analysis of the result of discontinued operations and the result recognised on the re-measurement of assets and liabilities of the disposal 
group is as follows:
2015 
£m
Restated 
2014 
£m
Revenue 5.3 10.3
Expenses (5.6) (11.9)
(Loss) before tax of discontinued operations (0.3) (1.6)
Deferred income tax (charge)/credit (0.2) 0.3
Exclude: share of loss attributable to non-controlling interest 0.2 –
(Loss) after tax of discontinued operations before exceptional items (0.3) (1.3)
Exceptional items:
Impairment of goodwill (3.4) (6.1)
Impairment of investment in joint venture – (0.8)
Impairment of assets held for sale (1.8) (2.8)
Other (0.4) –
Release/(charge) of provision for exit costs 0.7 (1.2)
(Loss) after tax of discontinued operations after exceptional items (5.2) (12.2)
Discontinued operations in 2015 and 2014 primarily relate to the planned termination of operations in Hong Kong and Kazakhstan 
respectively.  108  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
13 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale (continued)
The major classes of assets and liabilities directly associated with the disposal group classified as held for sale are split as follows:
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 17 – 1.8
Investment held in joint venture 18 – 0.8
Trade and other receivables 1.8 2.6
Cash 1.0 1.0
Goodwill 15 3.4 6.1
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale before impairment 6.2 12.3
Impairment of assets associated with disposal group held for sale (5.2) (9.7)
Assets directly associated with disposal group held for sale after impairment 1.0 2.6
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for sale
2015
£m
2014
£m
Trade and other payables (1.2) (1.1)
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for sale before impairment (1.2) (1.1)
Provision for exit costs (0.5) (1.2)
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group held for sale after impairment (1.7) (2.3)
Net (liabilities)/assets of disposal group held for sale (0.7) 0.3
The net liabilities (2014: net assets) of the disposal group classified as held for sale of £0.7 million (2014: £0.3 million asset) at 31 December 
2015 is stated after the Group recognised an impairment charge of £5.1 million (2014: £9.7 million) on those assets and the recognition of a 
provision for exit costs of £0.5 million (2014: £1.2 million).
14 Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per share (EPS) for the year equals the profit after tax attributable to the Company’s ordinary shareholders of £15.5 million 
(2014: profit of £10.4 million) divided by the weighted average number of issued ordinary shares of 121,072,777 (2014: 121,040,516).
When the Group makes a profit from continuing operations, diluted EPS equals the profit attributable to the Company’s ordinary shareholders 
divided by the diluted weighted average number of issued ordinary shares. When the Group makes a loss from continuing operations, diluted 
EPS equals the loss attributable to the Company’s ordinary shareholders divided by the basic (undiluted) weighted average number of issued 
ordinary shares. This ensures that EPS on losses is shown in full and not diluted by unexercised share options or awards.
Share options and awards are considered dilutive when the average share price during the year is higher than the average exercise price of 
the option or award and attainment of attaching performance criteria can be determined with appropriate certainty. Out of the 1,237,636 
options granted in the current period, 1,040,113 options are not considered dilutive.
2015 
Shares
2014 
Shares
Basic weighted average number of shares 121,072,777 121,040,516
Adjustments:
Weighted average number of outstanding share options 563,679 61,245
Diluted weighted average number of shares 121,636,456 121,101,761
The basic weighted average number of shares excludes shares that the Company holds in an employee benefit trust. The weighted average 
number of shares held in the trust during the year was 31,160 (2014: 63,421).
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
109  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
14 Earnings per ordinary share (continued)
2015 Restated 2014
Earnings
£m
EPS
pence
Earnings
£m
EPS
pence
Basic earnings/(loss) per share
Continuing operations 20.7 17.1 22.6 18.7
Discontinued operations (5.2) (4.3) (12.2) (10.1)
Basic earnings per share 15.5 12.8 10.4 8.6
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share
Continuing operations 20.7 17.0 22.6 18.7
Discontinued operations (5.2) (4.3) (12.2) (10.1)
Diluted earnings per share 15.5 12.7 10.4 8.6
Adjusted basic earnings per share – continuing operations
Earnings from continuing operations 20.7 17.1 22.6 18.7
Amortisation of intangibles 3.4 2.8 2.6 2.1
Post-acquisition management compensation 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.6
Exceptional items 9.2 7.5 0.9 0.8
Industrial disease related costs and interest income 2.8 2.3 11.3 9.3
Tax effect of adjusting items 0.1 0.1 (1.8) (1.5)
Adjusted basic earnings per share 36.4 30.0 36.3 30.0
Adjusted diluted earnings per share – continuing operations
Earnings from continuing operations 20.7 17.0 22.6 18.7
Amortisation of intangibles 3.4 2.8 2.6 2.1
Post-acquisition management compensation 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.6
Exceptional items 9.2 7.5 0.9 0.8
Industrial disease related costs and interest income 2.8 2.3 11.3 9.3
Tax effect of adjusting items 0.1 0.1 (1.8) (1.5)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 36.4 29.9 36.3  30.0
The adjusted earnings per share calculations have been calculated after excluding the impact of amortisation of intangibles, non-recurring 
costs, exceptional items, industrial disease claims related costs and interest income and the tax impact of these items.  110  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
15 Intangible assets
Note
Goodwill
£m
Trademarks
£m
Supply 
agreements
 £m
Other 
customer-
related 
intangibles
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 243.5 – – – 5.7 249.2
Acquired through business combination 20.1 6.8 2.6 13.8 – 43.3
Additions – – – – 0.1 0.1
Exchange adjustments (0.5) – – – – (0.5)
Transfer to assets held for sale 13 (6.1) – – – – (6.1)
At 31 December 2014 257.0 6.8 2.6 13.8 5.8 286.0
Acquired through business combination 34 2.3 – – 3.1 – 5.4
Disposals – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (7.1) –  – – – (7.1)
Transfer to assets held for sale 13 (3.4) – – – – (3.4)
At 31 December 2015 248.8 6.8 2.6 16.9 5.7 280.8
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 129.8 – – – 5.5 135.3
Amortisation charge – 0.3 0.7 1.5 0.1 2.6
At 31 December 2014 129.8 0.3 0.7 1.5 5.6 137.9
Amortisation charge – 0.3 0.9 2.1 0.1 3.4
Impairment 8.8 – – – – 8.8
Disposals – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (7.8) – – – – (7.8)
At 31 December 2015 130.8 0.6 1.6 3.6 5.6 142.2
Net book amount:
At 1 January 2014 113.7 – – – 0.2 113.9
At 31 December 2014 127.2 6.5 1.9 12.3  0.2 148.1
At 31 December 2015 118.0 6.2 1.0 13.3 0.1 138.6
Impairment tests for goodwill
As required by IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’, the Group tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. The recoverable amounts of each 
cash-generating unit (CGU) is based on a value in use calculation.
£8.8 million of goodwill was impaired in the year in relation to the Asia CGU, reflecting a downward revision in the shorter-term cash flow 
projections in light of current market conditions.
Each CGU’s value in use was calculated by taking the Group’s five-year cash flow forecasts and then applying a long-term growth rate to the 
periods beyond the fifth year, discounted back using a pre-tax discount rate. These present values were then compared to the combined 
carrying value of the CGUs’ assets (goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment). The key assumptions used in preparing 
the discounted cash flows were as follows:
EBITDA and cash flow projections
EBITDA and capital expenditure in the five-year forecast commenced with the most recently approved annual budget, years two to five were 
prepared on a country by country basis by considering past performance, long-term market share and estimates of market growth by sector. 
All cash flows associated with future capital expenditure that would enhance the performance of the CGUs were then removed from the 
discounted cash flows. Cash flow projections were calculated in real rather than nominal terms.
Discount rate
The discount rate reflects the estimated post-tax rate of return that would be expected from a rational investor over the period of the forecast, 
which is then adjusted to a pre-tax discount rate by reference to the Group’s five-year cash tax forecast. The post-tax discount rate was 
calculated using the Capital Asset Pricing Model approach, with the risk free rate based on UK Government gilts, the beta derived via weekly 
observations over a five-year period and the risk premium based on a consistent long-term average return on shares. Adjustments were then 
made to the discount rate of each CGU to reflect different risks associated with those CGUs (both specific risk premiums and in respect of 
local risk free rates). The pre-tax discount rates applied are set out in the table below.
Long-term growth rates
Long-term growth rates were also applied to each CGU separately. Considerations to derive the growth rates included long-term GDP growth 
and projected growth rates in the supply and demand for energy. The long-term growth rates applied are also set out below.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
111  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
15 Intangible assets (continued)
Given the current uncertainty surrounding market conditions, management have taken a prudent view on the real long-term growth rates 
applied to the cash flow projections for the purpose of impairment testing, as indicated below. Management are of the opinion that over the 
short to medium term, actual growth rates will be in excess of those used in the projections.
The assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations were as follows:
Goodwill
£m
Discount
rate
Long-term 
growth rate
Headroom
£m
UK 18.9 10.2% – 101.4
MENA 48.2 11.1% – 173.6
Australia 19.2 11.4% – 9.5
Asia 9.3 13.0% – –
Motherwell Bridge 20.1 9.7% – 77.1
Cape Engineering Services 2.3 10.0% – 13.0
118.0 374.6
Sensitivities
The table below discloses what changes in the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable 
amounts:
Discount rate  
to reach 
impairment
Long-term 
growth rate  
to reach 
impairment
UK 35.1% Note*
MENA 36.2% Note*
Australia 14.9% (6.3%)
Asia – –
Motherwell Bridge 25.9% (45.4%)
Cape Engineering Services 38.4% Note*
* Note: while the level of headroom is significant, it is not practicable to calculate.
Sensitivities were also applied to the five-year EBITDA compound annual growth rates, again there was sufficient headroom in each of the 
CGUs with flat or negative growth rates still providing headroom.
16 Investment property
The investment property is an area of freehold land with a carrying value of £2.0 million (2014: £2.0 million) being cost less provision for 
impairment and a fair value of £3.4 million (2014: £2.8 million). There are no accumulated impairment losses. No significant rent is received 
from the property.
The Group has determined that the highest and best use of the freehold land is its current use.
The fair value of the investment property is based upon a valuation as at 31 December 2015 performed by an accredited independent valuer, 
who is a specialist in valuing investment properties. A valuation model in accordance with the RICS Appraisal and Valuations Standards 
Manual has been applied. 112  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
17 Property, plant and equipment
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group acquired assets with a cost of £20.1 million (2014: £15.3 million) and received proceeds 
from asset sales of £2.9 million (2014: £1.3 million) as shown in the consolidated cash flow statement representing the actual cash outflow.
Note
Land and 
buildings
£m
Fixtures and
fittings
£m
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Assets under 
course of 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 19.8 9.4 167.4 – 196.6
Exchange adjustments 0.2 – 3.0 – 3.2
Additions – 0.9 14.1 0.3 15.3
Acquired through business combination 1.7 – 0.6 – 2.3
Disposals (0.8) (0.2) (18.4) – (19.4)
Transfer to assets held for sale 13 – – (5.9) – (5.9)
At 31 December 2014 20.9 10.1 160.8 0.3 192.1
Exchange adjustments – – 2.8 – 2.8
Additions 0.6 0.6 18.1 0.8 20.1
Reclassification (0.2) – – 0.2 –
Acquired through business combination 34 0.5 – 0.1 – 0.6
Disposals (0.7) (1.4) (9.7) – (11.8)
At 31 December 2015 21.1 9.3 172.1 1.3 203.8
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2014 4.4 8.1 102.8 – 115.3
Exchange adjustments 0.1 (0.1) 2.4 – 2.4
Charge for the year 0.9 0.8 16.6 – 18.3
Impairment loss – – 0.1 – 0.1
Disposals (0.2) (0.1) (16.9) – (17.2)
Transfer to assets held for sale 13 – – (4.1) – (4.1)
At 31 December 2014 5.2 8.7 100.9 – 114.8
Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.2 2.0 – 2.3
Charge for the year 1.1 0.8 14.0 – 15.9
Disposals (0.3) (1.3) (7.8) – (9.4)
At 31 December 2015 6.1 8.4 109.1 – 123.6
Net book amount
At 1 January 2014 15.4 1.3 64.6 – 81.3
At 31 December 2014 15.7 1.4 59.9 0.3 77.3
At 31 December 2015 15.0 0.9 63.0 1.3 80.2
Included within the depreciation charge for the year of £15.9 million (2014: £18.3 million) is an amount of £nil (2014: £0.2 million) relating to 
discontinued operations. The remaining £15.9 million (2014: £18.1 million) relating to continuing operations has been charged to cost of sales 
in the consolidated income statement.
Exchange adjustments relate to the translation of assets held by foreign operations into the presentation currency.
The Group leases property, plant and equipment under finance lease agreements. At 31 December 2015, the net carrying amount of 
property, plant and equipment includes the following amounts held under finance lease: plant and machinery £0.6 million (2014: £0.7 million) 
and land and buildings £1.8 million (2014: £1.5 million). Additions during the year include £nil of plant and machinery under finance leases.
18 Investment in joint ventures
The Group holds interests in several joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method. The Group’s principal joint ventures are set 
out below. All have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares which are indirectly held and their country of incorporation is also the 
principal place of operation. The joint ventures’ activities are to provide critical industrial services focussed on the energy and natural resource 
sectors, which are aligned to the Group’s strategy.
Country of 
incorporation
%
interest held
SOCAR Cape LLC Azerbaijan 49%
Ship Support Services Limited UK 50%
Olio Cape Sdn BHD Malaysia 49%
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
113  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
18 Investment in joint ventures (continued)
The aggregated impact of joint ventures on the consolidated financial statements is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Carrying amount at 1 January – 0.7
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 2.8 0.4
Disposal –  (0.3)
Transfer to assets held for sale (note 13) – (0.8)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2.8 –
During 2015, the Group disposed of its interest in the Resa-Cape Joint Venture. In 2014, the Group disposed of its interest in Cape Civmec 
Insulation Group and transferred its investment in Cape Caspian LLP to assets held for sale (note 13). Under the equity method of accounting 
the Group does not recognise its share of post-tax losses from a joint venture to the extent that these cumulative losses exceed the carrying 
amount of the investment in that joint venture. The share of post-tax results reported above excludes the net contribution from loss making 
joint ventures of £nil (2014: £nil). The cumulative value of such unrecognised losses at the statement of financial position date is £nil (2014: 
£2.0 million).
Summarised financial information for the joint ventures, as reconciled to the consolidated financial statements of the Group, is as follows:
Carrying amount of investment
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current assets 31.3 33.5
Non-current assets 11.6 4.7
Current liabilities  (37.4) (42.2)
Non-current liabilities –
Equity 5.5 (4.0)
Proportion attributable to Group 2.8 (2.0)
Less cumulative losses unrecognised – 2.0
Carrying amount of the investment 2.8 –
Share of post-tax result
2015
£m
2014
£m
Post-tax result of joint ventures 9.6 0.8
Proportion attributable to Group 4.8 0.4
Less: losses previously unrecognised (2.0) –
Share of post-tax result before transfer to discontinued operations 2.8 0.4
Less: profits transferred to discontinued operations – (0.4)
Share of post-tax result for continuing operations 2.8 –
The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2015 (2014: none) whilst they had capital commitments of £nil at 31 December 
2015 (2014: £8.3 million).
19 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a final salary defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme for employees within the UK and provides 
pensions for employees of overseas companies in accordance with local requirements and practices. The assets of both the defined benefit 
and defined contribution schemes are held in trustee administered funds. The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the 
plan assets and for the definition of the investment strategy. The latest full valuation of the defined benefit scheme was assessed by 
independent qualified actuaries as at 6 April 2013 using the projected unit method. The valuation showed that the assets of the main defined 
benefit scheme had a market value of £173.2 million and was 98% funded. Included within the assets balance is an amount of £117.8 million 
in respect of insurance policies covering pensioner liabilities. The next full valuation is due to be prepared as at 6 April 2016.
Some of the Group’s overseas subsidiary undertakings operate leaving indemnity schemes as required by local laws and regulations. These 
schemes are unfunded. The provision for leaving indemnities is based on the number of years’ service and the current salary of the employee.
The pension expense in the year for the defined contribution pension scheme is £3.1 million (2014: £2.7 million). The expense equalled the 
Group contributions to the scheme. 114  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
19 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
The Group incurred an expense in the year for non-Group operated defined contribution schemes of £10.1 million (2014: £6.5 million).
The defined benefit scheme disclosures of the Group in this note also include figures relating to a small scheme held by a subsidiary 
undertaking.
2015
£m
2014
£m
Consolidated statement of financial position:
Pension benefit assets 0.5 –
Pension benefit liabilities (0.3) (0.3)
 0.2 (0.3)
Leaving indemnities (13.5) (12.1)
(13.3) (12.4)
Consolidated income statement charge for:
Leaving indemnities charged through cost of sales 1.4 2.9
 1.4 2.9
2015
£m
2014
£m
Re-measurement of net defined benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of
comprehensive income in the year (before tax) (0.8) (4.9)
Cumulative re-measurement gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive
income (before tax) (55.8) (55.0)
Pension benefits
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are determined as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Present value of funded obligations (133.6) (136.9)
Fair value of plan assets 144.9 148.7
11.3 11.8
Restriction of surplus (11.2) (12.1)
Net asset/(liability) in the consolidated statement of financial position 0.1 (0.3)
In accordance with IFRIC 14, the Group must consider the minimum funding requirements of the pension scheme. This has resulted in the 
recognised surplus on the main scheme being reduced to £nil at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil). This has also resulted in the interest income 
being restricted to £nil in 2015.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement are as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Interest expense 5.3 5.3
Interest income on plan assets (4.9) (6.0)
Restriction of interest income in accordance with IFRIC 14 (0.4) –
Total – (0.7)
The actual return on plan assets was £1.7 million (2014: £14.1 million). 
The movement in the fair value of plan assets over the year is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Beginning of year 148.7 139.6
Interest income on plan assets 5.3 6.0
Re-measurement of plan assets (3.6) 8.1
Employer contributions 0.1 0.2
Benefits paid (5.6) (5.2)
End of year 144.9 148.7
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
115  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
19 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Beginning of year 136.9 123.8
Interest expense 4.9 5.3
Actuarial gain – experience adjustments – (0.3)
Actuarial losses – changes in financial assumptions (1.2) 13.9
Actuarial gain – changes in demographic assumptions (1.6) (0.6)
Past service costs 0.2 –
Benefits paid (5.6) (5.2)
End of year 133.6 136.9
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
2015 2014
Discount rate 3.80% 3.58%
Future salary increases 4.40% 4.35%
Future pension increases 2.95% 2.95%
CPI Inflation rate 2.40% 2.15%
RPI Inflation rate 3.25% 3.23%
Post retirement mortality rate 1.00% 1.00%
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for these significant assumptions as at 31 December 2015 is as shown below:
Assumption Discount rate Future salary increases Future pension increases Inflation rate
Sensitivity level
1% increase 
£m
1% decrease 
£m
1% increase 
£m
1% decrease 
£m
1% increase 
£m
1% decrease 
£m
1% increase 
£m
1% decrease 
£m
Impact on defined benefit obligation 23.8 (29.0) (1.0) 0.9 (16.7) 14.8 (6.2) 5.6
Impact on plan assets (11.3) 12.9 – – 11.0 (9.7) (2.0) 1.8
Impact on net pension asset 12.5 (16.1) (1.0) 0.9 (5.7) 5.1 (8.2) 7.4
The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation and the 
plan assets as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The sensitivities of changes in 
any of the principal actuarial assumptions are calculated in isolation holding all other assumptions constant. Limitations of the methods and 
assumptions used include using a roll forward approach, by using the results of the last full triennial valuation prepared to 6 April 2013, rather 
than a full valuation of all assets and liabilities at the end of the current financial period.
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for these significant assumptions as at 31 December 2014 is as shown below:    
Assumption Discount rate Future salary increases Future pension increases Inflation rate
Sensitivity level
1% increase
£m
1% decrease 
£m
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
Impact on defined benefit obligation 20.0 (25.9) (1.0) 0.9 (16.7) 14.1 (4.4) 3.9
Impact on plan assets (11.8) 14.4 – – 9.8 (8.5) (2.2) 1.9
Impact on net pension asset 8.2 (11.5) (1.0) 0.9 (6.9) 5.6 (6.6) 5.8
Mortality rate
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice in accordance with published statistics and scheme experience. 
The average remaining life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date is as follows:
2015 2014
Male 23.5 22.9
Female 25.6 25.1
The average remaining life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date for the main scheme is 
as follows:
2015 2014
Male 25.2 24.6
Female 27.3 26.8 116  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
19 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
Pension benefits
Plan assets are comprised as follows:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Quoted
Diversified growth funds 26.1 26.1
Index-linked gilts 6.4 6.6
Fixed interest gilts 1.3 1.4
Bonds 5.3 6.0
Equities 13.6 14.5
52.7 54.6
Unquoted
Insurance annuities 87.8 90.1
Property 4.0 3.9
Cash 0.4 0.1
92.2 94.1
Total 144.9 148.7
Risk exposure to the Group
Since the pension liability is adjusted to inflation rate, the pension plan is exposed to UK inflation, interest rate risks and changes in the life 
expectancy for pensioners. As the plan assets relating to the main scheme include investments in quoted equity shares of entities in the 
manufacturing and consumer products sector, the Group is also exposed to equity market risk. More than 60% of the plans assets are 
invested in insurance annuities. Insurance annuities effectively mitigate the risk from changing inflation rates. Any asset investment carries a 
counter party risk.
20 Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The net movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
Note
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January 16.8 19.5
Exchange adjustments (0.8) (0.3)
Consolidated income statement charge:
– Continuing operations (0.4) –
– Discontinued operations (0.1) 0.2
– Acquisition of subsidiary 34 (0.2) (3.8)
Tax credited/(charged) directly to the consolidated statement of changes in equity 0.1 0.2
Tax credited/(charged) directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (0.1) 1.0
At 31 December 15.3 16.8
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
117  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
20 Deferred income tax (continued)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets Liabilities Net
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Property, plant and equipment 5.2 5.4 (1.1) (3.3) 4.1 2.1
Other 0.3 0.5 (4.1) (4.2) (3.8) (3.7)
Retirement benefits – – (0.1) – (0.1) –
Derivative financial instruments – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Provisions 4.7 6.8 – – 4.7 6.8
Employee share options 0.5 0.4 (0.1) – 0.4 0.4
Tax losses carried forward 10.0 11.1 – – 10.0 11.1
20.7 24.3 (5.4) (7.5) 15.3 16.8
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the 
same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Accelerated
capital 
allowances
£m
Provisions
£m
Tax losses
£m
Pension
£m
Hedging
£m
Share 
options
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2015 2.1 6.8 11.1 – 0.1 0.4 (3.7) 16.8
(Charged)/credited to the
consolidated income statement 1.8 (1.9) (0.7) – (0.1) (0.1) 0.5 (0.5)
Credited directly to
consolidated statement of
changes in equity – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1
(Charged) directly to 
consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income – – – (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.2) (0.7) – – – – (0.8)
Acquisition of subsidiary 0.1 – 0.3 – – – (0.6) (0.2)
At 31 December 2015 4.1 4.7 10.0 (0.1) – 0.4 (3.8) 15.3
Deferred tax assets 5.2 4.7 10.0 – – 0.5 0.3 20.7
Deferred tax liabilities (1.1) – – (0.1) – (0.1) (4.1) (5.4)
At 31 December 2015 4.1 4.7 10.0 (0.1) – 0.4 (3.8) 15.3
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m
Provisions
£m
Tax
losses
£m
Pension
£m
Hedging
£m
Share
options
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2014 2.9 4.9 11.7 (0.9) 0.1 0.2 0.6 19.5
(Charged)/credited to the 
consolidated income statement (0.9) 1.1 (0.3) (0.1) – – 0.3 0.1
Credited directly to the 
consolidated statement of 
changes in equity – – – 1.0 –  0.2 – 1.2
Exchange differences  0.1 – (0.3)  –  – – – (0.2)
Acquisition of subsidiary – 0.8 – – – – (4.6) (3.8)
At 31 December 2014 2.1 6.8 11.1 – 0.1 0.4 (3.7) 16.8
Deferred tax assets 5.4 6.8 11.1 – 0.1 0.4 0.5 24.3
Deferred tax liabilities (3.3) – – – – – (4.2) (7.5)
At 31 December 2014 2.1 6.8 11.1 – 0.1 0.4 (3.7) 16.8
The Group has a deferred tax asset of £9.0 million (2014: £10.7 million) relating to Australian tax losses. The Group fully expects to offset 
these losses against future profits following successful contract wins in Australia and therefore no de-recognition is deemed necessary.
Deferred taxation has not been provided in the event of the distribution of the un-appropriated profits or reserves of certain overseas 
subsidiary undertakings as the Group does not currently intend to make such distributions. 118  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
20 Deferred income tax (continued)
At the date of the statement of financial position, the Group has unrecognised tax losses of £27.1 million (2014: £27.6 million) available for 
offset against future profits, subject to agreement with the tax authorities. The losses carried forward in certain entities can only be utilised 
against future profits of those entities. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as there is uncertainty in respect 
of their future recoverability.
There are no income tax consequences attached to the payment of dividends in either 2015 or 2014 by the Group to its shareholders. 
There is no expiry date on tax losses recognised.
Legislation has been enacted in the UK to reduce the corporation tax rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020. Any UK deferred 
tax balances have therefore been measured at an appropriate rate depending on when the deferred tax balance is expected to unwind. 
21 Inventories
2015
£m
2014
£m
Materials 5.4 5.2
Work in progress 7.0 9.5
Finished goods 0.3 0.3
12.7 15.0
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense has been charged to cost of sales in the consolidated income statement and amounted to
£117.4 million (2014: £112.3 million).
2015
£m
2014
£m
Contract revenue recognised as revenue in the period 109.0 130.1
2015
£m
2014
£m
Gross amounts due from customers for contract work (presented as an asset within amounts receivable 
on contracts and work in progress) 14.6 16.8
Gross amounts due to customers for contract work (presented as a liability within payments received on account) (7.3) (6.4)
 7.3 10.4
 
2015
£m
2014
£m
Contract costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses to date) 234.3 295.2
Less progress billings (227.0) (284.8)
7.3 10.4
Advances received as at 31 December 2015 amounted to £7.3 million (2014: £6.4 million). Customer retentions as at 31 December 2015 
amounted to £11.0 million (2014: £11.1 million). Trade receivables arising from construction contracts are all due for settlement within one year.
22 Trade and other receivables
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Trade receivables 123.0 131.7
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (8.0) (9.8)
Trade receivables – net 115.0 121.9
Amounts recoverable on contracts 59.4 56.9
Receivables from joint ventures 7.4 6.4
Other receivables  10.2 11.0
Prepayments  6.8 4.1
198.8 200.3
The fair values of trade and other receivables equal the carrying amounts, as the impact of discounting is not material. 
Receivables from joint ventures are repayable on demand and bear no interest.
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £8.0 million (2014: £9.8 million) were individually impaired and fully provided for. The individually 
impaired receivables mainly relate to contracts within the MENA region. The calculation of impairment was based on the Group’s accounting 
policy in respect of trade receivable balances together with any specific circumstances relating to the balance. See below for the movements 
in the provision for impairment of receivables.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
119  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
22 Trade and other receivables (continued)
Provision for impairment of trade receivables:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January 9.8 11.0
Provisions charged 4.3 3.8
Provisions utilised (1.8) (2.2)
Provisions released (4.6) (3.1)
Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 8.0 9.8
Provisions for impaired receivables are included in cost of sales in the consolidated income statement. Amounts charged to the provision of 
impairment of trade receivables are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovery.
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £82.5 million (2014: £87.8 million) were neither past due nor impaired.
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £32.4 million (2014: £31.6 million) were past due but not impaired. The ageing analysis of these 
receivables is as follows:
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Less than 3 months 25.0 20.8
3 to 6 months 4.2 5.8
7 to 12 months 1.7 2.6
Over 12 months 1.5 2.4
32.4 31.6
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £3.1 million (2014: £5.3 million) were past due and partially impaired. The ageing analysis of 
these receivables is as follows:
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Less than 3 months – 2.1
3 to 6 months 1.9 0.8
7 to 12 months 0.9 1.5
Over 12 months 0.3 0.9
3.1 5.3
As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of £5.0 million (2014: £7.0 million) were past due and fully impaired. The ageing analysis of these 
receivables is as follows:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Less than 3 months – 0.1
3 to 6 months – –
7 to 12 months 1.7 1.0
Over 12 months 3.3 5.9
5.0 7.0
The impaired receivables mainly relate to contracts within the MENA region. The other classes within trade and other receivables do not 
contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does 
not hold any collateral as security.
23 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted deposits
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 81.4 78.0
Restricted deposits: non-current 9.0 9.0
Restricted deposits: current 23.3 20.9
Total restricted deposits 32.3 29.9
Restricted current deposits include £0.2 million (2014: £0.6 million) held for the settlement of a tax liability. The balance of the restricted deposits relate to 
funds that are restricted for use in settling industrial disease claims under the Scheme of Arrangement that was put in place in 2006 to provide for the 
long-term financing of asbestos-related industrial disease claims. The key features of the Scheme of Arrangement are set out in note 36.  120  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
24 Borrowings
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Non-current:
Finance leases 2.9 2.2
Bank loans 187.3 174.9
Total non-current borrowings 190.2 177.1
Current:
Finance leases 0.1 –
Bank loans – –
Total current borrowings 0.1 –
Total borrowings 190.3 177.1
Bank borrowings
The Group’s bank loans of £187.3 million (2014: £174.9 million) are stated net of unamortised issue costs of £2.0 million (2014: £2.9 million).
 
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
Carrying amount Fair value
2015
£m
2014
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
Finance leases 2.9 2.2 2.9 2.2
Bank loans 187.3 174.9 184.2 170.4
190.2 177.1 187.1 172.6
The fair value of non-current borrowings includes unamortised borrowing arrangement costs.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Australian dollar 20.8 20.2
Sterling 169.5 156.9
 190.3 177.1
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2015
£m
2014
£m
Floating rate:
– Expiring beyond 1 year 105.8 111.5
The Group has two finance leases in place (2014: one). One expires in 2032 with an effective interest rate of 7.2% whereas the other lease 
expires in 2098 with an effective interest rate of 3.2%. 
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Restated Restated
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments
2015
£m
Present 
value of 
minimum
lease 
payments
2015
£m
Future 
minimum
lease 
payments
2014
£m
Present 
value of 
minimum
lease 
payments
2014
£m
In 1 year or less 0.2 0.1 0.2 –
Between 1 and 5 years 1.0 0.3 0.9 0.1
Over 5 years 6.2 2.6 3.5 2.1
7.4 3.0 4.6 2.2
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
121  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
24 Borrowings (continued)
Financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Effective 
interest rate % Maturity
2015
£m
2014
£m
Current:
Obligations under finance leases 0.1 –
T otal current interest- bearing loans and borrowings 0.1 –
Non-current:
Obligations under finance leases 2.9 2.2
Loans:
£168,515,000 GBP LIBOR + 2.35 Apr-18 168.5 –
AUD42,100,000 AUD LIBOR + 2.35 Apr-18 20.7 –
£157,515,000 GBP LIBOR + 2.6 Apr-18 – 157.5
AUD38,100,000 AUD LIBOR + 2.6 Apr-18 – 20.0
Other third- party loan 5.29 May-17 0.1 0.3
Unamortised borrowing costs – – (2.0) (2.9)
Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 190.2 177.1
T otal interest- bearing loans and borrowings 190.3 177.1
25 Financial instruments
Details of financial instruments are set out below.
2015
Loans and
receivables
£m
Fair value
through 
income
statement
£m
Other 
financial
liabilities at 
amortised
cost
£m
Total
£m
Assets per the consolidated statement of financial position
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 192.0 – – 192.0
Derivative financial instruments – – – –
192.0 – – 192.0
Liabilities per the consolidated statement of financial position
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) – – (187.3) (187.3)
Finance lease liabilities – – (3.0) (3.0)
Derivative financial instruments – – – –
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) – – (100.4) (100.4)
– – (290.7) (290.7)
2014
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Fair value  
through 
income
statement
£m
Other
financial 
liabilities at 
amortised
cost
£m
Total
£m
Assets per the consolidated statement of financial position
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 196.2 – – 196.2
Derivative financial instruments  – 0.2 – 0.2
196.2 0.2 – 196.4
Liabilities per the consolidated statement of financial position
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) – – (174.9) (174.9)
Finance lease liabilities – – (2.2) (2.2)
Derivative financial instruments – (0.2) – (0.2)
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) – – (106.0) (106.0)
– (0.2) (283.1) (283.3) 122  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
25 Financial instruments (continued)
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange, cash flow interest rate and fair value 
interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focusses on the unpredictability of financial 
markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments to offset certain risk exposures.
Financial risk management is carried out by the Group treasury function under policies approved by the Board. Group treasury identifies, 
evaluates and where appropriate uses derivative financial instruments to offset financial risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating 
units. The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas such as foreign 
exchange, interest rate and credit risks, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of 
excess liquidity. Disclosures in respect of the Group’s financial risks are set out below.
a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than 
the functional currency of its operating units. The Group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to Sterling 
which is the reporting currency of the Group. The Group has no financial instruments to hedge foreign exchange risk.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
 2015 2014
£m % of total £m % of total
Australian dollar 21.3 10.7 25.7 12.8
Euro 0.2 0.1 2.2 1.1
Sterling 96.1 48.3 82.9 41.4
Qatari riyal 21.2 10.7 22.8 11.4
Saudi Arabian riyal 29.9 15.0 25.3 12.6
Singapore dollar 1.4 0.7 1.2 0.6
UAE dirham 8.9 4.5 12.6 6.3
US dollar  4.9 2.5 12.8 6.4
Other currencies 14.9 7.5 14.8 7.4
 198.8 100.0 200.3 100.0
The key foreign currencies from which revenues are derived are the Australian dollar and the US dollar. Movements in the Qatari riyal, the 
Saudi Arabian riyal and the UAE dirham correlate with movements in the US dollar, therefore these have been included within the US dollar 
sensitivity analysis below. The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Sterling against these five 
currencies. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not deemed material.
2015
Change  
in rate
2015 Effect  
on profit 
before tax  
£m
2015 Effect  
on equity  
£m
Australian dollar +5% – 1.8
Australian dollar -5% – (1.6)
US dollar +5% 1.2 7.2
US dollar -5% (1.1) (6.5)
2014
Change  
in rate 
2014 Effect  
on profit  
before tax  
£m
2014 Effect  
on equity  
£m
Australian dollar +5% – 1.6
Australian dollar -5% – (1.8)
US dollar +5% (1.1) 3.0
US dollar -5% 1.2 (3.3)
(ii) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from the possible changes in interest rates on borrowings drawn under the Group’s syndicated debt 
facility. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group reviews its interest rate exposure, taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions and alternative financing. 
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The Group’s cash and bank borrowings are at 
floating rates of interest.
The Group has entered into transactions to exchange, at specified intervals (primarily quarterly), the difference between fixed contract rates 
and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
Management perform a sensitivity analysis on the impact of reasonable movements in interest rates on Group profit and equity. The impact of 
a 1% increase in interest rates was determined as an additional charge to profit and reduction in equity of £1.3 million (2014: £1.2 million).
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
123  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
25 Financial instruments (continued)
b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and deposits with financial institutions.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk (see note 22 ‘Trade and other receivables’ for additional information) is influenced mainly by the individual 
characteristics of each customer. The Group has an established credit policy under which each new customer is analysed for 
creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes external 
ratings, and in some cases bank references. 
The Group’s largest customer accounted for 12% of revenue in 2015 (2014: 15%).
c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due (see note 24 ‘Borrowings’ and note 26 
‘Trade and other payables’ for additional information). The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have 
sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or 
damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group has estimated its anticipated contractual cash outflows including interest payable in respect of 
its bank borrowings and finance leases. The principal assumptions are based on conditions prevailing at the date of the statement of financial 
position but assume a rise in interest rate of 0.5%. These cash outflows can be analysed by maturity as follows:
2015
Within
1 year
£m
Between
1 and
2 years
£m
Between
2 and
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Estimated future cash outflows
Borrowings (excluding finance leases liabilities) 7.9 8.1 215.5 231.5
Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1 2.8 3.0
Derivative financial instruments – – – –
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) 100.4 – – 100.4
108.4 8.2 218.3 334.9
2014 Restated
Within
1 year
£m
Between 
1 and
2 years
£m
Between 
2 and
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Estimated future cash outflows
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) 8.2 8.2 203.9 220.3
Finance lease liabilities – – 2.2 2.2
Derivative financial instruments 0.2 – – 0.2
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) 106.0 – – 106.0
 114.4 8.2 206.1 328.7
d) Capital management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value. In order to maintain or 
adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends payable to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new 
shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group defines capital as the equity attributable to shareholders of the parent of £126.4 million 
(2014: £124.7 million) and adjusted net debt (this adjusted measure is defined in note 7 ‘Adjusted measures’). During the year, the Group 
complied with covenants in place under the unsecured £295 million syndicated revolving credit facility entered into on 11 February 2014. 
There was no breach of borrowing covenants after the year end up to the date of signing of this report.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio.
2015 
Ratio
2014 
Ratio
Ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA 1:1.6 1:1.4
e) Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
On inception derivatives are accounted and measured at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value. The gain or loss on re-
measurement is taken to the consolidated income statement.
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and other borrowings with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their 
book values. In the case of the bank loans and other borrowings due in more than one year, the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure 
purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar 
financial instruments. The fair value of the interest rate swaps (cash flow hedges) are calculated using quoted prices in active markets for 
identical assets and liabilities.
At 31 December 2015 the main floating rates were GBP LIBOR and AUD LIBOR. 
In 2014, the Group entered into an interest rate cap for a period of three years, terminating in February 2018. The derivative is for £70 million 
and gives protection to the Group against its GBP borrowings when LIBOR exceeds the strike price of 2.5%. 
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s assets and liabilities. 124  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
25 Financial instruments (continued)
Recurring fair value measurements:
At 31 December 2015
Quoted prices 
in active 
markets  
(Level 1) 
£m
Significant 
other 
observable 
inputs 
(Level 2) 
£m
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs 
(Level 3) 
£m
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value:
Net liabilities held for sale (note 13) – – (0.7)
Derivative financial liabilities – – –
Derivative financial assets – – –
– – (0.7)
Assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed:
Investment property (note 16) – – 3.4
Bank loans (note 24) – (184.2) –
– (184.2) 3.4
At 31 December 2014
Quoted prices  
in active  
markets  
(Level 1) 
£m
Significant 
other 
observable 
inputs 
(Level 2) 
£m
Significant 
unobservable  
inputs 
(Level 3) 
£m
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value:
Net assets held for sale (note 13) – – 0.3
Derivative financial liabilities – (0.2) –
Derivative financial assets – 0.2 –
– – 0.3
Assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed:
Investment property (note 16) – – 2.8
Bank loans (note 24) – (170.4) –
– (170.4) 2.8
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the period.
The fair value of the assets held for sale have been calculated based on the estimated realisable value on the open market, less costs to sell. 
This is in accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’.
The fair value of the investment property is based upon a valuation as at 31 December 2015 performed by an accredited independent valuer, 
who is a specialist in valuing investment properties.
Fair values of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings and loans are determined by using a discounted cash flow method with a discount rate 
that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period.
26 Trade and other payables
2015
£m
2014
£m
Payments received on account 14.8 12.1
Trade payables 42.8 36.5
Social security and other taxes 20.4 18.3
Other payables 9.0 12.1
Accrued expenses 33.8 45.3
120.8 124.3
27 Current income tax liabilities
2015
£m
2014
£m
Overseas taxation 7.9 8.0
UK taxation (1.9) (0.4)
6.0 7.6
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
125  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
28 Provisions
Onerous
contracts
£m
Legal
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Industrial 
disease
claims
£m
Total
Group
£m
At 1 January 2015 9.7 6.6 4.3 20.6 98.2 118.8
Acquired through business combinations (note 34) – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Utilised (5.9) (2.9) (1.5) (10.3) (5.4) (15.7)
Charged to the income statement 1.4 – 0.7 2.1 – 2.1
Released to the income statement (2.3) (2.3) (0.3) (4.9) (0.6) (5.5)
Discount unwind – – – – 3.3 3.3
Foreign exchange 0.2 – (0.1) 0.1 – 0.1
At 31 December 2015 3.1 1.4 3.7 8.2 95.5 103.7
2015
Current provisions 2.3 1.4 1.8 5.5 5.3 10.8
Non-current provisions 0.8 – 1.9 2.7 90.2 92.9
3.1 1.4 3.7 8.2 95.5 103.7
2014
Current provisions 8.8 6.6 2.3 17.7 4.7 22.4
Non-current provisions 0.9 – 2.0 2.9 93.5 96.4
9.7 6.6 4.3 20.6 98.2 118.8
Onerous contracts
A provision is made for onerous contracts where it is considered that the contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years. 
Inherent uncertainties in measuring the provision relate to estimates of the future costs expected to be incurred and of revenues expected 
to be received. The majority of this is expected to be settled in 2016, with the remaining balance expected to be settled in 2017.
Legal
The Group is involved in a number of legal and other disputes, including notification of possible claims. The directors, having considered the 
facts and circumstances of each item, including legal advice where appropriate, have established provisions to cover the costs of future 
settlements. Uncertainties relate to whether the Group is successful in defending any action. These are expected to be settled in 2016.
Other
Other provisions comprise of various provisions including disposal costs on businesses being divested, restructuring provisions, property 
related provisions and contingent consideration on acquisitions. Inherent uncertainties in measuring the provision relate to estimates of 
disposal costs associated with any businesses being divested, estimates of expected restructuring costs and expected property costs and 
estimates of contingent consideration on acquisitions. The costs are expected to be settled in 2016 and 2017.
Industrial disease claims
To the extent that such costs can be reliably estimated as at 31 December 2015, a provision has been made for the costs, which the Group is 
expected to incur in respect of lodged and future industrial disease claims for which the Board believes the Group to be liable, arising on 
alleged exposure to previously manufactured asbestos products, notwithstanding the matters disclosed under note 35 ‘Industrial disease 
claim provision and contingent liabilities’. The most recent full actuarial valuation was performed in 2013 and the next full valuation is 
scheduled to be completed in early 2017 in respect of the period up to 31 December 2016. The amount of the provision is based on historic 
patterns of claim numbers and monetary settlements as well as published tables of projected disease incidence. Key assumptions made in 
assessing the appropriate level of provision include the period over which future claims can be expected, the nature of claims received, the 
rate at which claims will be filed, the rate of successful resolution as well as future trends in both compensation payments and legal costs. 
Management monitors claims received on an ongoing basis as well as any other factors which would require a change to the assumptions or 
trigger a full actuarial review in the current year. When determining the appropriate level of provision, the Board has considered various 
potential, threatened and actual claim types which, relying on appropriate legal advice, it does not believe to have legal merit and which are, 
accordingly, not provided for.
The provision for industrial disease claims is discounted at 2.67% (2014: 2.5%) being the appropriate risk free rate as at the balance sheet 
date, over the term of the liabilities, being approximately 40 years.
The directors anticipate that, assuming no material deterioration in trading performance, the Group will be able to sufficiently fund its 
subsidiary Cape Claims Services Limited to satisfy all claims that will be settled under the Scheme of Arrangement and will be sufficiently 
funded to satisfy all other UK claims settled outside of the Scheme of Arrangement. 126  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
29 Commitments
a) Capital commitments
The Group (excluding joint ventures) had the following capital expenditure contracted for at the date of the statement of financial position but 
not yet incurred:
2015 
£m
2014
£m
Property, plant and equipment 2.2 2.9
b) Operating lease commitments
The Group enters into leases of varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights in respect of property and items of plant and machinery. 
Total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are due:
2015
£m
2014
£m
In one year or less 3.7 5.1
Between one and five years 4.1 5.8
Over five years 0.9 1.1
 8.7 12.0
30 Share capital and reserves
Ordinary shares of 25p each
2015
Number
of shares
2015
£m
2014
Number of
shares
2014
£m
Authorised 200,000,000 50.0 200,000,000 50.0
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 121,103,937 30.3 121,103,937 30.3
Issue of shares – – – –
Exercise of share options – – – –
At 31 December 121,103,937 30.3 121,103,937 30.3
plc Scheme share
Authorised, issued and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December 1 – 1 –
As at 31 December 2015, 31,160 (2014: 31,160) shares were held in an employee benefit trust.
Special reserve
The special reserve was created in 2008 by court order upon cancellation of the share premium and retained earnings. The special reserve is 
not distributable and restrictions exist over its use.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of financial statements of foreign operations.
Other reserves
Other reserves relates to hedging reserves held in respect of net investment hedges.
plc Scheme Share
The plc Scheme Share is held by the Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc on behalf of the Scheme creditors.
The rights attaching to the share are designed to ensure that Scheme assets are only used to settle Scheme claims and ancillary costs and 
do not confer any right to receive a distribution or return of surplus capital save that the holder will have the right to require the Company to 
redeem the share at par value on or at any time after the termination of the Scheme.
The share carries two votes for every vote which the holders of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise on any resolution 
proposed during the life of the Scheme to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association.
The Company will not be permitted to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association without the prior consent 
of the holder of the share.
Share based payments
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) is the conditional award of ordinary shares granted at no cost to the participant employees or executive 
directors of the Group. Awards are made upon the terms set out in the plan and such other additional terms as the Board shall determine. 
Depending on the scheme, vesting of these awards is subject to Cape plc’s Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (DEPS) meeting the 
specified performance criteria over a three-year vesting period.
The final year performance criteria for the 2012 awards were: adjusted diluted EPS growth of RPI plus 3% for employees and RPI plus 5% for 
executive directors for the minimum of 30% of the shares awarded to vest, and EPS growth of RPI plus 10% for employees and RPI plus 12% 
for executive directors for all of the shares awarded to vest, calculated on an annually compounded basis. The contractual life of the award is 
three-years and is subject to continued employment.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
127  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
30 Share capital and reserves (continued)
For the 2013 award specific EPS targets for the final year of the vesting period were set to 29 pence for the minimum of 30% of the shares awarded 
to vest and 36 pence for all of the shares awarded to vest. The contractual life of the award is three years and is subject to continued employment.
The final year performance criteria for the 2014 awards are based on the 2013 adjusted diluted EPS growth of the Retail Price Index (RPI) 
plus 3% for the minimum of 30% of the shares awarded to vest, and EPS growth of RPI plus 10% for all the shares awarded to vest, 
calculated on an annual compounded basis. The contractual life of the award is three years and is subject to continued employment.
The final year performance criteria for the 2015 awards are based on the 2014 adjusted diluted EPS growth of the Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 
3% for the minimum of 30% of the shares awarded to vest, and EPS growth of RPI plus 10% for all the shares awarded to vest, calculated on 
an annual compounded basis. The contractual life of the award is three years and is subject to continued employment.
The shares issued under the PSP have an exercise price of £nil and under the fair value model used by the Company are deemed to have a 
fair value equivalent to the share price on the day of grant less the fair value of the dividends forgone during the vesting period. Therefore, the 
shares granted at 19 March 2015 have a fair value of 201.5 pence (2014 restated: 273.2 pence).
The Employee Incentive Plan (EIP) allows the Group to grant options to directors and senior employees. The last tranche of this scheme was 
awarded in 2008. The EIP carries a non-market based performance criteria. The contractual life of the options is ten years. The options 
become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to a growth in earnings per share over that period exceeding an 
average 3% compounded annually above the growth in the consumer price index over the same period. Exercise of an option is subject to 
continued employment.
Options are valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the 
calculation for the current year are as follows:
Employee 
Incentive Plan
Weighted average fair value at measurement date 80.9p
Share price at grant date 269.0p
Exercise price 269.0p
Vesting period 3 years
Expected option life 3.95 years
Risk free interest rate 2.18%
Expected share price volatility 28%
The expected share price volatility is based on historic volatility. The expected option life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk 
free rate of return is the yield on a five-year zero coupon UK Government bond. The assumed dividend yield is zero.
The number and weighted average exercise price of the share options under the PSP and the share awards under the EIP are as follows:
Performance Share Plan
Number of  
share options 
2015
Number of  
share options 
2014
Outstanding at 1 January 2,352,771 1,823,127
Exercised – (194,470)
Granted 1,237,636 1,091,088
Forfeited (246,279) (117,735)
Lapsed (286,498) (249,239)
Outstanding at 31 December 3,057,630 2,352,771
Out of the 3,057,630 outstanding PSP awards (2014: 2,352,771), nil shares were exercisable (2014: nil). Nil awards vested in 2015 (2014: nil). 
All PSP share options are at no cost to the participant.
Employee Incentive Plan
Weighted
average
exercise price
2015
pence
Number
of share
options
2015
Weighted
average
exercise price
2014
pence
Number
of share
options
2014
Outstanding at 1 January 269.0 10,000 269.0 85,000
Exercised – – – – 
Forfeited – – 269.0 (75,000)
Outstanding at 31 December 269.0 10,000 269.0 10,000
All of the options outstanding at 31 December 2015 were exercisable (2014: all were exercisable). No options were exercised in the year 
(2014: none). 128  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
30 Share capital and reserves (continued)
Share options and awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and exercise prices:
Performance Share Plan expiry date 2015 2014
20 April 2017 – 192,016
29 June 2017 – 96,522
31 March 2018 913,798 985,874
31 March 2019 943,980 1,078,359
19 March 2020 1,199,852 –
3,057,630 2,352,771
On 19 March 2015, 1,237,636 share options were awarded to executive directors and employees under the Performance Share Plan which 
vest after three years subject to performance criteria being met (2014: 1,091,088). If the criteria are met, the awards vest at no cost to the 
employees and executive directors.
Employee Incentive Plan expiry dates
Exercise price 
per share  
pence 2015 2014
22 March 2017 269.0 10,000 10,000
 10,000 10,000
The total credit for the year relating to employee share based payment plans was £0.4 million (2014: charge of £0.6 million), all of which related 
to equity settled share based payment transactions.
At 31 December 2015, there is an amount of £0.3 million (2014: £0.4 million) included within ‘other’ provisions of £3.7 million (2014: £4.3 million) 
as per note 28, which relates to national insurance payable on share based payment charges.
31 Dividends per share
An interim dividend was paid on 9 October 2015 amounting to 4.5 pence per share (2014: 4.5 pence per share). Interim dividends are 
recognised when paid. A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 9.5 pence per share (2014: 9.5 pence per share), 
amounting to £11.5 million, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting convened for 11 May 2016, making a total dividend of 14.0 pence 
per share for the year (2014: 14.0 pence per share).
These consolidated financial statements do not reflect this final dividend payable.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
129  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
32 Cash generated from operations
a) Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to cash generated from continuing and discontinued operations
2015 
£m
Restated 
2014 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Continuing operations
Profit before tax 29.1 30.0
Finance costs – net 10.8 9.7
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures (2.8) –
Other items (2.1) (0.2)
Payments made on behalf of IDC Scheme (2.2) (3.4)
Exceptional items – impairment of goodwill 8.8 –
Share option (credit)/ charge (0.4) 0.6
Depreciation and amortisation 19.3 20.7
Difference between pension charge and cash contributions 0.8 1.3
(Gain)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.4) 0.1
Decrease/ (increase) in inventories 2.7 (2.0)
(Increase) in trade and other receivables (7.9) (18.9)
Increase in trade and other payables 9.0 2.6
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (13.1) 4.2
Cash generated from continuing operations 51.6 44.7
Discontinued operations
Loss before tax (0.3) (1.6)
Other items (4.9) (10.6)
Impairment of goodwill and assets held for sale 5.2 9.7
Depreciation – 0.2
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment – 0.8
Decrease in inventories – 1.1
Decrease in trade and other receivables 1.1 2.9
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (0.8) 0.6
Cash reclassified to disposal group held for sale (0.1) (1.0)
Tax paid – (0.3)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 0.1 (0.6)
Cash used in discontinued operations 0.3 1.2
In the consolidated cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise:
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Net book amount 2.5 2.2
Gain/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment – continuing operations 0.4 (0.1)
(Loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment – discontinued operations – (0.8)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment – continuing operations 2.9 1.3
b) Analysis of cash flows relating to restricted deposits
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
At 1 January 29.9 31.3
Payment of Scheme creditors (3.7) (3.7)
Interest received 0.3 1.7
Receipt of funds 6.2 0.6
Transfer of funds (0.4) –
At 31 December 32.3 29.9
Restricted deposits include funds held to settle a tax liability and scheme cash which is used to fund industrial disease claims. 130  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
33 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt (excluding restricted deposits)
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3.4 4.4
Movement in obligations under finance leases – –
Repayment of revolving facility – 130.6
Drawing on borrowings (13.2) (167.9)
Finance leases and borrowings on acquisition (0.8) (5.6)
Foreign exchange movements 1.8 (0.4)
Net movement in unamortised borrowing arrangement costs – (2.9)
Cash transferred to disposal group held for sale (0.1) 1.0
Movements in adjusted net debt during the year (8.9) (40.8)
Adjusted net debt excluding restricted deposits – opening (101.0) (60.2)
Adjusted net debt excluding restricted deposits – closing (109.9) (101.0)
Adjusted net debt excluding restricted deposits is calculated by deducting current and non-current borrowings from cash and cash 
equivalents.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
131  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
34 Business acquisitions
On 13 May 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the voting shares of Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited, a UK incorporated entity that 
provides a range of maintenance services including specialist pipe repair, tank repair and shutdown services to the process and downstream 
oil and gas industries. On 8 July 2015, the entity’s name was changed to Cape Engineering Services Limited (CESL). 
The Group acquired the business to supplement both its product portfolio and customer base. The acquisition has been accounted for using 
the acquisition method. 
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired entity as at the date of acquisition were:
Note
Fair value 
recognised on 
acquisition 
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 0.6
Trade and other receivables 6.9
Deferred tax asset 20 0.4
Intangible assets 15 3.1
11.0
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (5.8)
Provision 28 (0.6)
Borrowings (6.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (0.6)
(13.1)
Total identifiable net liabilities at fair value (2.1)
Goodwill arising on acquisition 15 2.3
Purchase consideration transferred 0.2
Analysis of cash flows on acquisition:
Purchase consideration 0.2
Settlement of debt 5.3
Working capital contribution 0.7
Total cash outflow 6.2
The acquired intangible assets comprise customer-related intangibles of £3.1 million. At the date of acquisition, both the gross contractual 
value and the fair value of receivables was £6.9 million. 
The consolidated financial statements include the results of CESL from the date of acquisition, contributing £27.6 million of revenue and 
£1.8 million to profit before tax from continuing operations of the Group. Had the acquisition taken place on 1 January 2015, it would have 
contributed revenue of £37.6 million and profit before tax for the Group from continuing operations of £2.1 million.
The goodwill recognised on the acquisition is attributable to the value of the assembled workforce, expected synergies and other benefits 
arising from combining the CESL operations into the Group. The goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs of £0.4 million have been charged to exceptional items through continuing operations. Amortisation of intangible 
assets acquired as part of the transaction of £0.4 million has been charged to other items through continuing operations.
35 Industrial disease claim provision and contingent liabilities
The Board considers that the provision of £95.5 million for industrial disease claims as at 31 December 2015 captures all expected material 
industrial disease scheme liabilities for which the Board believes the Group to be liable at the balance sheet date. 
The Group continues to receive claims, from both individuals and insurance companies, in connection with historical alleged exposure to 
asbestos. Where claims are determined to have merit, the costs are provided for and claims are settled in the ordinary course, otherwise 
claims are defended. As legal precedent in the area of industrial disease claims continues to evolve, new developments and new types of 
claims give rise to inherent uncertainty in both the future level of asbestos-related disease claims and of the legal and other costs arising from 
such claims. If any such claim were to be successful, it might lead to future claims against the Group which may result in significant additional 
liability over and above that recognised under the current provision. 
The Group has previously disclosed an increase in the number of product liability claims experienced by the Group. In particular, Cape 
Intermediate Holdings Limited (CIH) has received claims from both Aviva plc and RSA Group in respect of historic and current payments 
made by them in their capacity as providers of employer liability insurance in relation to claims by employees and former employees of 
third-party companies arising from asbestos-related diseases (Insurer PL Claims). All the Insurer PL Claims relate to damages and costs 
paid by the relevant insurer in respect of claims arising in respect of mesothelioma disease. 132  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
35 Industrial disease claim provision and contingent liabilities (continued)
A six-week trial in respect of the Insurer PL Claims has been listed to commence on 16 January 2017. The Board has received legal advice 
from leading counsel that the Insurer PL Claims place very substantial evidential burdens upon the claimants, are based upon novel legal 
arguments and are without precedent. As a result of the legal advice received, the Board continues to believe that these Insurer PL claims are 
without merit and they are therefore being vigorously defended; accordingly no provision has been made. The Board has also received legal 
advice from leading counsel that these Insurer PL Claims would constitute scheme claims as defined in the Cape Scheme (see note 36).
Cape’s potential liability in respect of the Insurer PL Claims outlined above and from any potential further claims and associated costs cannot 
be accurately estimated at this time. Notwithstanding that the Board believes that the Insurer PL claims do not have a realistic chance of 
succeeding, an adverse decision of the court could have material and continuing impacts on the Group and its stakeholders, including but 
not limited to the implementation of the Group’s strategic plans, potentially including the Company’s capacity to pay a dividend and a 
reduction in the percentage of each claim paid out to individual claimants under the Scheme.
During 2014, a fatality of a Cape employee was suffered at a client’s offshore installation. The investigation by the enforcing authorities is 
ongoing. At the date of the statement of financial position no amounts have been provided in respect of this matter. It is not practicable to 
provide an estimate of the financial effect and there is uncertainty relating to the amount or timing of any outflow.
Cape plc is responding to an enquiry by HMRC with regard to the UK tax consequences of a transfer of intellectual property to Singapore in 
2011. HMRC has challenged the accounting treatment adopted in the audited financial statements, and the gain arising thereon. Cape’s 
analysis is that the accounting treatment applied is correct and in line with the relevant accounting standards. A recent tax tribunal 
determined that the accounting treatment adopted in a case which has similarities with the accounting for the transfer of the Cape intellectual 
property was in line with the accounting standards being applied, and that a company cannot be forced to apply a different interpretation 
where the treatment adopted is valid. The Board expects to successfully defend against the HMRC challenge based on tax and accounting 
advice received. The possible UK corporation tax liability that may arise in connection with the enquiry is up to £14 million as at 
31 December 2015.
The Group is required to issue trade finance instruments to certain customers. These include tender bonds, performance bonds, retention 
bonds, advance payment bonds and standby letters of credit. At 31 December 2015, the Group’s bank facilities relating to the issue of bonds, 
guarantees and letters of credit amounted to £59.3 million (2014: £60.7 million).
36 The Scheme of Arrangement
On 14 June 2006, the Cape Scheme became effective and binding upon the following 13 companies:
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited (formerly Cape Intermediate Holdings plc)
Cape Building Products Limited
Cape Calsil Systems Limited
Cape Contracts International Limited
Cape Durasteel Limited
Cape East Limited
Cape Industrial Services Limited
Cape Industries Limited
Cape Insulation Limited
Cape Specialist Coatings Limited 
Predart Limited
Somewatch Limited 
Somewin Limited
The Cape Scheme is a court-sanctioned scheme established to provide recompense for individual claimants in respect of asbestos-related 
industrial diseases contracted as a result of Cape’s historic use of asbestos in manufacturing processes and who are unable to recover under 
insurance policies. The Cape Scheme also provides a structural protection for the Group’s trading stakeholders.
The detailed terms of the Scheme are set out in the Scheme itself, a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of Companies, which is 
also on the Cape plc website www.capeplc.com/investors/shareholder-information/shareholder-documents, the Articles of Association of 
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited (CIH), Cape Claims Services Limited (CCS) and Cape plc and a number of other ancillary agreements. 
The effect of the Scheme as a whole can be summarised as follows:
(a)  While Scheme creditors retain their rights against Scheme companies, and may bring proceedings against Scheme companies for 
declaratory relief to determine whether they have a claim and, if so, of what amount, their rights, subject as provided in sub-paragraphs 
(k) and (m) below are only enforceable against CCS under the terms of the Scheme guarantee.
(b)  CCS was funded in the first instance with a sum of £40 million which represented what was considered to be a sufficient sum to 
discharge CCS’s liabilities to Scheme creditors payable over at least eight years from 1 January 2006. The use of these funds is restricted 
to the payment of established Scheme claims and Scheme creditor costs.
(c)  The sum of £40 million was not calculated by reference to an estimate of the likely amount of Scheme claims. It simply represented the 
aggregate of the amount that Cape was able to raise from its shareholders and the level of debt which Cape could reasonably maintain 
for the purposes of the Scheme. Of fundamental importance to the Scheme are the provisions as to topping up of that sum described 
below.
(d)  Every three years an assessment of the projected Scheme claims against Scheme companies payable by CCS over the following nine 
years is undertaken, by reference to which there will be established the Funding Requirement.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
133  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
36 The Scheme of Arrangement (continued)
(e)  In the event that an assessment reveals a shortfall between the Scheme assets and the Funding Requirement, Cape will top up CCS’s 
funding over the following three years provided that sufficient cash is available, Cape’s obligation being limited to 70% of the Group’s 
consolidated adjusted operational cash flow (including, for example, adjustments to take account of acquisitions, an element of capital 
expenditure and repayment of borrowing facilities). During 2015, a top up of £6.2 million was made to the Scheme (2014: £nil).
(f)  Should Cape not be able to meet its top up obligation in any one year, it will be required to make good the shortfall in the next year, again 
subject to sufficient cash being available.
(g)  Alongside the Funding Requirement there is the Scheme Funding Requirement which will be assessed every year by reference to 
projected Scheme claims against Scheme companies payable by CCS over the next six years.
(h)  If at any time the ratio of the Scheme assets to the Scheme Funding Requirement (the Scheme Funding Percentage) falls below 60%, 
CCS will have the ability to reduce the percentage (the Payment Percentage) of each established claim which it pays to Scheme creditors 
until such time as the Scheme Funding Percentage is restored to 60%.
(i)  Cape plc is permitted to pay dividends provided that at the time of payment (i) the Scheme Funding Percentage in relation to the last 
preceding financial year was certified to be not less than 110%, (ii) the directors of Cape plc certify that they anticipate that the Scheme 
Funding Percentage for the current and following financial year will be not less than 110% and (iii) the Payment Percentage has not at any 
time within the previous 40 business days been below 100%. Any distribution which Cape plc proposes to make to its shareholders may 
not, without the consent of the Scheme Shareholder, exceed the greater of (i) 50% of the consolidated adjusted operating profit of the 
Group for the last preceding financial year and (ii) the aggregate of any permitted dividends made in the preceding financial year. This 
restriction therefore places a cap on the amount of dividends that Cape plc may pay in any one year.
(j)  There have been established special voting shares (the Scheme Shares) in CCS, CIH and Cape plc which are held by an independent 
third party (the Scheme Shareholder) on trust for Scheme creditors. The Scheme Shares have special rights which are designed to 
enable the Scheme Shareholder to protect the interests of Scheme creditors.
(k)  In the case of certain Scheme creditors (Recourse Scheme Creditors), who are those Scheme creditors whose claims are in whole or in 
part the subject of a contract of insurance (Recourse Scheme Claims), their rights to enforce their Recourse Scheme Claims against a 
relevant Scheme Company will revive in certain circumstances. These circumstances are where the relevant Scheme Company is 
insolvent or where there has been a specified reduction in the Payment Percentage and if the Scheme creditor was able to bring about 
the insolvency of the relevant Scheme Company he would be able to recover greater compensation from the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) or, in certain circumstances, from a solvent insurer than is available from CCS at that time under the 
Scheme. There will be a specified reduction if either (i) the Payment Percentage has been reduced below 100% but above 50% and the 
Scheme creditor has not been paid in full after 12 months or (ii) the Payment Percentage is reduced to 50% or below.
(l)  Each Scheme Company will agree to hold on trust for any Scheme creditor concerned the proceeds of any policy of insurance (or any 
compensation received from the FSCS) referable to that Scheme claim.
(m)  The restriction described in sub-paragraph (a) above will not apply to proceedings to enforce the right to confer under sub-paragraph (l) above.
(n)  There are provisions contained in two reimbursement agreements which preserve certain rights of proof by CCS and Cape plc 
respectively in any insolvency of Cape plc or any of the other Scheme companies.
(o)  In support of the above, on 6 May 2011, CIH, Cape plc and CCS entered into a new Guarantee and Funding Agreement whereby Cape 
plc agreed to make certain additional funding available to CIH in connection with CIH’s commitments under the Funding Agreement, 
as well as to guarantee all present and future payment obligations of Cape plc and CCS under the Funding Agreement. In addition, 
a Scheme Share in Cape plc (referred to in paragraph (j) above) was issued to the Scheme Shareholder which has similar rights to 
the Scheme Shares in CIH and CCS and which will afford the Scheme Shareholder substantially the same rights to those provided by 
the Scheme Shares in CIH and CCS.
37 Related party transactions
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and 
are not disclosed in this note. Other related party transactions are disclosed below.
a) Compensation of key management
2015
£000
2014
£000
Aggregate emoluments 3,988 3,996
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 82 126
4,070 4,122
The key management is considered to comprise of the executive and non-executive directors as well as the members of the executive committee.
Details of the executive directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 65 to 77.
No directors accrued benefits under the Group’s defined benefits pension scheme (2014: none).
b) Other related party transactions
As at the year-end there was a net balance of £7.4 million (2014: £6.4 million) owed by joint ventures. These amounts are unsecured, have no 
fixed date of repayment and are repayable on demand. Amounts owed by joint ventures are assessed for recoverability and, where 
necessary, provided for in line with normal commercial transactions. Revenue of joint ventures in 2015 was £20.6 million (2014: £17.8 million). 134  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
38 Subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures
The subsidiaries which form part of the Group and joint ventures are listed below:
Name
Country of 
incorporation Ownership %
Altitude Scaffolding Limited UK 100
Cape UK Holdings Newco Limited UK 100
Cape Industrial Services Group Limited UK 100
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited UK 100
Cape UK Trading Limited UK 100
Cape Calsil Group Limited UK 100
Cape Engineering Services Limited UK 100
Cape (Group Services) Limited UK 100
Cape Overseas Limited UK 100
Cape Treasury Limited UK 100
Cape Admin 1 Limited UK 100
Cape Admin 2 Limited UK 100
Cape HoldCo Limited UK 100
Cape Calsil Systems Limited UK 100
Cape Calsil International Limited UK 100
Cape East (UK) Limited UK 100
Cape Industrial Services Limited UK 100
Cape Industrial Services Europe Limited UK 100
Cape Painting Contractors Limited UK 100
Cape Claims Services Limited UK 100
Cape Pension Trustees Limited UK 100
Cape Defined Pension Trustees Limited UK 100
Cape Industrial Services Holdings Limited UK 100
Cape Contracts International Limited UK 100
Cape Specialist Coatings Limited UK 100
Cape Insulation Limited UK 100
Cape Building Products Limited UK 100
Cape Industries Limited UK 100
Cape Durasteel Limited UK 100
Cape East Limited UK 100
Cape Environmental Services  
Offshore Limited UK 100
Cape Environmental Services  
Onshore Limited UK 100
Datadeep Limited UK 100
DBI Industrial Services Limited UK 100
DBI Endecon Limited UK 100
Endecon Limited UK 100
Joseph Nadin Scaffolding Limited UK 100
Motherwell Bridge Limited UK 100
MB Engineering Services Limited UK 100
Powerplant Support Services Limited UK 100
Predart Limited UK 100
R.B. Hilton Limited UK 100
Somewatch Limited UK 100
Somewin Limited UK 100
Ship Support Services Limited* UK 50
YL Holdings Limited UK 100
York Linings International Limited UK 100
Cape Australia Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100
Cape Industrial Services Pty Limited Australia 100
Cape Marine and Offshore Pty Limited Australia 100
Cape Australia Onshore Pty Limited Australia 100
Cape (CHS) Pty Limited
Australia 100
Name
Country of 
incorporation Ownership %
Concept Hire Pty Limited Australia 100
PCH Offshore Pty Limited Australia 100
Ridgebay Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100
Total Corrosion Control Pty Limited Australia 100
Cape Myanmar Company Limited Myanmar 100
Cape Papua New Guinea Limited Papua New 
Guinea 100
Cape Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100
Cape Hong Kong Fuji Limited Hong Kong 100
Cape International Holdings Pte Limited Singapore 100
Cape East Private Limited Singapore 100
CG Purchasing Pte Limited Singapore 100
Cape East (Holdings) Limited Thailand 49
Cape East (Thailand) Limited Thailand 100
PCH (Thailand) Co Limited Thailand 49
Cape Global Manpower Solutions Inc Philippines 25
Cape East Philippines Inc Philippines 100
T&H Investments & Holding Corporation Philippines 40
PT Cape East Indonesia Limited Indonesia 90
PT PCH Indonesia Indonesia 100
Cape East Jusik Hoesa Korea 100
Cape Vietnam Vietnam 100
Cape East Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100
Olio Cape Sdn Bhd* Malaysia 49
Cape BVI (No1) Limited British Virgin 
Islands 100
Cape Regional Services DMCC Dubai 100
Cape East Limited W.L.L Abu Dhabi 49
Cape East EC Bahrain 100
Cape East & Partners LLC Oman 65
Cape East General Contracting  
Company W.L.L Kuwait 49
Cape East Limited Co W.L.L Qatar 49
Cape Industrial Company Limited Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia 100
R.B. Hilton Saudi Arabia Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia 100
Cape International Sdn Bhd Brunei 100
Cape Industrial Services Private Limited India 100
Cape Industrial Services LLC Russia 100
Cape (Sakhalin) LLC Russia 100
Cape Cayman (No2) Limited Cayman 
Islands 100
MB Operations Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100
Cape East Libya Limited Malta 100
Cape Libya Industrial Services, Security 
and Safety Joint Company Libya 65
Cape Aislamientos SL Spain 100
Cleton Insulation BV Netherlands 100
Cleton Continental Europe BV Netherlands 100
Cape East Egypt LLC Egypt 100
Cape East Algeria SARL Algeria 99
SOCAR-Cape LLC* Azerbaijan 49
Cape PCH LLC Azerbaijan 100
Cape Kazakhstan LLC Kazakhstan 100
* Joint ventures
Where ownership percentage is less than 100%, control of subsidiaries has been established through the contractual arrangements in place with 
the other shareholders. Group undertakings operate principally in the countries in which they are incorporated.
Cape Claims Services Limited is the Group company against which claims made under the Scheme of Arrangement are enforceable and in 
which Scheme funding is accounted for. Cape International Holdings Pte Limited is 90% owned by the parent company (Cape plc) and 10% 
owned by Cape Industrial Services Limited.
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
135  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
39 Non-controlling interests
Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (NCI) is provided below. 
Proportion of equity interest held by Cape:
Name 
Country of 
incorporation 2015 2014
Cape East Limited Co W.L.L Qatar 49% 49%
Summarised income statement:
2015
£m
 2014
£m
Revenue 54.6 56.6
Cost of sales (50.2) (51.6)
Administrative expenses (3.0) (3.9)
Other expenses (0.4) (0.5)
Profit before tax 1.0 0.6
Income tax credit 0.1 –
Profit after tax 1.1 0.6
Profit attributable to non-controlling interest 0.3 0.2
Nil dividends were paid to the NCI in 2015 (2014: Nil). The percentage of profit attributable to NCI fluctuates annually due to the impact of 
foreign exchange translation.
Summarised statement of financial position:
2015
£m
 2014
£m
Non-current assets 3.8 4.2
Current assets 31.5 36.2
Current liabilities (19.1) (26.4)
Non-current liabilities (4.6) (3.8)
Accumulated balance of material non-controlling interest:
2015
£m
 2014
£m
Cape East Limited Co W.L.L 2.9 2.5 136  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Parent company statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 
£m
2014 
£m
Administrative expenses (1.5) (1.8)
Operating (loss) (1.5) (1.8)
Finance costs (1.3) (3.5)
Finance income 1.3 0.7
Investment income 5.2 72.1
Profit before tax 3.7 67.5
Tax expense – –
Profit for the year 3.7 67.5
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – –
Total comprehensive income 3.7 67.5 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
137  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Parent company statement of financial position 
at 31 December 2015
Note 
2015 
£m
Restated*
2014 
£m
Non-current assets
Investments 4 126.2 126.6
Trade and other receivables 5 44.1 42.8
Total non-current assets 170.3 169.4
Total assets 170.3 169.4
Equity
Called up share capital 7 30.3 30.3
Share premium account 1.0 1.0
Profit and loss account 53.1 66.8
Total equity 84.4 98.1
Non-current liabilities 6 49.4 56.8
Current liabilities 6 36.5 14.5
Total equity and liabilities 170.3 169.4
*  Certain amounts shown here do not correspond to the 2014 financial statements and reflect adjustments made to reclassify amounts owed to Group undertakings as 
detailed in notes 5 and 6.
The financial statements on pages 136 to 143 were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Joe Oatley  Chief Executive
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer 138  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Parent company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Called up 
share capital
£m
Share premium
 account
 £m
Profit and loss 
account
 £m
Total 
equity
£m
At 1 January 2014 30.3 1.0 15.6 46.9
Profit for the financial year – – 67.5 67.5
Other comprehensive income – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – 67.5 67.5
Dividends – – (16.9) (16.9)
Share options:
– proceeds from shares issued – – – –
– credit in respect of share schemes – – 0.6 0.6
At 31 December 2014 30.3 1.0 66.8 98.1
Profit for the financial year – – 3.7 3.7
Other comprehensive income – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – 3.7 3.7
Dividends – – (17.0) (17.0)
Share options:
– charge in respect of share schemes – – (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 December 2015 30.3 1.0 53.1 84.4 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
139  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Parent company cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Note
2015
 £m
2014
 £m 
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operating activities 12 17.0 16.9
Cash generated from operating activities 17.0 16.9
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from subsidiaries – –
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities – –
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid (17.0) (16.9)
Proceeds from issue of share capital – –
Net cash used in financing activities (17.0) (16.9)
 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year – –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year – – 140  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Notes to the parent company financial statements
1 Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’). The financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies.
Changes to accounting policies and disclosures
a) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted by the Company
Several new standards and amendments apply for the first time in 2015, however they do not have a significant impact on the annual financial 
statements of the Company. These new standards and amendments are listed below:
 – Amendments to IAS 19: Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (early adopted)
 – Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle (early adopted)
 – Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle
b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The following standards and interpretations in issue which will have an effect for the Company, have not been adopted by the Company:
 Effective dates
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016
Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
The directors do not expect the adoption of these standards and interpretations to have a material impact on the Company financial 
statements in the period of initial application. The Company has not yet early adopted any other standard, interpretation or amendment that 
has been issued but is not yet effective.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. The Company therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the date of the statement of financial position.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial 
recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other 
than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is 
determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the date of the statement of financial position and 
are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and 
associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the
temporary difference will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to 
settle the balances on a net basis. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
141  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a 
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Share based payments
The Company issues equity settled share based payments to certain Group employees which are measured at fair value and recognised as 
an expense in the consolidated income statement with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair values of these payments are measured at 
the dates of grant using option pricing models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards are granted. The fair 
value is recognised over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the estimate of the 
number of awards which will lapse, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market based performance 
conditions not being met.
At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest, based on the 
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the consolidated income statement, with 
a corresponding adjustment to equity. When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. Proceeds received on the exercise 
of share options are credited to share capital and share premium. The addition to the Company’s investment in subsidiary undertakings is 
reduced on the issue of share incentives as these are recharged to the subsidiaries.
Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded at cost, which is the fair value of the consideration paid. Impairment reviews are 
performed by the directors when there has been an indication of potential impairment.
2 Employees and directors
Employment costs, including directors’ emoluments amounted to £448,205 (2014: £411,667). Details of directors’ remuneration, share based 
payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 77 form part of these financial statements. Details of material 
employee share based payments are given in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements. Details of the remuneration of key 
management personnel are given in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Auditors’ remuneration
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for:
2015
£m
2014 
£m
The audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements 0.5 0.5
Included in the 2015 balance is an amount of £0.1 million relating to negotiated overruns for the 2014 audit (2014: £0.2 million relating to the 
2013 audit), which has been allocated to the audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements.
4 Investments
Subsidiary undertakings
2015 
£m
Restated
2014
£m
Cost
At 1 January 126.6 63.3
Additions – 125.4
Adjustments* (0.4) 0.6
Disposals – (62.7)
At 31 December 126.2 126.6
Net book amount
At 31 December 126.2 126.6
*Adjustments relate to the share based payment credit of £0.4 million (2014:Charge of £0.6 million) as detailed in note 30 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
As part of a Group re-organisation in 2014, the Company transferred its 100% shareholding in Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited to 
Cape Holdco Limited and Cape International Holdings Pte Limited transferred its 100% shareholding in Cape UK Holdings Newco Limited to 
the Company.
Refer to note 38 for the Company’s subsidiary listing as at 31 December 2015. The Company directly owns 100% of Cape UK Holdings 
Newco Limited and 90% of Cape International Holdings Private Limited but indirectly controls 100% through its 100% indirect shareholding in 
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited. 142  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
Financial statements
Notes to the parent company financial statements continued
5 Trade and other receivables
2015
£m
2014 
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings: non-current 44.1 42.8
Non-current amounts owed by Group undertakings are denominated in Sterling and are due to be repaid in 2018. Interest is received on the 
balance based on the average UK LIBOR rate for the year, plus a margin. At the date of the statement of financial position, £nil (2014: £nil) of 
amounts owed by Group undertakings were impaired. All movements in amounts owed to Group undertakings are treated as non-cash 
movements.
The prior year comparatives have been restated to correctly reclassify amounts owed to Group undertakings between current and 
non-current. The carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates fair value.
6 Liabilities
2015 
£m
Restated
2014 
£m
Accruals 0.6 0.5
Other creditors 0.1 0.2
Amounts owed to Group undertakings: current 35.8 13.8
Total current liabilities 36.5 14.5
Amounts owed to Group undertakings: non-current 49.4 56.8
Total liabilities 85.9 71.3
Non-current amounts owed to Group undertakings are denominated in Sterling and Singapore dollars (SGD) and are due to be repaid in 
2018. Amounts owed to Group undertakings less than one year are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable on 
demand. Interest is paid on the balance based on the UK LIBOR rate for the year, plus a margin. The amounts owed to Group undertakings 
denominated in Singapore dollars at 31 December 2015 is SGD 0.1 million (2014: SGD 0.4 million). All movements in amounts owed to Group 
undertakings are treated as non-cash movements.
The prior year comparatives have been restated to correctly reclassify amounts owed to Group undertakings between current and 
non-current. The carrying value of current liabilities approximates fair value.
7 Called up share capital
Ordinary shares of 25p each 
2015
Number
of shares
2015
£m
2014
Number of
shares
2014
£m
Authorised 200,000,000 50.0 200,000,000 50.0
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 121,103,937 30.3 121,103,937 30.3
Issue of shares – – – –
Exercise of share options – – – –
At 31 December 121,103,937 30.3 121,103,937 30.3
plc Scheme share
Authorised, issued and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December 1 – 1 –
plc Scheme share
The plc Scheme share is held by the Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc on behalf of the Scheme creditors.
The rights attaching to the share are designed to ensure that Scheme assets are only used to settle Scheme claims and ancillary costs and 
do not confer any right to receive a distribution or return of surplus capital save that the holder will have the right to require the Company to 
redeem the share at par value on or at any time after the termination of the Scheme.
The share carries two votes for every vote which the holders of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise on any resolution 
proposed during the life of the Scheme to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association.
The Company will not be permitted to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association without the prior consent 
of the holder of the share.
At 31 December 2015, 31,160 (2014: 31,160) shares were held in an employee benefit trust. Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
143  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
8 Contingencies
The Company has contingent liabilities in respect of parent company guarantees entered into in the normal course of business, of which no 
loss is expected.
9 Related party transactions
Details of directors’ emoluments are shown in note 37 ‘Related party transactions’ to the consolidated financial statements and in the 
directors’ remuneration report on pages 65 to 77.
There have been no material transactions between the Company and other related parties during the year other than what is disclosed in
notes 5 and 6.
10 Dividends
An interim dividend was paid on 9 October 2015 amounting to 4.5 pence per share (2014: 4.5 pence per share). Interim dividends are 
recognised when paid. A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 9.5 pence per share (2014: 9.5 pence per share), 
amounting to £11.5 million, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting convened for 11 May 2016, making a total dividend of 14.0 pence 
per share for the year (2014: 14.0 pence per share). These financial statements do not reflect this final dividend payable.
11 Financial risk
Details of how financial risk is managed are provided in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
12 Cash generated from operations
Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from continuing operations
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Continuing operations
Profit before tax 3.7 67.5
Adjusted for non-cash items:
Acquisition of subsidiary – (125.4)
Disposal of subsidiary – 62.7
(Increase) in trade and other receivables (1.3) (42.8)
Increase in current liabilities 14.6 54.9
Cash generated from continuing operations 17.0 16.9 144  Cape plc 
Annual Report 2015
£m (unless otherwise specified)
Year
ended
31 December
2015
Year
ended
31 December
2014*
Year
ended
31 December
2013
Year
ended
31 December
2012
Year
ended
31 December
2011
Consolidated income statement
Continuing operations
Revenue 711.4 690.5 674.9 746.0 698.1
Operating profit before exceptional and other items 49.7 52.3 40.3 27.6 78.5
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) from joint ventures 2.8 – 0.3 0.1 (0.6)
Adjusted operating profit before exceptional and other items 52.5 52.3 40.6 27.7 77.9
Other items – Amortisation of intangibles (3.4) (2.6) – (0.3) (0.8)
Other items – Industrial disease costs 0.2 (8.4) (15.3) (1.2) (0.4)
Other items – Post-acquisition management compensation (0.2) (0.7) – – –
Other items – Contract claims – – – (9.0) –
Other items – Corporate expenses – – – – (2.0)
Exceptional items (9.2) (0.9) (14.9) (150.4) –
Operating profit/(loss) 39.9 39.7 10.4 (133.2) 74.7
Profit/(loss) before tax 29.1 30.0 0.4 (143.2) 61.9
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 21.0 22.6 (2.3) (162.4) 49.7
(Loss) from discontinued operations (5.2) (12.2) (5.0) (42.6) –
Profit/(loss) for the year 15.8 10.4 (7.3) (205.0) 49.7
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc 15.5 10.4 (6.8) (206.6) 47.4
Non-controlling interest 0.3 – (0.5) 1.6 2.3
Consolidated statement of financial position
Non-current assets 253.3 260.9 231.1 232.2 451.9
Net current assets 177.8 160.0 138.8 168.9 199.3
Non-current liabilities (301.8) (293.4) (236.7) (230.8) (245.1)
Net assets 129.3 127.5 133.2 170.3 406.1
Earnings/(loss) per share Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
– Basic 12.8 8.6 (5.6) (172.5) 40.2
– Diluted 12.7 8.6 (5.6) (172.5) 38.8
Adjusted diluted EPS – continuing operations 29.9 30.0 23.3 12.7 43.8
Adjusted diluted EPS – total operations 29.6 28.9 19.7 9.9 43.8
Growth in adjusted diluted EPS – continuing operations (0.3%) 28.8% 83.5% (71.0%) 2.8%
* Restated – see note 2c within the Basis of preparation note of the consolidated financial statements.
Financial statements
Five-year financial summary (Unaudited) Designed and produced by Gather
www.gather.london
The paper used in this Report is derived  
from sustainable sources Group Head Office
One Temasek Avenue
#09-03 Millenia Tower 
Singapore 039192
www.capeplc.com
Cape plc Annual Report 2015
