 Annual Report 
 and Accounts 2014
 Build to Last
 Lean. Expert. Trusted. Safe.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 WHO WE ARE
Balfour Beatty provides innovative and efficient 
infrastructure that underpins our daily lives, supports 
communities and enables economic growth.
We finance, develop, build and maintain complex 
infrastructure such as transportation, power and  
utility systems, and social and commercial buildings. 
Our main geographies are the UK, US, Middle East  
and South East Asia.
2014 overview
Balfour Beatty – a leading infrastructure group  
with more than 100 years’ experience
 Group at a Glance p2
2014: a challenging and redefining year
 Chairman’s Review p4
Build to Last: transforming the business
 Group Chief Executive’s Report p6
Construction markets are recovering. Long-term  
drivers for infrastructure remain sound
 Market Overview p12
Very poor performance caused by UK  
construction contract issues
 Construction Services p18
Depth of capabilities enables us to deliver  
complex contracts
 Support Services p22
A proven track record of developing  
and financing projects
 Infrastructure Investments p24
A strong and yielding portfolio
 Directors’ Valuation of the Investments Portfolio p27
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial summary
(£m unless otherwise specified) 2014 2013
2
Revenue including joint ventures and associates
1
8,440 8,478
Group revenue
1
6,950 7,118
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations
– underlying
1
(58) 146
– reported (281) (33)
Pre-tax (loss)/profit from continuing operations
– underlying
1
(80) 131
– reported (304) (49)
Profit from discontinued operations 242 18
Total loss for the year (59) (35)
(Loss)/earnings per share
– from continuing operations (43.9)p (7.5)p
– basic (8.6)p (5.1)p
Dividends per share 5.6p 14.1p
Financing
–  net cash/(borrowings) before infrastructure concessions  
(non-recourse)
219 (66)
–  net borrowings of infrastructure concessions  
(non-recourse) (445) (354)
1
  From continuing operations, before non-underlying items.
2  
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations, to include the results  
of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items,  
and to show the results of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts as non-underlying items (Note 38).
Cover image
Michael Wright, General Operative,  
in the London Power Tunnels.  
Balfour Beatty is installing high-voltage 
electricity cables for National Grid. 
This project will rewire the capital via 
deep underground tunnels, in order  
to ensure London’s electricity needs 
continue to be met.
 balfourbeatty.com/londontunnels
Read more online
This Annual Report is available to 
download in PDF format online. 
 balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Contents
Strategic Report
01 Financial Summary
02 Group at a Glance
04 Chairman’s Review
06 Group Chief Executive’s Report
08 Business Model
10 Our Priorities
12 Market Overview
14 Chief Financial Officer’s Review
18  Performance Review and 
KPMG Review
27  Directors’ Valuation of  
the Investments Portfolio
30 Risk Management Framework
31 Principal Risks
36  Safe, Innovative and  
Responsible Business
Governance
42 Board of Directors 
4 4  C h a i r m an ’ s I n tr o d u c t i o n  
and Directors’ Report
45 Directors’ Report
64 Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
81 Independent Auditor’s Report
86 Financial Statements
96  Notes to the Financial 
Statements
Other Information
165  Unaudited Group Five-Year 
Summary
166 Shareholder Information
”Balfour Beatty is a global name built on the exceptional engineering skills of its people. 
This strength is evidenced by the continuing flow of landmark contracts across the Group. 
The business model also balances Construction Services and Support Services with  
a successful Investments business which will continue to create significant value.
Over the next two years we should work through the severe legacy of “problem” 
construction projects. However, in tackling the cultural change required to ensure these 
issues are behind us, we face major short-term challenges. The key is that we are 
determined to address this through self-help. Our transformation programme, Build  
to Last, is gaining rapid traction and we are driving initial improvements of £200 million 
cash in, £100 million cost out over 24 months. In addition, our Investments portfolio  
will provide the financial flexibility of both reliable income and the sale of maturing  
assets into a strong market.
To maintain balance sheet strength throughout this period, we have already cancelled  
the share buyback and re-phased our pension fund payments with the support of the 
Trustee. We have also decided not to recommend a final dividend this year, but expect  
to reinstate the dividend at an appropriate level by March 2016.
I remain convinced that all our operations can achieve industry-standard performance  
as markets improve. The real prize is a sustainable return to profitable growth, built on  
the Group’s unique capabilities but underpinned by leaner, stronger processes and 
flawless execution.
Longer term we want to make Balfour Beatty a leader in its core markets, delivering 
superior returns to the benefit of our customers, employees and shareholders.“
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 1 GROUP AT A GLANCE
Infrastructure is the backbone of the 
economy and society. Everyone relies on 
energy, water, communications, transport 
and buildings.
Balfour Beatty finances, develops, builds 
and maintains the infrastructure that 
underpins daily life, supports communities 
and enables economic growth.
Together with our partners and supply 
chain of small and large firms, we know 
how to deliver innovative, efficient and 
highly complex infrastructure projects  
with the highest levels of quality, safety 
and technical expertise. We integrate  
with customers and local supply chains, 
and work with local communities.
Balfour Beatty’s main geographies are  
the UK and US, and the Group has a 
significant presence in the Middle East  
and South East Asia. 
Our key market sectors are:
• infrastructure
• transport (roads, rail and aviation)
• power, energy and water
• buildings
• commercial
• social (health, education, defence, 
institutional and housing).
Over the last 100 years we have created 
iconic buildings and infrastructure all over 
the world including the London Olympics’ 
Aquatic Centre, Hong Kong’s first Zero 
Carbon building, the world’s biggest 
shopping mall in Dubai, the National 
Museum of the Marine Corps in the US  
and the Channel Tunnel Rail Link.
 Business Model p8
Portfolio valuation December 2014
The Investments portfolio continues to 
grow as we diversify into new sectors and 
expand into new geographical markets. 
We continue to realise value through  
the investment recycling programme by 
selling investments that are mature and 
operationally proven, while preserving 
interests in strategic projects or sectors 
that offer opportunities to the Group.
 Directors’ Valuation  
of the Investments Portfolio p27
Balfour Beatty – a leading  
 infrastructure group with more  
 than 1 00 years’ experience
Revenue generated this year
1
£8,440 million
Revenue by region
1
 Major operations
 Other significant operations
 Joint ventures
Employees worldwide
36,000
UK
£4,209m 
50%
North  
America
£3,219m 
38%
Rest of 
the World
£1,012m 
12%
 Portfolio valuation by sector
Sector
No. 
projects
(2013)
2014
£m
2013
£m
Roads 13 (12) 467 253
Hospitals 4 (5) 225 144
Schools 8 (9) 102 68
Other 13 (11) 149 69
UK total 38 (37) 943 534
US military housing 21 (21) 322 228
Hospitals 2 (0) 4 –
Other 5 (3) 11 4
North America total 28 (24) 337 232
BBIP fund 20 –
Total 66 (61) 1,300 766
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2 Construction Services
The construction businesses in  
the UK and US, and joint ventures in 
the Middle East and South East Asia, 
are top tier and all operate across the 
infrastructure and building sectors.
What we do
• Building
• Civil engineering
• Ground engineering
• Mechanical and electrical services
• Rail engineering
• Refurbishment and fit-out
Key highlights
• Performance significantly impacted 
by operational issues in the UK  
and Middle East M&E joint venture
• Order book grew 2% during the 
year to £7.9 billion
• KPMG LLP (KPMG) review an 
important step in understanding 
issues faced by the business.
Total revenue
Order book
1
£7.9bn
Revenue
1
£6,597m
(Loss)/profit from operations
1, 2
£(209)m
Support Services
The Support Services division 
manages, upgrades and maintains 
critical national infrastructure, and  
its capabilities complement both  
our Construction Services and 
Infrastructure Investments divisions.
What we do
• Upgrade and maintain water, gas 
and electricity networks
• Highways network management, 
operation and maintenance
• Rail renewals
Key highlights
• Stable revenues with strong 
performance in the highways 
maintenance business in the 
transportation sector
• Good underlying profit from 
continuing operations with good 
operating margins
• Order book reduction in power  
and transportation, as anticipated.
Total revenue
Order book
1
£3.5bn
Revenue
1
£1,273m
Profit from operations
1
£50m
Infrastructure Investments
The Investments business is a 
recognised leader in public private 
partnerships (PPP) and other 
developments in both the UK and US 
and its activities generate additional 
construction and service work for 
other parts of the Group.
What we do
• Develop and finance both public 
and private infrastructure projects 
around the world 
• Operate a portfolio of more than  
60 long-term infrastructure projects
Key highlights
• Excellent financial performance, 
including £93 million of disposal gains
• Substantial and diverse portfolio 
with Directors’ valuation  
at £1.3 billion
• Preferred bidder status achieved  
on 13 new projects with significant 
pipeline of new opportunities 
identified.
Total revenue
Directors’ valuation
£1.3bn
Revenue
1
£570m
Pre-tax result
1
£162m
 Construction Services p18 Support Services p22 Infrastructure Investments p24
1 
From continuing operations including joint ventures and associates, before non-underlying items.
2 
Total loss from continuing operations was £394 million (2013: £103 million), including non-underlying items.
15% 7% 78%
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 3 CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
2014: a challenging 
and redefining year
Continuing issues within the UK 
construction business made 2014 
a challenging and ultimately 
redefining year for the Group. 
Robust judgements and rapid decisions 
were required: gripping, scoping, reviewing 
and providing for the very significant levels 
of write-downs that emerged from the  
UK construction business. There were 
important changes in strategic direction 
and in executive management, and also 
the proposed merger with Carillion plc.
Such was the pace of events and change 
that these seem improbable when listed 
chronologically. The Board met 26 times 
during the year and at every stage the 
Board remained focused on how best  
to secure both present and future 
shareholder value. 
UK construction performance
The performance of parts of our UK 
construction business during 2014 has 
undoubtedly been very poor, having a 
materially negative impact on the results  
for the whole Group. Total loss from 
operations over the year, including the 
further provisions now announced, 
amounted to £281 million. This is a matter 
of considerable regret to all concerned, 
most especially the Board of Directors  
and myself as Chairman. Problems were 
mostly confined to the Engineering 
Services and Regional parts of the 
business operating in London and the 
South West of England.
KPMG’s independent review identified 
three main dominant causes. Firstly, 
tendering for certain lump sum fixed-price 
projects at very low margins at the bottom 
of the market, assuming optimistic buying 
gains which didn’t materialise as costs 
escalated during the course of the project, 
leading to losses. Secondly, inadequate 
commercial and contract management 
processes, and a lack of management 
supervision, led to poor control over 
projects and failures to recover genuine 
contract entitlements. Thirdly, poor cost  
and programme forecasting, leading to 
insufficient visibility on project deterioration. 
In this part of the Group, we saw failures  
of risk management, and the control 
environment, particularly commercial and 
operational controls, was not effective. 
These were compounded by continuous 
upheaval, with substantial people changes 
in the UK construction business. 
More details of KPMG’s independent 
review and resulting actions are in the 
operational review on page 19 and the  
risk management section on page 30.
The deterioration in performance started 
before 2014, as many of the 45 problem 
projects were tendered or started during 
2012 and 2013. The majority of these are 
expected to be operationally complete  
by the end of 2015.
The Board has considered the need for 
further provisions in addition to those 
announced in January 2015, and 
concluded that a further £118 million 
write-down is appropriate, having 
reviewed both individual contracts and 
also the rest of the portfolio by taking  
a risk-based approach 
These issues are localised and fixable,  
but it will take time to work through legacy 
contracts and uncertainty remains. New 
Group Chief Executive Leo Quinn has a 
transformation programme for the whole 
Group, with phase 1 targeting £100 million 
of cost reductions and £200 million of cash 
flow improvements versus 2014.
Sale of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
The Board’s strategic review concluded 
during Q1 2014, ahead of any knowledge 
of further UK construction write-downs, 
that the Group had become too complex, 
stretching financial and managerial 
resources, and diluting strategic focus. 
And whilst the Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) 
business was of high quality, it required 
substantial investment and its Group 
synergies were modest. 
The Board announced in May its intention 
to sell PB, subject to an excellent price 
being achieved. It was. Following a highly 
competitive auction, the sale completed  
in October for gross proceeds of US$1.35 
billion, roughly doubling its value during its 
five years under Group ownership.  
93% of voting shareholders supported  
the Board in approving the sale. 
Taking decisive action
In light of further write-downs, and  
its desire to accelerate refocusing and 
simplifying the Group, the Board decided 
Chief Executive Andrew McNaughton 
should step down on 3 May 2014.  
I was asked to step in to progress  
the following priorities:
1. Recruit an experienced, top-flight 
Chief Executive from outside the 
Group with strong turnaround 
credentials. 
Outcome: Leo Quinn started as Group 
Chief Executive on 1 January 2015.
2. Deliver a competitive sale process  
to enable PB to be sold at compelling 
shareholder value. 
Outcome: PB was sold for US$1.35 billion 
in cash (gross proceeds) in October 2014. 
3. Further underpin shareholder value 
by revaluing the Investments portfolio 
and enhancing awareness of its 
intrinsic value. 
Outcome: the Directors’ valuation was 
increased from £766 million at December 
2013 to £1,050 million at June 2014; and 
£1.3 billion at December 2014. This was 
reviewed and supported independently. 
The value of the future pipeline is estimated 
by the Board at a further 10–15% of the 
Directors’ valuation, demonstrating how 
integral this business is to the Group.
4. Progress management actions to 
stabilise the underperforming parts  
of the UK construction business.
Outcome: despite the recovery plans  
by new UK operational management, 
more losses emerged. In October the 
Board appointed KPMG to review the UK 
construction business and the conclusions 
were published in January 2015. The 
Board has made further provisions at  
2014 year end of £118 million.
5. Simplify and de-risk the Group’s 
international and rail businesses in 
territories where it lacked sufficient 
critical mass or delivery capability. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
4 Outcome: concluded disposal of rail 
businesses in Austria and Germany (track 
and plant); terminated US$1.5 billion of 
bids in markets as diverse as Indonesia, 
Canada and Denmark. Group risk 
management oversight tightened and 
made more challenging.
Approach by Carillion plc
The initial approach by Carillion plc was 
opportunistic, coinciding with the frenetic 
activity described above, including the PB 
sale; all at a time when the Group lacked a 
permanent Chief Executive. The Board still 
concluded it was in shareholders’ interests 
to evaluate the approach, provided key 
parameters were agreed to by Carillion 
upfront. Critically, these included achieving  
a significant valuation premium for Balfour 
Beatty shareholders, and Carillion’s explicit 
support for the PB disposal, with proceeds 
to be retained within the combined 
business. Key terms were agreed in 
writing and the Board engaged to jointly 
evaluate the possible benefits of an 
all-share merger. 
Whilst joint working was underway,  
and despite a joint public announcement  
a week earlier, Carillion surprisingly 
withdrew its support for the sale of PB. 
This eroded trust and confidence. The 
Board also concluded that the combined 
business plan prepared by Carillion 
management had very significant delivery 
and financial risks. There was also a real 
risk that any agreed transaction might be 
aborted before it was consummated, given 
the uncertainty regarding Balfour Beatty’s 
UK construction business. Unfortunately, 
this proved more than prescient. 
The Board engaged for the right reasons, 
recognising the obvious risks. It also 
withdrew for the right reasons, given 
Directors were unable to recommend  
the merger transaction as being in 
shareholders’ interests.
Results for the year
Profitability was materially impacted  
by the significant UK construction 
write-downs. Conversely, the year end 
balance sheet benefited from the receipt  
of the PB sale proceeds.
Loss from continuing operations was  
£281 million (2013: £33 million). The 
underlying loss per share for total 
operations was 8.0p (2013: earnings 
21.5p). Total loss per share was  
8.6p (2013: 5.1p).
The Group had year end net cash of  
£219 million; a strong balance sheet position 
despite continuing underlying cash outflow 
in the construction businesses.
The performance of the UK construction 
business is covered in more detail on 
pages 18 to 20. Profitability in the US 
construction business increased slightly 
and order book intake is growing amid 
signs of market recovery. Support Services 
maintained revenue levels but saw a small 
decline in profits and margin. Infrastructure 
Investments increased both profits and  
the value of the portfolio.
Share buyback and dividend 
In order to maintain a strong balance 
sheet, the Board decided to cancel the 
proposed £200 million share buyback 
following the PB disposal, and to rephase 
pension fund payments. Whilst the Board 
recognises the importance of the dividend, 
it will not recommend a final dividend  
but will look to reinstate dividends at an 
appropriate level by March 2016.
Health and safety
During the year, six workers lost their lives 
across the Group. There is renewed focus 
on fatal risks and health and safety targets 
have been revised. The primary KPI for 
safety has changed to Lost Time Injury 
Rate, which is a more thorough indicator. 
From 2015, the Group will be redoubling 
efforts on Zero Harm programmes. 
Board and executive management
Andrew McNaughton stepped down as 
Chief Executive after a 17-year career with 
Balfour Beatty and goes with our thanks 
and best wishes.
Belinda Richards and Bill Thomas resigned 
from the Board in November 2014.
The appointment of Leo Quinn as Group 
Chief Executive from 1 January 2015 is  
a major step forward. He was previously 
CEO of Qinetiq plc and prior to that at  
“A new executive  
team and a refreshed 
Board is now 
substantially in place  
and they have the 
privilege of taking 
Balfour Beatty  
forward to its  
next chapter.”
De La Rue plc. Leo sets out his initial 
priorities on pages 6 to 7. His appointment 
has enabled the intended reshaping and 
refreshing of the Board to progress rapidly.
It is a pleasure to welcome Philip Aiken  
as Balfour Beatty’s new Chairman from  
26 March 2015, when I will step down  
after 10 years on the Board. After 34 years 
with the Company, including 24 years as a 
Director, Peter Zinkin retires from the Board 
in March 2015. His commitment to the 
business has been unparalled and he leaves 
with our thanks and very best wishes.
Duncan Magrath leaves the Group in  
May 2015, after seven years as Chief 
Financial Officer. He steps down with the 
Board’s best wishes and I add my personal 
thanks to Duncan for the huge personal 
commitment he has made to the Group 
during the last year in particular.
We are very pleased to welcome Philip 
Harrison who will be joining the Board as 
the new Chief Financial Officer. Philip is 
currently CFO of Hogg Robinson Group, 
and prior to that was CFO of VT Group.
Balfour Beatty’s future
The Group has been significantly 
simplified and refocused. At its heart  
is an Anglo-American construction and 
construction services presence with 
strong local market positions and deep 
engineering expertise. The Group has 
further construction capability through  
its South East Asia and Middle East  
joint ventures. Following the sale of PB, 
the Group has a strong balance sheet, 
underpinned by the valuable Investments 
business and the benefits it provides 
across the Group. 
A new executive team and a refreshed 
Board is now substantially in place and 
they have the privilege of taking Balfour 
Beatty forward to its next chapter.
Steve Marshall
Chairman
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 5 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Build to Last:  
 transforming the business
Balfour Beatty’s underlying 
performance has been declining 
since 2010, with the sharpest  
and most noticeable decline 
occurring over the last 12 months. 
This has been caused not only  
by the significant operational 
issues impacting the UK 
construction business over the 
last two years, but also because 
the cost base of the Group is too 
high. There have been significant 
working capital outflows since 
2009. This trajectory has made  
it imperative to identify and 
address the key issues rapidly,  
in order to begin at once to 
restore the Group to strength.
Understanding the problems
Over the last few months,  
independent reviews have been  
underway on operations that account  
for 70% of the Group by turnover and  
the remainder should be underway  
by the end of the summer. Already  
it is clear from the outputs – as well  
as from wide-ranging discussions with  
senior operational leaders – that the root 
cause lies in the Group’s rapid fourfold 
revenue expansion since 2000, largely  
by acquisitions which were insufficiently 
integrated. This resulted in an overly 
complex, devolved organisation with  
poor controls and weak disciplines  
in cost control and project bidding. 
Following a major industry downturn, the 
UK construction business was extensively 
restructured in successive waves and 
began to exhibit serious project issues 
which, together with other factors, 
resulted in substantial operating losses  
for the Group. The cost base remains  
too high, with Group-wide overheads 
approximately 1% of revenue above 
industry benchmarks.
Importantly, however, the Group retains 
many core strengths: a strong brand and 
reputation underpinned by market-leading 
and innovative engineering capability, 
deep customer relationships as 
demonstrated by important recent 
contract awards, geographic span and 
scale, and the commitment of a talented 
and dedicated workforce. The business 
model also balances Construction 
Services and Support Services with a 
successful Infrastructure Investments 
business which will continue to create 
significant value. This Investments 
business provides an important anchor  
to the Group’s balance sheet and profits, 
while creating real and substantial 
opportunities for the Construction 
Services operations in the UK and North 
America and Support Services in the UK.
Although the majority of legacy problem 
contracts should be completed during the 
current year, major challenges remain and 
the cultural transformation will take longer. 
The key is that we have made a good start 
and our transformation programme, called 
Build to Last, is gaining rapid traction.
Build to Last
In mid February 2015 the Group  
launched its Build to Last programme.  
This is designed to address the Group’s 
performance as it affects all stakeholders 
– customers and supply chain, employees 
and subcontractors, investors and 
communities – by driving continuous, 
measurable improvement against  
four goals: Lean, Expert, Trusted, Safe.
Lean
Deliver rapid performance improvement 
by strengthening operational and financial 
controls, and transparency and simplifying 
the organisation with detailed indirect cost 
reduction plans, plus the launch of the My 
Contribution productivity initiative across 
the whole organisation. Similarly, apply 
these processes to lean out delivery for our 
customers of our value added capability, 
eliminating waste (Zero Waste) in scheduling 
and materials. Metric: operating profit and 
operating cash generation. 
Expert
Customers value our engineering,  
design and delivery capability. We will 
attract, retain and develop key employees 
and subcontractors in an increasingly 
competitive environment by investing  
in training and talent to enhance the  
Group’s engineering, design and project 
management and delivery capability. 
Metric: annual engagement survey and 
employee retention. 
Trusted 
Deliver on our promises through 
strengthening the successful execution  
of projects and services through 
disciplined stage-gated bidding, 
contracting and risk review processes. 
Metric: customer satisfaction. 
Safe
Nothing is more important. If we are  
not safe we are not in business. Safety  
is a non-negotiable licence to operate  
– at all levels and for all employees, 
subcontractors, customers and 
communities. Metric: Zero Harm.
 Read more on p10
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
6 Initial phase – self-help
Over the next two years we should work 
through the severe legacy of “problem” 
construction projects. However, in tackling 
the cultural change required to ensure 
these issues are behind us, we face major 
short-term challenges. The key is that we 
are determined to address this through 
self-help. Our transformation programme, 
Build to Last, is gaining rapid traction and 
we are driving initial improvements of 
£200 million cash in, £100 million cost  
out over 24 months. In addition, our 
Investments portfolio will provide the 
financial flexibility of both reliable income 
and the sale of maturing assets into a 
strong market.
To maintain balance sheet strength 
throughout this period, we have already 
cancelled the share buyback and rephased 
our pension fund payments with the 
support of the Trustee. We have also 
decided not to recommend a final dividend 
this year, but expect to reinstate the 
dividend at an appropriate level by  
March 2016.
Over time the aim is to bring each 
business unit to sustainable industry-
standard performance in what appears  
to be a beneficial market environment, 
creating substantial value for the  
Group’s shareholders.
Actions underway
Successfully delivering the Build to Last 
goals will require leadership, rigorous 
implementation and intensive focus  
on disciplined contracting processes.  
A programme office has been set up  
with UK and US workstreams and a 
benefits tracking system. Following the 
announcements of a new Chairman,  
Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer to strengthen the Board, new 
senior appointments include global leaders 
for IT, commercial and project execution, 
and business process re-engineering.  
In addition, senior leadership within the  
UK Regional and Engineering Services 
businesses will be strengthened by the 
appointment of a new chief operating 
officer. All senior management incentives 
have been matched to key programme 
goals. The Group-wide cash generation 
drive has been rolled out with planning  
and training to project level. In the UK, 
enabling functions – those not related to 
front-line delivery – are being consolidated 
to remove duplication and improve 
efficiency, to deliver significant cost 
takeout. The Group’s property portfolio  
is being streamlined to reduce overheads 
and detailed procurement initiatives, 
commencing with key suppliers and areas 
of direct and indirect spend, will deliver 
meaningful and growing savings. 
All of this demonstrates the scale of 
opportunity to drive major near-term 
improvements in cash generation and 
profitability. At the same time, Build to 
Last is also about relentlessly holding 
course. The objective is to shape a  
Group leading in its core markets and 
“The Build to Last 
programme is designed 
to ensure that Balfour 
Beatty can also build to 
last for itself, starting 
with the right 
foundations.”
differentiated by best-in-class expertise,  
a lean innovative supply chain and robust 
execution. For over 100 years – and 
throughout all of its recent problems – 
Balfour Beatty has been delivering  
major projects for its customers and 
communities – lasting infrastructure that 
shapes and improves people’s daily lives. 
The Build to Last programme is designed  
to ensure that Balfour Beatty can also 
build to last for itself, starting with the 
right foundations.
I remain convinced that all our operations 
can achieve industry-standard performance 
as markets improve. The real prize is a 
sustainable return to profitable growth, 
built on the Group’s unique capabilities but 
underpinned by leaner, stronger processes 
and flawless execution.
Longer term we want to make Balfour 
Beatty a leader in its core markets, 
delivering superior returns to the  
benefit of our customers, employees  
and shareholders.
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive
 “The Investments portfolio 
provides an important 
anchor to the Group’s 
balance sheet and profits.”
 Read more on p27
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 7 Cross-selling across customer base
Knowledge transfer
Higher margin contracts
Asset management expertise
Higher margin contracts
Construction delivery expertise
Balance to negative
working capital
Cash ﬂow to invest
Balance to negative
working capital
Cash ﬂow to invest
CONSTRUCTION
 
SERVICES
 Read more on p22 Read more on p18
SUPPORT
 
SERVICES
INFRASTRUCTURE 
INVESTMENTS
CUSTOMERS
Contracts
Key:
 
Business divisions
Operational beneﬁts
Financial beneﬁts
 
 
 
Read more on p24
Contracts
Contracts
BUSINESS MODEL
Combining engineering 
expertise with our  
investments capability
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
8  Read more on p10
Our metrics reflect our 
strategic priorities: Lean, 
Expert, Trusted and Safe.
 Read more on p10
The contracting businesses and 
the Infrastructure Investments 
business derive operational and 
financial benefits from each other. 
The strategic value and benefits 
from owning the Infrastructure 
Investments business – both the 
portfolio itself and the skilled 
team that operates and develops 
the business – is material to 
Balfour Beatty as a whole and  
is how the business generates 
real long-term value. 
Operational benefits
The Group’s Construction Services and 
Support Services businesses derive real 
value from the Investments business, 
because the investments projects  
provide valuable work. 
Support Services’ asset management 
expertise and the construction 
businesses’ construction delivery 
expertise optimise lifecycle costs,  
improve the success rate and mitigate  
risk within the Investments business.
Our Construction Services and Support 
Services businesses gain from each 
other’s operational knowledge and 
cross-sell to the same customer base. 
Financial benefits
The Group is able to manage its balance 
sheet through the business cycle by 
flexing the level of disposals and 
investments made by the Investments 
business. We reinvest cash generated by 
the Construction Services and Support 
Services businesses to deliver further 
contract revenues.
Furthermore, the Investments portfolio 
balances negative working capital within 
the contracting businesses and generates 
returns in its own right.
The markets we serve
• We offer services to develop and 
finance, construct, manage and 
maintain essential infrastructure assets
• We operate predominantly in the UK 
and North America, as well as in parts 
of South East Asia and the Middle East
• Our customers are government 
departments and agencies, regulated 
utilities and private sector organisations.
How we compete
• Our engineering expertise, supported 
by our scale and balance sheet, allows 
us to deliver the most complex and 
large-scale infrastructure projects
• We combine this ability to deliver major 
projects with our local presence and a 
strong connection to local customers 
and suppliers
• The combination of world-class 
investments capability and leading 
construction and support services 
activities gives us a deep understanding 
of how to develop and maintain 
essential infrastructure assets
• Safety, sustainability and ethics are the 
bedrock of our business and our licence 
to operate.
Our strategic priorities
• Lean – improve operational performance 
by increasing productivity and  
cash generation
• Expert – invest to attract, retain  
and develop the best employee and 
subcontractor talent
• Trusted – deliver value to customers 
through disciplined contracting 
processes
• Safe – continue to show leadership  
in safety through Zero Harm for our 
people, customers and communities.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 9 Deliver value to customers
Strengthen the successful execution of projects and 
services through disciplined stage-gated bidding, 
contracting and risk review processes.
3
OUR PRIORITIES
Bringing each business  
 unit to industry-standard  
 p erf o r m an c e l e v el s
Our vision is to be a world-class 
infrastructure business with 
leading positions in the UK, US, 
Middle East and South East Asia.
Poor operational performance,  
as identified by KPMG and our 
own analysis, has resulted in poor 
financial results and demands 
rapid action. 
We will seek to deliver value  
for our shareholders by restoring 
operational effectiveness and 
ensuring profit is backed by cash.
Build to Last
Our business transformation programme, 
Build to Last, will drive continual 
improvement across our businesses,  
and build a global Group which generates 
substantial shareholder value and 
maximises returns by optimising the value 
of an integrated Balfour Beatty. In its initial 
phase, Build to Last will target bringing 
each business unit to industry-standard 
performance levels by focusing on four 
key areas: Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe. 
Our new metrics reflect these priorities.
Improve operational performance 
and cost efficiency
Deliver rapid performance improvement by: 
• strengthening financial controls and transparency 
• simplifying the organisation
• reducing indirect costs
• ensuring profit is backed by cash
• increasing productivity. 
Our strategic priorities
1
Continue to show leadership 
in safety 
Prioritise safety at all levels and for all employees, 
subcontractors, customers and communities. 
4
To be an employer of choice that 
attracts and develops top talent
Ensure the attraction, retention and development  
of key employees and subcontractors by investing  
in training and talent to enhance engineering,  
project management and delivery capability.
2
LEAN
EXPERT
TRUSTED
SAFE
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
10 • There is no overall measure of customer 
satisfaction, however some areas of the 
Group do measure this. We are looking 
to introduce standardised customer 
metrics across all our businesses  
in the future.  
Mitigating risk
The gateway reviews within the Group’s 
new risk framework are designed to 
ensure projects are delivered efficiently.
4 out of 5
Average customer  
satisfaction rating
• Embarked on a cost reduction exercise 
in UK construction. This initiative has 
now been broadened into a Group-wide 
plan targeting £100 million of overhead 
and procurement cost savings over the 
next 24 months
• Took actions to improve gross margins 
in UK construction through more 
selective work winning and delivery 
improvements (recently reinforced 
through KPMG findings)
• Refer to the Chief Financial Officer’s 
Review on page 16 for information 
about 2014 cash performance
• Since the end of 2014 we have initiated  
a programme targeting a £200 million 
improvement in operating cash flow 
over the next 24 months.
Mitigating risk  
Common minimum standards ensure  
the business gains from performance 
opportunities and cost efficiencies.
Our performance Our KPIs
3.3%
Gross margin (2013: 6.4%)
1
6.2%
Overhead (2013: 6.5%)
2
-£327m 
Cumulative operating cash flows
3
 
(2013–2014)
• Changed our primary lagging indicator 
of health and safety performance  
from Accident Frequency Rate to  
Lost Time Injury Rate, which is  
a more thorough indicator.
 Read more on p36
Mitigating risk
All employees and subcontractors work  
to the challenging safety requirements  
of our Zero Harm goal. The Global Safety 
Principles define the way we work.
0.27
Lost Time Injury Rate
• Granted £4.4 million of government 
funding for a Balfour Beatty Academy  
to further develop the leadership and 
technical skills of our workforce.  
Over the next three years, over 2,000  
of our employees will benefit from  
the Employer Ownership Skills  
Funding Scheme
 Read more on p37
• We are committed to the 5% Club 
with an objective that 5% of our  
UK workforce will be graduates or 
apprentices in structured training 
programmes in the next four years.
Mitigating risk 
Appropriate remuneration and incentive 
policies are in place. The business 
provides structured training and key  
role succession planning.
72%
Average employee 
satisfaction
1  Gross profit from continuing operations before non-underlying items as a percentage of Group revenue from continuing  
operations before non-underlying items.
2  Other net operating expenses from continuing operations before non-underlying items as a percentage of Group revenue  
from continuing operations before non-underlying items.
3 Cash used in continuing operations before non-underlying items and taxation.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 11 MARKET OVERVIEW
Construction markets are 
recovering. Long term drivers 
for infrastructure remain sound
The outlook for global growth is 
improving and the construction 
sector, a late cycle sector,  
is seeing growing pipelines. 
However, margins remain under 
pressure from recessionary order 
books and rising input prices. 
We believe the long-term drivers for 
infrastructure remain sound – ageing 
transport, water and energy networks in 
developed countries, and population and 
economic growth in the developing world 
– necessitating ongoing investment. 
UK
As the UK economy recovers, greater 
confidence in the private sector is driving  
a stronger pipeline of commercial and 
industrial projects. Commercial building 
was up 10% compared to 2013 and other 
select building segments, such as student 
accommodation, are increasingly active. 
In contrast, fiscal austerity continues to 
weigh heavily on health, education and 
civic building projects, with volumes 
declining slightly in 2014. Further, the 
increased volumes in housing and private 
building have put pressure on input costs.
In infrastructure, UK election uncertainty 
could limit new large projects in the  
short term, and competition is keen for 
smaller projects. Nonetheless, the UK 
Construction Purchasing Managers’ Index 
improved significantly through 2014 
(Figure 1), demonstrating long-term 
industry confidence. The Construction 
Products Association forecasts 9% 
annualised growth to 2018.
In roads and rail, orders across the industry 
were down year-on-year, as most existing 
large projects, such as Crossrail, approach 
completion and new major projects such 
as HS2 have not yet started. However,  
the Group’s position on several Network 
Rail alliances for the current regulatory 
period will provide a good baseload of 
work. The business is well placed to 
benefit from investment on the back of  
the Highways Agency’s investment plan 
and through large rail projects such as 
HS2, EWR and Crossrail 2.
In local authority roads, despite pressure  
on revenue budgets, growth will be driven 
by the need for customers to lower costs 
and improve service delivery through 
outsourcing, while investing in  
economic regeneration.
In water, the Group is entering a new  
AMP cycle with an increased order book, 
having secured positions on frameworks 
for existing customers and extended its 
relationship with Thames Water, and 
anticipates stable demand. In gas, having 
secured a position on two key framework 
contracts with National Grid and gained 
market share, the business anticipates 
stable conditions over the current 
regulatory cycle and beyond. 
In power, the urgent need for new nuclear, 
thermal and renewable energy capacity,  
as well as increased levels of wind 
generation, especially offshore, will drive 
investment in the transmission network. 
Balfour Beatty is well placed to benefit 
from both areas and, although the market 
is currently being held back by political 
uncertainty, policy should crystallise  
soon after the election.
US
In the US the building market is making  
a steady recovery, with output up by  
7% in 2014. Indicators such as the ENR 
Construction Industry Confidence Index 
and the Architecture Billings Index  
(Figure 2) show increased confidence  
and that building pipelines are growing.
The private sector has been resurrecting 
stalled projects and there has been  
a sharp increase in private building 
pipelines. The industrial and manufacturing 
sectors are benefiting from the fall in  
oil prices, although some uncertainty 
surrounds the potential impact of this  
on oil-producing regions. Public building 
remains relatively depressed, largely  
due to low government spending.
At the same time, global uncertainty, 
volatile resource prices and low public 
spending continue to weigh on confidence 
and competition remains strong. 
In infrastructure, highway investment  
has been flat, and uncertainty over 
MAP-21 funding is constraining the 
market, although rail has fared better.  
The US water market declined by 6%  
in 2014 due to fiscal constraints. Despite 
funding uncertainty, the clear need to 
invest in US infrastructure is gaining 
political importance. The business 
continues to see growing use of design-
build and PPP and is investing to take 
advantage of this as a differentiator  
and means to add more value for  
its customers.
1 4
2
3
1
3
4
2
Revenue split by sector for UK
Revenue split by sector for US
1. Buildings
2. Transport
3. Utilities
4. Other
1. Buildings
2. Transport
3. Utilities
4. Other
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
12 South East Asia and the Middle East
In Hong Kong, the market has been steady, 
with construction output up over the last 
year. Although delays in the legislative 
process to approve public projects pose 
some risk to market volumes in the short 
to medium term, government investment 
in roads and rail, and continued private 
sector confidence, are helping maintain 
healthy pipelines for Gammon, Balfour 
Beatty’s joint venture in the region.  
The business expects to continue to 
benefit from economic growth across 
South East Asia.
In the Middle East, the United Arab 
Emirates felt the impact of the global 
financial crisis, which depressed developer 
confidence. That confidence has started  
to return, with a significant increase in the 
pipeline over the last 12 months; but it is 
too soon to gauge the potential dampening 
effect of the recent fall in oil prices.
Infrastructure Investments
The UK continues to generate a steady 
stream of economic infrastructure 
opportunities, primarily in power 
transmission, energy from waste and 
transport. In social infrastructure, as the 
pipeline of health and education PPP 
projects continues to decline, the Group’s 
Investments business is now successfully 
targeting the growing residential sector, 
particularly student accommodation.
In North America, the US PPP market is 
highly fragmented with legislation, funding 
methods and politics unique to each state 
and municipality. Nonetheless there is  
a strong pipeline of social infrastructure 
projects in student accommodation and 
multifamily housing projects, which  
the US business is well placed to address 
due to its platform in military housing  
PPP, as well as growth in transport and 
other social infrastructure. In addition,  
the business has now successfully 
entered the Canadian health market, 
which represents a future growth area.
Investments business 
continues to take advantage 
of economic and social 
infrastructure opportunities 
in the UK and North America.
 Read more on p24
Figure 2: American Institute of Architects, US Architecture Billings Index (ABI)
The leading indicator for the US building market remained positive throughout 2014
Figure 1: Markit/CIPS, UK Construction Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI)
The UK Construction PMI grew strongly through 2014, showing industry confidence
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
PMI, Commercial Building (12-month average) PMI, Civil Engineering (12-month average)
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
ABI, Non-Res Building (12-month average)
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 13 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW
Disappointing financial  
 performance in 2014
2014 was clearly a very difficult 
year for the Group with the 
impact of poor operational and 
commercial controls in UK 
construction leading to a very 
disappointing total loss from 
continuing operations of  
£281 million. 
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Given the events that have occurred in the 
year, the financial statements somewhat 
inevitably are challenging to interpret, and 
do take some explanation. The key issues 
to consider when reading the accounts  
are the treatment of:
• discontinued businesses – the disposals 
of Parsons Brinckerhoff (PB) (completed 
October 2014), Rail Scandinavia 
(completed January 2014) and Rail Italy 
(completed March 2015)
• Rail Germany – partial disposals were 
agreed in August 2013 and November 
2014. While the remaining businesses 
are in the process of being sold, their 
trading will be shown in non-underlying 
items, within continuing operations
• legacy Engineering Services (ES) 
contracts – certain contracts were bid 
into the external market in London and 
the South West where losses are of 
such a size and nature that they have 
been separately disclosed in non-
underlying items. Tendering into these 
markets has been stopped, and the 
relevant management has left.
The results of a review by KPMG into the 
losses in UK construction were announced 
in January 2015. The findings and actions 
arising from it are dealt with in the 
Construction Services performance 
review on page 19 and are not repeated 
here, although clearly, the write-downs 
resulting from the failure to apply control 
processes properly have had a significant 
impact on the results for the year.
Given the scale of the losses incurred in 
2014, consideration has been given as to 
whether any of the losses incurred in 2014 
should have been identified and accounted 
for in previous periods in accordance with 
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors. Whilst 
all available information may have been 
used in preparing prior period accounts,  
if there were errors in the information itself, 
this could lead to an error that requires 
adjustment. This could be a mathematical 
error in the preparation of the information 
or indeed an assumption that was so 
optimistic that another reasonable person 
would not have arrived at the same figure. 
If this was the case, the outturn margin 
expectation should have been adjusted at 
the time, and if the error was of sufficient 
size, could have resulted in an end loss 
position being booked at that time. On the 
other hand, you do not simply use hindsight, 
so events that have subsequently occurred, 
such as price inflation or subcontractor 
failure, which could not have been 
reasonably forecast at the time, do not 
constitute an error which requires 
adjustment and are instead changes in 
estimate at the point in time that the event 
triggering the change occurred.
The projects on which there was a 
significant deterioration in the end margin 
from tender were examined to identify the 
reasons for the change and to identify the 
time of the root cause for the deterioration.
The results of the exercise showed that  
the vast majority of the losses were  
due to operational issues in 2014, and 
appropriately accounted for in that year, 
and for the year ended 31 December 2013 
the aggregate impact of any errors was 
not material. Accordingly, the 2013 
accounts have not been restated. There 
were, however, certain contracts at  
27 June 2014 where there were errors 
principally due to unrealistic cost and 
scope assumptions. As a consequence 
when we publish our half-year accounts 
for the period ending 26 June 2015 we 
intend to restate the comparatives for  
the half-year ended 27 June 2014, to 
reduce the profits from UK construction  
by £16 million.
Underlying items
Underlying revenue from continuing 
operations including joint ventures and 
associates was broadly in line with last 
year at £8,440 million (2013: £8,478 million). 
At constant exchange rates revenue 
increased by 2%. Revenue was broadly 
flat across the divisions. 
In Construction Services, flat revenue  
at actual exchange rates included a 
reduction of 5% in the UK offset by a 27% 
increase in the South East Asia and Middle 
East joint ventures. At constant exchange 
rates revenue growth in the US was 5%.
The Group’s share of underlying post-tax 
profits from continuing joint ventures and 
associates reduced to £55 million from 
£71 million in 2013, principally due to a 
poor performance from the mechanical 
and electrical engineering business in  
the Middle East.
The loss from continuing operations 
before non-underlying items was  
£58 million (2013: profit £146 million),  
with losses in Construction Services  
of £209 million (2013: profit £18 million) 
reflecting a very poor performance  
from UK construction, offsetting good 
underlying performances in Support 
Services of £50 million (2013: £55 million) 
and Investments of £127 million (2013:  
£102 million) which included disposal 
gains of £93 million (2013: £82 million).
Net underlying finance costs of £22 million 
increased by £7 million (2013: £15 million) 
due to a £10 million increase in finance 
charges resulting from the convertible 
bonds issued in December 2013 and a  
£7 million increase in pension net interest 
expense, offset by a £6 million reduction  
in interest on bank loans and overdrafts 
and a £4 million increase in subordinated 
debt interest receivable.
Underlying pre-tax loss from continuing 
operations was £80 million (2013: profit 
£131 million).
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
14 “Despite the 
write-downs, the Group 
ended the year with a 
strong balance sheet 
showing net assets up 
from £1.0bn to £1.2bn.”
Duncan Magrath
Chief Financial Officer
Discontinued operations
Post-tax profit from discontinued 
operations of £242 million (2013: £18 million) 
includes a gain on the disposal of PB  
of £234 million. Following shareholder 
approval on 28 October 2014, completion  
of the disposal of PB occurred on  
31 October 2014 for an agreed cash 
consideration of £812 million which 
generated a gain on disposal of £468 
million, or £234 million after writing off 
goodwill and other intangible assets and 
incurring £24 million of separation costs 
and £45 million of transaction costs. PB 
contributed £38 million of pre-tax trading 
profits to the date of disposal. £26 million 
of charges were booked in respect of 
goodwill and other asset impairments  
in respect of Rail Italy. 
Overall result for the year
The results, including both underlying  
and non-underlying items for continuing 
and discontinued operations, show a  
total reported loss of £59 million  
(2013: £35 million). 
Earnings per share
Underlying loss per share from continuing 
operations was 11.5p (2013: earnings 
15.3p), which along with underlying 
earnings per share from discontinued 
operations of 3.5p (2013: 6.2p), gave  
an underlying loss per share for total 
operations of 8.0p (2013: earnings 21.5p). 
Total loss per ordinary share was 8.6p 
(2013: 5.1p).
Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items for continuing 
operations comprise pre-tax losses of 
£224 million (2013: £180 million). These 
include £88 million of losses on certain 
legacy ES contracts, £23 million of trading 
losses in Rail Germany and £30 million  
of non-cash asset impairments in Rail 
Germany. Intangible asset amortisation 
reduced to £11 million (2013: £17 million) 
as assets became fully written down, and 
there were £7 million of costs associated 
with the aborted merger discussions  
with Carillion plc. Following a decision  
in January 2015 to focus the rollout  
of Oracle R12 into UK construction  
in 2015 and the closing down of the 
implementation team for Support Services, 
a non-cash impairment for costs related  
to continuing Support Services operations 
of £21 million was incurred. Other items 
totalling £44 million include £23 million 
restructuring and reorganisation costs and 
£14 million cost of implementing the UK 
shared service centre (2013: £7 million).
Continuing operations 
Operating loss from continuing  
operations for the year was £281 million 
(2013: £33 million). 
Taxation
The underlying tax credit for continuing 
operations for the year of £2 million  
(2013: £28 million charge), excluding the 
Group’s share of results of joint ventures 
and associates, equates to an effective  
tax rate of 1.5% (2013: 46.7%). This 
represents a tax credit on a loss before  
tax. The rate of credit is lower than the UK 
statutory rate, principally due to significant 
non-recognition of deferred tax assets  
on losses incurred in the year. In 2013,  
the rate of 46.7% (tax charge on a profit) 
was higher than the UK statutory rate 
principally due to writing down deferred 
tax balances following the reduction in  
the UK corporation tax rate to 20% and  
the proportion of profits in higher tax 
jurisdictions, offset by the benefit of the 
profit from non-taxable investment sales.
Dividends
Whilst the Board continues to recognise  
the importance of the dividend to its 
shareholders, in order to ensure balance 
sheet strength is maintained during the 
transformation programme, it will not be 
recommending a final dividend payable for 
2014. This results in a total dividend for the 
year of 5.6p (2013: 14.1p). The Board will 
look to reinstate the dividend payments  
at an appropriate level by March 2016.
Goodwill and intangible assets
The goodwill on the Group’s balance  
sheet at 31 December 2014 decreased  
by £222 million to £826 million  
(2013: £1,048 million), with a reduction  
of £227 million due to the disposal of PB.  
A further £24 million reduction resulted 
from reviewing the sale proceeds 
achievable for Rail Italy, and as a 
consequence writing down its  
goodwill to £nil. 
Other intangible assets increased  
to £216 million (2013: £204 million). 
Additions in the year included £28 million  
in Infrastructure Investments from the 
continuing construction of Edinburgh 
student accommodation, and £35 million of 
software. Amortisation charges decreased 
to £25 million (2013: £35 million), however 
there were impairment charges of  
£27 million as a result of focusing the 
Oracle R12 rollout on the UK construction 
business only, and stopping the rollout  
to Support Services.
Results for the year 2014 2013
Revenue from continuing operations,  
including joint ventures and associates
– underlying £8,440m £8,478m
– reported £8,793m £8,852m
Pre-tax (loss)/profit from continuing operations
– underlying £(80)m £131m
– reported £(304)m £(49)m
Post-tax profit from discontinued operations
– underlying £24m £44m
– reported £242m £18m
(Loss)/earnings per share
– underlying (8.0)p 21.5p
– basic (8.6)p (5.1)p
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 15 Impairment reviews have been carried out, 
and none of the carrying values, other than 
noted above, have been impaired. There  
is however limited headroom in the US 
construction business and in Blackpool 
Airport such that a change in assumptions 
could result in an impairment.
Pensions – balance sheet movement
The Group’s balance sheet includes 
aggregate deficits of £128 million  
(2013: £434 million) for the Group’s 
pension schemes. 
The Group recorded net actuarial gains  
on those schemes totalling £237 million 
(2013: £117 million). There were £337 
million (2013: £73 million) of actuarial 
losses recorded on the present value of 
the obligations, largely resulting from the 
effects of lower discount rates. However, 
these losses were more than offset by  
an excellent performance on the asset 
portfolio, particularly benefiting from  
the bonds and gilts and interest rate and 
inflation hedges, resulting in actuarial gains 
of £574 million (2013: losses £44 million). 
A formal triennial funding valuation of the 
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF) was 
carried out as at 31 March 2013 and 
showed a funding position of 88%. 
Agreement has been reached to make two 
sets of additional deficit contributions to 
the BBPF. Firstly, in respect of the disposal 
of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace in December 
2013, a £15 million contribution payable  
in monthly instalments during 2015. 
Secondly, in respect of the sale of PB in 
October 2014, an £85 million contribution. 
Subject to definitive documentation, this 
will be payable over the period to 2023, 
with the first payment of £4 million due  
in 2016.
Balance sheet and capital structure
The Group looks to achieve a balance 
between the favourable/negative working 
capital, liquid funds and facilities and the 
Investments portfolio. During 2014 there 
was, as anticipated, a reduction in negative 
working capital in the first half of the year, 
with a small improvement before the 
impact of year end contract write-downs. 
In the second half, there was an increase 
in negative working capital in Construction 
Services. Liquid funds were significantly 
boosted by the sale of PB. The Directors’ 
valuation of the Investments portfolio 
increased to £1,300 million, despite  
the continuing asset sales. Overall the 
Group finished the year with a strong 
balance sheet.
Cash flow performance
Total cash used in operations was 
£352 million (2013: £162 million), before tax. 
£114 million was due to non-underlying 
items including the outflows from certain 
ES legacy contracts and Rail Germany.  
£46 million arose in discontinued 
businesses which saw a £95 million 
working capital outflow, principally due  
to PB’s trading flows up to the end of 
October not benefiting from the usual 
improvement that is seen by the end  
of the year. Cash used in underlying 
operations was £192 million, after a 
working capital inflow of £26 million.
Average net borrowings in the second half 
of the year were £318 million, although 
with the sale of PB on 31 October, and  
a strong cash performance at the end of  
the year, the Group’s net cash position  
at 31 December 2014 was £219 million 
(2013: net debt £66 million), excluding  
net cash in discontinued operations  
of £15 million (2013: £19 million) and  
£445 million (2013: £354 million) of 
non-recourse net borrowings held in 
wholly owned infrastructure concessions. 
The balance sheet also includes £96 million 
for the liability component of the 
preference shares.
Working capital
Including the impact of exchange, 
favourable/negative working capital 
increased from £550 million at the end of 
2013 to £731 million at the end of 2014. 
This was impacted by the disposal of PB 
which had £112 million of unfavourable/
positive working capital at the end of 2013, 
which was effectively crystallised in cash  
on disposal. Construction Services’ 
negative working capital increased by 
£93 million in the year. In the US 
construction business working capital  
has remained relatively stable for the last 
couple of years, and should benefit from 
revenue growth going forwards. In the  
UK construction business working capital 
became less favourable, as anticipated, 
however this was offset at the end of the 
year by additional cost estimates and risk 
contingencies on a number of contracts.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Maintaining strength
1
 Directors’ valuation of Investments portfolio.
2
 Excluding net debt of infrastructure concessions (non-recourse).
3
 Aggregate of Directors’ valuation of Investments portfolio, net cash/(debt) and working capital.
£(1,000)m
£(1,400)m
£(200)m
£(600)m
£600m
£200m
£0m
£1,400m
£1,000m
Dec
2009
Jun
2010
Dec
2010
Jun
2011
Dec
2011
Jun
2012
Dec
2012
Jun
2013
Dec
2013
Dec
2014
Jun
2014
DV of investments
1
Working capital Net cash/(debt)
2
Net aggregate
3
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
16 Total working capital as a percentage of 
annualised revenue (WCPR) at the end of 
the year was (9.9)% (2013: (8.5)%). The 
most significant component of negative 
working capital relates to Construction 
Services, which ended the year with 
WCPR of (12.2)% (2013: (9.7)%).
In 2015, the Group is targeting an 
improvement in the favourable working 
capital position from the impact of working 
capital improvement initiatives under Build 
to Last, once the impact of the additional 
cost provisions has flowed through. The 
Group continues to monitor developments 
in the UK on both project bank accounts,  
in which it had £17 million of cash at year 
end, and potential changes in legislation 
regarding payment terms.
Banking facilities
The Group’s principal committed bank 
facilities total £760 million and extend 
through to 2016. They were reduced from 
£950 million in the year following the 
receipt of proceeds from the sale of PB. 
The purpose of these facilities, and other 
small facilities, is to provide liquidity from a 
group of core relationship banks to support 
Balfour Beatty in its current and future 
activities. Over time, as the Group’s 
business has evolved and particularly 
reflecting the long-term nature of the 
Investments portfolio, the Group diversified 
its sources of funds away from the shorter 
term bank market through the issue of 
US$350 million of US private placement 
notes in March 2013 with maturities up  
to 2025, and £253 million of unsecured 
convertible bonds in November 2013  
with December 2018 maturity.
At 31 December 2014, the Group’s  
£760 million of committed bank facilities 
were undrawn. 
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency 
risk primarily in the US, Asia-Pacific and 
the Middle East, although this is now 
significantly reduced following the sale of 
PB. The average exchange rate for 2014 
was US$1.65:£1 (2013: US$1.57: £1). 
Sterling steadily weakened from the 
middle of the year, and ended the year 
with a closing rate of US$1.56:£1  
(2013: US$1.65:£1).
Financial risk factors and going 
concern 
The key financial risk factors for the Group, 
other than the reduced foreign currency  
risk noted above, remain largely 
unchanged, although following the sale  
of PB, its operations are significantly less 
diversified. Some elements of the Group’s 
markets are recovering, and this can lead 
to increased risk of subcontractor failures, 
due to their cash requirements for 
increased working capital, and also the 
potential for inflationary pressures in some 
areas. On the other hand this should also 
reduce pressure on bidding margins.
The Group’s US private placement and 
committed bank facilities contain certain 
financial covenants, such as the ratio of 
the Group’s EBITDA to its net debt which 
needs to be less than 3.0 and the ratio of 
its EBITA to net borrowing costs which 
needs to be in excess of 3.0. These 
covenants are tested on a rolling 12-month 
basis as at the June and December 
reporting dates. At 31 December 2014, 
both these covenant tests were passed as 
the Group had net cash and net interest 
income from a covenant test perspective, 
so the Group’s poor trading performance 
and consequent low level of EBIT had no 
impact on these tests. 
The Group is forecasting to remain within 
its banking covenants during 2015 and  
has stress-tested these calculations for 
reasonable possible adverse variances  
in trading and cash performance. The 
significant losses incurred in the second 
half of 2014 will be included in the 
12-month EBIT for the purpose of the 
covenant tests at June 2015, which will 
reduce headroom particularly on the 
EBITDA to net debt test. In considering 
that forecast, account was taken of the 
range of mitigating actions to conserve 
and generate cash and EBIT. While 
recognising that there can be no absolute 
certainty, the Directors believe that these 
covenant tests will be met. 
The Directors have acknowledged the 
guidance ‘Going Concern and Liquidity 
Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK 
Companies 2009’ published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 
2009. In reviewing the future prospects  
of the Group, the following factors  
are relevant:
• the Group has a strong order backlog 
• there continues to be underlying 
demand in infrastructure markets in the 
countries in which the Group operates
• the Group had net cash balances of 
£219 million at 31 December 2014  
and has committed bank facilities of 
£760 million lasting until November 
2016, which were undrawn at  
31 December 2014
• the Group had an Investments  
portfolio valued at £1,300 million  
at 31 December 2014.
Based on the above, and having made 
appropriate enquiries and reviewed 
medium-term cash forecasts, the Directors 
consider it reasonable to assume that the 
Group and the Company have adequate 
resources to continue for the foreseeable 
future and, for this reason, have continued 
to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
To appreciate the prospects for the Group 
as a whole, the complete Annual Report 
and Accounts 2014 needs to be read. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17 CONSTRUCTION SERVICES
Very poor performance 
caused by UK construction 
contract issues
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Construction Services’ performance 
reflects the significant impact of  
project losses, primarily due to poor 
operational and commercial controls  
in the UK business, leading to a  
very disappointing total loss from 
continuing operations of £391 million 
(2013: £103 million).
In the UK, certain legacy Engineering 
Services (ES) contracts, where there  
has been poor legacy management and  
in regions, such as London and the South 
West, where ES has withdrawn from 
tendering for third-party work due to the 
problematic delivery of these contracts, 
contributed £62 million to Group revenue 
whilst generating losses of £88 million 
(2013: £nil). The results of these contracts 
have been classified as non-underlying 
items as the exceptional size and nature  
of the losses distort the underlying 
performance of the Group. The prior  
year comparatives have been restated 
accordingly and future performance on 
these contracts (including any claims 
recovery) will be presented in non-
underlying items through to their 
completion. As a result, the 2014 
underlying loss from operations for 
Construction Services was £209 million 
(2013: profit £18 million). Included within 
this is an underlying loss from the UK 
construction business of £229 million 
(2013: £20 million). 
Underlying revenue from continuing 
operations was flat at £6,597 million 
(2013: £6,594 million). 
The Construction Services order book  
for continuing operations at the end  
of the year stood at £7.9 billion (2013:  
£7.7 billion), up 2% from a year ago, but 
down 3% at constant currency. The order 
book in the UK ended the period at  
£2.6 billion, down 5%.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
UK
The UK construction business is organised 
into three business units consisting of:
• Major Projects: focused on complex 
projects in key market sectors such  
as energy, transportation and  
heavy infrastructure
• Regional: private and public, civil 
engineering and building, providing 
customers with locally delivered,  
flexible and fully integrated civil  
and building services
• Engineering Services: mechanical  
and electrical engineering.
The underlying loss from the UK 
construction business was £229 million 
(2013: £20 million). The total loss from  
the UK construction business after 
including the results of the non-underlying 
ES contracts was £317 million  
(2013: £20 million).
Financial performance was adversely 
impacted by significant operational  
issues in Engineering Services and in the 
Regional business in the London and 
South West regions. The Scottish, and 
North and Midlands regions performed 
well. In Major Projects profitability was 
adversely impacted due to cost forecast 
revisions on two significant projects.  
On one there has been a change of scope, 
but where the commercial resolution is  
yet to be concluded. On the other,  
delays in construction and performance  
of the asset have led to increased costs.
The results include the £70 million  
of contract write-downs announced  
in January 2015 in respect of these 
operational issues, as well as a  
further £118 million of risk provisions 
subsequently assessed by the Board.  
In line with KPMG’s recommendations, 
this assessment was essentially 
completed in two parts: 
Firstly, a detailed review of the  
most significant individual contracts  
was performed, including current 
performance, as part of the normal  
year end procedures with the objective  
of achieving an increased level of 
prudence. Adopting a cautious view,  
this resulted in additional contract risk  
and other provisions of £67 million.  
Of this, £7 million was recorded  
against the legacy ES contracts in 
non-underlying items. 
Secondly, across the remainder of  
the portfolio, and generally covering  
the smaller contracts, a risk-based 
approach was adopted based on recent 
performance of individual delivery units 
and market conditions. This resulted in  
an assessment of additional contract  
risk provisions of £51 million. 
The KPMG review has been an important 
step in understanding the problems  
faced by the business during a period of 
uncertainty. The business is focused on 
actively pursuing recovery of contractual 
entitlements and implementing the 
recommendations in order to return to 
profitability and peer group margins.
Underlying revenue in the UK fell by 6%  
to £2,350 million as increased revenue  
in Major Projects was more than offset  
by reductions of 10% in the Regional 
business and 15% in Engineering Services. 
The Regional and Engineering Services 
order books fell as a result of actions  
taken to refocus the businesses, but  
were partially offset by growth in Major 
Projects. Across the business there has 
been an improvement in the quality of  
new order intake. 
Highlights
• Performance significantly impacted 
by operational issues in the UK and 
Middle East M&E joint venture
• Order book grew 2% during the 
year to £7.9 billion
• KPMG review an important step  
in understanding issues faced by 
the business.
Total revenue
£6,597m
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
18 Key dominant causes
KPMG identified the following dominant 
causes of poor operational performance:
1 .  B i d d i n g – Tendering at very low 
margins with optimistic assumptions 
around cost, programme and 
procurement savings, and inadequate 
provisions for risk. 
2.  Commercial and contract 
management – Insufficient local 
management challenge and review 
of contract performance, failure to 
recover genuine contract entitlement 
due to poor contract administration 
and optimistic assumptions on 
contract penalties.
3.  Accuracy of cost and programme 
forecasting – Insufficient visibility, 
control and understanding on actual 
versus reported contract performance. 
The Group considers insufficient 
visibility on project deterioration was 
compounded by an overly complex 
reorganisation programme in 2012 and 
2013 that led to high levels of employee 
turnover at a time of extremely 
challenging market conditions. 
Scope of review
The review focused on bidding and 
tendering disciplines, commercial 
controls, “cost to complete”, contract 
value forecasting, reporting at  
project level, and project reporting  
and reviewing. 
KPMG reviewed a sample of 127 
projects across the UK construction 
business as at August 2014. The 
selection criteria were:
• a sample consisting of the majority  
of the projects that comprised  
the profit shortfalls announced in 
September and July 2014; 
• a risk-based sample of other projects 
from across Construction Services 
UK which did not form part of the 
profit shortfalls. 
The sample, measured by August  
2014 year to date revenue, covered 
approximately 74% of Engineering 
Services and 58% of Major Projects. 
Across the four Regional business units 
it covered 33% of August 2014 year to 
date revenue in London and the South 
East, 19% of the South West, 12%  
of the North and Midlands and 14% of 
Scotland. Overall the sample comprised 
36% of CSUK’s August 2014 year to 
date revenue.
The majority of the issues highlighted 
are contained within delivery units 
previously identified as having issues: 
Engineering Services, and the London 
(including Major Projects buildings) and 
South West regions of the Regional 
business. These contracts account for 
less than 10% of CSUK’s August 2014 
year to date revenue. 
Actions taken
The Board is acting on the review’s 
recommendations to strengthen project 
performance through:
1.  More rigour in tender assessments 
– Improve tender review processes 
through improved guidance, 
operational inputs, early and ongoing 
risk management assessment, 
additional independent oversight and 
appropriate allocation of resource.  
A review of a sample of recently bid 
contracts shows a tightening up of 
tender processes but also shows  
that further standardisation of the 
bidding process is required. 
2.  Improve accountability for project 
performance – Project managers  
to have greater financial and 
commercial accountability with 
appropriate KPIs. More robust 
challenge and review of contract 
performance by local management.
3.  Accuracy and timeliness of 
forecasting – Increased focus  
on identifying, understanding and 
reporting risks inherent in projects 
and the implications on timely 
financial performance, with enhanced 
project reporting supported by 
consistent application of strong 
commercial management and 
contract administration processes.
4.  Group policies – Improve and 
reinforce Group policies to 
commercial and local financial 
management ensuring rigorous 
application across all projects.
In addition, KPMG recommended  
that the Board assess the overall  
level of contract risk provisions in  
the UK construction business. In  
light of this the Board has concluded  
that further contract risk provisions  
of £118 million be recorded in the 
underlying result for 2014.
KPMG REVIEW
In September 2014 it was announced that KPMG would undertake an independent review of the contract portfolio of the UK 
construction business, given the continued inconsistent operational delivery across some parts of that business. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 19 CONSTRUCTION SERVICES CONTINUED
Joint venture awards such as the £160 
million Sellafield nuclear facility contract 
have been won in the power sector. In the 
highways sector new awards included  
the £184 million smart motorway upgrade 
scheme for the M60 and M62, the £129 
million M3 smart motorway contract and  
a £55 million junction upgrade scheme  
on the M25. Furthermore the business 
was awarded a framework contract to 
deliver up to £180 million of infrastructure 
works at Heathrow Airport. In December 
the Investments business reached 
financial close on the £550 million 
Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route 
project in a three-way joint venture that 
combines the Group’s investment and 
construction capabilities. 
There is improving confidence in the 
private sector although increased market 
volumes in areas such as housing have  
put pressure on input costs. The number 
of new major infrastructure projects to  
be awarded in the short term is expected 
to be low, exacerbated by the upcoming 
general election uncertainty. Over the 
medium term there is an expectation  
of significant investment through the 
Highways Agency investment plan and 
projects such as HS2 and Crossrail 2.
US
Profitability in the US increased slightly in 
the year, but margins remained broadly flat 
at approximately 1%. Reported revenue 
was flat on the previous year, up 5% at 
constant currency. The increase in the 
order book in the building business since 
the beginning of 2013 continues to feed 
through into revenue growth (at constant 
currency), and order intake has continued 
to increase, resulting in an order book at 
the end of the year which is in line with 
last year. Order intake in the civil and rail 
business was down on the previous year.
In the US approximately 80% of revenues 
are generated from the general building 
market, where the business is ranked  
as the No.3 contractor by revenue 
according to the 2014 ENR rankings.  
The infrastructure market accounts for  
the remaining 20%. 
The growth in the US order book over  
the last two years has been as a result of 
significant steps taken to better leverage 
local capabilities across the entire business 
and to make the business more customer 
focused, through improving best practice, 
driving innovation and sharing knowledge 
within a more streamlined structure. 
However margins have remained flat, 
partially due to a mix effect as revenue 
from higher margin work won before the 
recession has reduced, but also due to 
executing on work bid in a competitive 
environment over the last 12–24 months  
at lower margins. 
In 2014 the business continued to  
work closely with the Investments 
business, particularly in the student 
accommodation sector, where the 
Investments business acts as an equity 
investor or a fee-based developer.  
New projects included the University  
of Texas at Dallas, the University of  
Iowa and Tarleton State University. 
The business continued to grow in the 
healthcare sector, with the award of a 
US$533 million contract to renovate and 
expand the Texas Medical Center campus 
in Houston, Texas. This complex project 
for the Memorial Hermann Healthcare 
System includes building a 17-storey 
hospital and implementing a building 
control system. A strong reputation in  
the sector also helped the Investments 
business win its first project in Canada, 
with the award of the Children’s and 
Women’s Hospital redevelopment project  
in Vancouver, where the US construction 
business will provide 50% of the 
construction services in joint venture.
Other significant wins in the period 
included a US$156 million contract to 
construct new headquarters for the 
National Science Foundation in Virginia,  
US. There was strong growth in the 
education and office sectors, with  
US$256 million and US$669 million 
respectively in new awards. These  
awards reflect recovery in both the public 
education and private building markets.
In the infrastructure market the City  
of Charlotte awarded the business a 
US$131 million rail contract to build track 
and systems components to extend  
the city’s light rail system, following  
a US$106 million civil engineering  
contract in February 2014 for the  
same light rail system. 
International joint ventures
The Group also operates in South East 
Asia and the Middle East.
The order book in the Group’s Hong Kong 
and Singapore joint venture, Gammon, 
remained stable. Revenues were up 22% 
in the year (30% at constant currency) as 
the long term nature of recent civil project 
wins means it will take time for these to 
feed into financial performance. A small 
number of these contracts, which are 
recorded at break-even, have incorporated 
significant judgements over contractual 
entitlements, however the Group’s  
share of joint venture profits for the year 
decreased by £4 million to £12 million.  
In the year, significant wins included the 
new S$210 million (£100 million) Havelock 
Station award for Singapore’s Mass Rapid 
Transit system. In July Gammon won  
two building contracts in Hong Kong with  
a combined value of HK$3,910 million  
(£300 million) to build a public rental housing 
development and a research office.
In the Middle East, the market for the 
construction joint venture in Dubai has 
continued to improve and order book was 
significantly up on 2013. Wins included 
the Dubai Mall extension project. However 
the mechanical and electrical engineering 
market remains very difficult, with  
some of the same issues faced by the  
UK M&E business existing in the Middle 
East, such as disputes and delays with 
main contractors who have taken on 
complex and difficult jobs. In particular 
two significant projects have caused  
write-downs, even though we believe  
a significant proportion of these will be 
ultimately recoverable. The joint venture  
is no longer bidding for M&E work  
outside the UAE.
Rail
The performance of the UK rail 
construction business continued to  
be impacted by operational issues on  
a small number of projects. Losses from 
operations totalled £6 million in the year 
(2013: £12 million).
Since the year end, the Group has 
completed the sales of the German track 
and plant and Austrian businesses  
and the sale of the Italian rail business.  
The Group remains committed to exiting  
the remaining parts of the German rail 
business. The results of Rail Germany 
have been re-presented as non-underlying 
items within continuing operations  
and those of Rail Italy are classified  
as discontinued. In India, after four  
years, there has been little progress in 
establishing a presence, and consequently 
the office is in the process of being  
closed. In Australia, following withdrawal 
from a major rail PPP due to unacceptable 
risk levels, it was concluded the Group  
did not have sufficient critical mass to 
continue a construction presence.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
20 Using our 
expertise in 
flood defence 
to protect  
UK homes
In December 2014, we 
completed a £21 million  
flood alleviation project for 
the Environment Agency  
and Northumberland  
County Council.
The town of Morpeth in 
Northumberland, UK, has a long 
history of flooding, being located in 
the floodplain of the River Wansbeck.  
The Morpeth Flood Alleviation 
Scheme was designed to protect  
the town from the level of flooding 
experienced in 2008 when over 1,000 
homes and businesses were flooded.
To protect the residents’ properties, 
we built an upstream storage dam  
and a new earth embankment to  
store 1.4 million m
3
 of flood water.  
We also constructed flood defence 
walls throughout the town centre, 
installed flood gates and raised roads.
Our recent track record in UK coastal 
protection and flood defence works 
includes 21 significant projects for 
local authorities and the Environment 
Agency, including the £86 million 
Rossall and Anchorsholme Scheme, 
the £5 million River Mersey Flood 
Defence Scheme, the £22 million 
Humber Flood Prevention Package 
and the £6 million Lincshore Beach 
Replenishment five-year scheme.
 “The work at the dam is really 
impressive. We have exceeded 
170,000 hours without a lost time 
injury – it doesn’t get much better 
than that, especially when you  
look at the challenging work being 
completed. At the dam for example, 
we are working 8–9 metres in  
the air, concreting and installing  
large steelwork.”
Anthony Myatt
Environment Agency, Project 
Manager
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 21 Depth of capabilities  
 enables us to deliver  
 c o mp l e x c on t ra c t s
schedule in the latter part of 2013, coupled 
with lower levels of capital replacement 
programmes in the year. 
In March 2014 the power business was 
appointed to two major National Grid power 
infrastructure frameworks. The first is the 
overhead lines design and build framework, 
over a four-year contract length with two 
optional two-year extensions. The total 
work available for panel members is  
worth up to £2.5 billion. The second is for 
National Grid’s onshore underground cable 
framework, over a four-year contract length 
with an optional two-year extension,  
worth a total of up to £800 million. 
In December, the power business was 
granted a licence by Ofgem to operate and 
maintain the Thanet offshore transmission 
project following its acquisition by the 
Investments business, work derived directly 
from the success of the Investments 
business in that market.
Elsewhere on existing power sector 
contracts there was good progress on  
the Beauly-Denny replacement electricity 
transmission line contract for Scottish  
and Southern Energy, the Gas Distribution 
Strategic Partnership contracts with 
National Grid and the joint venture contract 
in the Republic of Ireland to replace and 
extend the gas network on behalf of state 
operator Bord Gáis. 
Volumes in the power transmission sector 
are constrained within the UK as current 
contracts complete and new projects  
are delayed due to the changeover in 
regulatory periods. New opportunities will 
continue to be explored as the changing 
nature of the energy industry will require 
new sources of power to be connected 
into the existing infrastructure. The 
division is well placed to take advantage  
of UK cabling and offshore wind farm 
opportunities expected in 2015.
Water
The water business order book benefited 
from new contracts tendered under the 
AMP 6 regulatory cycle, which controls 
capital expenditure across the network from 
April 2015 through to 2020. In May it was 
awarded approximately £115 million of work 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
Revenue for the year was up 1% at  
£1,273 million, with a 35% increase in 
transportation revenues being largely  
offset by expected revenue decline in the 
power sector. The Support Services order 
book ended the year at £3.5 billion, down 
14% from a year ago (2013: £4.1 billion).  
The increase in order book in the water 
sector has been more than offset by the 
expected contraction in the power and 
transportation order books, as the division 
continues to execute on long term 
contracts. Further awards were made  
in the water sector after the year end, 
which will benefit the 2015 order book. 
Underlying profit from continuing operations 
was down 9% at £50 million (2013: £55 
million), resulting in an underlying operating 
margin of 3.9% (2013: 4.3%). Good 
performances in the water sector, including 
the settlement of multi-year commercial 
issues, and in the transportation sector 
were offset by lower volumes in power.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Support Services is a leading provider  
of specialist renewal and maintenance 
services in three key sectors – power,  
water and transportation. 
The division continues to provide a wide 
range of essential services and deliver 
projects for customers across the 
regulated and public sectors, all of whom 
need to manage financial pressures, whilst 
improving the quality of the infrastructure 
that facilitates public life. This will continue 
to provide opportunities as customers look 
to outsource work and seek innovative 
solutions in the provision of that work, but 
also presents challenges in an increasingly 
competitive environment.
Power
As anticipated, revenues and profitability  
in the power sector declined, partially due  
to strong performance in the prior year but 
also due to other contracts completing in 
2014. The transmission part of the business 
experienced lower volumes after contracted 
volume targets were completed ahead of 
Highlights
• Stable revenues with strong 
performance in the highways 
maintenance business in the 
transportation sector
• Good underlying profit from 
continuing operations with good 
operating margins
• Order book reduction in power  
and transportation, as anticipated.
Total revenue
£1,273m
SUPPORT SERVICES
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
22 by Anglian Water as part of its investment 
programme. In addition the business has 
also won a new contract award from  
United Utilities valued at £125 million. 
Following a 23-month early contractor 
involvement in a three-way joint venture 
contract with Thames Water, the joint 
venture was awarded an initial £800 million 
contract in February 2015, which was 
therefore not recorded in the year end  
order book. 
The major water companies will be 
focusing on broader and improved 
solutions for their customers driven 
primarily by the regulatory environment, 
which we hope will open opportunities  
for further innovation and margin growth.
Transport
The transportation business operates  
for customers in the road and rail sectors. 
Overall transportation revenues increased 
by 35% in the period as the business 
executed on long-term contracts for local 
authority and highways maintenance 
customers. However this, along with  
exiting from routine renewals work for 
Network Rail, resulted in a reduction  
in the order book at the year end. 
The highways maintenance business 
continued to perform strongly in the year 
with a very good performance on the M25 
contract, which more than offset continuing 
cost issues encountered on the Area 10 
contract in the North West of England. 
In the rail renewals market the business 
continued to work with London 
Underground to renew and improve service 
levels across the network and achieved 
excellent volume and margin growth in  
the year. The remaining elements of the 
Network Rail contract were completed  
and handed over to a new contractor in 
July. Associated exit and demobilisation 
costs incurred were over £2 million and  
are included in the division’s underlying  
profit from operations for the year. 
Revenues from local authority work 
increased as the Herefordshire and  
Wiltshire contracts, which commenced  
in 2013, were fully mobilised. This more 
than offset the impact of revenue declines 
resulting from completed contracts in 
Westminster, North Yorkshire and Essex. 
The majority of the contracts in the 
portfolio performed well in the year and 
more than offset the impact of operational  
and commercial issues on the Wiltshire 
contract, the resolution of which is 
ongoing with the customer.
The continuing outsourcing trend by  
local government will provide additional 
growth opportunities for the division 
which increasingly looks to leverage  
its strong position in the highways and 
street lighting markets to provide 
additional complementary services  
to local authority customers. 
We have been contracted by National 
Grid to replace ageing metal pipes, 
service connections and build new gas 
mains in the North West of England  
and West Midlands until 2021. 
Our commitment to efficiency, 
innovation and customer service is 
fundamental to our successful delivery  
of this £1.2 billion contract. Project 
deployment was large in scale,  
involving over 300 new commercial 
vehicles, 1,500 pieces of plant and 
11,000 metres of site barriers.
Use of an innovative new pipe-cutting 
tool removes our employees from the 
risks involved in the excavation process. 
Furthermore, we are trialling a new way 
to create new pipes within the existing 
pipe, which when approved in 2015  
will reduce the number of required 
excavations, making the work safer  
and more efficient.
 “ The Gas Distribution Strategic 
Partnerships contracts will allow National 
Grid to continue to deliver gas safely and 
reliably to our customers in the most 
efficient way during the eight-year period. 
I know based on previous experience that, 
using the GDSP ‘all together, safer, better, 
leaner and faster’ operating model, Balfour 
Beatty will provide exceptional customer 
service and deliver the RIIO objectives 
safely, innovatively and efficiently.” 
Stephen Murray
National Grid, Head of the GDSP contract 
for the West of England.
Two regional partnerships to renew 
and improve gas networks
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 23 INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
A proven track record  
of developing and  
financing projects
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Investments business delivered 
another successful year of growth in  
profits and in the value of the Investments 
portfolio, as the business continued to break 
into new markets and expand the number  
of equity investments within the portfolio.
Underlying pre-tax profits increased to 
£162 million (2013: £132 million), driven  
by increases in profits on disposal, 
pre-disposals operating profit and net 
interest income. The pre-disposals 
operating profit of £34 million was £14 
million higher than the previous year. This 
included a gain of £15 million (2013: £nil) 
resulting from movements in the fair value 
of PPP financial assets, attributable to 
non-market related changes in estimated 
future cash flows, and recognition of bid 
costs deferred income. These more than 
fully offset the decline in UK income as  
a result of disposals and approximately  
£10 million of costs incurred which  
were reimbursed to the UK construction 
business to accelerate the completion of 
construction work and defect resolution  
on a small number of projects. There was 
reduced income in the US as the military 
housing construction phases come to an 
Over the next five years, the Investments 
business expects to invest over £300 million 
in equity, and generate over £2 billion of 
new work for the Group’s Construction 
Services and Support Services businesses, 
which have historically delivered higher 
margins when working in conjunction  
with the Investments business. 
UK and Australia – new investment 
activity
In June 2014, financial close was reached 
on the £46 million NHS Ayrshire & Arran 
Acute Mental Health and Community 
Hospital project. The Group will finance, 
design and construct the project, and once 
complete, operate the asset for 25 years. 
In December 2014, the £550 million 
Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route 
project reached financial close. The  
design, build, finance and operate contract 
will generate a significant amount of work 
for the UK construction business. Balfour 
Beatty will be working in joint venture  
to construct the project and will take sole 
responsibility for the management and 
maintenance of the road assets for  
30 years once construction is complete. 
Both Thanet and Gwynt y Môr offshore 
transmission (OFTO) projects reached 
financial close. These are high voltage 
electricity transmission systems, 
connecting offshore wind farms to an 
onshore transmission grid. Through 
February 2015, Balfour Beatty has 
achieved financial close on three OFTO 
projects and now maintains investments  
in OFTO transmission assets worth  
£833 million, with a combined 
transmission capacity of 1,380MW. 
In addition, the Investments business 
reached financial close on its first project  
end along with increased bid costs. Asset 
sales generated £159 million of proceeds, 
with disposal gains increasing to £93 
million (2013: £82 million), as the secondary 
market continued to see increased pricing 
tension. Net interest income, a significant 
element of total income, also increased  
to £35 million from £30 million in 2013. 
The Directors’ valuation of the Investments 
portfolio increased to £1,300 million as at 
31 December 2014 (2013: £766 million). 
The increase in value was principally due 
to a change in the valuation methodology, 
in order to bring the valuation closer to the 
market value. The number of investments 
within the portfolio increased to 66  
(2013: 61). Recent transactions underline 
the ongoing ability of this business to 
create value.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
The Investments business continued to 
grow with its appointment as preferred 
bidder on 13 new equity projects (including 
three between January and March 2015). 
These projects comprise: four university 
student accommodation projects, three 
hospital projects, three private rental 
housing projects, one justice facility project, 
one road project and one energy project. 
As of March 2015, the business had 
reached financial close on eight of these 
projects, as well as reaching financial close 
on three of the five projects which were 
already preferred bidder at the start of 
2014. Seven projects currently remain  
at preferred bidder stage.
The Investments business was also 
appointed preferred bidder on five 
fee-based projects where no equity will  
be invested; three as developer in the 
student accommodation sector and  
two as a third-party manager in the 
residential sector. 
The Investments business continues to 
see significant opportunities for future 
investment. There is an identified global 
pipeline of opportunities over the next five 
years that represents £35 billion of capital 
value, spread across multiple markets in 
four countries. 
Highlights
• Excellent financial performance, 
including £93 million of  
disposal gains
• Substantial and diverse portfolio 
with Directors’ valuation at  
£1.3 billion
• Preferred bidder status on 13 new 
projects with significant pipeline  
of new opportunities identified.
£1.3bn
Directors’  
valuation of the 
portfolio
66
Investments  
within the  
portfolio
Total revenue
£570m
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
24 in Australia, at Wollongong University,  
for the design and construction of a 1,050 
new bed development and a 39-year 
maintenance licence for the university’s 
entire existing accommodation facilities,  
of 1,905 beds. 
In November 2014, Balfour Beatty, 
including the Investments business, was 
selected to develop up to 1,500 homes on 
Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, in a 50:50 
joint venture with People for Places.  
This will result in the creation of two  
new neighbourhoods of East Wick and 
Sweetwater, by 2023. The development, 
in partnership with the Mayor of London 
and the London Legacy Development 
Corporation, will include private rental 
sector and affordable housing. Financial 
close of the first phase is expected  
in 2016.
In January 2015, the business was 
appointed preferred bidder for the 
University of Sussex’s East Slope 
Residences project, for the development  
of 2,000 new bedrooms and other 
innovative student amenities. Balfour 
Beatty will design, build, finance and 
operate the project under a 50-year 
contract, in partnership with the university. 
Financial close is expected during 2015.
In March 2015, the £52 million Welland 
Waste Wood power station project 
reached financial close. Once complete, 
the project will convert 60,000 tonnes  
of dry waste wood feedstock into 9MW  
of electricity – powering over 17,000 UK 
households a year.
In the UK, further opportunities are 
expected in the accommodation sector, 
for both students and private rental, and  
in the power sector. The business has a 
strong position in the OFTO market, which 
has a pipeline of £10 billion, and is also 
looking at future investment opportunities  
in the biomass sector.
North America – new investment 
activity
In June 2014, financial close was reached 
on the US Air Force ACC III military 
housing project, valued at US$60 million. 
In September 2014, financial close was 
reached on Carmendy Square in Florida;  
and in February 2015, the business 
reached financial close on the Ranch  
at Pinnacle Point in Arkansas, which 
represented the business’s first 
investments into the US private rental 
housing sector. 
In Canada, financial close was reached on 
two hospital projects in 2014. The C$350 
million (£196 million) BC Children’s and BC 
Women’s Hospital Redevelopment Phase 
2 project covers the design, construction, 
financing and facilities management for  
a new children’s and women’s acute care 
centre in Vancouver, British Columbia. The 
C$606 million (£338 million) North Island 
Hospitals project is a 30-year PPP project 
which includes the financing, design, 
construction, and facilities management  
of two new hospitals on Vancouver Island, 
British Columbia.
In the US, the business was appointed 
preferred bidder for a US$405 million 
justice complex project for the City  
of Indianapolis/Marion County in Indiana. 
This represents Balfour Beatty’s first 
investment project in the US justice sector.  
At the University of Texas at Dallas,  
the business was appointed preferred 
bidder on a new mixed-use project for the 
development of accommodation and retail 
space on land owned by the University.  
At the University of Iowa, preferred bidder 
status was awarded for a second phase  
of development, following the successful 
first phase development of 270 one-  
and two-bedroom units and a separate 
community centre. The business also 
remains preferred bidder for two additional 
student accommodation projects awarded 
in 2013. 
The business continues to leverage its 
experience in the student accommodation 
sector, integrating design, construction 
and investment capabilities, even where 
direct equity may not be required. As a 
result, the Investments business now 
works as a fee-based developer alongside 
the US construction business on a number 
of projects, providing design and build 
services. In 2014, fee-based agreements 
were executed for Texas A&M University, 
a phase II project at Tarleton State 
University and two third-party 
management projects located in Florida.
In the US, there is a strong pipeline of 
additional opportunities in the private 
rental and student housing markets as well 
as in generating profits through third-party 
management-fee-based agreements, and 
the business is continuing to build on its 
presence in Canada, where there are  
a number of opportunities. 
Asset sales
The Group successfully sold three assets 
in 2014, generating total book gains on 
disposal of £93 million. In May, the sale  
of the Knowsley Building Schools for  
the Future project and the Group’s 50% 
interest in the University Hospital of North 
Durham project realised total consideration 
of £97 million, generating total gains of 
£51 million. The Group also sold its 50% 
interest in the Pinderfields and Pontefract 
Hospital project in West Yorkshire in 
October for £62 million, generating a gain 
of £42 million. As a consequence of the 
favourable prices achieved on recent 
sales, the Directors’ valuation of the 
Investments portfolio at December 2014 
was updated to bring it closer to the 
market value.
Asset sales are expected to continue  
as a means of realising the value in  
mature assets, and recycling equity into 
new projects. 
Investment management business 
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners 
(BBIP) reached final close on its first  
fund in 2014, with total commitments of 
US$618 million, including US$110 million 
by Balfour Beatty. As of February 2015, 
the fund has acquired Upper Peninsula 
Power Company, a regulated electric utility 
business in Michigan, US, a portfolio of  
10 operational UK solar projects in the UK, 
and Wightlink Ferries, a ferry company 
servicing the Isle of Wight. Balfour  
Beatty has invested £20 million through 
December 2014, with the expectation that 
the fund will be fully invested within the 
next three years.
The Directors’ valuation  
of the Investments  
portfolio is now closer  
to the market value. 
 Read more on p27
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 25 Environmentally responsible 
investment in a potential-rich market
In June 2014, we reached 
financial close for two new 
acute care hospitals on 
Vancouver Island, British 
Columbia, Canada. We will 
invest C$17 million (£9 million) 
into the project, which 
represents 50% of the required 
equity. This is our second 
project in the Canadian 
healthcare market.
The Tandem Health Partners consortium,  
of which we are a member, issued a  
green bond, which was the first public 
private partnership (PPP) green bond  
to have been issued to finance a public 
infrastructure project in Canada, and  
the first in North America. Green bonds  
are similar to traditional bonds, but the 
proceeds are used exclusively for projects  
with environmental benefits.
The North Island Hospitals project 
qualified for a green bond because it 
achieved Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED
®
) Gold 
Certification, demonstrated commitment  
to stretching energy and greenhouse  
gas targets and complied with the  
British Columbia Wood First Act. 
The project earned the 2014 National 
Innovation & Excellence Award  
from the Canadian Council for Public  
Private Partnerships.
C$17m
Equity invested 
(£9 million)
26
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS CONTINUED DIRECTORS’ VALUATION OF THE INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO
of 82% above the Directors’ valuation at 
December 2013. This prompted a revision 
of the valuation methodology and underlying 
assumptions for the Directors’ valuation 
(which retained some conservative 
assumptions) at June 2014. Following this, 
in October 2014, the Group sold its 50% 
interest in the Pinderfields and Pontefract 
Hospital project at a premium of 28% 
above that revised Directors’ valuation. 
This demonstrated the strength of demand 
in the secondary market and has prompted 
a further review of the assumptions in 
producing the Directors’ valuation at 
December 2014. The collective effect of 
these two revisions is described below.
In previous years, the Directors’ valuation 
was based on discounting the cash flows  
in the financial models approved by  
the senior lenders on each project. The 
investment and return cash flows for each 
project were discounted using discount 
rates of 9.5% pre-shareholder tax for the 
UK portfolio, and 12% pre-shareholder  
tax for the North American portfolio. This 
approach permitted an assessment of 
portfolio performance from one year to  
the next through the application of a set of 
unchanging assumptions. In order to bring 
the Directors’ valuation closer to a market 
valuation, we have revised the valuation 
methodology to reflect the knowledge 
gained from our previous transactions and 
our understanding of secondary market 
assumptions and trends.
As in previous years, the Directors’ 
valuation, being based on a discounted 
cash flow approach, may differ significantly 
from the book value of the investments 
shown in the accounts, which are produced 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards. 
OVERVIEW
The Investments portfolio continues  
to grow through diversification into  
new sectors and expansion into new 
geographical markets. Value continues  
to be realised through the investment 
recycling programme by selling 
investments that are mature and 
operationally proven, whilst preserving 
interests in strategic projects or sectors 
that offer opportunities to the wider Group.
In 2014 eight new projects were included 
in the Directors’ valuation, in the health, 
roads, student accommodation, justice, 
and property development sectors. This 
included winning and closing the Group’s 
first two Canadian P3 hospital projects  
in British Columbia, its first student 
accommodation project in Australia at 
Wollongong University and its first US 
multifamily residential property project  
in Florida, and winning its first housing 
development project at the Queen 
Elizabeth Olympic Park in the UK. This 
demonstrates the ability of the business  
to successfully transfer capability and 
experience from established markets  
and sectors into new ones. 
Revised valuation methodology
The secondary infrastructure market 
continues to evolve and asset sales over 
the last few years (including those in 2014) 
have highlighted a growing difference 
between the Directors’ valuation and the 
values achievable for the Group’s UK 
investments in the secondary market.  
In the first half of 2014, the Group sold its 
100% interest in the Knowsley Building 
Schools for the Future (BSF) project and 
its 50% interest in the University Hospital 
of North Durham project at a premium  
UK portfolio
The changes to the valuation methodology 
for the UK portfolio fall into three main 
categories: revised discount rates, 
updated cash flow assumptions, and 
aligned macroeconomic assumptions.
Discount rates have been revised to better 
reflect current market rates, project risk 
profiles and the maturity of each project 
(whether in construction or operational). 
The resulting discount rates range from 
7.0% to 15.0%. Operational projects  
with availability-based income or proven 
demand have rates towards the bottom  
end of the range whilst projects in 
construction or having unproven demand  
or other significant risks (or some 
combination of these characteristics) have 
rates at the top end of the range. In overall 
terms the weighted average discount  
rate applied to the UK portfolio is 7.8% 
(2013: 9.5%). A 1% change in the discount 
rate would change the value of the UK 
portfolio by approximately £107 million.
Cash flow assumptions have been updated 
to better reflect market expectations  
of future project performance in relation  
to costs, in particular the lifecycle and 
insurance costs and the management 
costs associated with running  
each project.
The capital structure adopted by potential 
purchasers may result in a lower tax 
burden under their ownership. This can 
result in higher values being ascribed  
to assets in competitive situations.  
A significant proportion of this value is  
now reflected in the Directors’ valuation.
 A strong and yielding portfolio
Portfolio valuation December 2014
Value by sector
Portfolio valuation December 2014
Value by phase
Sector
No. projects
(2013)
2014
£m
2013
£m
Roads 13 (12) 467 253
Hospitals 4 (5) 225 144
Schools 8 (9) 102 68
Other 13 (11) 149 69
UK total 38 (37) 943 534
US military housing 21 (21) 322 228
Hospitals 2 (0) 4 –
Other 5 (3) 11 4
North America total 28 (24) 337 232
BBIP fund 20 –
Total 66 (61) 1,300 766
Stage
No. projects
(2013)
2014
£m
2013
£m
 3+ years post construction  10 (10)  254  113 
 0–3 years post construction  18 (17)  634  385 
 Construction  14 (11)  55  28 
 Preferred bidder  3 (2)  15  12 
 US military housing  21 (21)  322  228 
 BBIP fund 20 –
Total 66 (61)  1,300  766 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 27 DIRECTORS’ VALUATION OF THE INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO CONTINUED
Valuation – The portfolio value at a range of discount rates
UK portfolio North American portfolio
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
+2% +1.5% +1% +0.5% DV case -0.5% -1%
391
254
337
232
294
213
-1.5% -2%
Directors’ valuation £m
Discount rate
December 2014 December 2013
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
1,080
599
963
534
866
480 Directors’ valuation £m
December 2014 December 2013
Discount rate
+2% +1.5% +1% +0.5% DV case -0.5% -1% -1.5% -2%
The key macroeconomic assumptions 
which drive value in the portfolio are 
inflation, interest on cash deposits and  
UK corporation tax rates. The long-term 
inflation assumption has the most material 
impact, with the portfolio value being 
positively correlated to changes in 
inflation. A constant, long-term inflation 
rate of 3.0% has been used across the UK 
portfolio. A consistent long-term deposit 
rate of 3.5% and a corporation tax rate of 
20% have been applied to all UK projects 
in line with assumptions currently being 
made in the secondary market.
For assets at preferred bidder or in 
construction, only macroeconomic 
assumptions have been updated as these 
projects are not mature enough to assess  
if cost savings are likely to materialise.
The Group’s investment in the fund 
managed by Balfour Beatty Infrastructure 
Partners (BBIP) is included for the  
first time in the Directors’ valuation at 
December 2014. BBIP reached final close 
on its first fund in July with commitments 
of US$618 million, of which the Group’s 
share amounts to US$110 million. The 
value of the Group’s investment in the 
fund at 31 December 2014 amounted  
to £20 million.
North American portfolio
The North American portfolio has different 
characteristics to the UK portfolio. It is 
dominated by the US military housing 
business where value is derived principally 
from fee income as opposed to investment 
returns. The valuation methodology for the 
military housing projects has been revised 
in the light of project maturity and, in the 
absence of sufficient secondary market 
transactions in the US, through comparison 
with similar projects in the UK. The main 
changes to the valuation methodology 
used for the North American portfolio are 
in discount rates, cash flow assumptions 
and inflation.
At December 2013 the North American 
portfolio was valued using a single 
discount rate of 12% on pre-tax cash 
flows. Given that a large number of 
investors in the US pay tax, the 
methodology has been altered to apply 
discount rates to post-tax cash flows, and 
the discount rates have been amended 
accordingly. In line with the methodology 
applied to the UK portfolio, different 
discount rates are now applied to individual 
projects to take account of their risk and 
maturity. The range of discount rates  
used at December 2014 is 7.5% to 11.0% 
on post-tax cash flows, with a weighted 
average discount rate of 8.1% (equivalent 
to 12.2% on the previous pre-tax cash 
flow basis). 
The cash flows for the military housing 
business have been revised to reflect  
a lower allocation of corporate overhead 
costs, bringing it into line with the 
treatment in the UK portfolio. This is  
based on the assumption that current 
market participants would incur minimal 
incremental overhead costs if they were  
to buy these investments.
Income inflation assumptions on a number 
of military housing projects have been 
revised in the light of experience over  
a sustained period of time. Construction 
costs (which form the basis on which 
certain fees are earned) have also been 
increased in line with historical inflation 
trends and to reflect the drive for more 
energy efficient buildings. 
The other investments in the North 
American portfolio are more directly 
comparable to PPP and student 
accommodation projects in the UK and  
have been valued on a similar basis,  
taking into account risk profiles, project 
stage and also the maturity of the 
domestic secondary markets.
A 1% change in the discount rate would 
change the value of the North American 
portfolio by approximately £48 million.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
28 and then shows the impact of moving to 
the new methodology and assumptions.
The Group invests cash into the portfolio  
in the form of equity investments in 
individual projects. In 2014, significant 
investments were made in the Thanet 
OFTO, Birmingham Bio Power, and the 
student accommodation project at 
Wollongong University which is also 
included in the UK portfolio. Cash flows 
are received from the portfolio in the  
form of distributions from investments  
or as disposal proceeds when interests  
in projects are sold (Knowsley BSF, 
University Hospital of North Durham, and 
Pinderfields and Pontefract Hospital). The 
gain on disposals represents the amount 
by which the proceeds exceeded the 
Directors’ valuation. With the passage  
of time, future distributions come closer 
which increases the value of the portfolio 
through an unwinding of the discount. 
Projects that reach preferred bidder during 
the year are added to the portfolio and are 
shown as new project wins provided there 
is sufficient certainty that they will reach 
financial close. For the UK portfolio these 
Summary
The revised methodology, together with 
movements in the period, resulted in a 
Directors’ valuation of £1,300 million at  
31 December 2014. The effect of the 
revised methodology and assumptions  
is an increase of 69% compared to the 
2013 basis. KPMG has undertaken an 
independent valuation in aggregate of the 
entire portfolio and the Directors’ valuation 
at December 2014 is consistent with 
KPMG’s conclusion.
The Directors’ valuation is now closer  
to current market values, albeit values, 
particularly in the UK, may continue to 
move up in the future given the ongoing 
imbalance between the supply of and 
demand for high-quality investments  
in the secondary market. Future changes 
in the market could increase or decrease 
this value.
Movement analysis
The movement analysis shows changes  
in value of the portfolio during 2014 on the 
basis of the 2013 valuation methodology 
were the Aberdeen Western Peripheral 
Road, Ayrshire and Arran Hospital,  
the Eastwick and Sweetwater housing 
development on the Queen Elizabeth 
Olympic Park and the Wollongong 
University project. In North America there 
were four wins: North Island Hospital and 
Children’s and Women’s Hospital (both  
in British Columbia, Canada), Carmendy 
Square multifamily housing in Florida and 
the Indianapolis justice facility. Operational 
performance gains represent the changes 
in the underlying cash flow assumptions 
before the revised methodology and 
assumptions are applied – for example 
actual inflation over the year. Adjusting the 
opening valuation to take into account all 
of the above items shows the value of the 
portfolio under the assumptions prevailing 
at December 2013. This total is then 
adjusted for changes to the valuation 
methodology in the three categories  
noted above: discount rate assumptions, 
projected performance improvements 
(cash flow changes), and macroeconomic 
assumptions, resulting in the revised 
Directors’ valuation of £1,300 million  
at 31 December 2014.
2013
Equity
 invested
Distributions
 received
Disposal 
proceeds
Gain on
 disposals
Unwind of
 discount
New 
project 
wins
Inflation, 
FX and 
operational 
gains/ 
losses
BBIP fund 
investment
2014
value on
2013
assumptions
Change in
 discount 
rates 
Projected
 performance 
improvements
Macroeconomic 
assumptions 2014
UK 534 48 (58) (159) 58 52 17 9 20 521 111 291 40 963
North America 232 5 (34) – – 26 9 10 – 248 4 85 – 337
Total 766 53 (92) (159) 58 78 26 19 20 769 115 376 40 1,300
Movement in value 2013–2014 £m
Portfolio investment, divestment and distributions since 2005
Distributions Directors’ valuation Investment Divestment
160
120
80
40
(40)
(80)
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
1,600
1,200
800
400
0 0
£m – Investment, divestment and distributions
£m – Directors’ valuation
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 29 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
There have been failures of  
risk management disciplines  
in some parts of the business. 
Managing risk and opportunity  
in a robust and disciplined way  
is fundamental to the Board’s 
ability to effectively manage  
the business and the Group’s 
strategic development.
In 2014 the KPMG review (summarised  
on page 19), together with the Group’s 
own analysis, identified what lay  
behind the unacceptable performance 
resulting from poor contracts in the  
UK construction business.
It was clear that the Group’s existing risk 
management framework did not, at times, 
identify risk early enough to allow for 
remedial action. 
As a result, the Group examined its  
risk and opportunity management 
activities throughout the business 
lifecycle, from initial enquiry, tender 
submission and contract award through  
to ongoing monitoring, control and  
project completion.
This corroborated the findings from  
KPMG and showed that the existing 
internal controls needed to be simplified 
and that there needed to be one unified 
approach across the Group.  
A stronger approach has since been 
developed and is being rolled out.
The Group’s new risk framework 
comprises eight approval and review 
gates, spanning initial project pursuit 
through to delivery and completion. This  
is a significant extension of the previous 
monitoring and control process. All gates 
are mandatory and require approval at 
Group, divisional or business unit level 
depending upon the nature and complexity 
of the project. 
The new risk framework has been further 
reinforced by the implementation of 
common minimum standards and policies 
in project and commercial management 
across the Group. These standards ensure 
consistent expectations across the Group, 
and rigorous audit and assurance.
The principal risks, detailed overleaf, are:
• health and safety
• economic environment
• bidding
• project execution
• supply chain
• people
• business conduct/compliance
• legal and regulatory
• sustainability
• discontinued operations. 
Managing risk and opportunity across the project lifecycle
Project management and commercial management standards 
Audit and assurance processes capture lessons learnt at every stage of the project lifecycle and improve future projects
Gate 1
Control and monitoring, delivered by Group/division
Project lifecycle
Initial 
enquiry
Tender
Contract 
negotiations
Mobilisation Execution Commissioning
Defects 
liability
“Go/No Go” “Go/No Go” Tender 
submission 
approval
Contract 
award
Pre- 
commencement
Monitoring 
and control
Project 
completion
End of  
defects 
liability 
period
Gate 2 Gate 3 Gate 4 Gate 5 Gate 6 Gate 8 Gate 7
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
30 PRINCIPAL RISKS
The Group continues to develop risk management and internal control systems and procedures to manage 
the impact of risks and uncertainties both within and outside its control. The Board believes that Balfour 
Beatty’s risk management and internal control systems will help it to identify such risks and respond in  
a timely manner.
The principal risks that could adversely impact the Group’s profitability and ability to achieve its strategic objectives are set out below.  
In addition, the Chief Financial Officer’s Review on page 17 includes discussion on financial risk factors and going concern.
HEALTH AND SAFETY IS PARAMOUNT TO EVERYTHING WE DO ACROSS OUR BUSINESS
Health and safety No change to risk 
Risk description
The Group works on significant, complex and potentially 
hazardous projects which require continuous monitoring  
and management of health and safety risks.
What impact it might have
Failure to manage these risks could result in harm to, or even the 
death of, employees, subcontractor staff and members of the 
public, as well as potential criminal prosecutions, debarment  
and reputational damage.
How the risk may manifest itself
Some common themes where health and safety risks have 
arisen are recognised and communicated, including:
• risk of poor risk identification/assessment
• risk of not having processes that promote risk elimination 
or mitigation
• failure to deliver management leadership
• management of subcontractors
• not briefing people properly before setting them to work
• failure to follow procedures
• debarment for safety failures
• ongoing change programme and performance pressures, 
which may have an effect on our people and their ability  
to remain focused on health and safety risks.
How it is mitigated
Balfour Beatty has detailed health and safety policies and 
procedures to minimise such risks. These are reviewed and 
monitored by management and external verification bodies.  
Each division has experienced health and safety professionals  
who provide advice and support and undertake regular reviews.
A Safety Executive committee meets regularly throughout the year  
to develop a consistent approach to health and safety best practice.
During 2014, business units continued their work on implementing 
the Group’s Global Safety Principles across all of their operations 
and projects (see page 36).
KEY OPERATIONAL BUSINESS RISKS WE FACE AS PART OF OUR PROJECT LIFECYCLE
Economic environment
Decreased risk 
Risk description
The effects of national or market trends, political change or new 
developments in infrastructure expenditure or procurement may 
cause customers to postpone, reduce or change existing or future 
projects, which may impact the Group’s strategy, business model, 
revenue or profitability in the short or medium term.
What impact it might have
Any significant changes in the level or timing of customer spending  
or investment plans could adversely impact the future order book. 
Such changes could arise from changes in government policy or 
customers’ failure to secure financing for future projects or for 
future stages of existing projects.
Failure of a customer, including any government or public sector 
body, could result in not collecting amounts owed.
How the risk may manifest itself
The business may fail to anticipate or assess national or market 
events and developments, their potential negative impact, or  
the opportunities they present. Such events or developments, 
whether or not anticipated or correctly assessed, could lead to:
• cash pressures for customers and suppliers
• wider than expected fluctuations in inflation
• increased competition (eg in the UK from other EU countries)
• supply chain failure risk
• reduced revenue or pressure on margins.
These risks may also be triggered or exacerbated by the need, 
actual or perceived, to pursue work in a declining market.
How it is mitigated
The Group’s strategy to focus on the more resilient and stable 
infrastructure markets and geographies will help mitigate this risk. 
The effect of spending changes in any one market is mitigated by 
the Group’s broad exposure to infrastructure markets across the 
globe and the continued need for infrastructure spending. It also 
mitigates the effects of such market conditions by continuing  
to adapt its business model.
It is essential that the financial solvency and strength of 
counterparties is always considered before contracts are signed  
and this is a specific focus in the current economic climate. During 
the life of a contract such assessments are updated and reviewed 
whenever possible. The business also seeks to ensure that it is  
not over-reliant on any one counterparty.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 31 Bidding
Increased risk 
Risk description
Through its different divisions, Balfour Beatty seeks to win 
profitable work through a large number of bids. In some cases  
it bids in joint venture with carefully selected partners, often to 
help manage or spread risks, especially where the Group wants 
to augment its expertise or knowledge of the relevant market.
The Group also invests in PPP and infrastructure investments, 
where success depends on a number of assumptions made,  
at the time of investment, on future revenues and costs.
Balfour Beatty’s success depends on its ability to identify, price 
and execute the right volume and quality of bids to maintain a 
profitable, sustainable order book. This in turn requires that it 
has a competitive business model and overheads.
What impact it might have
Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs, time to complete, 
impact of inflation and contractual terms and how best to manage 
them could cause financial losses.
In the event of disagreement with, failure of, or poor delivery 
performance by a joint venture partner, the Group could face 
financial and reputational risks.
If any of the assumptions behind investment decisions prove 
incorrect, the profitability of those investments could be reduced.
How the risk may manifest itself
• Unrealistic programme
• Incorrect pricing
• Unrealistic assumptions on cost savings
• Overambitious budgets
• Bidding at too low a margin
• Poor partner selection
• Customer credit and late payment risks
• Partner and subcontractor performance and credit risks
• Inability to make profit from non-PPP investments and  
other new work types
• Failure to ensure the Group’s overhead structure  
remains competitive.
How it is mitigated
All bids are subject to rigorous estimating and tendering processes 
within the risk management framework.
This revised framework comprises a number of approval and review 
gates that cover the business lifecycle from initial project pursuit 
through to completion (see page 30).
The Group has defined delegated authority levels for approving all 
tenders and infrastructure investments.
Reviews are conducted following all tenders to ensure lessons are 
learnt and applied to future tenders.
Before entering into a joint venture agreement the Group reviews 
the relevant skills, experience, resources and values of joint venture 
partners to understand how they complement its own. 
Investment appraisals are performed and reviewed by experienced 
professionals. The Group analyses the risks associated with 
revenues and costs and, where appropriate, establishes contractual 
and other risk mitigations.
Project execution
Increased risk 
Risk description
The Group works on complex design, engineering, construction 
and asset management projects. If it fails to deliver them on 
time, to customers’ requirements, and in accordance with its 
own cost assumptions and reporting, Balfour Beatty faces the 
risk of financial loss, claims and reputational damage.
Successful delivery of many of these projects depends on the 
successful implementation and maintenance of a range of 
operational and commercial procedures and controls, backed  
up by appropriate training, clear accountabilities and oversight, 
accurate, realistic and timely reporting, and regular audit and 
review. It also depends on the combined availability and effective 
management of subcontractors and other service providers. 
Finally, it relies upon many complex, technical and commercial 
judgements and estimates regarding cost, value, progress  
and likely or practicable outcomes.
What impact it might have
Failure to manage or deliver against contracted customer 
requirements on time and to an appropriate quality could result in 
issues such as contract disputes, rejected claims, design issues, 
liquidated damages, cost overruns or failure to achieve customer 
savings – which in turn harm Balfour Beatty’s profitability  
and reputation.
Execution failure on a high-profile project could result in significant 
reputational damage and costs.
PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
32 Project execution continued
 
How the risk may manifest itself
• Unrealistic progress assessments
• Overestimating the Group’s ability to recover claims within  
the time frame or in the amounts estimated
• Incomplete visibility and appreciation of scale of commercial 
judgements
• Inaccurate, incomplete cost and value data or failure to 
analyse and report correctly, which could arise due to  
poor training, lack of supervision, lack of accountability  
or a project manager’s or project team member’s fear  
of reporting bad news
• Inadequate experienced, independent challenge from support 
functions such as commercial, operations and finance.
How it is mitigated
It is essential that each business area has defined operating 
procedures to address the risks inherent in project delivery. In addition, 
the revision of the Group risk management framework and increased 
controls aid identification and quantification of specific risks on 
projects and the mitigating actions required. 
This has been further reinforced through the implementation of 
common minimum standards in project and commercial management.
Projects are subject to management, commercial function and internal 
audit review at all levels to monitor progress and to review steps put in 
place to address specific risks identified on those projects. The Group 
also has public indemnity cover to provide further safeguards.
Balfour Beatty monitors the performance of joint ventures, joint 
venture partners, subcontractors and suppliers throughout the 
lifecycle of a project.
Supply chain No change to risk 
Risk description
The Group is heavily reliant on its supply chain partners for 
successful operational delivery, which means it is also exposed to  
a variety of risks in the supply chain, including financial, technical, 
quality, safety and ethics.
What impact it might have
Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would result in the Group 
having to find a replacement or undertaking the task itself. This 
could result in delays and additional costs.
The Group will be commercially as well as reputationally responsible 
for performance shortcomings by suppliers and subcontractors, 
whether in terms of quality, safety, technical or ethical standards.
Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors and their staff, or poor 
ethical standards in the supply chain, could lead to significant 
reputational harm for Balfour Beatty.
How the risk may manifest itself
• Supply chain failure risk, exacerbated during, and when 
emerging from, tough economic conditions
• A subcontractor’s failure to perform to an appropriate standard 
and quality, which could cause project delays, reducing Balfour 
Beatty’s ability to meet contractual commitments and harming 
its reputation
• Supply chain operating to lower standards (safety, ethics, 
quality, timber, child labour, forced labour)
• Failure to deliver targeted UK procurement savings
• Failure to comply with Group supply agreements
• Ethical treatment of the supply chain.
How it is mitigated
The Group aims to develop long-term relationships with key 
subcontractors, working closely with them to understand their 
operations. It develops contingency plans to address subcontractor 
failure, and also obtains project retentions, bonds and/or letters  
of credit from subcontractors, where appropriate to mitigate the 
impact of any insolvency.
Balfour Beatty aims to work as much as possible with preferred 
suppliers and subcontractors who undergo rigorous, risk-based 
prequalification processes and share its values. It also aims to  
avoid becoming over-reliant on any one supplier or subcontractor.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 33 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED
IMPORTANT RISKS WE FACE, COMMON TO MANY OTHER BUSINESSES 
People
Increased risk 
Risk description
Inability to recruit and retain the best management and employees 
who have the appropriate competencies and also share Company 
values and behaviours may hamper the Group’s growth prospects.
What impact it might have
Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people could harm 
the Group’s ability to win or perform specific contracts and grow  
its business.
How the risk may manifest itself
• Failure to attract and retain skilled staff
• Distraction and impact on morale of change programmes  
and continued operational issues
• Inability to successfully promote the right people through 
succession planning
• Commercial and project management quality/performance
• New staff unfamiliar with culture and procedures
• Lack of a diverse workforce
• Bullying and harassment
• Loss of former staff with traditional bidding and execution skills.
How it is mitigated
All potential recruits for key roles in the organisation are measured 
against a competency and leadership framework. Divisions 
undertake organisation and people reviews to review the roles, 
competencies, performance and potential of personnel. The 
Group’s succession planning process to identify and develop 
high-potential personnel is reviewed regularly within the 
organisation and by the Board. Balfour Beatty has appropriate 
remuneration and incentive packages to help it attract and retain  
key employees (see page 37).
Business conduct/compliance
Decreased risk 
Risk description
The Group operates in various markets that present business 
conduct-related risks involving fraud, bribery or corruption,  
whether by its own staff or via third parties such as partners or 
subcontractors. Those risks are higher in some countries and 
sectors. Overall the construction industry has a higher risk profile 
than other industries.
What impact it might have
Failure by the Group, or employees and third parties acting on  
its behalf or in partnership, to observe the highest standards of 
integrity and conduct could result in civil and/or criminal penalties, 
debarment and reputational damage (see page 38).
How the risk may manifest itself
• Corruption
• Bribery
• Fraud/false claims
• Fair competition
• Human rights abuses, such as child and other labour  
standards generally, illegal workers and human trafficking
• Unethical treatment of and by the supply chain
• Other emerging ethical risks
• Risk of ethics and values being compromised when times  
are tough, not just in high-risk markets.
How it is mitigated
Balfour Beatty has a proactive approach to assessing and 
addressing corruption risks. It promotes compliance with its Code  
of Conduct and in areas such as competition and false claims fraud. 
Each business area has a compliance officer responsible for the 
application and monitoring of these programmes.
The risk of business conduct/compliance breaches by third parties is 
harder to control, but the Group has a range of risk assessment, due 
diligence and procurement controls that are designed to identify and 
minimise such risks. Balfour Beatty works with very few agents,  
all of whom undergo a rigorous due diligence and approval process.
Legal and regulatory No change to risk 
Risk description
The Group operates in diverse territories and its businesses are 
subject to a variety of complex, demanding and evolving legal, 
tax and regulatory requirements.
What impact it might have
A breach of local laws and regulations could lead to legal 
proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in business 
disruption ranging from additional project costs to potential 
debarment and reputational damage. Increasingly, businesses are  
the target of cybercrime, which can result in loss of confidential, 
personal or commercial data, disruption to operations and associated 
costs. Sometimes Balfour Beatty may be the target of state-
sponsored cyber activities purely because of its customer base.
How the risk may manifest itself
• Data protection and privacy
• Information security lapse
• Cybercrime
• Government/regulatory enquiry and enforcement actions
• Local procurement laws
• Debarment or blacklisting.
How it is mitigated
The Group monitors and responds to legal and regulatory 
developments in the territories in which it operates. Local legal  
and regulatory frameworks are considered as part of any Group 
decision to conduct business in a new country. Data protection  
and information security programmes are in place across the Group,  
and cybercrime and other information security risks are assessed  
on a regular basis.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
34 Sustainability No change to risk 
Risk description
The Group’s activities can impact the world, and the 
communities with which it comes into contact, either  
positively or adversely.
What impact it might have
Failure to address these risks and to execute projects sustainably 
could result in significant potential liabilities, reputational damage 
and inability to win future work.
How the risk may manifest itself
• Environmental incident
• Inaccurate greenhouse gas (GHG) data may mean the Group 
is unaware of its actual impact
• Inaccurate GHG data and other data in sustainability reporting 
may leave the Group exposed to unacceptable damage  
and fines
• Unethical/unsustainable sourcing (eg timber, forced labour, 
child labour)
• Insufficient management support and monitoring to achieve 
the Group’s agreed KPIs in this area.
How it is mitigated
The Group’s sustainability strategy provides a framework for its 
operating businesses to accommodate and embed sustainability  
into operations. Sustainability issues such as climate change are 
considered in risk management activities at divisional as well as 
project level.
Balfour Beatty’s internal audit processes are used to identify 
potential risks and opportunities for the business. These take the 
form of sustainability audits and internal data assurance audits. The 
Group also has external audits undertaken by third parties against 
its management systems that are in place to manage some of  
the aforementioned risks. Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are also 
externally assured (see page 39) to ensure that the data is correct.
Discontinued operations
Increased risk 
Risk description
The Group continuously reviews the markets and territories in 
which it operates in order to make the best use of its resources.
It is essential that when the Group exits particular markets and 
territories through disposal or winding down its activities, it 
complies with all local regulations and laws, and ethical best 
practices and adheres to Balfour Beatty values.
What impact it might have
A breach of local law and standards could lead to investigations, 
disputes and prosecution with associated reputational damage and 
increased costs, which could impact adversely on Balfour Beatty’s 
continuing businesses.
How the risk may manifest itself
• In disposing of businesses, the Group typically provides  
the purchaser with various indemnities which may expose 
Balfour Beatty to future legal claims and cost as a result  
of indemnity breaches
• The Group may be required to enter transitional service 
arrangements with the purchaser. Such arrangements and 
related migration activities could lead to future legal claims  
and costs
• As the Group winds down activities in a particular market  
or territory there is the risk of losing business-critical staff 
and knowledge.
How it is mitigated
• Experienced professionals, supported by external advisers, 
manage disposal processes to ensure that the legal 
documentation covering disposals protects the Group’s  
position as well as can be foreseen
• Use of project management capabilities in managing any 
transitional service arrangements and migration activities  
to ensure that risk exposure is tolerable
• Where appropriate ensure there is a wind-down plan in place  
and that progress against this is appropriately overseen.
Balfour Beatty also faces significant risks and uncertainties that are common to many companies – including financial and treasury risks, 
the management of pension liabilities, information security risks, business continuity and crisis management and hazard risks.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 35 SAFE, INNOVATIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
HEALTH AND SAFETY
With operations in the UK, US, Middle 
East and South East Asia, we span many 
cultures and environments and it is vital 
that we operate to high professional 
standards in every location.
Only by setting the highest standards for 
ourselves will we be able to retain the trust 
of our customers and the people using  
our infrastructure.
We work to the challenging safety 
requirements set out in our Zero Harm 
Roadmap 2013–2017. Each business  
must follow the requirements, and the 
extent to which they meet them is verified 
externally. Furthermore, we have a set of 
rules that define the way we work called 
our Global Safety Principles. As a result  
of our tough stance on eliminating safety 
risk, our businesses are developing smart 
and innovative solutions to prevent 
incidents and keep people safe.
 Read more about our GSPs online 
balfourbeatty.com/GSP
Despite our unwavering focus on safety, 
six workers lost their lives across the 
Group as a result of our work activities in 
2014. The incidents occurred in the UK, 
Germany, US, Hong Kong and the UAE. 
Three of the workers were employed by 
subcontractors and three workers were 
direct employees. 
Every fatal accident is subject to a 
thorough investigation and a detailed 
review by the Group Chief Executive and 
the executive team. To ensure improved 
future performance, in 2014 five Chief 
Executive reviews were held covering 
each business area and joint venture 
business. As a result of the reviews, a 
number of lessons learnt were shared 
across the Group, including the need to 
tackle individual behaviour, tighten control  
of subcontractor operations, and improve 
driver risk policies. 
One of the work-related fatalities was the 
result of a road traffic accident in the US. 
We have taken steps to make road travel 
safer for our employees, including 
installing telematics devices to monitor 
drivers’ behaviour in order to intervene  
and correct. All of our UK drivers complete 
psychometric testing so we can identify 
and address risks.
In 2014, we changed our primary lagging 
indicator of health and safety performance 
from Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) to 
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR). The LTIR, a 
universally recognised measure, is a more 
thorough indicator and has been selected 
to help us achieve our Zero Harm goal. It 
recognises all lost time injuries and injuries 
that result in restricted duty or transfers, 
and includes direct, indirect and joint 
venture employees. At year end our  
LTIR for the entire Group was 0.27. For 
comparison our LTIR in 2013 was 0.23 
compared to 0.26 in 2012 and 0.29  
in 2011. 
As a result of workplace injuries, our 
workers lost 5,792 days during 2014.  
This is an improvement on 2013 (5,996). 
According to incident data collated and 
prepared by ENCORD (European Network 
of Construction Companies), these  
figures represent some of the lowest 
levels of absence due to workplace injuries 
compared to our competitors across 
Europe. 2,798 total injuries were sustained 
by our workforce in 2014 which is 15% 
less than in 2013 (3,273).
In 2014 our business won a number of 
awards recognising safety excellence.  
We were named Safe Railroad Contractor  
of the Year by the National Railroad 
Construction & Maintenance Association 
for the third consecutive year in the US, 
and won six awards, more than any other 
company, at the annual Heathrow Health 
and Safety Awards.
In 2015 and beyond, we will maintain  
our Zero Harm goal of zero fatalities,  
zero disabling injuries, zero injuries to 
members of the public and zero new  
cases of long-term harm to health. We are 
renewing our focus on the elimination of 
fatal risks, increasing the level of personal 
accountability for safety, and determining 
revised health and safety targets for each 
business and the Group as a whole.
The Group Lost Time Incident  
Rate (LTIR)
Increased to 0.27 from 0.23 in 2013. 39% 
of our businesses recorded an improved  
or zero LTIR in 2014. 
0.27
0.23
0.26
2014
2013
2012
Major injury rate
138 major injuries were reported in 2014 
compared to 130 in 2013. Four of those 
major injuries were classified as 
permanently disabling.
0.05
0.04
0.06
2014
2013
2012
Public injury rate 
There were 70 injuries to members of the 
public in 2014, an improvement of 36% 
from 2013.
0.02
0.03
0.04
2014
2013
2012
Working safely, ethically and 
responsibly for a positive legacy
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
36 PEOPLE AND LEADERSHIP
Keeping our people engaged and 
motivated is critical to ensuring our 
sustainable growth.
2014 saw a significant change in the 
composition of our global workforce. 
Following the divestment of Balfour 
Beatty WorkPlace (8,700 employees),  
to GDF SUEZ in December 2013 and  
the divestment of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
(14,500 employees) to WSP in November 
2014, the Group has reduced to 25,693 
employees in its continuing operations at 
31 December 2014 and a further 12,000 
employees as a proportional allocation  
of its joint ventures.
We continued to invest in our people  
in 2014, through the training and 
development of our existing employees  
and targeted external recruitment  
as necessary. 
These training and development 
programmes operate within the context  
of a Group-wide Organisation and  
People Review, which ensures consistent 
methodology and visibility of talent,  
so that succession planning, leadership 
training and development interventions 
draw on a global pool.
Emerging talent
In 2014, we joined The 5% Club and are 
committed to the aim of ensuring that 
within the next four years 5% of our UK 
workforce are apprentices, Balfour Beatty 
graduates or sponsored students on 
structured programmes. The number of 
graduates and apprentices as a proportion 
of our UK businesses is consistent with 
2013, despite selling Parsons Brinckerhoff 
with its large graduate pool.
Apprentices 326
Graduates 184
Sponsored students 17
Total UK workforce 17,000
% of structured trainees 3.1%
 
Our UK businesses are supporting around 
230 people studying part-time at local 
colleges and universities.
In recognition of our work to develop our 
young employees, in 2014 we received a 
Partnership Certificate from The Duke of 
Edinburgh’s Award scheme, supported by 
the Employer Ownership of Skills fund.
Up-skilling the UK’s 
infrastructure workforce 
We have received a government grant  
to further develop the leadership and 
technical skills of our workforce and  
to attract people into the industry. 
Over the next three years over 2,000 
employees will benefit from the grant 
made available by the UK Commission  
for Employment & Skills/Skills Funding 
Agency under the Employer Ownership  
of Skills fund. The newly established 
Balfour Beatty Academy will deliver  
this programme, which, in partnership 
with the UK Government, has already 
developed 10 new apprenticeship 
qualifications for our industry.
Furthermore, we work in partnership with 
The Prince’s Trust, who train unemployed 
young people through its Get into 
Construction programme. Over the last 
five years, 400 young people completed 
this programme, learning while working  
on our sites. About 70% of these people 
gained employment with us directly or 
with our supply chain. 
Diversity and inclusion
Diversity and inclusion remain central to 
our people strategy. We value diversity 
and celebrate individual differences, 
believing that our inclusive culture helps 
the business continue to grow as a strong, 
dynamic and innovative organisation.
Key interventions are in place to enhance 
diversity and inclusion in our core 
business. For example, we are supporting 
the UK Government’s Your Life campaign, 
which is encouraging the study of STEM 
subjects amongst female students.
Further building on our Opportunity  
Now accreditation, a Connecting Women 
network forum has been introduced 
across the UK businesses. However,  
the proportion of female employees  
has reduced in recent years with the 
disposals of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace  
and Parsons Brinckerhoff.
Female employees across the workforce:
2014 17%
2013 22%
2012 23%
2011 25%
An LGBT network has also been 
established as part of the Stonewall 
Diversity Champion programme. Balfour 
Beatty is also the first infrastructure 
company to become a member of the 
OUTstanding LGBT professional network 
and is proud to be represented in the 2014 
Financial Times Top 100 LGBT Business 
Leaders list.
We also strive to provide employment, 
training and development opportunities  
for disabled people wherever possible. We 
are committed to supporting employees 
who become disabled during employment 
and to helping disabled employees make 
the best use of their skills and potential, 
consistent with all other employees.
We remain committed to investing  
in industry-leading people throughout  
a period of considerable change. It is  
this commitment and the continued 
engagement of our employees that will 
provide the foundations for our recovery  
and future growth.
At 31 December 2014 Male Female Total % Male % Female
Board 6 1 7 86 14
Senior management
1
75 14 89 84 16
Directors of subsidiaries 286 33 319 90 10
Group
2
21,223 4,470 25,693 83 17
1
 Members of Group head office and divisional senior leadership teams.
2
 Excluding discontinued operations.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 37 VALUES AND BEHAVIOUR
We have a well-developed ethics and 
compliance programme. Our focus is on 
continual improvement and on monitoring 
the areas where we are most at risk.
A primary area of focus during 2014  
has been to ensure that our ethics and 
compliance programme remains fresh  
in our people’s minds and is increasingly 
embedded throughout the Group. 
The sale of Parsons Brinckerhoff means 
that we no longer operate in some 
jurisdictions which typically pose a high  
risk of ethics and compliance violations. 
However, we continue to work in a 
number of higher-risk countries and 
acknowledge that the construction and 
engineering sector is a high-risk sector  
in general. Accordingly, we continue  
to have in place extensive anticorruption 
measures. We are also mindful of the 
broader ethics risks which exist within  
the sector.
In addition to the traditional areas of ethical 
risk, new areas of focus include human 
rights such as children’s rights and labour 
conditions. Human rights matters have 
been addressed by our Code of Conduct 
for many years. 
Key initiatives in 2014
To improve the effectiveness of our ethics 
and compliance programme, some of our 
initiatives have included the following.
New training for site-based staff 
To help embed the ethics programme 
across the business, we developed new 
training for our site-based staff. A key 
element of the training is a video facilitated 
by leaders onsite, providing our site staff 
with practical and relevant guidance on  
our values and the standards of ethical 
behaviour we expect of everyone  
working on our sites.
The vast majority of our site-based staff 
have completed ethics and values training 
and will receive periodic refresher training.
Review of whistleblowing hotline 
We encourage our staff and wider 
community to report any concerns about 
unethical conduct. We treat all concerns 
seriously and investigate all good faith 
concerns wherever possible.
In 2014 we ran a promotional campaign 
across certain business units for the 
hotline, which prompted a marked 
increase in the reporting of incidents in 
those areas of the business. We believe 
this correlates with an increase in visibility. 
To ensure we are doing enough to both 
encourage reporting and investigate 
allegations to the best of our ability,  
we conducted an end-to-end review of  
our hotline and investigations processes  
in 2014. Several reforms are being 
implemented. In particular we transitioned 
to a new whistleblowing hotline service  
in early 2015. The new hotline will improve 
interaction with whistleblowers, help us 
collect vital information, and provide us 
with better case management technology 
to support investigations.
Number of Ethics Helpline cases
270
276
273
2014
2013
2012
Number of Ethics Helpline cases 
(excluding HR grievances) 
204
208
221
2014
2013
2012
Number of cases per 1,000 employees 
(Balfour Beatty)
7.6
5.3
4.8
2014
2013
2012
Number of cases per 1,000 employees 
(global benchmark)
13
12
12
2014
2013
2012
Leading the way in business ethics 
We are committed to acting as a leader  
in business ethics in the construction  
and engineering sector. 
Business Integrity Round Table
In 2014 we identified a need for the 
industry to work together to develop 
business ethics best practice.
As a result we spearheaded the formation 
of an industry-focused Business Integrity 
Round Table made up of both service 
providers and our customers. The 
inaugural meeting was held in January 
2015 and the meetings are co-chaired by 
our Group Head of Ethics & Compliance.
Investing in Integrity™
Investing in Integrity™ is a UK Charter 
Mark designed to enable an organisation  
to reassure its key stakeholders that  
its business can demonstrate a 
commitment to act with integrity at all 
times. This is assessed by testing its 
ethical conduct to ensure those values  
are properly embedded.
Several of our divisions have completed 
the requirements to achieve Investing  
in Integrity™ accreditation during 2014.  
We expect to achieve full accreditation  
for Balfour Beatty in 2015.
SAFE, INNOVATIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
38 INNOVATION, RESEARCH  
AND DEVELOPMENT
Innovation plays an important role in 
building long-term relationships and 
creating additional value for our customers. 
Most of our innovation emanates from 
collaboration with our customers, joint 
ventures, supply chain and internal 
collaboration across our businesses. 
In 2014, we developed a unique tool to 
track the amount of money we spend with 
local small to medium sized businesses 
(SMEs) in the UK. The tool captures 
valuable data for our customers to 
demonstrate the value we are adding  
to the local economy.
Some of our innovations are informed by 
research work at several academic partner 
organisations, including Salford University 
(Building Information Modelling (BIM)), 
Bristol University (systems engineering), 
Liverpool John Moores University 
(condition monitoring), Sheffield University 
(smart buildings), University College 
London (future leaders in infrastructure), 
Manchester University (composite cross 
arms), and Loughborough University 
(accounting for whole-life carbon emissions 
from highways maintenance contracts). 
Other innovations are powered by employee 
insights which tackle mega trends and 
existing efficiencies. 
We are also running two projects funded 
by Innovate UK. One is in collaboration 
with Queen’s University Belfast and the 
University of West of England to devise  
a new BIM tool that designers and 
contractors can use to successfully predict 
and reduce waste at the design phase. 
The other is working with technology 
start-up 3DRepo and the Association  
of Interior Specialists to support the 
development of a new innovative 
procurement application called Bid4Free. 
The application reduces the cost of  
bidding by digitising transactions.
In the US, we have taught students and 
funded research at Penn State University, 
Stanford University, the University of 
Colorado at Boulder, Virginia Tech,  
and the University of Texas at Austin.
Other innovations include Gammon’s 
development of a Green Concrete range.  
It is the only supplier in Hong Kong to offer 
low carbon concrete solutions that are 
PAS 2050:2011 certified. Gammon used 
3D printing to develop roof designs at 
Midfield Concourse at Hong Kong 
International Airport and new visualisation 
software solutions in Singapore. Balfour 
Beatty also created an award-winning  
PPP scheme for a hospital in Canada  
that will be the first public infrastructure 
project to be financed with green bonds  
in North America.
We have also developed new smartphone/
tablet apps such as a production, reporting 
and tracking app to accurately track man 
hours on projects, a Zero Harm app for 
tracking potential incidents on motorways 
with our joint venture partners Mott 
MacDonald, and a 3D game that scores  
an individual’s ability to highlight potential 
worksite risks.
However, our greatest opportunities  
are on our projects where we are able  
to deliver savings and benefits for our 
customers by offering creative solutions. 
Our innovation champions across our 
businesses capture, share and  
promote innovation.
Our ability to collaborate has been 
enhanced by the growth in communities  
of practice, by the deployment of training  
in collaborative working practices  
and through our ongoing Group-wide 
accreditation to the standard BS 11000 
Collaborative Business Relationships.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Our sustainability strategy, the Blueprint, 
is customer-focused, embedded in the 
local community, efficient, innovative and 
responsible. As a result, sustainability is  
at the heart of all of our operations. 
Optimising our environmental performance 
is key to driving efficiencies and winning 
work. We are industry leaders in reducing 
carbon emissions and mitigating business 
risks of climate change, as one of only  
two companies in the construction sector 
earning a grade A position on the global 
CDP Climate Performance Leadership 
Index 2014. 
We have continued to improve the 
accuracy of measurement techniques, 
specifically around our Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, and are striving to improve  
the accuracy of other sustainability  
metrics in the future.
Standards
Sustainability is an integral part of  
modern infrastructure projects: our public 
sector clients require conformance to 
standards such as BREEAM, LEED
®
, 
BEAM, ESTIDAMA, Green Mark, and 
CEEQUAL and these are important  
to planning authorities. Meeting these 
standards has resulted in a £2.3 billion 
turnover on green infrastructure projects  
in 2014. 
Our certifications in this area and  
our technical knowledge mprove  
the whole life performance of our 
customers’ projects. 
Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions
We have seen a slight increase in carbon 
emissions intensity in 2014 compared to 
2013. Since establishing our baseline in 
Absolute tonnes of CO
2
e
Base year 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Scope 1 327,968 348,940 320,136 287,061 295,219
∆ Scope 2 116,597 133,308 131,658 125,980 120,126
∆ Total CO 2e emissions 444,565 482,248 451,794 413,041 415,345
Total CO 2e emissions 
per £m revenue 43.2 44.1 41.9 35.1 36.0
Scope 1 emissions include those resulting from the combustion of fuel and operation of facilities, Scope 2 
emissions result from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use.  
The full description of our definitions can be found in our reporting guidance found at balfourbeatty.com/enablon
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 39 2010, we have reduced our overall Scope 
1 and 2 emissions by 29,220 tonnes (7%)  
of CO 2 equivalent (CO 2e). Our CO 2 
emissions/£m turnover has dropped from 
43.2 tonnes of CO 2e/£m to 36.0 tonnes  
of CO 2e/£m since our 2010 baseline year, 
which equates to a 17% reduction. 
Our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions have 
reduced from 444,565 tonnes of CO 2e in 
2010 to 415,345 tonnes of CO 2e in 2014.
Our 2015 goal is to achieve a 20% 
reduction per £ million turnover of  
our Scope 1 and 2 emissions (against  
a 2010 baseline). 
These targets will mean reduced operating 
costs for our businesses and therefore 
improved value to our customers and 
shareholders. Additionally, a number of our 
customers have expressed an intention to 
prequalify contractors on the basis of their 
carbon performance in the future.
Gammon, our joint venture in Hong Kong, 
accounts for approximately 29% of our 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions. In 2014, it 
became the first construction company  
in Hong Kong to be awarded the 
CarbonCare
®
 Label that covers all of its 
operations in Hong Kong (except joint 
venture projects). This is in addition to  
the ISO 14064-1 international standard  
for quantifying and reporting greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions it holds. Its Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions are independently 
verified by SGS.
 Read more at balfourbeatty.com/efficient
GHG reporting and assurance
Our GHG emissions are reported in 
accordance with the UK Government’s 
GHG reporting requirements covering  
all six Kyoto gases.
We use the operational control approach 
under the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard as of  
31 December 2014 to report emissions 
from our operations around the world.  
This includes assets that are otherwise  
not referred to across the rest of the 
financial statements as defined in our 
reporting guidance. We have also 
developed reporting guidance for the 
calculation of GHG emissions as well  
as other sustainability metrics.
 Read our full reporting guidance online  
at balfourbeatty.com/enablon
We have determined and reported the 
emissions we are responsible for within 
this boundary and do not believe there are 
any material omissions. We use the UK 
Government’s carbon conversion factors 
that were updated in 2014 to calculate our 
emissions into equivalent tonnes of carbon 
dioxide (CO 2e).
We have incorporated landlord emissions 
data for the properties we rent or lease 
(where we are not the utility bill payer) to 
meet the new GHG reporting requirements. 
We have only reported on Parsons 
Brinckerhoff data up to the point of sale, 
31 October 2014. All historical data for 
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace, which was 
disposed of in 2013, has been omitted.
We engaged KPMG to undertake  
an independent limited assurance 
engagement, reporting to Balfour Beatty 
plc, using the assurance standards ISAE 
3000 and ISAE 3410 over the greenhouse 
gas data that have been highlighted in  
this report with the symbol Δ. Their full 
statement is available on our website  
at balfourbeatty.com/IIA. 
The level of assurance provided for  
a limited assurance engagement is 
substantially lower than a reasonable 
assurance agreement. In order to reach 
their opinion they performed a range of 
procedures over the GHG data including: 
interviewing management responsible for 
the data, examining reporting processes 
and documentation, agreeing a selection 
of the data to the corresponding source 
documentation at operating company level 
and performing analytical procedures over 
the aggregated data at Balfour Beatty 
Group level. A summary of the work they 
performed is included within their 
assurance opinion. 
Non-financial performance information, 
GHG quantification in particular, is subject 
to more inherent limitations than financial 
information. It is important to read the 
GHG data in the context of the full limited 
assurance statement and the reporting 
criteria as set out in the Balfour Beatty 
reporting guidelines available at 
balfourbeatty.com/enablon.
CDP
We are now included in the A List: The 
CDP Climate Performance Leadership 
Index 2014, the most widely used global 
sustainability index which measures 
carbon performance and environmental 
governance. Our score has increased  
by 16 points since 2012.
94/100
89/100
78/100
2014
2013
2012
Environmental compliance
In 2014, 10 environmental incidents (2013: 
4, 2012: 4) resulted in enforcement action 
and fines totalling £9,917 (2013: £13,260, 
2012: £66,800). Six of the violations 
related to noise, two were for allowing 
mosquitos to breed, one for an unauthorised 
discharge and one for soil erosion. There 
were corrective actions for each violation. 
SAFE, INNOVATIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
40 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Wherever we operate, we strive to leave  
a positive legacy. 
Despite a challenging year, our employees 
have continued to support both the 
communities in which we operate and  
our core charitable programmes.
Delivering social value
In many markets our ability to demonstrate 
the social value of our operations in 
economic terms is vital. To benefit local 
areas, we use local suppliers, employees 
and materials wherever possible, and 
invest in future talent through 
apprenticeship schemes and work 
placement opportunities.
Community investment through 
charitable fundraising
Through the Balfour Beatty Charitable Trust, 
we aim to help the most disadvantaged 
young people in society, with a focus on 
employment and employability, health, 
sport and wellbeing.
In the UK, we work with three primary 
charities that we support through our 
Building Better Futures fundraising and 
volunteering programme: Barnardo’s, 
Coram, and The Prince’s Trust. 
Barnardo’s joined as a partner in 2013, 
while we have supported Coram and  
The Prince’s Trust since 2008. During this 
time, we have donated almost £2 million 
to programmes aimed at helping young 
people, as well as providing support 
in-kind, such as through employee 
volunteering. In 2014, we donated  
£19,734 through our Building Better 
Futures programme.
Given the youth unemployment issue 
affecting communities around the UK,  
and the skills gap opening up in the UK 
construction sector, we have focused 
many of our programmes on improving 
employment and employability. 
Our partnership with Barnardo’s focuses 
on four hubs across the UK. These provide 
school leavers with the necessary skills 
and qualifications to pursue careers  
in construction, mechanics, office 
administration, and much more. 
Working together with The Prince’s Trust 
over the last five years, we have helped 
transform the lives of 3,458 young people. 
We sponsor several Get Into programmes, 
which offer young people in the UK the 
opportunities to work on our sites as 
apprentices, helping them get onto the 
employment ladder. To date, we have 
supported over 470 young people with 
work placements on construction-related 
Get Into programmes. In 2013–2014,  
72% of these young people moved into 
employment, education or training.
Our US construction business contributed 
over US$903,000 to charitable causes in 
2014. Examples of the projects include:
• Balfour Beatty Construction’s central 
region’s Night of Comedy events, which 
raised US$150,000 for local charities
• Annual Balfour Beatty Sporting Clay 
Shoot, raising US$60,000 for the Texas 
Health Resources Foundation
• The Beale Air Force Military Housing 
team’s Tin Cup Charity Fishing 
Tournament raised US$250,000 for 
local charities over the five-year project.
This year, Balfour Beatty announced it is 
extending its sponsorship of the London 
Youth Games to 2016, which will take  
the total sponsorship to 10 years. Since 
Balfour Beatty started sponsoring the 
Games, participant numbers have 
increased fivefold, and the number of our 
employees volunteering at the Games 
reached a record number in 2014.
For our business it brings multiple benefits, 
including engaging our employees in 
volunteering, community engagement, 
helping customer relationships and 
supporting communities in and around 
London where we operate.
For the participants, we recognise  
the value that sport brings to the lives  
of young people and are committed  
to helping raise their aspirations, 
motivation and attainment levels  
in local communities.
TAXATION
Our tax strategy, approved by the Board,  
is to sustainably minimise our tax cost 
whilst complying with the law. 
In doing so, we ensure we act in 
accordance with our ethics, values and 
compliance programme. We always 
consider the financial and reputational  
risk arising from our management of tax 
issues, aiming to maximise long-term 
shareholder value.
We have an open, honest and positive 
working relationship with HMRC and  
are committed to prompt disclosure and 
transparency in all tax matters. Where 
disputes arise with tax authorities with 
regard to the interpretation and application 
of tax law, we are committed to 
addressing the matter promptly and 
resolving it with the tax authority in an 
open and constructive manner.
The Group makes a major contribution  
to the tax revenues of governments  
from its activities in over 80 countries in  
which it operated in 2014. For example, 
the Group’s UK tax contribution extends 
significantly beyond corporate tax,  
as the size of its workforce means it  
not only collects very large amounts  
of income tax, but also pays over £100 
million in employer’s national insurance 
contributions in a typical year.
Our 2014 Strategic Report, from 
pages 1 to 41, was approved by 
the Board on 24 March 2015.
Duncan Magrath 
Chief Financial Officer
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 41 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Introducing the Board
The Directors who held office during the year were:
Steve Marshall Chairman
Robert Amen
Iain Ferguson
Maureen Kempston Darkes
Duncan Magrath Chief Financial Officer
Andrew McNaughton  Chief Executive (until 3 May 2014)
Belinda Richards (until 21 November 2014)
Graham Roberts
Bill Thomas (until 21 November 2014)
Peter Zinkin  Planning and Development Director
New appointments in 2015:
Philip Aiken  Non-executive Chairman  
(effective 26 March 2015)
Philip Harrison Chief Financial Officer  
   (Date to be confirmed)
Leo Quinn  Group Chief Executive 
(from 1 January 2015)
Resignations in 2015:
Steve Marshall Effective 25 March 2015
Peter Zinkin Effective 25 March 2015
Duncan Magrath Effective 8 May 2015
Board Committees code:
1
 
Audit, Risk & Assurance
2 Business Practices
3
 
Nomination
4
 
Remuneration
5 Group Tender and Investment
6 Finance and General Purposes
 Chair
4 3 2
Philip Aiken AM 
Non-executive Chairman  
(from 26 March 2015)
Age 66. Joins the Board as non-executive 
Chairman with effect from 26 March 2015. 
He is non-executive chairman of Aveva 
Group plc and a non-executive director  
of Newcrest Mining Limited. He was a 
non-executive director of National Grid plc 
until February 2015, chairman of Robert 
Walters plc and a non-executive (and 
senior independent) director of Kazakhmys 
plc and Essar Energy plc,and a senior 
adviser at Macquarie Bank Ltd. Prior to 
that he was group president Energy BHP 
Billiton and president BHP Petroleum, 
chief executive of BTR Nylex, and  
held senior roles in BOC Group. He has 
extensive international business experience 
in the industrials and resources sectors, 
having worked across the UK, US, Asia 
and the Middle East.
Leo Quinn 
Group Chief Executive
Age 57. Appointed as Group Chief 
Executive in January 2015 after five years 
as group chief executive of QinetiQ Group 
plc and before that five years as CEO of  
De La Rue plc. Prior to these senior roles, 
he spent almost four years as COO of 
Invensys plc’s production management 
business, headquartered in the US, and  
16 years with Honeywell Inc in senior 
management roles across the UK, Europe, 
the Middle East and Africa, including 
global president of H&BC Enterprise 
Solutions. He is a non-executive director 
of Betfair Group plc and was formerly 
a non-executive director of Tomkins plc. 
He is a civil engineer, and began his  
career at Balfour Beatty. He is the founder 
of The 5% Club which encourages 
industry to increase graduate training  
and apprenticeships.
Iain Ferguson CBE 
Senior Independent Director
Age 59. Appointed a Director in 2010.  
Until 2009, he was chief executive of  
Tate & Lyle. Prior to joining Tate & Lyle  
in 2003, he spent 26 years at Unilever  
in a succession of roles culminating in his 
appointment as senior vice-president, 
corporate development. He is non-
executive chairman of Berendsen plc  
and Stobart Group Limited. He is also 
chairman of Wilton Park, an independent 
and non-profit making Executive Agency 
of the British Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office and lead independent director  
at the Department for Environment,  
Food and Rural Affairs. He was formerly  
a non-executive director of Sygen 
International and of Greggs plc.
3 2 4 1
3 5 6
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
42 4 3 1
Graham Roberts 
Non-executive Director
Age 56. Appointed a Director in 2009.  
He is chief executive of Assura Group,  
a UK primary healthcare property company 
and was formerly finance director of The 
British Land Company between 2002 and 
2011. Prior to that, he spent eight years at 
Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising 
in the real estate and government services 
sectors. He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants.
3 2 1
Robert Amen 
Non-executive Director
Age 65. Appointed a Director in 2010.  
Until 2009, he was chairman and chief 
executive officer of International Flavors  
& Fragrances Inc (IFF). Prior to joining  
IFF in 2006, he spent over 25 years  
at International Paper in a succession  
of roles, culminating in his appointment  
as president and member of the board.  
He was also a director of Wyeth, the US 
pharmaceutical and healthcare company, 
until its acquisition by Pfizer in October 
2009. He is a non-executive director  
of Verso Corporation, a US producer of 
printing and specialty papers and pulp,  
and currently serves as an executive-in-
residence at Columbia Business School.
4 3 2
Maureen Kempston Darkes 
Non-executive Director
Age 66. Appointed a Director in 2012.  
She joined General Motors Corporation  
in 1975 and held a number of progressively 
senior roles during her time with the 
business, culminating in her appointment  
as group vice-president for General 
Motors’ Latin America, Africa and Middle 
East operations. She retired from General 
Motors in 2009. She has a portfolio of 
non-executive directorships including 
Brookfield Asset Management, Canadian 
National Railways, Enbridge Inc, Irving  
Oil Company and Schlumberger.  
She is a member of the Canadian 
Government’s Science, Technology  
and Innovation Council.
6 5
Peter Zinkin Planning and 
Development Director 
(until March 2015)
Age 61. Appointed to the Board  
in 1991, having joined the Group in  
1981. He will cease to be a Director  
on 25 March 2015 and will retire from 
Balfour Beatty in August 2015. He is  
a governor of Birkbeck, University  
of London and a councillor in the 
London borough of Barnet.
6 5
Duncan Magrath Chief Financial 
Officer (until May 2015)
Age 50. Appointed to the Board in 2008, 
having joined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as 
deputy finance director from Exel. He will 
cease to be a Director and an employee  
of Balfour Beatty on 8 May 2015. He is a 
non-executive director of Brammer plc  
and a Fellow of the Institute of  
Chartered Accountants.
4 3 2
Steve Marshall Non-executive and 
Executive Chairman (until March 2015)
Age 58. Appointed a Director in 2005 
and Chairman in May 2008, in May  
2014 he was appointed to the role of 
Executive Chairman on the departure  
of the then Chief Executive before 
reverting to non-executive capacity on  
1 January 2015. He will cease to be a 
Director and Chairman on 25 March 
2015. He is non-executive chairman of 
Wincanton plc and Biffa Group Holdings 
Limited. He is a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants 
and a member of its governing council.
Executive Directors in 2014
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
43 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Our governance framework
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION
Balfour Beatty is committed  
to applying the very highest 
standards of corporate 
governance wherever it operates.
Areas of focus in 2014
• Recruitment of a new Group Chief 
Executive and search for a new 
Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 
• Operational delivery – focus on 
Construction Services UK
• Implementation of business strategy 
– disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff.
Areas of focus in 2015
• Programme of business transformation 
under the new leadership team
• Financial performance, including cash 
generation and cost reduction plan
• Greater assurance of risk analysis, 
controls and reporting
• Rebalance the skills and experience  
on the Board.
We have continued to apply the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and, with 
respect to its main principles, I would like 
to draw your attention to the following:
Leadership
Our areas of focus for the Board in 2014 
and 2015 are summarised in the adjacent 
column. In the pages which follow, I have 
set out how we have been addressing 
these items as a Board; whether through 
the Directors collectively, or via the Board 
Committee structure.
Losing Andrew McNaughton as Chief 
Executive early in the year meant I had  
to combine executive responsibility with 
my role as Chairman, until the business’s 
future was assured and a successor  
could be recruited (as referred to in my 
Chairman’s Review on pages 4 and 5). 
This, and the especially difficult year that 
2014 proved to be, imposed additional 
burdens particularly on our non-executive 
Directors, both in the commercial  
decisions we were having to make  
and in governance matters.
The appointments of Leo Quinn as Group 
Chief Executive, Philip Aiken as Chairman 
and Philip Harrison as Chief Financial 
Officer will bring a wealth of relevant 
experience. The Company is actively 
recruiting a further non-executive Director 
to ensure the right balance of skills and 
experience, following the departure late 
last year of Belinda Richards and Bill 
Thomas. In addition, in 2015 Duncan 
Magrath, Peter Zinkin and myself will  
leave the Board.
Diversity
Though we again find ourselves with  
only one female Director on the Board,  
we specifically ask search firms to  
identify suitable women candidates  
as we endeavour to increase the female 
composition of our Board. Although,  
as a policy, we strongly support greater 
diversity in all its forms, not least gender 
diversity, as an important objective for  
the Group, we do not believe in the 
concept of gender quotas, our preferred 
approach being much more directed at 
merit, experience and skills. We are in  
the third year of our diversity and inclusion 
programme, which includes the 
development of women for future 
management positions in the Group.  
More information on the various aspects  
of our diversity programme across the 
organisation is set out on page 37.
Accountability
Despite the issues we have faced, we 
continue to believe that the Company’s 
policies and procedures enable the  
Board to present a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the  
Group’s trading position and its prospects. 
We continue to keep under review the 
matters reserved for the Board and the 
terms of reference of its Committees  
and will make adjustments as considered 
necessary and publish any changes on  
our corporate website. During 2014, the 
Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee made 
significant revisions to the identification 
and assessment of risk at divisional level 
to achieve more reliable and responsible 
reporting. Increased interrogation and risk 
reporting, and integrated analysis of 
commercial and business risks and their 
controls and the assurance that can  
be placed on them, will be a focus for 
2015. More information can be found  
on pages 58 and 59.
Remuneration
The remuneration policy, subject to a 
binding vote for the first time in 2014,  
was approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting in May.  
We remain committed to the policy’s 
principles and alignment to performance 
and shareholder value, and do not propose 
any changes for 2015. Details of how it  
will operate in 2015 can be found in the 
Remuneration Report on page 71.
Relations with shareholders
Our investor relations programme remains 
of critical importance to the Board and  
this is why, at each of our meetings,  
we receive a comprehensive report from 
our investor relations team, as well as 
receiving, at regular intervals, updates 
from analysts and the feedback from any 
meetings which the Directors, including 
myself, may have held with institutional 
shareholders. The Annual General Meeting 
is recognised as an opportunity for private 
shareholders to engage with the Board. 
Further information on our investor relations 
programme is set out on page 61.
 Read more online in our Investors section 
balfourbeatty.com/investors
Steve Marshall
Chairman
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
44 Balfour Beatty Governance Framework
Compliance with the Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 
(the Code) is the standard applying to good 
corporate governance practice in the UK, 
and the Listing Rules require listed 
companies to disclose whether they  
have complied with the provisions  
of the Code throughout the financial  
year. (For information on the Code,  
visit www.frc.org.uk.)
The Company has complied with the 
requirements of the Code throughout the 
accounting period, other than in respect  
of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
whistleblowing procedures which is kept 
under review by the Business Practices 
Committee and not by the Audit, Risk  
& Assurance Committee. The principal 
reason for this is that the Business 
Practices Committee, in particular, 
focuses on the Company’s business 
conduct, its ethics and values, ensuring 
that procedures exist for employees  
to raise concerns in confidence and this  
is an integral element of its overall remit. 
However, the Audit, Risk & Assurance 
Committee is kept informed of any 
allegations of fraud or poor financial 
controls and internal audit participates in 
investigations into such claims and reports 
to that Committee on the outcome.
Directors’ independence
At its Board meeting in March 2015,  
as part of its annual audit of corporate 
governance, the Board considered the 
independence of the non-executive 
Directors against the criteria specified  
in the Code and determined that each  
of them continues to be independent.
The Board
Effective from 26 March 2015, the Board 
will comprise seven Directors, of whom 
five, including the Chairman, are non-
executive. Details of the changes during 
the year can be found under the heading 
“Board composition” below.
Board composition
The names of the Directors serving 
through the year and at the year end are 
shown on page 42. All of the Directors  
in office on 26 March 2015, with the 
exception of Duncan Magrath, will seek 
election or re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting in accordance with  
the Code. Brief biographical details are 
shown on pages 42 and 43. Full details  
of Directors’ service agreements, 
emoluments and share interests are 
shown in the Remuneration Report 
starting on page 64.
Andrew McNaughton stepped down  
as Chief Executive and from the Board  
on 3 May 2014, and Steve Marshall was 
appointed to the role of Executive Chairman. 
Belinda Richards and Bill Thomas resigned 
as non-executive Directors effective  
21 November 2014. Since the year end, 
we have made a number of changes to the 
Board and announced some which have 
yet to take effect. Leo Quinn took office as 
Group Chief Executive and as a Director on 
the Board on 1 January 2015; Philip Aiken 
joins the Board as non-executive Chairman 
on 26 March 2015, succeeding Steve 
Marshall who, with Peter Zinkin, will cease 
to be Directors at that time; while Duncan 
Magrath will cease to hold office on  
8 May 2015.
Each of the Directors brings skills and 
experience which enhance the quality  
of debate in the boardroom and provides 
guidance. The Directors believe that  
the Board retains the ability to provide 
effective leadership and that appointments 
being made will achieve an appropriate 
balance of skills. Having said this, there  
is a need to make further appointments  
to the Board to give it the appropriate 
balance. A search for a non-executive 
Director has been commissioned, and 
Philip Aiken, as Chairman, will be further 
considering the composition of the Board 
to ensure it has the right balance of skill 
and experience. There are, however, areas 
where the non-executive Directors, in 
particular, bring with them a wealth of 
insight and, although not exhaustive, some 
of their most significant strengths are 
highlighted on page 46.
The Board
• Group strategy
• Annual budgets and financial 
reporting
• Interim and final dividends
• Major acquisitions, disposals  
and capital expenditure
• Financial and human resources
• Values and ethical standards
• Risk management and assurance.
 Read more on p48
Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee
• Financial statements
• Financial controls
• External audit 
• Internal audit
• Risk management and assurance.
 Read more on p51
Nomination Committee
• Structure and composition of Board
• Appointment of non-executive 
Directors
• Succession planning and  
talent management.
 Read more on p54
Remuneration Committee
• Remuneration strategy and policies
• Remuneration packages
• Incentive plans.
 Read more on p55
Business Practices Committee
• Corporate values, ethics and  
Code of Conduct
• Health and safety
• Stakeholder management
• Sustainability
• Whistleblowing
• Community engagement.
 Read more on p56
Group Tender and  
Investment Committee
• Major contract approvals
• Acquisitions and disposals
• Capital expenditure.
 Read more on p57
Finance and General  
Purposes Committee
• Banking facilities and other  
treasury matters
• Share options.
 Read more on p57
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
45 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
After evaluation, your Board is satisfied 
that each of the Directors continues  
to be effective and demonstrates 
commitment to the role; and that their 
election or re-election is in the Company’s 
best interests.
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board is collectively responsible  
for the success of the Company and  
has a formal schedule of matters reserved 
for its decision which includes the matters 
summarised below:
• determining the Group’s strategic 
direction
• approving annual budgets and financial 
reporting, including the annual and 
half-year results and interim 
management statements
• approving interim, and recommending 
final, dividends
• approving major acquisitions, disposals 
and capital expenditure
• ensuring the necessary financial and 
human resources are in place to achieve 
objectives and review management 
performance
• setting the Company’s values and 
ethical standards
• approving policies and systems for risk 
management and assurance.
The Board reviewed its list of reserved 
matters, most recently, at its meeting  
in March 2015. The full list and the terms 
of reference of the Board Committees  
are available on request from the Company 
Secretary and are also displayed on the 
Company’s website. Descriptions of the 
specific responsibilities which have been 
delegated to the Group Chief Executive 
and to the principal Board Committees  
are also provided on page 47 and pages  
51 to 57.
The day-to-day management of the 
business is delegated to executive 
Directors and the Group’s senior 
management. 
  Read more online in our Investors section 
balfourbeatty.com/investors
Chairman and Group Chief Executive
The two roles are complementary and the 
Company usually keeps them separate. 
The Chairman is responsible for managing 
the business of the Board, whilst the 
Group Chief Executive actually runs the 
business. As the senior executive officer 
of the Company, the Group Chief 
Executive is responsible to the Chairman 
and Board for directing and prioritising the 
profitable operation and development of 
the Group. The Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive keep each other appropriately 
informed on the other’s current activities.
Specifically, their roles comprise  
the principal responsibilities in the  
sections following:
Chairman’s responsibilities
• Ensuring effective strategic planning is 
undertaken by the executive Directors
• Ensuring corporate governance is 
properly maintained
• Formally appraising the performance 
of the Group Chief Executive and 
reviewing with the Group Chief 
Executive his views on the performance 
of the other executive Directors
• Providing leadership to the Board
• Acting as senior ambassador  
for the Company
• Considering Board balance, composition 
and succession
• Ensuring the smooth operation  
of the Board and its Committees
• Providing effective communication 
between the Board and its 
shareholders.
Board balance Board tenure Board geography Board diversity
Non-executive Directors – significant strengths
Strategic 
development
Operating 
performance 
and delivery
Mergers and 
acquisitions
Business 
integration
Financial 
management 
and planning Sector-specific
Philip Aiken
Robert Amen
Iain Ferguson
Maureen Kempston Darkes
Graham Roberts
Experience of 
international 
markets
Health 
and safety
Risk 
management 
and assurance HR management
Stakeholder 
engagement
Ethics, values 
and culture
Philip Aiken
Robert Amen
Iain Ferguson
Maureen Kempston Darkes
Graham Roberts
Chairman 1
Executive Directors 3
Non-executive Directors 4
0–2 years 1
2–4 years 1
4–6 years 2
6+ years 4
UK 6
Americas 2
Male 7
Female 1
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
46 Group Chief Executive’s 
responsibilities
• Strategy development and the 
stewardship of physical, financial  
and human resources
• Group operational and financial 
performance
• Executive leadership
• Health, safety and environmental 
performance
• Corporate values and ethics
• Objective setting for the senior 
management team
• Organisational structure, succession 
and talent management
• Major capital expenditure prioritisation 
and allocation of resources
• Consideration of acquisitions,  
disposals and financing
• Stakeholder management.
Until 3 May 2014, Steve Marshall carried 
out the role of non-executive Chairman. 
He spent an average of two days a week 
on Company business, the Board being 
satisfied that his role as non-executive 
chairman of two other companies,  
and his other business and charitable 
commitments, could be accommodated 
without hindering his ability to carry out his 
duties as Chairman. Assuming executive 
responsibility on 3 May, he relinquished 
one of his other company non-executive 
positions and devoted substantial 
additional time to the Company’s needs 
until a new Group Chief Executive could 
be appointed. From 1 January 2015,  
he reverted to non-executive capacity.
Senior Independent Director
As Senior Independent Director, Iain 
Ferguson’s principal responsibilities  
are to ensure that the views of the other 
non-executive Directors are properly 
considered and to provide an additional 
communication channel between  
the non-executive Directors and the 
shareholders and other stakeholders,  
as required. Mr Ferguson meets with the 
other non-executive Directors without  
the Chairman or executive Directors being 
present at least once a year. He has led  
the search for a new Chairman, on behalf  
of the Board.
Directors’ interests
No Director had any material interest  
in any contract of significance with the 
Group during the period under review.  
The Directors have put in place procedures 
to ensure the Board collectively, and  
the Directors individually, comply with  
the disclosure requirements on conflicts  
of interest set out in the Companies Act 
2006. At its meeting each January,  
a formal declaration of interests is 
reviewed by the Board.
The interests of Directors in the share 
capital of the Company and its subsidiary 
undertakings and their interests under  
the long-term incentive scheme (the 
Performance Share Plan), the Deferred 
Bonus Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and 
share options are set out in the tables in 
the Remuneration Report commencing  
on page 64.
Directors’ indemnities
The Company grants an indemnity to all  
of its Directors to the extent permitted  
by law. These indemnities are uncapped  
in relation to losses and liabilities which 
Directors may incur to third parties in  
the course of acting as a Director of the 
Company, or in any office where such 
duties are performed at the request of the 
Board, or as a result of their appointment 
as Directors.
Board meetings
Procedures for Board meetings remain 
largely unchanged from previous years. 
The Company Secretary is responsible  
for advising the Board on appropriate 
governance matters and for ensuring  
a good information flow and that Board 
procedures are properly followed. He also 
provides updates on legal matters of 
relevance to the Group and is available  
to individual Directors for advice on  
Board procedures.
2014 meeting programme
In 2014, confronted by an exceptional 
series of events, the Board met on  
26 occasions and held numerous update 
discussions. The vast majority of these 
were held at the Company’s head office  
in London, or by telephone. In addition to 
the scheduled eight meetings, many called 
at short notice were accommodated as 
conference calls. Contrary to the 
Company’s usual practice, given the 
overwhelming workload that had to be 
accommodated, none of the scheduled 
meetings during 2014 were held at 
business units or overseas.
Each scheduled Board meeting normally 
lasts four to five hours but can be longer.
On the evening preceding those Board 
meetings, the Directors generally meet  
for dinner and sometimes take the 
opportunity to discuss predetermined 
developmental themes, led by one of  
the executive Directors, other senior 
managers or a specialist external speaker. 
One of the dinners each year is attended 
by the Chairman and the non-executive 
Directors only, whilst a second includes 
the Group Chief Executive, but none  
of the other executive Directors.
Each scheduled Board meeting addresses 
key strategic topics for the Group which 
enable the Directors to engage in detailed 
reviews. The Board also considers at each 
of these meetings monthly updates from 
the Group Chief Executive and the Chief 
Financial Officer. Regular reports are  
also provided on health, safety and 
environment, operational performance, 
corporate communications, risk 
management and assurance, investor 
relations and any legal issues. At each 
such meeting, the chairs of the various 
Board Committees provide a summary  
of the discussions held at the preceding 
Committee meeting and the key actions 
arising; minutes of the Committee 
meetings are then made available for 
inspection on the electronic portal used  
for disseminating papers for meetings  
and on which other key data and 
documents are kept. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
47 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
2014 Board topics
As mentioned on page 47, the Board  
met an unprecedented 26 times during 
2014 driven by:
• Group strategy leading to the disposal 
of Parsons Brinckerhoff
• the operational delivery and financial 
performance issues which emerged 
throughout the year, particularly within 
the UK construction business, and  
the proposed remedial actions
• the potential merger discussions with 
Carillion plc
• the proposal from John Laing 
Infrastructure Fund Limited to acquire 
the Group’s PPP portfolio. 
The following topics were also addressed 
by the Board during 2014 under each of 
the themes shown. For clarity, a synopsis 
of certain of the topics has been included 
as well.
Finance
• Budgets 2014 and 2015 
• Annual and half-year results including 
pre-close statements
• Dividend strategy – including return  
of capital to shareholders
• Financing capacity and options – future 
cash needs of the Group and compliance 
with covenants
• Trading updates.
Operational performance
• Health and safety – performance across 
the Group and the status of the Zero 
Harm programme
• Efficiency programme – reviews of the 
principal cost reduction and efficiency 
programmes and monitoring their 
progress against predetermined 
measures and milestones
• Business reviews – operating 
performance against budget and 
strategic plan, risks and opportunities, 
and matters such as health and safety, 
people development and sustainability, 
including: 
 − International (Middle East, Far East, 
Australia)
 − Construction Services UK – 
performance and plan of action
 − Construction Services US
 − Professional Services
 − Rail
 − Infrastructure Investments.
• Infrastructure fund – the infrastructure 
fund enables the Group to utilise a 
combination of infrastructure asset 
knowledge, skills and experience to 
earn a superior return on capital, as well 
as advisory fees. The Board received 
progress updates on how this part of 
the Group was progressing, including 
information on investments made in  
the year and the fund’s valuation.
HR
• Recruitment of a new Group Chief 
Executive, and the search for a new 
Chairman and other non-executive 
Directors
• People planning, talent and succession 
management – key people moves, 
review of succession plans, the 
encouragement of cross-divisional and 
cross-geographical moves, and diversity 
and inclusion policies and practices 
across the Group
• Organisational structure
• Pensions.
Strategy
• Group strategy development and 
structuring options – monitoring 
progress against plan and divestments. 
Mergers, acquisitions and divestments
• Evaluation of a number of merger  
or disposal opportunities 
• Disposal of parts of the German  
rail business
• Disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff
• Approval of Infrastructure Investments 
asset disposals in 2014:
 − Durham Teaching Hospital 
 − Knowsley Schools project
 − Pinderfields and Pontefract  
General Hospitals.
Risk
• Risk management review.
For 2015, the Board is scheduled to meet 
eight times. At least one meeting will 
focus on the development of the strategic 
plan. At least one meeting will be held 
outside London at one of the Group’s 
business units. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
48 Further information about the work of 
each of the Board’s Committees may be 
found on pages 51 to 57.
Board development
Induction
Directors undertake a thorough induction 
programme and receive a range of 
information about the Company when  
they join the Board, including access to  
a portal on which all Board papers are 
stored, and which includes Balfour 
Beatty’s Code of Conduct and processes 
for dealing in Balfour Beatty shares and 
Board procedures. In addition, they also 
take part in a series of one-to-one 
meetings with other members of the 
Board, senior executives in the businesses 
and the Company’s external advisers, 
which include briefings on the Company’s 
business strategy, financial procedures, 
business development, legal and other key 
issues. Visits to the Group’s businesses 
are also arranged and encouraged, as part 
of the induction programme and ongoing 
training and development.
Philip Aiken has already commenced  
this process which will be substantially 
completed shortly.
Professional development
In discussion with the Directors and 
Company Secretary, each year the 
Chairman determines whether there are  
any specific training needs identified by 
the Directors, which can be addressed 
either by the topic being included at a 
future Board meeting or on a one-to-one 
basis. Directors are also enrolled in the 
Deloitte Academy, a seminar-led 
programme for directors of UK listed 
companies, which provides regular 
updates throughout the year on the 
principal governance and other matters  
of which directors of a listed company 
should be fully aware.
The Directors’ induction programme also 
provides the foundation for continuing 
professional development. This takes 
place throughout the year by way of a 
series of internal and external updates, 
including visits to operating companies  
to meet local management and visits to 
Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK  
and overseas.
Owing to the increased Board meeting 
commitment during 2014, as well as 
additional meetings of the Nomination  
and Remuneration Committees, the 
programme of visits organised for the 
non-executive Directors was curtailed. 
Board evaluation
Introduction
In keeping with the Code, the Board 
receives external evaluations, normally 
every three years, with internal evaluations 
in the intervening two years. The most 
recent external evaluation was carried out 
for 2012, so for 2014 the evaluation has 
been conducted using internal resources.
2014 evaluation
This was conducted between January and 
February 2015 using an online structured 
questionnaire covering the operation of 
the Board and each of its principal 
Committees, issued to the Directors and,  
in the case of the Committees, to those 
other participants who regularly attend 
these meetings. The emerging key themes 
were summarised and presented to the 
Board in March 2015 and the scope of  
the evaluation is shown below.
2014 Board and Board Committee meetings
All non-executive Directors receive papers for all Committees. Any Director who is not a Committee member has an open invitation to 
attend any Committee meeting and a number of the Directors took this opportunity during the year. For example, Steve Marshall and 
Duncan Magrath each attended all the Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee meetings in 2014; and Andrew McNaughton attended 
meetings of that Committee and the Business Practices Committee while he was a Director. 
Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board meetings and meetings of the Audit, Risk & Assurance, Business 
Practices, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the table below.
Name of Director Board
Audit, Risk &
 Assurance
Business
 Practices Nomination Remuneration
Robert Amen 23(26) 4(4) 2(2) 4(4)
Iain Ferguson 23(26) 0(0) 2(2) 4(4) 7(7)
Maureen Kempston Darkes 23(26) 2(2) 4(4) 6(7)
Duncan Magrath 24(26)
Steve Marshall 26(26) 1(2) 4(4) 7(7)
Andrew McNaughton (to 3 May 2014) 5(5) 0(0)
Belinda Richards (to 21 November 2014) 21(26) 1(4) 0(2) 2(4)
Graham Roberts 24(26) 4(4) 4(4) 6(7)
Bill Thomas (to 21 November 2014) 23(26) 4(4) 2(2) 3(4)
Peter Zinkin 22(26)
The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year (including as a result of changes to Committee memberships). 
Non-attendance at meetings was due to prior business commitments and in particular during 2014 to the very short notice at which a meeting may have had to be convened. 
In each case, where the Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their 
comments directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chair, as appropriate.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
The work of the Board
Strategy and operations
• Understanding of the Board’s role
• Quality of strategic process
• Knowledge of operations and  
the external landscape
• Consideration of stakeholder views, 
including shareholders.
Risk and control
• Quality of financial information
• Efficacy of internal and external  
audit functions
• Effectiveness of the Audit, Risk  
& Assurance Committee
• Effectiveness of the Business  
Practices Committee
• Interaction with advisers.
Performance management
• Knowledge of corporate culture  
and context
• Assessment of executive motivation, 
performance and remuneration
• Quality of executive succession 
planning and leadership development
• Effectiveness of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Board environment
Culture
• Board culture, dynamics, values  
and conduct
• Quality of debate and decision making
• Opportunity and ability to contribute, 
individually and collectively
• Balance of constructive challenge  
and support.
Composition
• Board size, composition, skills  
and experience
• Effectiveness of the Nomination 
Committee.
The Board’s use of time
Planning
• Quality of information and the 
timeliness of papers
• Schedule of Board and Committee 
meetings
• Quality of secretariat support.
Allocation
• Balance of formal and informal time
• Provision of time for priorities
• Balance of presentation and debate
• Availability of induction and  
training programmes.
Conclusions reached were more 
qualitative than quantitative and based  
on a careful analysis of the Board and  
its Committees’ approach to their work, 
contribution to the success of the 
Company and preparation for the future. 
The principal themes ensuing from the 
evaluation of 2014 are set out below:
Strengths
• Strong chairmanship and performance 
of the Board in handling a series of 
crises, served well by the hard work  
of the leadership team
• Improved understanding of the views  
of major investors and stakeholders
• Well-managed process for the selection 
of a new Chairman, Group Chief 
Executive and Chief Financial Officer
• Information flow facilitating discussion 
and decision making
•  Culture and quality of relationships.
Weaknesses
• Need to appoint a Director with relevant 
construction sector experience
• More attention required in relation  
to operational oversight and visibility  
of operational performance
• Review and testing of risk management 
programmes.
The following key areas of focus were identified for 2015
Restructuring and turnaround of CSUK Management actions to transform the Construction Services UK (CSUK) business 
and monitoring their progress to re-establish confidence in that business.
Improving strategic oversight  
and management of risk
The Board needs greater transparency from management in being kept fully 
appraised of financial and operating issues in the business.
Increasing exposure of the Board  
to the business
More time spent in the businesses in order to improve the Board’s understanding 
of the pressures and issues.
Managing changes at Board level With significant change at Board level, it will be essential that the new Board gels 
quickly and achieves a common understanding of how to function together.
Succession planning and talent management The Group is in need of adding to the management team and planning for 
executive succession.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
50 AUDIT, RISK & ASSURANCE 
COMMITTEE
Meetings in 2014: 4
Members
• Graham Roberts – chair
• Robert Amen
• Iain Ferguson – since November 
2014.
Former members  
(retired in the year)
• Belinda Richards
• Bill Thomas.
Responsibilities
• Financial statements
• Financial controls
• External audit 
• Internal audit
• Risk management and assurance.
The terms of reference for the Committee 
are based on the Guidance on Audit 
Committees issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council. The main responsibilities 
of the Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee 
are summarised below:
• monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Group and any formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s 
financial performance
• review the Group’s internal controls 
established to identify, assess, manage 
and monitor risks, and receive reports 
from management on the effectiveness 
of the systems it has established and 
the conclusions of any testing carried 
out by the internal audit function and 
external auditor
• monitor and review the effectiveness  
of the internal audit function including 
its work programme
• make recommendations to the Board  
in relation to the appointment of  
the external auditor and approve the 
remuneration and terms of engagement 
of the external auditor
• assess the independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external auditor 
and develop and implement policy on 
the engagement of the external auditor 
to supply non-audit services
• review the integrity of the statement  
in the Annual Report on being fair, 
balanced and understandable,  
as required under the Companies  
Act 2006.
Graham Roberts, a Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants and a former 
partner at Andersen and finance director 
of The British Land Company, has been 
identified by the Board as having recent 
and relevant financial experience. 
Partners from the external auditor, the 
Heads of Group Risk Management and 
Assurance and Internal Audit, and the 
Chief Financial Officer regularly attend 
each meeting. In addition, any non-
executive Director who is not a Committee 
member has an open invitation to attend 
meetings. The Committee regularly also 
invites other executive Directors, divisional 
leaders and specialists relevant to the 
Committee’s agenda. Minutes of 
Committee meetings are circulated  
to all Board members.
Summary of activities in 2014
In 2014, the Committee’s work 
programme focused on a number of 
significant issues and other accounting 
judgements where the Committee 
believed the highest level of judgement 
was required and with the highest 
potential impact on the Group’s financial 
statements. Further information is set out 
on page 52. The Committee’s standing 
agenda items comprised reports on:
• accounting, financial and  
regulatory issues
• review of non-audit work carried out  
by the external auditors, and their fees
• risk management activities  
and compliance
• implementation of and progress against 
the Group assurance plan.
The Committee is able to question 
management at both Group and divisional 
levels to gain any further insight into the 
issues addressed in these reports. As well 
as the standing agenda items, the 
Committee also reviewed comprehensive 
papers on material litigation and tax.
In view of the significance of the UK 
construction business’s operational 
delivery issues, its performance was 
subject to scrutiny at the Board meetings, 
attended by CSUK leadership. This 
approach succeeded the sub-Committee 
established in 2013. 
The results of the review by KPMG  
of the UK construction business is of 
considerable interest to the Committee. 
The results and recommendations of  
the KPMG report are described in detail  
on page 19 of this document, and so will 
not be repeated here. The Committee  
has received presentations addressing  
the actions being taken to implement  
the recommendations, and this will be  
an area of continued focus for 2015.
Risk management and assurance
The Committee oversaw the development 
of more robust processes to embed 
operational risk and opportunity reporting 
in core reporting lines and processes in 
addition to existing reporting via revised 
framework and review procedures. This 
work is ongoing with the intention of 
developing a unified and common 
approach to risk management and 
assurance across the Group.
Internal audit – co-sourcing
The internal audit function entered into  
a co-sourcing arrangement with KPMG  
in the summer of 2014. This provides  
the Head of Internal Audit with access  
to additional resources and specialist  
audit techniques. The initial focus of the 
increased resource was in contract review 
controls in the UK construction business 
and IT governance. 
Fair, balanced and understandable
Following the introduction of the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 
last year against which we reported, the 
Board has been mindful of the continuing 
need to provide a balanced and 
comprehensive analysis of the Company’s 
development and performance during  
the year and the position at the year end. 
The Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee 
has assisted in achieving this objective  
by reviewing proposals for the internal 
procedures to be applied in preparing  
the Annual Report.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
51 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
Significant issues and other accounting judgements
Revenue and margin 
recognition
Given the nature of the Group’s operations, these elements are central to how it values its work. Having 
reviewed detailed reports (including the KPMG review) and met with management, the Committee 
considered contract and commercial issues where there was exposure to both revenue and margin 
recognition risks. As a key area of audit focus, the Committee also received a detailed written report from 
the external auditor setting out the results of its work in relation to key contract judgements. The Committee 
considered management’s assessment of additional contract risk provisions, as discussed in the Chairman’s 
Review on page 4. The Committee also reviewed the work carried out to identify whether prior periods 
required restatement, explained fully on page 14.
Carrying value of 
goodwill and other 
intangibles
The judgement largely relates to the assumptions underlying the value in use of the cash-generating units, 
primarily the achievement of the three-year strategic plan and the macroeconomic assumptions (such as 
discount rates) underpinning the valuation process. The Committee received reports from management 
outlining the basis of the assumptions used; in addition, the external auditor provided detailed written  
reports in this area. During the year, the Committee reviewed management’s impairment assessment  
of the Mainland European rail businesses and concluded that an impairment charge of £24 million should  
be recorded in relation to Rail Italy. The Committee also agreed with the decision to partially impair the 
Oracle R12 intangible asset as a result of the decision to focus its roll-out on Construction Services UK only.
Accounting for 
acquisitions and 
disposals
The Committee judges whether a business should be treated as held for sale and classified as a 
discontinued operation. In doing so, it reviews management’s position and Group strategy and evaluates the 
likelihood that the business will be disposed of within a 12-month period and if it constitutes a separate major 
line of business. In 2014, Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy were classified as discontinued operations and 
Rail Germany was declassified from discontinued operations. There were no acquisitions in 2014.
Going concern In order to satisfy itself that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation for the 
foreseeable future and that there are no material uncertainties that could lead to significant doubt as to the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, the Committee considered the Group’s cash position (both 
existing and projected), bank facilities and covenants (including bonding lines) and the borrowing powers 
allowed under the Company’s Articles of Association. The Committee subsequently recommended to the 
Board the adoption of the going concern statement for inclusion in the Annual Report. Further details are 
provided in the Chief Financial Officer’s Review on page 17.
 
Non-underlying items The key judgement is whether items relate to the underlying trading or not and whether they have been 
presented in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. The Committee conducted an in-depth review 
of each of the non-underlying items, receiving written reports from management and the external auditor as 
to their quantum and nature. The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of presenting the results of Rail 
Germany and the performance of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts in non-underlying items.
Control environment The Committee discussed whether, given the difficult trading performance in parts of the UK construction 
business during 2014, the overall control environment in these parts of the business was not working 
effectively. In particular, controls around forecast costs to complete on projects need to be strengthened  
to ensure the facts on site are reported in a timely manner.
Provisions The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to provisions, including litigation and other 
risks. The Committee received detailed reports, including relevant legal advice.
Retirement benefits The key judgement relates to the assumptions underlying the valuation of the retirement benefit obligations. 
The Committee received reports from management outlining the assumptions used, including input from 
the Group’s actuaries, in particular in relation to discount rates, inflation and mortality which were evaluated 
against external benchmarks and, in relation to which, the external auditor also provided reports.
Deferred tax assets The Committee reviewed the Group’s considerations on future profitability to evaluate the judgement that  
it is probable the deferred tax assets are recoverable. 
Directors’ valuation of 
Investments portfolio
The Committee assessed the methodology used to value the assets in terms of the discount rate applied. 
It also critically appraised the output of the Directors’ valuation exercise.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
52 Areas of focus in 2015
In 2015, the Committee will continue to 
address the topics on its standing agenda 
and will also continue to undertake 
reviews of the risk management and 
assurance practices across the Group  
on a rolling programme. The Committee 
will also continue to receive training in 
order to broaden and refresh the skills  
and knowledge of its members.
Implementation of KPMG 
recommendations
As mentioned above, the Committee has 
already received information relating to the 
implementation of the recommendations  
in the KPMG report, focusing in particular 
on the actions that have been taken and 
that need to be taken across the UK 
construction business. The ongoing 
monitoring and assurance of this activity 
will continue to be an area of focus  
in 2015. Read more on page 19.
Risk management and internal control
A thorough review of all aspects of the 
Group’s risk and opportunity management 
activities was undertaken following the 
continued operational delivery issues 
within the UK construction business.  
The review centred on the business 
lifecycle from initial enquiry, tender 
submission and contract award, through  
to ongoing monitoring and control, and 
project completion. The review concluded 
that existing internal controls which were 
in place across a number of different 
processes needed to be simplified and 
consolidated under a unified common 
approach across the Group. The revised 
framework comprises a number of 
approval and review gates that cover  
the business lifecycle from initial project 
pursuit through to delivery and completion. 
The new process replaces and expands  
on previous monitoring and control 
processes. These new processes have 
been strengthened by the reinforcement 
of common minimum standards in project 
and commercial management, and will  
be reviewed for effectiveness and 
compliance in 2015 (more details on  
pages 30 and 59).
Internal auditor effectiveness
The Committee reviews the effectiveness 
of internal audit on an ongoing basis.  
This is achieved, in part, by reviewing and 
discussing the reports presented to it at 
each meeting setting out the department’s 
work and findings, but also through a 
formal annual assessment. An independent 
periodic review of internal audit, as well as 
a thorough self-assessment scorecard 
drawn up in accordance with best practice 
guidelines, also helps contribute to the 
Committee’s evaluation.
External auditor independence  
and effectiveness
The Committee carries out a formal review 
each year to assess the independence  
and effectiveness of the external auditor, 
Deloitte LLP. The Committee has 
recommended that the Board proposes  
to shareholders that Deloitte LLP 
continues as the Company’s external 
auditor, having satisfied itself of Deloitte’s 
independence. In reaching its conclusion, 
the Committee took into consideration  
the following matters:
Non-audit work
The objective set out in the Company’s 
policy is to ensure that the external auditor 
is not placed in a position where its 
independence is, or might be seen to be, 
compromised. Under no circumstances 
will any assignment be given to the 
external auditor, when the result is that:
• as part of the statutory audit, it is 
required to report directly on  
non-audit work
• it makes management decisions  
on behalf of the Group
• it acts as advocate for the Group
• the level of non-audit fees is such, 
relative to audit fees, as to raise 
concerns about its ability to form 
objective judgements.
The Company’s policy identifies the 
various types of non-audit services and 
determines the analysis to be undertaken 
and level of authority required before  
the external auditor can be considered  
to undertake such services. Included 
within such analysis is consideration of  
the cost and efficiency benefits as well  
as the real or perceived threats to  
auditor independence.
There is no inconsistency between the 
Financial Reporting Council’s ethical 
standards and the Company’s policy. 
In 2014, the external auditor was  
appointed to carry out various non-audit 
related work, including corporate finance 
services for reasons of commercial 
confidentiality and efficiency as well as  
tax advice and compliance services in 
Australia, Europe, South Africa and the US. 
The main component of non-audit work 
related to corporate finance support for 
the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
including reporting responsibilities  
relating to the Class 1 circular sent to 
shareholders in order to seek their 
approval for the disposal.
The Committee considers that the 
Company receives particular benefits, 
including those relating to cost, quality and 
consistency, from the advice provided by  
its external auditor, given its wide and 
detailed knowledge of the Group and its 
international operations. There can also  
be savings in management time and 
accelerated delivery of work in situations 
where rapid turnaround is required.  
The majority of non-audit related work 
provided by all the major international 
accounting firms (76% by value) was 
carried out by firms other than Deloitte.
Annual assessment of the  
audit processes
In addition to receiving written reports 
from the auditors (both internal and 
external) and management, the 
Committee also conducted separate 
private meetings with the external auditors 
and with management. These provide the 
opportunity for open dialogue and feedback 
on the audit process, the responsiveness 
of management and the effectiveness  
of individual internal and external  
audit teams.
A detailed assessment of the external 
audit process and the effectiveness  
of the external auditor, together with any 
identified improvement recommendations, 
is prepared each year. Each division and 
operating company within the Group  
is required to evaluate the performance  
of the assigned external audit team and  
to compare that performance against the 
previous year. This assessment has taken 
into account the issues which have been 
raised during 2014. The auditors have 
revised their audit approach in certain 
areas and applied additional focus on  
the UK construction business which  
was discussed with the Audit Committee 
and incorporated into the external auditor’s 
audit plan for 2014.
The external auditor’s annual transparency 
report for the year ended 31 May 2014 was 
reviewed. This was prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of the Statutory Auditors 
(Transparency) Instrument 2008 made by 
the Professional Oversight Board of the 
Financial Reporting Council.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
53 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
External auditor rotation
Audit partners have been rotated every 
five years. The advisory partner changed 
in 2010 and the audit engagement partner 
changed in 2011. Deloitte’s first audit 
report for the Company was completed  
in 2003 and there has not been a tender 
for external audit services in the 
intervening period.
A number of circumstances would lead  
to consideration being given to carrying 
out an audit tender review. For example:
• in circumstances where the external 
auditor’s performance had been  
called into question, or where,  
through the audit partner rotation 
process, no suitable replacement  
had been identified
• where value for money considerations 
had arisen
• where there was a real or perceived 
threat to independence
• where conflict of interests had  
been identified
• where issues had been raised about 
audit quality by a regulator.
The final order from the UK Competition  
& Markets Authority amending the UK 
Corporate Governance Code requirement 
for FTSE 350 companies to put statutory 
audit out to tender not less frequently  
than every 10 years aligns the transitional 
arrangements with those for EC Audit 
Regulation, and this means we are now 
required to undertake a tender by 2023. 
The Committee’s current intention is still 
to tender the audit earlier than formally 
required so as to coincide with the rotation 
of the current audit partner’s engagement. 
The tender process itself will take place 
during 2015 effective for the year ending 
31 December 2016.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Meetings in 2014: 4
Members
• Steve Marshall – chair
• Robert Amen
• Iain Ferguson
• Maureen Kempston Darkes
• Graham Roberts.
Former members  
(retired in the year)
• Andrew McNaughton 
• Belinda Richards 
• Bill Thomas.
Responsibilities
• Structure and composition of Board
• Appointment of non-executive 
Directors
• Succession planning and talent 
management.
Summary of activities in 2014
In 2014, the Committee’s work 
programme entailed the selection of  
and recommendations to the Board for  
the appointment of a new Group Chief 
Executive, non-executive Chairman and 
Chief Financial Officer and considering 
further changes in Board composition.
All appointments to the Board are based 
on merit, against objective criteria, having 
due regard for diversity, including gender. 
In seeking suitable candidates for the 
Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial 
Officer and Chairman vacancies, external 
executive search agencies were engaged. 
The Committee identified for each of the 
roles the competencies sought and the 
required experience, and the agencies 
prepared shortlists of potential candidates 
who were interviewed by members of the 
Committee and by the executive Directors.
Key determinants in the selection of  
the Chairman were, as well as stature  
to lead a top 150 company in this highly 
competitive market, a background in 
organisations that share key dynamics 
with Balfour Beatty including contracting, 
customer service, major capital projects, 
infrastructure and B2B services. For the 
Group Chief Executive: leadership, 
strategic and commercial skills, significant 
experience of long-term contracts 
delivered through a devolved supply  
chain and a track record of enhancing 
shareholder value. For the Chief Financial 
Officer: driving major operational and 
structural change in a similar contract-
based business, major system 
implementation and with the required 
control and project accounting discipline.
The search agencies appointed were 
reminded to approach a diverse talent  
pool of candidates, and have no other 
connections with Balfour Beatty.
Philip Aiken will replace Steve Marshall  
on this Committee in March 2015.
Areas of focus in 2015
In 2015, the Committee will continue  
to monitor the appropriateness of the 
composition of the Board and make 
recommendations to the Board concerning 
the need for the introduction of new 
non-executive Directors and to refresh the 
Board and enhance the sector-specific 
experience of the non-executive Directors. 
The implications of the business strategy 
for senior executive recruitment and the 
impact on the Group’s succession planning 
are also areas which the Committee will 
keep under review during the year.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
54 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Meetings in 2014: 7
Members
• Iain Ferguson – chair
• Maureen Kempston Darkes
• Steve Marshall
• Graham Roberts.
Responsibilities
• Remuneration strategy and policies
• Remuneration packages
• Incentive plans.
Summary of activities in 2014
The Committee has an annual calendar  
of activities; that and its four scheduled 
meetings are added to as may be necessary 
according to developments. In 2014, the 
Committee’s work programme comprised 
the following principal topics:
2013 annual bonus 
The Committee approved the deferral  
by the executive Directors of the 2013 
cash bonus into shares under the  
Deferred Bonus Plan.
2012 PSP performance conditions
EPS growth and the TSR measure were 
both below their respective threshold 
target which meant there would be no 
vesting of the 2012 Performance Share 
Plan (PSP) awards.
2013 special PSP performance 
conditions
In relation to the special award granted  
in 2013 to the Chief Financial Officer 
under the PSP, the Committee assessed  
a significant partial achievement of the 
personal tailored objectives.
2014 annual bonus targets 
The Committee approved changes to the 
strategic objectives metrics following the 
trading statement issued on 6 May 2014 
and the departure of the Chief Executive.
Executive Directors’ salary review
The Committee approved a 2.5% salary 
increase in 2014 for the executive 
Directors, in line with that afforded to 
other employees.
Remuneration policy and long-term 
incentive plan review
The Committee decided not to embark  
on a review of remuneration policy  
and long-term incentives in 2014, and 
maintained two TSR measures for the  
PSP in 2014. The remuneration policy  
was approved by 97.2% of shareholders  
at the AGM.
Disposal and merger implications
The Committee considered and approved 
incentive and deployment packages in 
connection with the Parsons Brinckerhoff 
disposal and for a small number of senior 
management. It also reviewed change  
of control implications for the various 
share plans.
Terms for new appointments  
and leavers
The Committee approved settlement 
terms for the outgoing Group Chief 
Executive. The Committee also approved 
remuneration and incentive buyout terms 
for the incoming Group Chief Executive 
and Chief Financial Officer and temporary 
increases in the Chairman’s and the Chief 
Financial Officer’s remuneration to ensure 
continuity of business leadership.
Further information about the work of the 
Committee during the financial year is set 
out in the Remuneration Report starting 
on page 64.
Philip Aiken will replace Steve Marshall  
on this Committee in March 2015.
Areas of focus in 2015
In 2015, the Remuneration Committee will 
undertake a formal review of the existing 
remuneration policy and the appropriateness 
of the short and long term incentive 
arrangements to properly meet the needs 
of the Company, as it implements the next 
phase of its business strategy. If changes 
are considered necessary, the Committee 
will consult with shareholders at the 
appropriate time.
 Remuneration Report p66
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
55 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
BUSINESS PRACTICES COMMITTEE
Meetings in 2014: 2
Members
• Maureen Kempston Darkes – chair
• Robert Amen
• Iain Ferguson
• Steve Marshall.
Former members  
(retired in the year)
• Belinda Richards
• Bill Thomas.
Responsibilities
• Corporate values, ethics and  
Code of Conduct
• Health and safety
• Stakeholder management
• Sustainability
• Whistleblowing
• Community engagement.
Summary of activities in 2014
The Committee focuses significant 
attention on health and safety, values, 
ethics and compliance, and sustainability. 
The Committee also addresses the 
Group’s Code of Conduct and the training 
which ensures that the Group’s business 
principles are properly embedded 
throughout the business. 
In addition to the standing agenda items, 
the following principal topics were 
considered at Committee meetings  
during the year.
Health and safety
The Committee reviewed the annual 
independent audit regime comparing 
Balfour Beatty against its industry  
peers. This focuses on health and  
safety performance by sector and  
by geography and provides a truer 
comparator of performance than  
a broad benchmarking index.
On the Zero Harm programme, the 
emphasis continued to be on prevention, 
with the focus on driving cultural change 
throughout the organisation. The 
Committee acknowledges that difficulties 
arise because of the temporary nature  
of many of the work sites with contractors 
on site for short periods and with high 
turnover rates. The Committee will 
continue to monitor progress against  
the programme and consider how the  
Zero Harm brand and concept may be 
refreshed in 2015.
The Committee considered certain 
significant health and safety-related 
incidents, including any fatalities, 
discussing in detail the themes around 
supervision, communications and  
remote working.
The Global Safety Principles were 
reviewed by the Committee in  
conjunction with management. Action  
plans will continue to be reviewed by  
the Committee.
Ethics, values and compliance
Although the Code of Conduct  
and the accompanying ethics and 
compliance programme was well 
designed and the Group had a strong 
reputation in this area, the Committee 
emphasised that there was opportunity  
to further embed and communicate  
the Code’s values and processes in parts  
of the businesses. Progress would be 
monitored through 2015.
The outcome of whistleblowing claims 
through 2014 was reviewed by the 
Committee. The Committee will keep 
progress under observation.
The self-assessment ethics and 
compliance dashboard, which forms  
an integral element of the year end 
compliance reports, was reviewed.
People
The Committee will continue to monitor 
progress in 2015 against the Group’s 
diversity strategy.
Philip Aiken will replace Steve Marshall  
on this Committee in March 2015.
Areas of focus in 2015
In 2015, the Committee will continue to 
focus on the key reputational risk areas of 
health and safety, ethics and compliance, 
and sustainability and will monitor  
progress against the various action plans 
under each category referenced above. 
The Committee will also work with 
management on other business practice 
areas which have a meaningful impact on 
the future success of the Group, including 
supply chain management and customer 
relationship management. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
56 GROUP TENDER AND  
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
Meetings in 2014: in excess of 100
Members
• Ian Rylatt – chair since May 2014
• Duncan Magrath
• Steve Marshall – since May 2014
• Peter Zinkin
• Mathew Duncan – since August 2014
• Nick Flew
• Mark Layman
• Sandip Mahajan
• John Moore
• Brian Osborne
• Nick Pollard
• Steve Tarr
• Chris Vaughan.
Former members  
(retired in the year)
• Kevin Craven 
• Andrew McNaughton 
• George Pierson.
Responsibilities
• Major contract approvals
• Acquisitions and disposals
• Capital expenditure.
The Committee has been chaired by the 
Group Chief Executive, or in his absence 
by the Chief Financial Officer. However,  
in May 2014, the Board appointed Ian 
Rylatt to chair meetings (other than for 
Infrastructure Investments tenders) with 
Duncan Magrath, Steve Marshall and 
Peter Zinkin as alternate chairmen. Leo 
Quinn replaced Ian Rylatt as chair of this 
Committee in March 2015.
Its main purpose is to review all major 
proposed tenders with projected values 
above specified levels, with a specific 
focus on risk. The Committee also has 
authority to approve capital expenditure 
applications and any proposed acquisitions 
or disposals up to certain specified limits 
determined by the Board. For example, 
currently the Committee’s terms of 
reference require contracts for 
construction or services in the UK  
of a value exceeding £100 million to  
be submitted for review, whilst other  
limits vary according to geography and 
nature of the contract. 
Any Director may convene a meeting  
of the Committee to discuss any of the 
tender reviews in more detail. In addition 
to those members of the Committee  
most relevant for the consideration  
of each proposed tender, meetings  
are attended by key members of the  
bid team concerned and their divisional, 
operational and financial leaders. Minutes  
of all meetings are made available  
to all Directors.
FINANCE AND GENERAL  
PURPOSES COMMITTEE
Meetings in 2014: Numerous
Members
• Steve Marshall – chair since  
May 2014
• Duncan Magrath
• Peter Zinkin.
Former member  
(retired in the year)
• Andrew McNaughton. 
Responsibilities
• Banking facilities and other  
treasury matters
• Share options.
The Committee is chaired by the Group 
Chief Executive or, in his absence, by  
one of the other executive Directors.  
Leo Quinn replaced Steve Marshall  
on this Committee in January 2015. 
Its principal purpose is to approve various 
routine banking and treasury matters, 
grants and exercises of employee share 
options and other matters relating to  
share capital. 
A summary of the business conducted at 
the meetings is provided to all Directors.
 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
57 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
Risk management and internal control
Risk management
Effective risk management underpins the delivery of the Group’s objectives. It is essential to protecting its reputation and generating 
sustainable shareholder value. Balfour Beatty aims to identify key risks at an early stage and develop actions to eliminate them or 
mitigate their impact and likelihood to an acceptable level. For more information, refer to pages 30 to 35.
The Board has applied principle C2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code by embedding continuous risk management processes 
throughout the Group at all levels which form an integral part of day-to-day business activity. They are designed to help management  
to identify and understand the risks they face in delivering business objectives and the status of the key controls in place for managing 
those risks.
Roles and responsibilities
The Board is responsible for Balfour Beatty’s system of risk management and internal control. It sets the Group’s appetite for risk in 
pursuit of its strategic objectives, and the level of risk that can be taken by Group, divisional and business unit management without 
specific Board approval. Group policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed 
and escalated to the appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration and approval.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, and divisional and business unit management during the year are set  
out below. 
Responsibilities Actions undertaken
1. Board • Responsible for the Group’s systems  
of risk management and internal control
• Determines Group appetite for risk  
in achieving its strategic objectives.
• Issues and reviews Group risk management 
policy
• Annually reviews effectiveness of Group  
risk management and internal control systems
• Reviews the Group’s key risks and risk responses.
Audit, Risk & Assurance 
Committee
• Regularly reviews the effectiveness of Group 
internal controls, including systems to identify, 
assess, manage and monitor risks.
• Receives regular reports on internal and external 
audit and other assurance activities
• Annually assesses Group risk management  
and internal control systems.
Business Practices 
Committee
• Reviews Group management of non-financial 
risks such as health and safety, sustainability, 
employee engagement, values, ethics  
and compliance.
• Receives regular reports on implementation  
of Group policies and procedures on  
non-financial risks
• Reviews effectiveness of the Group’s helpline 
and other channels for raising concerns about 
Code of Conduct breaches.
Group Tender and 
Investment Committee
• Reviews and approves tenders and 
investments, triggered by certain financial 
thresholds or other risk factors.
• Critically appraises significant tender proposals 
and investment/divestment opportunities,  
with a specific focus on risk.
2. Group management • Strategic leadership
• Responsible for ensuring that the Group’s  
risk management policy is implemented  
and embedded
• Ensures appropriate actions are taken to 
manage strategic risks and other key risks.
• Strategic plan and annual budget process
• Reviews risk management and assurance 
activities and processes
• Monthly/quarterly finance and performance 
reviews.
3. Divisional 
management
• Responsible for risk management and  
internal control systems within its division
• Ensures that business units’ responsibilities 
are discharged.
• Reviews key risks and mitigation plans monthly
• Reviews and challenges business unit  
assurance plans
• Reviews results of assurance activities
• Escalates key risks to Group management  
and the Board.
4. Business unit 
management
• Maintains an effective system of risk 
management and internal control within  
its business unit and projects.
• Maintains and regularly reviews project, 
functional and strategic risk registers
• Reviews mitigation plans
• Plans, executes and reports on  
assurance activities.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
58 Risk management process
Balfour Beatty’s risk management policy 
requires that all divisions and those 
business units within them identify and 
assess the risks to which they are exposed 
and which could impact the ability to 
deliver their, and the Group’s, objectives.
Identified risk events, their causes and 
possible consequences are recorded in 
risk registers, with details of the likelihood 
and potential business impact and the 
control systems in place to manage them 
analysed and, if required, additional 
actions developed and put in place to 
mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposures; 
and individuals allocated responsibility for 
evaluating and managing these risks to an 
agreed timescale.
The Group sets its risk appetite by 
calibrating its delegations of authority and 
the triggers for matters requiring Group 
senior management or Board approval.  
In relation to bidding, this means that 
projects above a certain value, with certain 
features that import certain risks or involve 
a move into new markets or work types, 
require approval by the Group Tender and 
Investment Committee, with divisions 
having a delegated level of authority as 
well as their own approval and risk 
management committees and triggers.
Reporting structures ensure that risks  
are monitored continually, mitigation plans 
are reviewed and significant exposures are 
escalated – from project level to business 
unit management to divisional and Group 
senior management.
A range of procedures is used to monitor 
the effectiveness of internal controls, 
including management assurance, risk 
management processes and independent 
assurance provided by internal audit and 
other specialist third parties.
In May 2014, significant revisions were 
made to divisional risk reporting, including 
the Group Commercial and Risk function 
playing a more proactive role to encourage 
responsible reporting and ownership  
of risk. Other revisions include greater 
coordination of commercial and more 
general business risk and assurance 
reporting, attendance on divisional risk 
committees, greater frequency and 
breadth of site visits to specific projects 
and robust, structured and intrusive 
meetings being held with divisional 
assurance and commercial leads to 
interrogate their risk reports. 
Increased interrogation and coordination  
of risk reporting will continue throughout 
2015 with the Group Commercial and Risk 
functions seeking to further integrate the 
analysis of commercial and general 
business risk and their controls.
Internal control
The Board has ultimate responsibility  
for the Group’s risk management systems 
and internal control, and regularly reviews 
their effectiveness.
The Group’s systems and controls are 
designed to ensure that the Group’s 
exposure to significant risk is managed 
properly, but the Board recognises that 
any system of internal control is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk  
of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. In addition, not  
all the material joint ventures in which  
the Group is involved are treated, for  
these purposes, as part of the Group. 
Where they are not, systems of internal 
control and risk management are applied 
as agreed between the partners to the 
joint venture.
Central to the Group’s systems of internal 
control are its processes and framework 
for risk management. These align with  
the Internal Controls: Guidance to 
Directors (previously known as the 
Turnbull Guidance) on internal controls  
and were in place throughout 2014 and  
up to the date of signing this report.
The Group’s systems of internal control 
operate through a number of different 
processes, some of which are interlinked. 
These include:
• a clear system of delegated authorities 
from the Board to management with 
certain matters reserved by the Board
• the annual review of the strategy and 
plans of each division and of the Group 
as a whole in order to identify the risks 
to the Group’s achievement of its overall 
objectives and, where appropriate, any 
relevant mitigating actions
• monthly financial reporting against 
budgets and the review of results and 
forecasts by executive Directors and 
management, including particular areas 
of business or project risk. This is used 
to update management’s understanding 
of the environment in which the Group 
operates and the methods used to 
mitigate and control the risks identified
• individual tender and project review 
procedures starting at the business unit 
and progressing to divisional and Board 
Committee levels if value, or perceived 
exposure, exceeds certain thresholds
• regular reporting, monitoring and review 
of the effectiveness of health, safety 
and environmental processes. These 
processes are subject to independent 
audit and certification to internationally 
recognised standards
• the review and authorisation of 
proposed investment, divestment and 
capital expenditure through the Board’s 
Committees and the Board itself
• specific policies set out in the Group 
Finance Manual covering the financial 
management of the Group, including 
arrangements with the Group’s bankers 
and bond providers, controls on foreign 
exchange dealings and management  
of currency and interest rate exposures, 
insurance, capital expenditure 
procedures, application of accounting 
policies and financial controls
• legal compliance risks which are 
addressed through specific policies  
and training on such matters as ethics, 
competition and data protection laws
• Group-wide risk management  
standards which are embedded 
throughout the Group 
• reviews and tests by the internal audit 
function of critical business financial 
processes and controls and specific 
reviews in areas of perceived high 
business risk
• the Group’s ethics helpline and other 
channels by which staff are encouraged 
to raise concerns, in confidence, about 
possible breaches of the Code of 
Conduct, improprieties on matters  
of financial reporting and other issues.
These systems are extended, as soon  
as possible and as appropriate, to all 
businesses joining the Group.
Each of the divisional CEOs is responsible 
for ensuring that a comprehensive 
framework of assurance (including internal 
audit) exists within his or her division  
and business units which is in accordance 
with Group requirements.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
59 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Board continued to assess the 
effectiveness of the risk management 
processes and internal controls during 
2014 and to the date of this report. Such 
assessment is based on reports made  
to the Board, the Audit, Risk & Assurance 
Committee and the Business Practices 
Committee, including:
• the results of internal audit’s reviews  
of internal financial controls
• a Group-wide certification that effective 
internal controls had been maintained 
or, where any significant non-
compliance or breakdown had occurred 
with or without loss, that appropriate 
remedial action has been or is  
being taken
• a paper prepared by management  
on the nature, extent and mitigation  
of significant risks and on the systems 
of internal controls.
2014 trading updates and KPMG review
During 2014, there was continued 
worsening in certain parts of the Group’s 
UK construction business and certain 
weaknesses in controls identified, as set 
out in the trading updates issued at the 
time and as explained elsewhere in this 
Annual Report on pages 18, 19 and 30.
In September 2014, the Group appointed 
KPMG to undertake a detailed independent 
review of the contract portfolio within the 
UK construction business. The outputs  
of this review are fully described in the 
review of the UK construction business on 
page 19, which forms part of the Directors’ 
Report disclosures.
Risk improvements
As explained on page 19, the 
recommendations and a number of other 
improvements identified have been or  
are being implemented to overcome the 
weaknesses which had been discovered  
in the risk controls. In addition, on page 30 
is a description of the new Risk Framework 
which is being rolled out in 2015 to  
provide the rigour necessary to improve 
communication and accountability 
throughout the Group.
As part of its review of the effectiveness 
of the system of risk management and 
internal control, the Board has considered 
the findings of the KPMG review as  
well as the progress that has been made  
in implementing the wider control 
enhancements considered necessary  
in the UK construction business, and 
confirms that it is satisfied that the 
necessary actions have been taken  
or are being taken to rectify any control 
weaknesses or failures.
Principal risks
The principal risks that could adversely 
impact the Group’s profitability and ability 
to achieve its strategic objectives are set 
out on pages 31 to 35.
Other disclosures
Business and financial review
The Chairman’s Review on pages 4 and 5 
and the Group Chief Executive’s Report  
on pages 6 and 7, the Strategy Review  
on pages 8 to 11, the Chief Financial 
Officer’s Review on pages 14 to 17, the 
Performance Review on pages 18 to 26, 
and the section titled Safe, Innovative and 
Responsible Business on pages 36 to 41 
are incorporated by reference into the 
Directors’ Report.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are shown in the 
audited financial statements presented  
on pages 86 to 164 and are explained 
more fully in the Chairman’s Review, the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review and the 
Performance Review. An interim dividend 
payment of 5.6p (net) per ordinary share 
was approved by the Board on 10 August 
2014, giving a total dividend of 5.6p (net) 
per ordinary share for 2014, which 
compares with a total dividend per 
ordinary share of 14.1p (net) for 2013. 
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p 
(gross) per preference share were paid  
in 2014 (2013: 10.75p (gross)).
The Directors continued to offer the 
dividend reinvestment plan, which allows 
holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their 
cash dividends in the Company’s shares 
through a specially arranged share  
dealing service.
Innovation, research and development
Information concerning innovation, 
research and development is set out on 
page 39 and forms part of the Directors’ 
Report disclosures. 
Branches
As the Group is a global business, there 
are activities operated through branches  
in certain jurisdictions.
Share capital and shareholders
Details of the share capital of the 
Company as at 31 December 2014, 
including the rights attaching to each class 
of share, are set out in Note 29 on pages 
140 and 141. During the year ended 31 
December 2014, no ordinary or preference 
shares were repurchased for cancellation. 
101,540 ordinary shares were issued 
following the exercise of options held 
under the Company’s savings-related 
share option scheme and 318,840 ordinary 
shares were issued following the exercise 
of options held under the Company’s 
executive share option scheme.
At 31 December 2014, the Directors had 
authority under shareholders’ resolutions 
approved at the AGM and at the Class 
Meeting of preference shareholders held  
in May 2014 to purchase through the 
market 68,920,815 ordinary shares and 
16,775,968 preference shares at prices  
set out in those resolutions. This authority 
expires at the earlier of the conclusion  
of the Class Meeting of preference 
shareholders which will follow the 2015 
AGM or on 1 July 2015.
Throughout the year, all the Company’s 
issued share capital was publicly listed on 
the London Stock Exchange and it remains 
so as at the date of this report. There are 
no specific restrictions on the size of a 
shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, 
which are both governed by the Articles  
of Association and the prevailing law. The 
Directors are not aware of any agreements 
between holders of the Company’s shares 
that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of shares or on voting rights.
No person has special rights of control 
over the Company’s share capital and  
all issued shares are fully paid.
As at 31 December 2014, the Company 
had been notified in accordance with  
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules  
of the Financial Conduct Authority of  
the following interests in its ordinary  
share capital.
Number
of ordinary
shares held
Percentage
of ordinary
shares held
Newton 
Investment 
Management 
Limited 35,529,044 5.15
Prudential plc 35,103,707 5.09
Invesco Limited 34,608,441 5.02
Causeway Capital 
Management LLC 33,571,956 4.87
Standard Life 
Investments 
Limited 25,202,285 3.66
Norges Bank 22,946,627 3.33
Since 1 January 2015, the Company has 
received further notifications advising  
that Newton Investment Management 
Limited’s interest is now 4.55% and that 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
60 Causeway Capital Management Limited’s 
interest is now 5.15%.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness 
to continue as auditor to the Company and 
a resolution for its reappointment will be 
proposed at the AGM.
Articles of Association
The Company has not adopted any  
special rules regarding the appointment 
and replacement of Directors or the 
amendment of the Articles of Association, 
other than as provided under UK  
company law.
Relations with shareholders
The Board attaches great importance  
to maintaining good relationships with  
all shareholders and ensures that 
shareholders are kept informed of 
significant Company developments.
The Company continued its programme  
of communication with institutional 
investors and sell-side analysts throughout 
2014. Presentations of the half-year and 
full-year results were made in accordance 
with the practice of previous years, and 
teleconferences have been held for 
Interim Management Statements.
Through the year, approximately 207 
one-on-one and group meetings were  
held at regular intervals with institutional 
shareholders (2013: approximately 172). 
Current and prospective shareholders, 
brokers and analysts were also given the 
opportunity to engage with Balfour Beatty 
during hosted roadshows in London, 
Scotland and North America.
This communication programme will  
be maintained and expanded where 
appropriate, subject to the constraints  
of regulation and practice. The 2015 
investor relations programme will focus  
on ensuring investors and the analyst 
community understand the Group,  
its operations and strategy, and that 
international institutions continue  
to be given the opportunity to meet  
with management.
Care is exercised to ensure that any  
price sensitive information is released  
to all shareholders at the same time  
in accordance with UK Listing  
Authority requirements.
Executive Directors report regularly to  
the Board on meetings or other contact 
with shareholders or their representatives.  
The non-executive Directors continue to 
believe that, through their direct and ready 
access to, and contact with, the Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director and 
through the regular reports to the Board, 
they are kept fully aware of the views of 
the larger shareholders in the Company 
and the investment community generally.
The Board continues to retain the services 
of independent external corporate and 
investor relations consultants who provide 
advice on the relationship between the 
Company and its institutional investors.
The Board regards the Company’s general 
meetings as an opportunity to communicate 
directly with private investors and actively 
encourages participative dialogue with all 
the Company’s shareholders. The chairs  
of the Board Committees attend the AGM 
each year along with the other Directors  
and are available to answer questions  
from shareholders. The circular setting  
out the Notice of AGM provides a detailed 
explanation of the business to be 
transacted and includes contact details 
which shareholders can use to make any 
comments or ask any questions 
concerning the AGM.
The website is regarded by the Company  
as an important source of information  
on the Group, including financial press 
releases, shareholder documentation, 
annual and half-year results presentations 
and the terms of reference of the principal 
Board Committees. The Company’s 
website continues to be developed to 
ensure it remains a principal source of 
information on the Group and its activities.
Political donations
At the AGM held in May 2014, 
shareholders gave authority for the 
Company and its UK subsidiaries to make 
donations to political organisations up  
to a maximum aggregate amount of 
£25,000 in the European Union. This 
approval is a precautionary measure in 
view of the broad definition of these  
terms in the Companies Act. No such 
expenditure or donations were made 
during the year and shareholder authority 
will be sought again at the 2015 AGM.
In the US and Canada, corporate political 
contributions totalling £282,000 were 
made by business units during 2014  
(2013: £165,692). Most of these donations 
were made by Parsons Brinckerhoff  
(now sold); they were small and all were 
permitted by law. They were non-partisan 
and many related to support given for  
local campaigns, public bond or similar 
referenda to promote investment in 
infrastructure. Any political contributions  
or donations are tightly controlled  
and must be approved in advance in 
accordance with the Company’s internal 
procedures and must also adhere strictly  
to the Company’s policies on probity  
set out in its Code of Conduct. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
61 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate responsibility
A full description of the Group’s approach 
to sustainability, including information on 
its community engagement programme, 
appears on pages 39 to 41.
The Group’s published policies on health 
and safety, the environment, business 
conduct and ethics remain in place and  
are subject to regular reviews.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of emissions during the year and 
the actions which the Group is taking to 
reduce them are set out on pages 39  
and 40 and form part of the Directors’ 
Report disclosures.
Employment
The Balfour Beatty Group operates across 
multiple territories and end markets. 
However, there are key principles in the 
design and practice of employment policy 
that are applicable across the Group. 
These are to:
• provide a safe, open, inclusive and 
challenging environment that attracts 
and retains the best people
• enable all employees to perform at  
their best and realise their full potential, 
assisted by appropriate training and 
career development
• communicate the strategy of the Group, 
the objectives of each respective 
business and the role and objectives of 
each employee within that business
• actively consult with all employees and 
engage in a participating environment 
that fosters the exchange of best 
practice and collaboration
• provide market competitive pay and 
benefits that reward both individual  
and collective performance
• ensure that all job applicants receive  
fair treatment, regardless of age, origin, 
gender, disability, sexual orientation, 
marital status, religion or belief
• ensure that all employees similarly 
receive fair treatment throughout  
their career
• provide a working environment of 
respect and free from harassment.
Balfour Beatty strives to provide 
employment, training and development 
opportunities for disabled people 
wherever possible. The Group is 
committed to supporting employees who 
become disabled during employment and 
helping disabled employees make the best 
use of their skills and potential, consistent 
with all other employees.
The Company also operates an all 
employee Share Incentive Plan (SIP) which 
enables UK-based employees to acquire 
the Company’s ordinary shares on a 
potentially tax-favourable basis, in order to 
encourage employee share ownership and 
provide additional alignment between the 
interests of employees and shareholders. 
Participants in the SIP are the beneficial 
owners of shares but not the registered 
owners, and the voting rights to such 
shares are exercised by the trustee of the 
SIP at the discretion of the participants.
Information concerning the performance 
of the Group and the Company’s share 
price is provided to all employees via the 
Group intranet, 360, and through the 
Company’s website.
Employee diversity
Information concerning employee diversity 
is set out on page 37 and forms part of the 
Directors’ Report disclosures.
Events after the reporting date
Details of events after the reporting date  
are set out in Note 37 on page 150.
Change of control provisions
The Group’s bank facility agreements 
contain provisions that, on 30 days’  
notice being given to the Group, the  
lender may exercise its discretion  
to require prepayment of the loans  
on a change of control of the Company  
and cancel all commitments under the 
agreement concerned. 
A number of significant joint venture  
and contract bond agreements include 
provisions which become exercisable  
by a counterparty on a change of control  
of the Company. These include the right  
of a counterparty to request additional 
security and to terminate an agreement.
The Group’s US private placement 
arrangements require the Company, 
promptly upon becoming aware that  
a change of control of the Company  
has occurred (and in any event within  
10 business days), to give written notice  
of such fact to all holders of the notes  
and make an offer to prepay the entire 
unpaid principal amount of the notes, 
together with accrued interest.
The Group’s convertible bond 
arrangements provide that the holder  
of bonds can require the Company  
to redeem its bonds following a change  
of control of the Company at their principal 
amount, together with accrued interest. 
The Company is required to notify the 
bond holder within 14 days of a change  
of control.
Some other commercial agreements, 
entered into in the normal course  
of business, include change of  
control provisions.
The Group’s share and incentive  
plans include usual provisions relating  
to change of control, as do the terms  
of the Company’s cumulative convertible 
redeemable preference shares.
There are no agreements providing  
for compensation for the Directors  
or employees on a change of control.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies and its exposure  
to the following risks – foreign exchange, 
interest rate, price and credit – are detailed 
in Note 39 on pages 152 to 157.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
62 Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law, the Directors 
are required to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted by the European Union (EU) and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and they 
have also chosen to prepare the parent 
company financial statements under IFRS 
as adopted by the EU. Under company 
law, the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company and 
of the profit or loss of the Company for 
that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
• properly select and apply accounting 
policies
• present information, including 
accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information
• provide additional disclosures  
when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS are insufficient to 
enable users to understand the impact 
of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the Company’s and 
the Group’s financial position and 
financial performance
• make an assessment of the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose  
with reasonable accuracy, at any time,  
the financial position of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for taking reasonable steps for 
preventing and detecting fraud and  
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that to the best of 
their knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit  
or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole
• the Strategic Report includes a  
fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and  
the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties they face.
In light of the work undertaken by the 
Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee 
reported in greater detail on pages 51  
to 54 and the internal verification and 
approval process which has been followed 
this year, the Directors are able to state 
that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders  
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Statements of Directors as to 
disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the Directors at the date of 
approval of this report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there  
is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware
• the Director has taken all the steps  
that he or she ought to have taken as  
a Director to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should  
be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board
Chris Vaughan
Chief Corporate Officer  
& Company Secretary 
24 March 2015
Registered Office: 
130 Wilton Road 
London SW1V 1LQ 
Registered in England Number 395826
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
63 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION REPORT
I am pleased to present the 
Directors’ Remuneration  
Report for 2014.
This report is divided into two sections, 
the Policy Report and the Annual Report, 
the latter being subject to an advisory  
vote at the 2015 AGM.
Link to strategy
The primary objectives of our 
remuneration policy are to ensure we are 
able to attract, retain and motivate key 
executives to deliver strong sustainable 
business performance aligned to the 
strategic plan and to the interests of 
shareholders. Balfour Beatty executive 
remuneration comprises base salary, 
benefits and incentive plans that are 
designed to reward both short-term and 
long-term performance. The incentive 
plans are subject to clawback provisions.
Impact of Board changes
This year, the Committee has dealt with  
a number of key issues, notably the 
departure of Andrew McNaughton as 
Chief Executive in May 2014 and the 
recruitment of his replacement, Leo 
Quinn, who joined Balfour Beatty in 
January 2015. Shareholder response to  
the appointment of Leo Quinn has been 
favourable and his remuneration has 
previously been communicated.
Steve Marshall announced in September 
2014 his intent to step down from the 
Board on appointment of his successor. 
He will be replaced by Philip Aiken, joining 
the Board as non-executive Chairman  
on 26 March 2015. Following the 
announcement in November 2014 that 
Duncan Magrath will be leaving the 
Company and the subsequent appointment 
of his successor, Phil Harrison, Duncan’s 
leaving date has now been confirmed  
as 8 May 2015.
Reward for 2014
Following the departure of Andrew 
McNaughton, the Committee approved 
temporary adjustments to the packages 
of Steve Marshall and Duncan Magrath to 
ensure continuity of business leadership. 
Steve Marshall became Executive 
Chairman with immediate effect and his 
annual fees were increased to £531,500 
pa to reflect his additional responsibilities 
and time commitment. Duncan Magrath 
received an interim responsibility 
allowance of 20% of salary paid monthly 
up to 31 March 2015. The Committee 
considers that both adjustments were 
entirely appropriate in the absence of  
a Chief Executive during a period of 
significant corporate activity.
Incentives in respect of 2014 have 
reflected the disappointing performance  
of the Group during the year. The profit 
warnings, attributed to the UK construction 
business, resulted in failure to reach the 
performance threshold for payment on  
the profit before tax (PBT) element of  
the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) for 2014  
(70% of the incentive). However, whilst the 
strategic objectives (30% of the incentive) 
were partially met, notably attributed  
to the successful disposal of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff to WSP, it was agreed that  
the executive Directors would waive any 
entitlement under the AIP for 2014.
The EPS and TSR performance conditions 
relating to the 2012 PSP which measured 
performance over the three years ended 
31 December 2014 were not achieved and 
so those awards will lapse in full in April 
2015. However, 94% of the special 50% 
of salary PSP award granted to Duncan 
Magrath in April 2013 vested on 31 
December 2014. 
Remuneration policy for 2015 
We remain committed to the principles  
of our existing remuneration policy and 
its strong alignment to performance and 
shareholder value. Details of how the 
Committee intends to operate the policy 
for 2015 are set out below:
• Reflecting Leo Quinn’s inaugural year 
as Group Chief Executive and the 
challenges faced by the business, the 
AIP for 2015 will be measured using 
profit and cash targets together with 
business objectives
• The Committee intends to adopt a 
combination of cash, TSR and EPS 
performance measures for the 2015 
PSP awards. Cash generation has 
been introduced as a performance 
metric to drive this significant Group 
strategic focus.
Conclusion
The Committee will continue to engage 
with the Company’s major shareholders 
to ensure that its executive remuneration 
remains appropriate and that, if changes 
are proposed, they remain true to the 
Committee’s principles of rewarding 
strong performance and enhanced  
value to shareholders.
I hope you will be supportive of the 
resolution to approve the Annual Report  
on Remuneration at the 2015 AGM.
Iain Ferguson
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
64 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT
The policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 15 May 2014. Although there is no requirement to include the Policy Report 
this year, it has been included for ease of reference. 
Policy overview
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines the Company’s remuneration policy and the remuneration packages of the 
executive Directors of the Company and the Chairman. In setting the remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account a number 
of factors, including:
• general trends in pay and conditions throughout the Group
• the positioning of remuneration levels against the external market
• the balance between fixed and variable pay – more specifically, variable pay should form a significant but not disproportionately high 
level of potential remuneration
• the strategy of the business.
In setting the overall remuneration policy, general trends and average increases throughout the Group are taken into account when 
setting executive Directors’ reward packages. A key feature for the executive Directors is that a higher proportion of their remuneration 
package is delivered through performance-related pay, which has a greater linkage to the results of the Group. The areas covered in this 
Policy Report comprise:
 Consideration of shareholders’ views p65
 Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group p65
 Summary of executive Directors’ remuneration policy p66
 Remuneration scenarios for executive Directors p68
 Recruitment and promotion policy for executive Directors p68 
 Service agreements and payments for loss of office for executive Directors p69 
 External appointments of executive Directors p69
 Appointment of non-executive Directors p69
Consideration of shareholders’ views
The Committee considers feedback from shareholders received at each AGM, and any feedback from additional meetings, as part  
of any review of executive remuneration. In addition, the Committee engages proactively with shareholders and will ensure that 
shareholders are consulted in advance, where any material changes to the remuneration policy are proposed.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
In determining the remuneration of the Company’s Directors, the Committee takes into account the general trends in pay and conditions 
across the Group as a whole. Whilst employees have not been consulted formally on executive pay, due in part to the diverse geographic 
disposition of the Group, the Committee seeks to ensure that the underlying principles which form the basis for decisions on Directors’ 
pay are consistent with those on which pay decisions for the rest of the workforce are taken. These are focused for the most part on 
market competitiveness, business performance and personal performance.
In practice, the remuneration policy for executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees, so 
that a significant proportion of their remuneration is dependent on Company performance. For employees below Board level, variable 
pay represents a lower proportion of their total remuneration, which is driven by market comparators and general performance.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
65 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Summary of executive Directors’ remuneration policy
The following table sets out a summary of each element of the executive Directors’ remuneration packages, their link to the Company’s  
strategy, the policy for how these are operated, the maximum opportunity and a description of any relevant performance metrics. 
Element of pay Purpose and link to Company’s strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary To attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
To provide a competitive salary relative to 
comparable companies in terms of size  
and complexity.
Salaries are reviewed and set annually in July. The 
Committee considers remuneration levels in companies 
of comparable market capitalisation, revenue and 
industry sector.
In addition, a key reference point for salary increases  
is the average increase across the general workforce 
(with the exception of promotions or significant 
changes in responsibility). 
Salaries are paid monthly in cash.
There is no prescribed maximum annual increase. The 
Committee is guided by the general increase for the broader 
employee population but on occasion may need to recognise,  
for example, an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility  
of the role.
Current salary levels are disclosed on page 71.
A number of factors are considered, notably market 
competitiveness, business and personal performance.
Benefits To aid retention and to remain competitive in the 
marketplace. In addition, medical benefits are 
provided to minimise disruption due to absence.
Private medical and life assurance may be provided. 
A car and fuel card or car allowance are offered.
Other benefits may be provided as appropriate.
The maximum opportunity for medical benefits is cover for the 
executive Director and his or her family. Life assurance cover  
and any car or car allowance are based on market norms.
None
Pension To remain competitive in the marketplace. Executive Directors can elect either to: 
• participate in the defined contribution (DC) section of 
the Group’s pension fund. Executive Directors must 
make contributions of 5% of base salary (up to an 
earnings cap), with the Company contributing 20% 
of base salary (up to the cap). On earnings above the 
cap, executive Directors receive a salary supplement; 
or
• receive a salary supplement in lieu of a pension.
Executive Directors who participate in the Group’s pension fund 
benefit from a pension contribution of 20% of base salary up to 
the earnings cap and a salary supplement of 20% of base salary 
in excess of the cap.
If a salary supplement is taken in lieu of a pension contribution, 
this is equivalent to 20% of base salary.
None
Annual Incentive Plan 
(AIP) and Deferred 
Bonus Plan (DBP)
To motivate executive Directors and incentivise  
the achievement of key business performance 
targets over the financial year without encouraging 
excessive risk taking. Managing risk is critical, 
particularly given the nature of the Company’s 
business.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
50% of any payment is normally deferred into shares for 
three years.
Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct 
and/or material misstatement or error of financial results.
Participants may also receive an award of cash or shares 
in lieu of the value of dividends on vested shares.
Maximum annual incentive opportunity is 120% of base salary. A majority of the bonus will be based on profit and a minority of 
the bonus may be based on other performance metrics linked to 
the business strategy, measured over a one-year performance 
period.
Measures are reviewed each year and varied as appropriate  
to reflect the strategy.
Performance Share 
Plan (PSP)
To incentivise and reward delivery of long-term 
performance linked to the business strategy.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
To aid retention.
PSP awards are granted annually so that no undue 
emphasis is placed on performance in any one 
particular financial year.
Awards normally vest on the third anniversary subject 
to performance.
Participants also receive an award of cash or shares  
in lieu of the value of dividends on vested shares.
Clawback may apply in the event of material 
misconduct and/or material misstatement or error  
of financial results.
The limit in the rules of the PSP is 200% of base salary. Other 
than in exceptional circumstances, the normal limit will be 175% 
of base salary.
Performance measures will normally be based on relative total 
shareholder return (TSR) and/or earnings per share metrics, 
although strategic measures may be used in exceptional 
circumstances. Targets will normally be measured over  
a three-year performance period.
There is 25% vesting for threshold performance, rising to 100% 
vesting for maximum performance.
Shareholding 
guidelines
To align the interests of executive Directors with 
those of shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to accumulate a 
shareholding in the Company’s shares to the value  
of 100% of their base salary. Executive Directors are 
expected to retain at least 50% of shares (net of tax) 
which vest from awards made under the PSP and DBP 
until the target shareholding is attained.
– None
Executive Directors may also participate in the all-employee share schemes up to prevailing HMRC limits.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
66 Summary of executive Directors’ remuneration policy
The following table sets out a summary of each element of the executive Directors’ remuneration packages, their link to the Company’s  
strategy, the policy for how these are operated, the maximum opportunity and a description of any relevant performance metrics. 
Element of pay Purpose and link to Company’s strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary To attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
To provide a competitive salary relative to 
comparable companies in terms of size  
and complexity.
Salaries are reviewed and set annually in July. The 
Committee considers remuneration levels in companies 
of comparable market capitalisation, revenue and 
industry sector.
In addition, a key reference point for salary increases  
is the average increase across the general workforce 
(with the exception of promotions or significant 
changes in responsibility). 
Salaries are paid monthly in cash.
There is no prescribed maximum annual increase. The 
Committee is guided by the general increase for the broader 
employee population but on occasion may need to recognise,  
for example, an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility  
of the role.
Current salary levels are disclosed on page 71.
A number of factors are considered, notably market 
competitiveness, business and personal performance.
Benefits To aid retention and to remain competitive in the 
marketplace. In addition, medical benefits are 
provided to minimise disruption due to absence.
Private medical and life assurance may be provided. 
A car and fuel card or car allowance are offered.
Other benefits may be provided as appropriate.
The maximum opportunity for medical benefits is cover for the 
executive Director and his or her family. Life assurance cover  
and any car or car allowance are based on market norms.
None
Pension To remain competitive in the marketplace. Executive Directors can elect either to: 
• participate in the defined contribution (DC) section of 
the Group’s pension fund. Executive Directors must 
make contributions of 5% of base salary (up to an 
earnings cap), with the Company contributing 20% 
of base salary (up to the cap). On earnings above the 
cap, executive Directors receive a salary supplement; 
or
• receive a salary supplement in lieu of a pension.
Executive Directors who participate in the Group’s pension fund 
benefit from a pension contribution of 20% of base salary up to 
the earnings cap and a salary supplement of 20% of base salary 
in excess of the cap.
If a salary supplement is taken in lieu of a pension contribution, 
this is equivalent to 20% of base salary.
None
Annual Incentive Plan 
(AIP) and Deferred 
Bonus Plan (DBP)
To motivate executive Directors and incentivise  
the achievement of key business performance 
targets over the financial year without encouraging 
excessive risk taking. Managing risk is critical, 
particularly given the nature of the Company’s 
business.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
50% of any payment is normally deferred into shares for 
three years.
Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct 
and/or material misstatement or error of financial results.
Participants may also receive an award of cash or shares 
in lieu of the value of dividends on vested shares.
Maximum annual incentive opportunity is 120% of base salary. A majority of the bonus will be based on profit and a minority of 
the bonus may be based on other performance metrics linked to 
the business strategy, measured over a one-year performance 
period.
Measures are reviewed each year and varied as appropriate  
to reflect the strategy.
Performance Share 
Plan (PSP)
To incentivise and reward delivery of long-term 
performance linked to the business strategy.
To facilitate share ownership and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
To aid retention.
PSP awards are granted annually so that no undue 
emphasis is placed on performance in any one 
particular financial year.
Awards normally vest on the third anniversary subject 
to performance.
Participants also receive an award of cash or shares  
in lieu of the value of dividends on vested shares.
Clawback may apply in the event of material 
misconduct and/or material misstatement or error  
of financial results.
The limit in the rules of the PSP is 200% of base salary. Other 
than in exceptional circumstances, the normal limit will be 175% 
of base salary.
Performance measures will normally be based on relative total 
shareholder return (TSR) and/or earnings per share metrics, 
although strategic measures may be used in exceptional 
circumstances. Targets will normally be measured over  
a three-year performance period.
There is 25% vesting for threshold performance, rising to 100% 
vesting for maximum performance.
Shareholding 
guidelines
To align the interests of executive Directors with 
those of shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to accumulate a 
shareholding in the Company’s shares to the value  
of 100% of their base salary. Executive Directors are 
expected to retain at least 50% of shares (net of tax) 
which vest from awards made under the PSP and DBP 
until the target shareholding is attained.
– None
Executive Directors may also participate in the all-employee share schemes up to prevailing HMRC limits.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
67 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Remuneration scenarios for executive Directors 
The charts below provide estimates for the potential future remuneration based on the current remuneration policy for the three 
executive Directors. Potential outcomes are based on three performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum.
Basic salary, beneﬁts and pensions
£985
£2,265
£3,545
£1,128
£1,716
£1,168
£1,781
£539 £555
100%
100% 100% 48% 31% 48% 31%
23%
29%
31%
23%
31%
38%
29%
38%
44% 28%
21%
27%
35%
45%
1,500
1,250
1,000
750
500
250
Minimum On-target
Leo Quinn, 
Group Chief Executive
Maximum Minimum On-target
Duncan Magrath, 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Maximum Minimum On-target
Peter Zinkin, 
Planning and Development Director
Maximum
0
1,750
2,000
2,250
3,250
3,000
3,500
2,750
2,500
3,750
£000
Annual Incentive Plan (cash and deferred) Performance Share Plan
Notes:
1.   Salary levels are based on those applying from 1 July 2014 for Duncan Magrath and Peter Zinkin and 1 January 2015 for Leo Quinn. The salary for Duncan Magrath  
does not include his 20% of salary responsibility allowance as this is not part of the ongoing remuneration policy and will cease on 31 March 2015. 
2.  The value of benefits receivable for 2015 has been estimated.
3.  The on-target level of AIP is taken to be 50% of the maximum AIP opportunity (120% of salary for all executive Directors), of which 50% is paid in cash and 50%  
is deferred in shares under the DBP. 
4.  The on-target level of vesting under the PSP is taken to be 50% of the face value of the award at grant (200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary  
for the other executive Directors). The Group Chief Executive’s buyout awards, as agreed as part of his joining arrangements, are not reflected in the above chart as these  
are not part of the ongoing remuneration policy.
5. The maximum level of AIP and vesting under the PSP is taken to be 100% of the AIP opportunity and 100% of the face value of the PSP awards at grant.
6. No share price appreciation or dividend awards have been assumed for the DBP shares and PSP awards.
Recruitment and promotion policy for executive Directors
To ensure the ongoing leadership continuity of the Group, the appointment of high-calibre executives may be necessary, either by 
external appointment or internal promotion. The remuneration package for a new executive Director would be set in accordance with the 
terms of the Company’s remuneration policy at the time of appointment and take into account the scope and complexity of the role, the 
experience of the individual, the prevailing market rate for that experience and the importance and immediacy of securing that candidate.
The salary would be provided at such a level as required to attract the most appropriate candidate. The AIP potential would be limited  
to 120% of salary, and grants under the PSP may be up to the plan maximum of 200% of salary. In addition, the Committee may offer 
additional cash and/or share-based elements to replace deferred or incentive pay forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer. 
It would seek to ensure, where possible, that these awards were consistent with awards forfeited in terms of vesting periods, expected 
value and performance conditions. 
For an internal executive Director appointment, any remuneration awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out 
according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations 
existing prior to appointment may continue. 
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and/or incidental 
expenses as appropriate.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
68 Service agreements and payments for loss of office for executive Directors
It is the Company’s policy that executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term, which are subject to one year’s notice 
by the Company and six months’ notice by the executive Director. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all executive 
Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM. In the event of early termination, the executive Directors’ contracts provide  
for compensation in line with their contractual notice period. In summary, the contractual provisions are to provide the following: 
Provision Detailed terms
Notice period 12 months by the Company, six months by the executive Director.
There are no contractual compensation provisions for termination of employment. However, other non-contractual considerations are  
as follows:
Notice payments If any existing contract were breached by the Company, it would be liable to pay an 
amount approximating to the net loss of salary and contractual benefits for the unexpired 
notice period, subject to mitigation and phased payments where appropriate.
Remuneration entitlements Pro rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with 
vesting for outstanding share awards (in certain circumstances – see below).
In all cases, performance targets would apply.
Change of control No executive Director’s contract contains additional provisions in respect of change 
of control.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive Director under the Company’s share plans will be determined based on the 
relevant plan rules. The default treatment under the PSP is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment. However,  
in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, ill-health, disability, retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the 
Committee, good leaver status may be applied. For good leavers, awards will not be forfeited on cessation of employment and, subject  
to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions, will vest under the normal vesting schedule, being reduced pro rata to reflect 
the proportion of the performance period actually served. However, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to determine that PSP 
awards vest at cessation and/or to amend time pro rating. Outstanding DBP awards will lapse on cessation of employment. However,  
in certain good leaver circumstances, DBP awards will vest in full on the date of cessation.
External appointments of executive Directors
The Committee recognises that benefits can arise from allowing executive Directors to take a non-executive directorship elsewhere. 
Executive Directors are permitted to have one external appointment, from which fees may be retained with the approval of the Board.
Appointment of non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are appointed by the full Board following recommendations from the Nomination Committee. All non-executive 
Directors are appointed for a term of three years. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all non-executive Directors 
submit themselves for re-election at the AGM. 
Element of pay
Purpose and link to  
Company’s strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity
Non-executive 
Director fees
To attract and retain 
high-quality and  
experienced non-executive 
Directors.
The Chairman is paid an annual fee and the 
non-executive Directors are paid an annual base 
fee and additional responsibility fees for the role  
of Senior Independent Director or for chairing  
a Board Committee.
Non-executive Directors based outside Europe 
receive a travel allowance for each visit made on 
Company business to the UK, or to any other 
country (excluding their home country).
Fee levels are normally reviewed annually in July.
The non-executive Directors are not eligible to join 
any pension scheme operated by the Company 
and cannot participate in any of the Company’s 
share plans or annual incentive schemes.
As per executive Directors, there  
is no prescribed maximum annual 
increase. The Committee is guided 
by the general increase in the 
non-executive director market and 
for the broader employee population, 
but on occasions may need to 
recognise, for example, an increase 
in the scale, scope or responsibility 
of the role.
None of the appointment letters for non-executive Directors contain provision for specific payment in the event of termination for 
whatever cause and may be terminated at will by either party.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
69 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
This part of the Remuneration Report sets out how the remuneration policy will be applied over the year ending 31 December 2015 and 
how it was implemented over the year ended 31 December 2014. Details of the remuneration earned by Directors and the outcomes of 
incentive schemes, including details of relevant links to Company performance, are also provided in this part.
The areas covered in this Annual Report on Remuneration comprise:
 Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2015 p71
 Remuneration received by Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014 p72
 AIP awards for the year ended 31 December 2014 p73
 Vesting of PSP awards for the year under review p73
 Outstanding share awards p74
 Long-term incentive awards granted during the year p75
 Group Chief Executive changes and payments for loss of office p76
 Payments to past Directors p77
 Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests p77
 Performance graph p77
 Group Chief Executive’s remuneration table p78
 Percentage change in Group Chief Executive’s remuneration compared with all UK employees p78
 Relative importance of spend on pay, dividends and underlying pre-tax profit p78
 Directors’ pensions and pension allowances p78
 External appointments of executive Directors p79
 Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration p79
 Statement of shareholder voting at AGM p80
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
70 Implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 31 December 2015
The detailed information about the Directors’ remuneration, set out on pages 71 to 80 (excluding the performance graph on page 77), 
has been audited by the Company’s independent auditor, Deloitte LLP.
Base salaries
The annual base salary review date is 1 July for executive Directors. Current base salaries for the executive Directors who served  
in 2014 are as follows:
Base salary
1 July 2013
£
1 July 2014
£ % increase
Duncan Magrath
1
 425,000 436,000 2.6%
Peter Zinkin 443,000 454,000 2.5%
1 
In addition to the above, Duncan Magrath received a temporary responsibility allowance of 20% of base salary in respect of additional duties and responsibilities taken  
on in the absence of a Chief Executive. This was payable from 3 May 2014 (the date Andrew McNaughton stepped down) up to 31 March 2015.
The annual base salary for Leo Quinn was set at £800,000 from appointment to the Board on 1 January 2015. Further details are 
provided on page 76. As per the announcement of 20 January 2015, Phil Harrison will join the Board as Chief Financial Officer. His 
annual base salary will be £400,000 with all other terms in line with the approved policy. Full details will be provided in next year’s 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance targets for the AIP in 2015 
For 2015, the AIP will continue to be based on a combination of Group-based financial targets and objectives linked to the business 
strategy. Reflecting Leo Quinn’s inaugural year as Group Chief Executive and the challenges faced by the business, 76% of the AIP will  
be based on financial targets, and 24% will be based on business objectives. While the Committee has chosen not to disclose in advance  
the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive, 
retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be presented in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
The maximum AIP potential will continue to be 120% of base salary for executive Directors, with 50% of any payment deferred in 
shares for three years.
Performance targets for PSP awards granted in 2015 
The PSP awards to be granted in 2015 will be subject to the following targets:
• relative TSR (33.3%) – the Company’s TSR measured against a comparator group of UK listed companies ranked 51-150 by market 
capitalisation in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding investment trusts) as at 1 January 2015, the start of the performance period. 
There is no vesting below median, with 25% of this part of an award vesting at median ranking, rising to 100% vesting of this part  
of an award at upper quartile or higher
• EPS (33.3%) – the growth in the Company’s EPS over the performance period
• Cash (33.3%) – a cash measure is deemed appropriate given the Group’s particular circumstances in 2015.
As at the date of publication of this Remuneration Report, the Committee had not finalised the EPS and cash performance targets  
for the PSP award to be granted in 2015. These EPS and cash targets will be set at an appropriate level of stretch and will be fully 
disclosed in the RNS announcement following the PSP award and in the Remuneration Report for 2015.
Non-executive Directors
As detailed in the Policy Report, the Company’s approach to setting non-executive Directors’ fees is by reference to fees paid at similar 
companies and reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of each role. A summary of current fees is as follows:
1 July 2013
£
1 July 2014
£ % increase
Chairman
1
265,750 265,750 0%
Base fee 56,000 56,000 0%
Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 10,000 0%
Committee chair fee 10,000 10,000 0%
1 
Following Andrew McNaughton’s departure, Steve Marshall became Executive Chairman with effect from 3 May 2014. He received a temporary increase in his annual fee 
from £265,750 to £531,500 from this date to reflect his additional responsibilities and time commitment. His annual fee reverted to £265,750 from 1 January 2015 upon 
Leo Quinn’s appointment as Group Chief Executive.
Philip Aiken will join the Board as non-executive Chairman on 26 March 2015. His annual fee will be £270,000.
For non-executive Directors based outside Europe, the travel allowance for each overseas visit made on Company business remains 
at £2,500.
Where the Chairman or Senior Independent Director is also the chair of a committee, he or she receives no committee chair fee.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
71 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Remuneration received by Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014
The table below sets out the Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 (or for performance periods ended in that 
year in respect of long-term incentives) together with comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Year
Base salary
and fees
1,2
£
Taxable
benefits
3,4
£
Pension
5
£
Annual
incentive 
cash
£
Annual
incentive 
deferred 
shares
£
Long term
incentives
6
£
Other
7
£
Total
£
Executive Directors
Duncan Magrath
8
2014 487,395 15,568 86,100 – – 166,803 4,128 759,994
2013 425,000 15,550 88,789 – 107,100 – – 636,439
Andrew McNaughton
9
2014 224,167 6,041 44,833 – – – – 275,041
2013 603,021 17,055 125,250 – 163,800 – – 909,126
Peter Zinkin
10
2014 448,500 10,385 89,700 – – – – 548,585
2013 443,000 9,970 88,600 – 111,636 – – 653,206
Non–executive Directors
Robert Amen
11
2014 76,000 7,311 – – – – – 83,311
2013 91,000 4,154 – – – – – 95,154
Iain Ferguson 2014 66,000 1,877 – – – – – 67,877
2013 66,000 3,229 – – – – – 69,229
Maureen Kempston Darkes
12
2014 86,000 5,496 – – – – – 91,496
2013 76,000 1,539 – – – – – 77,539
Steve Marshall
13
2014 441,488 5,878 – – – – – 447,366
2013 265,750 5,811 – – – – – 271,561
Belinda Richards
14
2014 49,397 – – – – – – 49,397
2013 14,000 – – – – – – 14,000
Graham Roberts 2014 66,000 – – – – – – 66,000
2013 66,000 – – – – – – 66,000
Bill Thomas
14,15
2014 49,397 2,168 – – – – – 51,565
2013 14,000 1,449 – – – – – 15,449
1 
Base salary and fees were those paid in respect of the period of the year during which the individuals were Directors. Duncan Magrath’s base salary includes a temporary 
responsibility allowance as described on page 71.
2 
In practice, the base salaries paid to Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton and Peter Zinkin have been reduced due to their participation in the Company’s Share 
Incentive Plan. These salary reductions in 2014 were £1,500 for Duncan Magrath and Peter Zinkin and £500 for Andrew McNaughton. In practice, the base salary paid to 
Peter Zinkin has been further reduced due to his participation in the Group’s SMART Pensions salary sacrifice arrangement for the period to 31 January 2014. This salary 
reduction in 2014 was £588, which corresponds to his contributions to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund for the month of January 2014, met directly by his employer as 
part of this arrangement. The base salary for Peter Zinkin has also been reduced by £24,000 in 2014 (2013: £24,000) to meet additional travelling costs incurred by him  
in order to fulfil his role.
3 
Taxable benefits are calculated in terms of UK taxable values. Duncan Magrath and Andrew McNaughton received private medical insurance for the Director and his 
immediate family. Peter Zinkin received private medical insurance for the Director and his spouse. Duncan Magrath received a car allowance of £14,000 pa. Andrew 
McNaughton received a car allowance of £16,000 pa. Peter Zinkin received a fully expensed car with taxable benefit value of £9,223 pa. 
4 
Robert Amen, Iain Ferguson, Maureen Kempston Darkes, Steve Marshall and Bill Thomas received taxable travel expenses which are shown in the taxable benefits 
column. 
5  
For periods of membership of the DC section of the Group’s pension fund, this comprises the amount of employer contributions plus any salary supplements in lieu of 
pension on earnings that are above the earnings cap. For any periods of non-membership of the Group’s pension fund, this comprises any salary supplements in lieu of 
pension contributions. For periods of deferred membership of the DB section of the Group’s pension fund, there may also be included the value of any increase in DB 
benefits. Further details are set out in the section on Directors’ pensions on page 78 and 79.
6 
This relates to: (i) the value of the 2012 PSP award (which will lapse in full based on a performance period ended on 31 December 2014); and (ii) for Duncan Magrath,  
his additional 50% of salary special PSP award which was granted in 2013 and which vested on 31 December 2014. Further details of these awards are set out on  
page 73 and 74.
7 
Duncan Magrath received an expenses payment of £4,128 representing the reimbursement of the cost of a holiday which he was required to cancel as a result of corporate 
activity.
8 
Duncan Magrath will cease to be a Director on 8 May 2015.
9 
Andrew McNaughton stepped down from the Board on 3 May 2014. His pay for loss of office is described on page 76.
10 
Peter Zinkin will cease to be a Director on 25 March 2015.
11 
Robert Amen’s fees shown for 2014 include £20,000 in respect of travel allowances for meetings attended in 2014 (2013: £25,000).
12 
Maureen Kempston Darkes’ fees shown for 2014 include £20,000 in respect of travel allowances for meetings attended in 2014 (2013: £17,500). Her fees for 2013 have 
been restated for an underpayment in 2013 of £2,500 which was corrected in 2014. 
13 
Steve Marshall’s fees shown for 2014 include the additional annual fee agreed when he became Executive Chairman, pro rated for the period 3 May 2014 to 31 December 2014. 
His taxable travel expenses for 2013 have been restated for an underpayment of £5,811 in 2013 which was corrected in 2014.
14 
Belinda Richards and Bill Thomas joined the Board on 1 September 2013 and stepped down from the Board on 21 November 2014.
15 
Bill Thomas’ taxable travel expenses for 2013 have been restated for an underpayment of £1,449 in 2013 which was corrected in 2014.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
72 AIP awards for the year ended 31 December 2014
The AIP awards for the year under review were based on performance against profit before tax and non-underlying items and Group-
based performance metrics linked to the business strategy. As a result of the trading statement issued on 6 May 2014, the departure  
of Andrew McNaughton, with Steve Marshall stepping in as Executive Chairman and a significant revision of the Group’s strategic 
objectives, the three Group-based strategic metrics were amended and, to reflect the in-period changes, the Committee considered  
it appropriate to scale back the maximum payout by 25% (ie, rather than reflecting 30% of the bonus potential, this was reduced to 
22.5%). The profit before tax and non-underlying items target was not amended. The revised Group-based strategic metrics were as set 
out in the table below. The Committee concluded that Andrew McNaughton’s departure from the Board in May 2014 should preclude 
him from receiving any award under the AIP in respect of 2014.
The Committee’s assessment was that the AIP business strategy objectives had been partially achieved. Notwithstanding this,  
Duncan Magrath and Peter Zinkin agreed with the Committee that they would waive any entitlement under the AIP in respect of 2014 
given overall business performance.
AIP objective Target Actual
Maximum
(% of salary)
1
Actual
(% of salary)
Payable in cash
(% of salary)
Payable in shares
(% of salary)
Profit before tax and non-underlying 
items
Threshold £175.5m
Budget £195.0m £(80)m 84% 0% 0% 0%
Maximum £224.25m
Negotiate and close a Parsons 
Brinckerhoff disposal transaction 
at a value acceptable to the Board 
and to shareholders
Remuneration Committee 
assessment of achievement 
100%
 achieved
12% 9% 4.5% 4.5%
Optimise the value of that disposal 
through, for example, the 
restructuring of the Group 
balance sheet and the allocation 
of proceeds in a manner broadly 
acceptable to all stakeholders
Remuneration Committee 
assessment of achievement
50%
achieved
12% 4.5% 2.25% 2.25%
Simplify and focus Group activities, 
promoting a strong emphasis on 
operational delivery across the 
Group, strong continuing oversight 
of safety, values, ethics and 
sustainability, improved oversight of 
risk management and assurance at 
all levels
Remuneration Committee 
assessment of achievement
0%
 achieved
12% 0% 0% 0%
Total 120% 13.5% 6.75% 6.75%
1 
The maximum for each of the Group-based strategic performance metrics was reduced from 12% to 9% when the Group’s strategic objectives were amended following 
the trading statement issued on 6 May 2014.
Vesting of PSP awards for the year under review
The PSP awards granted on 16 April 2012 were based on a performance period for the three years ended 31 December 2014. 
As disclosed in previous Remuneration Reports, the performance conditions were as follows:
Metric Performance condition Measure
Threshold
target
Maximum
target Actual Vesting %
Earnings per share
1
  
(50% of the award)
EPS growth 15% (25% vesting 
of this part of the award) to 45% 
(100% vesting of this part of the 
award).
EPS at 
31 December
 2014
40.83p 51.48p (11.5)p 0%
Total Shareholder Return 
(50% of the award)
TSR against the 90 remaining 
companies ranked 51-150 in the 
FTSE All Share Index (excluding 
investment trusts) as at the start 
of the performance period and 
still listed at the end of the 
performance period. 25% of this 
part of the award vesting for 
median performance increasing 
to 100% of this part of the 
award vesting for upper quartile 
performance or above.
TSR ranking 45 
or above
23
or above
74 0%
Total vesting 0%
1 
Earnings per share is defined as underlying earnings per share from continuing operations.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
73 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Vesting of PSP awards for the year under review continued
The special PSP award granted to Duncan Magrath of up to 50% of his £425,000 salary on 16 April 2013 was based on a performance 
period from 1 April 2013 to 30 June 2014. The performance conditions were based on his contribution to the improvement of the 
Group’s capital structure and leadership as follows:
Metric Performance condition Measure
Maximum 
(% of award)
Actual proportion
 achieved Vesting
1
 %
Improvement of Group’s 
capital structure (60% of 
the award)
Implementation of private 
placement in US, improved 
diversity of debt funding 
sources and liquidity through 
issue of convertible bond, sale 
of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace, 
focus on cash management
Remuneration Committee 
assessment of achievement
60% 100%
achieved
60%
Lead and improve the 
strategic planning process 
(40% of the award)
Improvements in strategic 
planning process
Remuneration Committee 
assessment of achievement
40% 85%
achieved
34%
Total vesting 94%
1 
The special PSP award vested on 31 December 2014.
Details of the PSP awards vesting for the year under review for the executive Directors are therefore as follows: 
Executive Type of award
Number of
shares at grant
Number of
shares to vest
Number of
shares to lapse
Value of
vested shares
£
Duncan Magrath 2012 conditional 219,076 – 219,076
1
–
Duncan Magrath 2013 special conditional 85,272 80,155 5,117 166,803
Andrew McNaughton 2012 conditional 232,600 – 232,600
2
–
Peter Zinkin 2012 conditional 232,600 – 232,600
1
–
1 
The 2012 PSP awards for Duncan Magrath and Peter Zinkin will formally lapse on 16 April 2015. 
2 
The 2012 PSP award for Andrew McNaughton lapsed on 3 May 2014. Further details are on page 76.
Outstanding share awards
Maximum number of shares subject to award
Exercisable and/or 
vesting from
Exercise
price Name of Director Share award Date granted
At 
1 January 
2014
Awarded
during 
the year
Vested
during 
the year
Lapsed
during 
the year
At
31 December
2014
Duncan  
Magrath
17
PSP
1,5,6
1 June 2011 181,729 – – 181,729 – 1 June 2014 –
PSP
2,5,6
16 April 2012 219,076 – – – 219,076 16 April 2015 –
PSP
3,5,6
16 April 2013 255,818 – – – 255,818 16 April 2016 –
Special 
PSP
5,6,17
16 April 2013 85,272 – 80,155 5,117 – 31 December 2014 –
PSP
4,5,6,7
31 March 2014 – 211,162 – – 211,162 31 March 2017 –
DBP
8,9,10,11
31 March 2011 24,172 – 24,172 – – 31 March 2014 –
DBP
8,9,11,12
30 March 2012 61,859 4,095 – – 65,954 30 March 2015 –
DBP
8,9,11,12
31 March 2013 46,083 3,050 – – 49,133 31 March 2016 –
DBP
8,9,11,12,13
31 March 2014 – 37,823 – – 37,823 31 March 2017 –
SRSOS
14,15,16
18 May 2009 628 – – 628 – 1 July 2014 249.0p
SRSOS
14,15,16
11 May 2010 1,291 – – – 1,291 1 July 2015 236.0p
Andrew  
McNaughton
18
PSP
1,5,6
1 June 2011 193,530 – – 193,530 – 1 June 2014 –
PSP
2,5,6
16 April 2012 232,600 – – 232,600 – 16 April 2015 –
PSP
3,5,6
16 April 2013 456,460 – – 456,460 – 16 April 2016 –
PSP
4,5,6,7
31 March 2014 – 376,780 – 376,780 – 31 March 2017 –
DBP
8,9,10,11
31 March 2011 25,742 – 25,742 – – 31 March 2014 –
DBP
8,9,11,12
30 March 2012 65,677 1,921 67,598 – – 30 March 2015 –
DBP
8,9,11,12
31 March 2013 49,879 1,458 51,337 – – 31 March 2016 –
DBP
8,9,11,12,13
31 March 2014 – 51,806 51,806 – – 31 March 2017 –
Peter Zinkin PSP
1,5,6
1 June 2011 196,834 – – 196,834 – 1 June 2014 –
PSP
2,5,6
16 April 2012 232,600 – – – 232,600 16 April 2015 –
PSP
3,5,6
16 April 2013 266,653 – – – 266,653 16 April 2016 –
PSP
4,5,6,7
31 March 2014 – 220,105 – – 220,105 31 March 2017 –
DBP
8,9,10,11
31 March 2011 26,180 – 26,180 – – 31 March 2014 –
DBP
8,9,11,12
30 March 2012 65,677 4,348 – – 70,025 30 March 2015 –
DBP
8,9,11,12
31 March 2013 48,035 3,180 – – 51,215 31 March 2016 –
DBP
8,9,11,12,13
31 March 2014 – 39,424 – – 39,424 31 March 2017 –
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
74 1 
2011 PSP award: Details of the Company’s performance against the performance conditions are set out in the 2013 Remuneration Report. The award lapsed in full on 
1 June 2014 based on performance over three financial years to 31 December 2013 as the growth in EPS did not exceed the 15% threshold and the Company’s TSR ranked 
below the median of the comparator group. 
2 
2012 PSP award: The award will formally lapse on 16 April 2015. Further details of this award are set out on page 73.
3 
2013 PSP award: Each award is subject to two relative TSR performance conditions measured over three financial years. The Company’s TSR is measured against two 
comparator groups. 50% of each award is measured against a comparator group comprising the FTSE 51–150 (excluding investment trusts). 50% is measured against  
the following group of construction and professional services companies – AE Com, Atkins, Bilfinger and Berger, Carillion, Costain, Hochtief, Morgan Sindall, Tutor Perini, 
Skanska and URS. 25% of each part of the award will vest for a median ranking, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for an upper quartile ranking. No shares 
will vest from a part of the award if the Company’s TSR is below that of the median of the comparator group.
4 
2014 PSP award: details of this award are set out below.
5 
All PSP awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be 
satisfied by shares purchased in the market.
6 
The average middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company for the three dealing dates before the PSP award dates, which was used for calculating the number of 
awards granted, was 317.78p for the 2011 award, 277.3p for the 2012 award, 249.2p for the 2013 award and 301.9p for the 2014 awards. The closing middle market price 
of ordinary shares on the date of the awards was 312.4p, 271.9p, 244.9p and 299.6p respectively.
7  
On 31 March 2014, for all participants in the PSP, a maximum of 2,369,138 conditional shares were awarded which are exercisable on 31 March 2017.
8 
All DBP awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be 
satisfied by shares purchased in the market.
9 
The initial DBP awards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014 will vest on 30 March 2015, 31 March 2016, and 31 March 2017 respectively, providing the Director is still employed 
by the Group at the vesting date (unless specified leaver conditions are met, in which case early vesting may be permitted).
10 
The initial DBP awards made in 2011 vested on 31 March 2014. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company on the vesting date was 299.6p.
11  
The DBP awards made on 31 March 2011, 30 March 2012, 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 were purchased at average prices of 343.417p, 286.99p, 234.85p and 
301.9p respectively.
12 
For the initial DBP awards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the shares awarded on 23 April 2014 and 9 October 2014 (in lieu of the final 2013 and interim 2014 dividends 
respectively) were allocated at average prices of 290.6p and 155.93p respectively.
13 
On 31 March 2014, for all participants in the DBP, a maximum of 490,541 conditional shares were awarded which will normally be released on 31 March 2017. On 23 April 
2014, a further 47,421 conditional shares were awarded in lieu of entitlements to the final 2013 dividend and, on 9 October 2014, a further 49,552 conditional shares were 
awarded in lieu of entitlements to the interim 2014 dividend.
14 
All savings-related share option scheme (SRSOS) options are granted for nil consideration on grant and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc.
15 
The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 December 2014 was 212.0p. During the year, the highest and lowest closing market prices were 321.4p 
and 148.7p respectively.
16 
The SRSOS options granted to Duncan Magrath in May 2009, exercisable at 249.0p, lapsed unexercised in December 2014.
17 
The special PSP award vested on 31 December 2014. For the special PSP award, a total of 9,686 shares in lieu of the final 2012, interim 2013, final 2013 and interim 2014 
dividends as at 24 April 2013, 9 October 2013, 23 April 2014 and 9 October 2014 respectively were awarded based on average prices of 246.47p, 264.0p, 290.6p and 
155.93p respectively. The value of these shares at 31 December 2014 was £20,156.
18 
Andrew McNaughton stepped down from the Board on 3 May 2014. At this time, a proportion of his 2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP awards lapsed reflecting the proportion of 
the performance period for each award which had not been completed at the date of leaving. The remainder of the 2012 PSP, 2013 PSP and 2014 PSP awards were tested 
on 3 May 2014 and lapsed. The DBP awards made to him in 2012, 2013 and 2014 vested on 3 May 2014.
Long-term incentive awards granted during the year
On 31 March 2014, the following PSP awards were granted to executive Directors:
Executive Type of award
Basis of award 
granted
Share price 
applied  
at date  
of grant
Number of 
shares over 
which award 
was at granted
Face value  
of award
% of face value 
that would vest 
at threshold 
performance
Vesting determined 
by performance over Vesting date 
Andrew McNaughton Conditional 175% of salary 
of £650,000
301.9p 376,780 £1,137,500 25% Three financial 
years to  
31 December 
2016
31 March 2017
Duncan Magrath Conditional 150% of salary 
of £425,000
301.9p 211,162 £637,500 25%
Peter Zinkin Conditional 150% of salary 
of £443,000
301.9p 220,105 £664,500 25%
50% of each award above is measured against a comparator group comprising the FTSE 51–150 (excluding investment trusts) and 50% 
is measured against the following group of construction and professional services companies – AECOM, Atkins, Bilfinger and Berger, 
Carillion, Costain, Hochtief, Kier, Morgan Sindall, Tutor Perini, Skanska and URS. 25% of each part of the award will vest for a median 
ranking, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for an upper quartile ranking. No shares will vest under each part of the award  
if the Company’s TSR is below that of the median of the relevant comparator group.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
75 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Chief Executive changes and payments for loss of office
Departure of Andrew McNaughton
Andrew McNaughton stepped down from the Board on 3 May 2014. In line with his contractual entitlements, it was agreed that he should 
continue to receive his base salary, car allowance and pension allowance, paid monthly, in respect of his 12-month notice period (he 
therefore received monthly payments of £66,333 for each of the eight months from May 2014 to December 2014). The agreement with 
Andrew McNaughton included a duty to mitigate by reducing payments to him in the event of his finding new employment. In addition,  
he was entitled to £3,250 in pay for unused holiday and private medical insurance for himself and his immediate family to 31 October 2014 
and, thereafter, a payment in lieu of private medical insurance of £130 per month for six months. He also received an amount of £10,000  
in respect of legal costs and £30,000 for outplacement costs.
In respect of Mr McNaughton’s incentives, it was determined that: 
• there should be no entitlement under the 2014 AIP 
• the 2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP awards should vest at cessation subject to performance conditions being satisfied at that point and pro 
rated for the proportion of the performance period served. As a result of the performance conditions not being met in respect of any 
of the awards at 3 May 2014, all of his PSP awards lapsed
• awards held under the DBP (170,741 shares in respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial years ended 31 December 2011, 
2012 and 2013) should vest at cessation. These shares were released on termination at a value of £390,314, subject to tax and 
national insurance deductions.
Appointment of Leo Quinn
As announced on 15 October 2014, Leo Quinn joined the Board as Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2015. The key elements of his 
remuneration package, which are consistent with the Company’s approved remuneration policy, are as follows:
• a base salary of £800,000
• a salary supplement at 20% of base salary in lieu of pension contributions
• a maximum annual bonus of 120% of base salary
• an annual PSP award of 175% of base salary, albeit PSP awards for 2015 and 2016 will be set at 200% of base salary.
In addition to the above and as part of his recruitment arrangements, the Company agreed to compensate Leo Quinn for incentive 
awards which were forfeited upon leaving his previous employer. This compensation was, where possible, consistent with the awards 
forfeited in terms of currency (ie, cash versus shares), vesting periods and the operation of performance targets and is as follows: 
• compensation for any loss of annual bonus payable by the previous employer in respect of its financial year ending 31 March 2015 
with any amount payable: (i) based on the actual percentage of the maximum that Leo Quinn would have received; (ii) prorated from 
1 April 2014 (the start of his previous employer’s 2014/15 bonus period) to 1 January 2015 (ie, the point that Leo Quinn joined the 
Balfour Beatty AIP); and (iii) 50% in cash in 2015 and 50% in Balfour Beatty plc shares, deferred for three years with vesting subject 
to continued employment
• a conditional share award over 1,812,767 Balfour Beatty plc shares granted on 2 January 2015 which will vest in two tranches:
 − 604,256 shares (1/3rd of the award) will vest on the second anniversary of grant subject to share price targets tested at the end  
of the two-year period based on a 60-day average and as adjusted for dividends. 25% of this part of the award will vest for an end 
average share price of 222p increasing pro rata for full vesting of this part of the award for an end average share price of 309p. 
No vesting for this part of the award will take place for an average share price of less than 222p
 − 1,208,511 shares (2/3rds of the award) will vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to share price targets tested at the end of 
the three-year period based on a 60-day average and as adjusted for dividends. 25% of this part of the award will vest for an end 
average share price of 250p increasing pro rata for full vesting of this part of the award for an end average share price of 380p. 
No vesting for this part of the award will take place for an average share price of less than 250p
 − In addition to the dividend adjusted share price targets, an underpin will apply to the vesting whereby the Committee must be 
satisfied with the underlying performance of the business for this award to vest.
• conditional share awards over 141,791 Balfour Beatty plc shares, 308,010 Balfour Beatty plc shares and 504,151 Balfour Beatty plc 
shares granted on 2 January 2015 which will vest in May 2015, June 2015 and August 2015 respectively, based on the actual vesting 
percentages as determined by the original performance targets set and measured by Leo Quinn’s previous employer.
All share-based buyout awards lapse in the event of voluntary resignation or termination for cause prior to the respective vesting dates. 
In the event of good leaver departure, the awards will vest at employment cessation, subject to performance conditions and pro rating at 
the time of cessation. In the event of change of control, awards will be subject to performance testing being met at that time, but no time 
pro rating. Except as set out above, the awards are subject to the terms of the PSP. None of the awards are pensionable. Any amendments 
to the awards which are to the advantage of the participant (other than certain minor amendments) are subject to shareholder approval.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
76 Payments to past Directors
There were no payments to past Directors other than the payments disclosed above in respect of Andrew McNaughton.
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
The interests of the Directors and connected persons (including, amongst others, members of the Director’s immediate family) in the 
share capital of Balfour Beatty plc and its subsidiary undertakings during the year are set out below:
Director
Beneficially 
owned at 
1 January 2014
1,2
Beneficially
owned at 
31 December 
2014
2,3,4
Outstanding
PSP awards
Outstanding
DBP awards
Beneficially
owned at
 31 December
2014 as a % 
of base salary at 
31 December
2014 Guideline met
5
Duncan Magrath 130,754 191,890 686,056 152,910 93% No
Andrew McNaughton 127,311 134,304
Peter Zinkin
6
313,720 315,694 719,358 160,664 147% Yes
Robert Amen 10,139 10,139
Iain Ferguson 45,000 55,000
Maureen Kempston Darkes 7,000 7,000
Steve Marshall 7,142 17,142
Belinda Richards
– –
Graham Roberts 15,000 15,000
Bill Thomas – 9,128
1 
Or date of appointment, if later.
2 
Includes any shares held in the Company’s all-employee Share Incentive Plan.
3 
Or date of departure, if earlier.
4 
As at 24 March 2015, there have been no changes to the above other than in respect of shares held under the Share Incentive Plan which increased by 60 shares for 
Duncan Magrath and 169 shares for Peter Zinkin.
5 
The executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company worth 100% of base salary and must retain no fewer than 50% of the shares, net of taxes, vesting 
under the DBP and PSP until the required shareholding is met.
6 
Peter Zinkin was also interested at 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 in 325 cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each in Balfour Beatty plc.
Performance graph 
As in previous reports, the Remuneration Committee has chosen to compare the TSR on the Company’s ordinary shares against the 
FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) principally because this is a broad index of which the Company is a constituent member. 
The values indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends from a £100 hypothetical holding of ordinary 
shares in Balfour Beatty plc and in the index, and have been calculated using 30 trading day average values.
100
Dec 2008 Dec 2010 Dec 2009 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2014 Dec 2013
0
50
150
200
250
300
350
Value (£)
FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Index Balfour Beatty plc Source: Thomson Reuters
This graph shows the value by 31 December 2014 (averaged over 30 dealing days) of £100 invested in Balfour Beatty plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value  
of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Index. The intermediate points are the 30 dealing day averages ending on the Company’s financial year ends.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
77 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Group Chief Executive’s remuneration table 
The total remuneration figures for the Group Chief Executive during each of the last six financial years are shown in the table below.  
The total remuneration figure includes the AIP award based on that year’s performance and the PSP award based on the three-year 
performance period ending in the relevant year. The AIP payout and PSP vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity  
are also shown for each of these years.
Year ended 31 December
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Total remuneration
1
£1,617,223 £1,451,016 £1,514,007 £1,189,287 £961,350 £797,568
AIP (%)
2
60.4% 69.6% 65.3% 40.2% 21.0% 0%
PSP (%) 50% 18.4% 0% 0% 0% 0%
1 
The figures for 2009 to 2012 relate to Ian Tyler who retired from the Board on 31 March 2013. The figures for 2013 and 2014 are annualised figures for Andrew 
McNaughton who was appointed on 31 March 2013 and stepped down on 3 May 2014.
2 
Andrew McNaughton did not qualify for any 2014 AIP.
Percentage change in Group Chief Executive’s remuneration compared with all employees
The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive’s salary, benefits and annual bonus between the financial years 
ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014, compared with the percentage increase in the same years for all UK employees  
of the Group where UK employees have been selected as the most appropriate comparator. 
2013 2014 % change
Salary for year ended 31 December
Group Chief Executive (£000)
1
650 650 –
All UK employees (£m)
2
1,122 832 (26)
Benefits for year ended 31 December
Group Chief Executive (£000)
1
148 148 –
All UK employees (£m) 30 31 3
Annual bonus earned in year ended 31 December
Group Chief Executive (£000)
3
164 – (100)
All UK employees (£m)
4
13 18 38
Total remuneration for year ended 31 December
Group Chief Executive (£000) 962 798 (17)
All UK employees (£m) 1,165 881 (24)
1 
Salary, benefits, annual bonus and total remuneration received by Andrew McNaughton, annualised to reflect amounts receivable for a full year’s service in role.
2 
Reflects reduction in UK headcount year-on-year following the disposal of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace in December 2013 and Parsons Brinckerhoff in October 2014.
3 
Andrew McNaughton did not qualify for any 2014 AIP.
4 
Reflects good performance in the Investments and Services divisions.
Relative importance of spend on pay, dividends and underlying pre-tax profit
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay for all Group employees relative to dividends and underlying pre-tax profit:
2013 2014 % change
Staff costs (£m)
1
2,299 1,896 (18)
Dividends (£m) 96 96 –
Underlying pre-tax profit/(loss) (£m)
2
200 (41) (121)
1 
Staff costs include base salary, benefits and bonuses for all Group employees in continuing and discontinued operations (excluding joint ventures and associates).
2 
Underlying pre-tax profit is from continuing and discontinued operations.
Directors’ pensions and pension allowances 
Peter Zinkin was the only Director to participate in the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (the Fund) as a contributing member during 2014. 
Peter Zinkin participated in the defined contribution (DC) section up to 31 January 2014. He opted out of the DC section of the Fund  
on 31 January 2014 and became a deferred pensioner of the DC section of the Fund at this date. 
The DC section of the Fund is a money purchase scheme with a normal retirement age of 65. The Fund operates a Fund-specific 
earnings cap for pension purposes. Peter Zinkin’s pensionable earnings were subject to the Fund-specific earnings cap. Peter Zinkin  
paid an annual contribution equal to 5% of contributory salary for the period to 31 January 2014 via the Group’s SMART Pensions salary 
sacrifice arrangement as outlined in Note 2 in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 72. A salary supplement was paid to Peter 
Zinkin in lieu of pension contributions on earnings above the Fund-specific earnings cap for the period to 31 January 2014 and this is 
included in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 72. A salary supplement was paid to Peter Zinkin in lieu of Fund membership  
from 1 February 2014 and this is included in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 72.
Duncan Magrath, Andrew McNaughton and Peter Zinkin have all previously participated in the defined benefit (DB) section of the Fund. 
The DB section of the Fund provides for a pension at a normal retirement age of 62, although the majority of benefits can be taken 
unreduced from age 60. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
78 Duncan Magrath opted out of the DB section of the Fund on 5 April 2012 and became a deferred pensioner. In accordance with the Fund 
rules, his deferred pension was revalued in the year in line with price inflation (measured by the Retail Prices Index). He chose not to 
participate in the DC section of the Fund. Duncan Magrath was paid a salary supplement in lieu of Fund membership which is included 
in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 72.
Andrew McNaughton opted out of the DB section of the Fund on 31 December 2012 and became a deferred pensioner. In accordance 
with the Fund rules, his deferred pension was revalued in the year in line with price inflation (measured by the Retail Prices Index). 
He chose not to participate in the DC section of the Fund. Andrew McNaughton was paid a salary supplement in lieu of Fund 
membership for the period from 1 January 2014 to 3 May 2014 which is included in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 72.
Peter Zinkin opted out of the DB section of the Fund on 31 December 2010 and has been receiving his DB pension from 1 January 2011. 
He has not accrued any further DB pension in the Fund since 31 December 2010.
The pension table below sets out the accrued DB deferred pension based on each executive Director’s service to his date of becoming a 
deferred pensioner of the Fund. The pension amount for Duncan Magrath and Andrew McNaughton is the value of the increase in each 
Director’s DB deferred pension, in excess of price inflation (measured by the Consumer Prices Index), over the year ended 31 December 
2014. The pension amount for Peter Zinkin is the amount of the employer contributions paid to the DC section of the Fund excluding any 
SMART Pensions salary sacrifice amounts. Figures for 2013 are included for comparative purposes. The pension amounts are included 
in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 72.
Name of Director
Age at 
31 December 
2014
Years
Accrued DB
deferred
 pension at 
31 December
 2013
1
£ pa
Accrued DB
deferred 
pension at 
31 December
 2014
1
 
£ pa
Pension
amount
 2013
2
 
£
Pension
amount
2014
2
£
Duncan Magrath
3
 50 39,201 39,979 3,789 –
Andrew McNaughton
4
51 48,071 48,507 4,646 –
Peter Zinkin 
5
61 n/a n/a 28,020 2,350
1 
These amounts represent each Director’s accrued DB deferred pension at the relevant date. In accordance with the Fund Rules, accrued DB deferred pension in excess of 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension has been increased in line with the Retail Prices Index between each Director’s date of becoming a deferred pensioner of the Fund and the 
relevant date.
2 
The amounts for Duncan Magrath and Andrew McNaughton represent the value of the increase in excess of inflation (where inflation is measured as the annual increase  
in the Consumer Prices Index to the September before the relevant date) of the accrued DB deferred pension over the period. The increase in benefits has been calculated 
using HMRC methodology and then multiplied by a factor of 20. The figures for Peter Zinkin represent the contributions paid over the period by the Company into the DC 
section of the Fund excluding any SMART Pensions salary sacrifice amounts.
3 
The accrued DB deferred pension figures shown for Duncan Magrath include his DB benefits in the Fund purchased with Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs). In  
May 2013, the Fund paid an Annual Allowance tax charge of £27,249 to HMRC on Duncan Magrath’s behalf in a Scheme Pays arrangement. The value of this tax charge 
has been recorded as a negative DC contribution in respect of Duncan Magrath and will be rolled up to the Director’s retirement date, at which point it will be used to 
reduce the level of DB pension to which he is entitled from the Fund. The pensions table above makes no allowance for Duncan Magrath’s Scheme Pays arrangement.
4 
The accrued DB deferred pension figures for Andrew McNaughton are at 31 December 2013 and 3 May 2014.
5 
Peter Zinkin has not accrued any DB benefits in the Fund since 31 December 2010. Peter Zinkin participated in the DC section from 1 January 2011 to 31 January 2014,  
and the Company paid £2,350 into this arrangement during 2014, in addition to his SMART Pensions salary sacrifice of £588.
External appointments of executive Directors
During 2014, Duncan Magrath acted as a non-executive director of Brammer plc and received fees of £43,250 which he retained. During 
2014, Peter Zinkin was elected as a local authority councillor and received fees of £6,324 which he retained. Details of Steve Marshall’s 
earnings elsewhere during his eight-month tenure as Executive Chairman have not been disclosed due to the interim nature of the role.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
The members of the Remuneration Committee are independent non-executive Directors, as defined under the Corporate Governance 
Code. No member of the Committee has conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no member (except Steve Marshall)  
is involved in the day-to-day executive management of the Group. During the year under review, the members of the Committee were 
as follows:
• Iain Ferguson (Committee chair)
• Maureen Kempston Darkes
• Steve Marshall
• Graham Roberts
Steve Marshall stepped down as a Committee member during the period 3 May 2014 to 31 December 2014 when he served as 
Executive Chairman, although he continued to attend meetings by invitation.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
79 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
The Committee also receives advice from several sources, namely:
• the Group Chief Executive and the HR director, who are invited to attend meetings of the Committee but are not present when 
matters relating directly to their own remuneration are discussed
• New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon plc) (NBS).
NBS has been appointed as external independent executive remuneration advisers by the Committee and has provided a range  
of advice to the Committee during the year, including:
• provision of pay benchmarking data for the executive Directors and non-executive Directors
• annual update for the Committee on developments in best practice, market experience and regulatory requirements for all 
remuneration elements
• assistance with the drafting of the Remuneration Report
• valuation of share-based payments for IFRS 2 purposes
• calculation of vesting levels under the TSR element of the PSP awards
• advice in relation to potential corporate activity
• advice in connection with certain Board changes during the year.
Neither NBS nor any part of Aon plc provided any other services to the Company during the year under review. Total fees paid to NBS  
in respect of its services to the Committee were £85,922 (2013: £55,798).
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct. The Committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives  
from NBS is objective and independent.
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM 
At the AGM on 15 May 2014, the resolution to approve the Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders:
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 402,287,275 92.24%
Against 33,836,389 7.76%
Total votes cast 436,123,664 100%
Abstentions 10,640,145
At the AGM on 15 May 2014, the resolution to approve the remuneration policy received the following votes from shareholders:
Total number of votes % of votes cast
For 428,310,747 97.22%
Against 12,241,834 2.78%
Total votes cast 440,552,581 100%
Abstentions 6,211,232
By order of the Board
Iain Ferguson 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 March 2015
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
80 Opinion on financial statements  
of Balfour Beatty plc
In our opinion the financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state  
of the Group’s and of the Parent 
Company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2014 and of the Group’s loss and  
Parent Company’s profit for the year 
then ended;
• have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance  
with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group 
and Parent Company Income Statements, 
Statements of Comprehensive Income, 
Balance Sheets, Cash Flow Statements, 
Statements of Changes in Equity and the 
related Notes 1 to 41. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and IFRSs  
as adopted by the European Union.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have 
reviewed the Directors’ statement on  
page 17 that the Group is a going concern.  
We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the Directors’ 
use of the going concern basis of 
accounting in the preparation of the 
financial statements is appropriate; and
• we have not identified any material 
uncertainties that may cast significant 
doubt on the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, this statement 
is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability  
to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks  
of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material 
misstatement described below are those 
that had the greatest effect on our audit 
strategy, the allocation of resources in  
the audit and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team.
The description of risks above should be 
read in conjunction with the significant 
issues considered by the Audit Committee 
discussed on page 52.
Our audit procedures relating to these 
matters were designed in the context of 
our audit of the financial statements as  
a whole, and not to express an opinion  
on individual accounts or disclosures. Our 
opinion on the financial statements is not 
modified with respect to any of the risks 
described above, and we do not express 
an opinion on these individual matters.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE  
MEMBERS OF BALFOUR BEATTY PLC
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Recognition of contract revenue, margin  
and related receivables and liabilities 
(Notes 2.5, 2.6, 2.27a and 2.27f)
The construction industry is characterised by  
contract risk with significant judgements involved  
in the assessment of both current and future contract 
financial performance.
Revenue and margin are recognised based on the stage  
of completion of individual contracts, calculated on the 
proportion of total costs at the reporting date compared  
to the estimated total costs of the contract. 
The status of contracts is updated on a regular basis. 
In doing so, management are required to exercise 
significant judgement in their assessment of the valuation 
of contract variations, claims and liquidated damages 
(revenue items); the completeness and accuracy of 
forecast costs to complete; and the ability to deliver 
contracts within forecast timescales. 
The potential final contract outcomes can cover a wide 
range. Dependent on the level of judgement in each,  
the range on each contract can be individually material.  
In addition, changes in these judgements, and the related 
estimates, as contracts progress can result in material 
adjustments to revenue and margin, which can be both 
positive and negative.
Our work on the recognition of contract revenue, margin and related 
receivables and liabilities included:
• an assessment of the design and implementation of key controls over 
the recognition of contract revenue and margin and, for continuing 
operations subject to full scope audit procedures, tests to determine 
whether these controls were operating effectively throughout the year, 
regardless of whether these controls were ultimately relied upon;
• selecting a sample of contracts in order to challenge both current  
and future financial performance. Samples were selected based  
on a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, as well as other 
randomly selected contracts;
• for sampled contracts, challenging management’s key judgements 
inherent in the forecast costs to complete that drive the accounting  
under the percentage of completion method, including the  
following procedures:
 –  a review of the contract terms and conditions through review  
of contract documentation; 
 –  testing the existence and valuation of claims and variations  
both within contract revenue and contract costs via inspection  
of correspondence with customers and the supply chain;
 –  a review of legal and experts’ reports received on  
contentious matters;
 –  an assessment of the forecasts through discussion with Group, 
finance, commercial and operational management; 
 –  an assessment of the ability to deliver contracts within budgeted 
timescales and any exposures to liquidated damages for late 
delivery of contract works; and
 –  a review of post-balance sheet contract performance to support 
year end judgements;
• an assessment of the recoverability of related receivables, including 
testing of post year end cash receipts, and completeness of any 
contract loss provisions through completion of the above procedures.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE  
MEMBERS OF BALFOUR BEATTY PLC CONTINUED
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Trading performance within Construction Services 
UK (new risk in 2014) 
(Notes 2.2, 2.5, 2.6, 2.27a, 2.27f and 10)
The contract risks described above apply across the Group 
including Construction Services UK, however, given the 
incidence of losses incurred by the Construction Services 
UK business, most notably within Engineering Services, 
there is a greater risk of misstatement associated with 
contract judgements in this division, particularly in respect 
of under-performing contracts.
Management have also disclosed £88m of losses incurred 
on certain external contracts within Engineering Services 
within the London and the South West regions as 
non-underlying items. This has a number of presentational 
impacts, both on the face of the Group Income Statement 
and in disclosure of underlying performance metrics 
elsewhere in the Annual Report 
and financial statements.
Management provide commentary of these issues within 
the Strategic Report, both in the Construction Services 
section on pages 18 to 20 which includes detailed 
discussion of the performance in Construction Services 
UK and within the Risk Management Framework section 
on page 30 on management’s conclusions and response 
to failings in controls within the business during 2014.
In response to the significant losses incurred by Construction Services 
UK during the year, we have made the following amendments to our 
audit approach:
• we have reduced the component materiality used to scope our  
audit of the Construction Services UK operations to £3.4 million  
(2013: £7.5 million). This, in combination with our not placing reliance  
on internal controls in certain parts of the Construction Services  
UK business, led to an increase in the number of contracts tested 
substantively by us and a greater level of substantive audit  
procedures performed on the forecast costs to complete; 
• we have considered the findings from the third-party review  
of contract commercial positions and assessed these against 
management’s assessment of current contract positions and  
our own contract audit procedures; and
• we have concluded on the appropriateness of disclosing certain 
external contracts in Engineering Services as non-underlying items  
by assessing the exceptional level of the losses incurred on these 
contracts, both in absolute and percentage terms and consideration  
of supportive fact patterns such as the Group now withdrawing  
from tendering for external work in the relevant geographies. 
Assessment of whether losses incurred in 2014 
should have been recognised in prior periods  
(new risk in 2014) 
(Page 14)
Given the £317 million of losses incurred in Construction 
Services UK in 2014 (including the £88 million disclosed 
as non-underlying), management have undertaken a 
detailed assessment to determine whether any of the 
losses should have been recognised in prior periods. 
This exercise was inherently judgemental as it required the 
reassessment of contract positions as at the prior period 
balance sheet date using information which was available 
or should reasonably have been available at that point in 
time without using the benefit of hindsight and in 
accordance with the requirements of IAS 8 Accounting 
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. 
In performing this exercise, management concluded that 
each of the 45 contracts which contributed to the trading 
updates issued during 2014 should be reviewed in detail.
Management concluded from this exercise that the 
impact of any errors relating to prior periods was not 
material in the context of the Group accounts and 
accordingly the 2013 financial statements have not  
been restated. However, approximately £16m of losses 
recorded in the second half of 2014 should have been 
recognised as at 27 June 2014 which is considered 
material to the June 2014 Interim Results, which will be 
restated accordingly in the June 2015 Interim Results.
We have assessed the design and implementation of the controls  
over the preparation and review of the contract templates created by 
management to facilitate the prior period assessment. We also assessed 
the objectivity of management personnel involved in the contract 
assessment process, and whether there was appropriate review  
by individuals not involved in making original contract judgements.
We reviewed and tested the individual contract templates prepared  
by management for the 45 trading update contracts and challenged the 
conclusions reached by management with respect to the quantum of any 
losses which should reasonably have been recognised in prior periods.
In addition to reviewing management’s own analysis, we also  
considered the following sources of information as part of our audit:
• historical Construction Services UK and Group contract and 
commercial issues papers;
• findings included in contract specific internal audit reports; 
• observations and findings from site visits performed and other 
discussions held with management during 2014;
• the findings arising from the external review of contract commercial 
positions performed in 2014;
• subsequent events reviews performed at each balance sheet date; and
• prior period audit and interim review working papers.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
82 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 
(Notes 2.13, 2.27d, 15 and 16)
Under accounting standards, management is required to 
carry out an annual impairment test which incorporates 
judgements based on assumptions about future 
profitability for the related businesses against which 
appropriate long-term growth rates and discount rates 
must be applied.
This exercise is highly judgemental and is used to support 
the carrying value of £826 million of goodwill as at  
31 December 2014. Given the trading performance of  
the Group in the current year, and in particular variances 
between actual and budgeted profit and cash flows,  
the level of risk associated with goodwill impairment  
is greater in 2014.
We tested the design and implementation of management’s key controls 
around testing the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill balances. 
As part of this process, we obtained copies of the valuation models used 
to determine the recoverable amount of each cash generating unit and 
tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models.
We challenged the assumptions underpinning the models, including  
the discount rates used, long-term growth rates and cash flow forecasts. 
This was achieved through: consultation with Deloitte valuation specialists 
to critically assess the discount rate and long-term growth rates applied; 
assessment of the reasonableness of forecast future cash flows by 
comparison to historical performance and future outlook; and discussions 
with management. 
We performed further sensitivities taking into account the historical 
forecasting accuracy of the Group recognising its recent performance  
in this area and after considering the magnitude of the losses in 2014.
We have considered the adequacy of management’s disclosures in 
respect of reasonable possible changes to assumptions as set out in 
Note 15. With respect to Construction Services UK we highlight that  
the recoverability of the goodwill within that cash generating unit is 
predicated on returning the business to more normal levels of 
performance in the future.
We also assessed whether assumptions have been determined and 
applied consistently across the Group.
Assets held for sale, discontinued operations  
and disposal accounting 
(Notes 2.27i, 10, 12, 15 and 32)
In relation to disposed operations, management  
applies judgement in determining the gains or losses  
on disposal of the various businesses. In 2014, the  
£234 million gain on disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff  
(PB) was a significant contributor to the overall  
Group result.
The classification and valuation of £13 million of net 
assets in Rail Italy and certain parts of Rail Germany  
as held for sale is a key area of management judgement.  
In addition, the classification of businesses as 
discontinued operations must be carefully considered  
in line with the relevant accounting standard. 
Given the change in approach during the second half  
of 2014 to selling the separate businesses within  
Rail Germany on a piecemeal basis and not via a single 
transaction as had previously been assumed, the assets  
and liabilities not subject to existing sales agreements 
have been reclassified out of held for sale with 
the results of the entire cash generating unit now 
re-presented as non-underlying items within  
continuing operations.
We tested the design and implementation of controls management  
have in place around planned and completed disposal activities.
Disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff
We tested the calculation of the gain on disposal by challenging the 
judgements made in relation to the consideration receivable and  
the net assets disposed. 
The initial consideration receivable was agreed to the sale agreement and 
cash receipts. Purchase price adjustments to reflect management’s best 
estimates of the final working capital position of PB, which will lead to 
the final disposal consideration to be received, have been tested by 
comparison to supporting documentation and post-transaction 
correspondence with the purchaser. 
To test the net assets disposed, we performed a full scope audit of  
the PB disposal group as at 31 October 2014, the date of disposal.  
In addition, detailed testing was performed on related disposal 
provisions, indemnities and the costs of disposal by reviewing and 
considering the sales agreements, supporting documentation and other 
evidence from the 31 October 2014 audit and subsequent events period.
Classification of assets held for sale and discontinued operations
We challenged management’s judgement on assets held for sale through 
understanding the status of the sales process and reviewing sales 
agreements and additional correspondence from prospective purchasers. 
We assessed the classification of assets held for sale and discontinued 
operations against the relevant “highly probable” criteria in the 
accounting standard, including consideration of why Rail Germany  
no longer meets these criteria and the appropriateness and related 
disclosure of this business as part of non-underlying within continuing 
operations. This also included testing the re-presentation of the prior 
period results from discontinued operations.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 83 Our application of materiality 
We define materiality as the magnitude of 
misstatement in the financial statements 
that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable 
person would be changed or influenced. 
We use materiality both in planning the 
scope of our audit work and in evaluating 
the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the  
Group to be £8.5 million, which is 
approximately 6% of the average 
underlying profit before tax for the last 
three years, including 2014. We use 
underlying profit before tax to exclude the 
effect of volatility (for example, separately 
disclosed non-underlying items) from our 
determination and because it represents  
a key performance measure for the  
Group and receives significant focus  
from shareholders and analysts. This is  
a change of approach from 2013, where  
we used a Group materiality of £15 million, 
which was approximately 8% of the 
Group’s 2013 underlying profit before tax. 
We have changed to using a three-year 
average of underlying profit before tax due 
to the extent of the reduction in underlying 
profit in the current year which, in our 
view, provides an unusual level of volatility 
and would result in an inappropriately  
low level of materiality for a Group of this 
scale. Use of alternative benchmarks,  
such as assets or net revenue, would have 
resulted in higher and more consistent 
materiality levels compared with prior 
years. Materiality as a percentage of  
net assets in the current year is 0.7% 
(2013: 1.4%).
We agreed with the Audit Committee  
that we would report to the Committee  
all audit differences in excess of £170,000 
(2013: £300,000), as well as differences 
below that threshold that, in our view, 
warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that  
we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining 
an understanding of the Group and its 
environment, including Group-wide 
controls, and assessing the risks of 
material misstatement at the Group level. 
Based on that assessment, we focused 
our Group audit scope primarily on the 
audit work at the most significant 
operating companies, including joint 
ventures. Either full or specified audit 
procedures, where the extent of our 
testing was based on our assessment  
of the risks of material misstatement and 
of the materiality of the Group’s operations 
at those locations, were performed. 
Operating companies representing the 
principal business units within the Group’s 
reportable segments and accounting for 
85% (2013: 80%) of the Group’s total 
revenue, including discontinued 
operations, are subject to full audit 
procedures, with others accounting for  
7% (2013: 7%) of the Group’s revenue 
subject to specified audit procedures.  
They were also selected to provide an 
appropriate basis for undertaking audit 
work to address the risks of material 
misstatement identified above. Our audit 
work at these locations was executed  
at levels of materiality applicable to each 
individual entity, which were lower than 
Group materiality and ranged from £3.4 
million to £5.1 million (2013: £7.5 million  
to £9.0 million). Parsons Brinckerhoff  
was audited to £8.0m materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested 
the consolidation process and carried  
out analytical procedures to confirm our 
conclusion that there were no significant 
risks of material misstatement of the 
aggregated financial information of the 
remaining components not subject to audit 
or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follow a programme 
of planned visits to the significant operating 
companies. The Senior Statutory Auditor or 
another senior member of the Group audit 
team visited operating companies covering 
72% (2013: 77%) of Group revenue in  
the year. The Senior Statutory Auditor or 
another senior member of the Group audit 
team also discussed the risk assessment, 
reviewed documentation of key findings 
and participated in the close meetings  
for all operating companies subject to  
full scope. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic 
Report and the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received 
and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our 
audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the Parent Company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited 
by us; or
• the Parent Company financial 
statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect  
of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we  
are also required to report if in our  
opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or  
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited is not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report arising from 
these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also 
required to review the part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with 10 provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
We have nothing to report arising from  
our review.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE  
MEMBERS OF BALFOUR BEATTY PLC CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
84 Our duty to read other information  
in the Annual Report 
Under International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland), we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the 
information in the audited financial 
statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based  
on, or materially inconsistent with,  
our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider 
whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the 
Directors’ statement that they consider 
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the Annual 
Report appropriately discloses those 
matters that we communicated to the 
Audit Committee which we consider 
should have been disclosed. We confirm 
that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements. 
Respective responsibilities of 
Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement, the Directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
We also comply with International Standard 
on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our 
audit methodology and tools aim to ensure 
that our quality control procedures are 
effective, understood and applied. Our 
quality controls and systems include our 
dedicated professional standards review 
team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the 
Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16  
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state  
to them in an auditor’s report and for  
no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work,  
for this report, or for the opinions we  
have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial 
statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence  
about the amounts and disclosures  
in the financial statements sufficient  
to give reasonable assurance that  
the financial statements are free from  
material misstatement, whether caused  
by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s  
and the Parent Company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates  
made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements  
and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based  
on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course  
of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
John Adam
Senior Statutory Auditor 
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
24 March 2015
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 85 2014 2013
2,3,4
Notes
Underlying
items
1
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 10)
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
items
1
 
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 10)
£m
Total
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue including share of joint ventures  
and associates 8,440 353 8,793 8,478 374 8,852
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 18.2 (1,490) (39) (1,529) (1,360) (4) (1,364)
Group revenue 4 6,950 314 7,264 7,118 370 7,488
Cost of sales (6,723) (410) (7,133) (6,665) (388) (7,053)
Gross profit/(loss) 227 (96) 131 453 (18) 435
Gain on disposals of interests in investments 32.3/32.4 93 – 93 82 – 82
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 16 – (11) (11) – (17) (17)
Other net operating expenses (433) (114) (547) (460) (144) (604)
Group operating (loss)/profit (113) (221) (334) 75 (179) (104)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 18.2 55 (2) 53 71 – 71
(Loss)/profit from operations 6 (58) (223) (281) 146 (179) (33)
Investment income 8 64 – 64 63 – 63
Finance costs 9 (86) (1) (87) (78) (1) (79)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (80) (224) (304) 131 (180) (49)
Taxation 11 2 1 3 (28) 24 (4)
(Loss)/profit for the year from continuing operations (78) (223) (301) 103 (156) (53)
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 12 24 218 242 44 (26) 18
(Loss)/profit for the year (54) (5) (59) 147 (182) (35)
Attributable to
Equity holders (55) (5) (60) 147 (182) (35)
Non-controlling interests 1 – 1 – – –
(Loss)/profit for the year (54) (5) (59) 147 (182) (35)
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10). 
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38). 
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
4
 Re-presented to show the results of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts as non-underlying items (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10). 
 
Notes
2014 
Pence
2013
2,3
Pence
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 13 (43.9) (7.5)
– discontinued operations 13 35.3 2.4
13 (8.6) (5.1)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
– continuing operations 13 (43.9) (7.5)
– discontinued operations 13 35.3 2.4
13 (8.6) (5.1)
Dividends per ordinary share proposed for the year 14 5.6 14.1
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38). 
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
COMMENTARY ON THE GROUP 
INCOME STATEMENT
*
Total pre-tax loss from  
continuing operations for 2014  
was £304m, which is inclusive  
of a non-underlying loss of  
£224m. The total loss after  
tax including discontinued 
operations was £59m.
Background
The Group Income Statement includes 
the majority of the Group’s income and 
expenses for the year with the remainder 
being recorded within the statement of 
comprehensive income. The Group’s 
income statement is presented showing 
the Group’s underlying and non-underlying 
results separately on the face of the 
income statement to assist in understanding 
the underlying financial performance 
achieved by the Group.
The income statement shows the revenue 
and results of continuing operations.  
The post-tax results of Parsons Brinckerhoff 
(PB) and Rail Italy, which are classified as 
discontinued operations, are presented  
in a single line “Profit/(loss) for the  
year from discontinued operations”.  
The prior year numbers have been 
re-presented accordingly.
In 2014, non-underlying items include  
the re-presentation of Rail Germany from 
discontinued operations to continuing 
operations. The Group has presented Rail 
Germany outside of underlying items as it 
remains committed to exiting its Mainland 
European rail businesses as soon as 
possible and does not consider its 
operations part of the Group’s underlying 
activity. When initially classified as a 
discontinued operation on 28 June 2013 
the German business was being marketed 
to be sold as an entire unit. Subsequently 
it became apparent that this would not  
be possible and disposal of part of the 
business was agreed in November 2014. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
86
For the year ended 31 December 2014
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT *  The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 14 to 17.
COMMENTARY ON THE GROUP 
INCOME STATEMENT CONTINUED
*
As a result, Rail Germany no longer 
satisfies the criteria under IFRS 5  
Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations for it to remain  
as a discontinued operation and the  
prior year comparatives have been 
re-presented accordingly. 
In addition to this, the performance  
of external Engineering Services (ES) 
contracts linked to poor legacy 
management and in regions that ES has 
withdrawn from tendering for third-party 
work has also been included in non-
underlying items as the size and nature  
of the losses due to the problematic 
delivery of these contracts are exceptional 
and distort the underlying performance  
of the Group. Separate disclosure of these 
contracts aids the reader’s understanding 
of the underlying performance of the 
remainder of the Group. Performance  
on these contracts including any claims 
recovery will be presented in non-underlying 
items through to their completion and  
the prior year comparatives have been 
re-presented accordingly.
Revenue
Revenue from continuing operations 
including non-underlying items, joint 
ventures and associates decreased  
by 1% to £8,793m from £8,852m 
(re-presented) in 2013. Revenue was 
broadly flat across all segments albeit 
there was a slight change in the 
geographical mix. 
Gain on disposal of investments
The Group continued its programme 
of realising accumulated value in the 
Investments portfolio and generating 
income by disposing of its interests in  
the Knowsley Building Schools for the 
Future project, the University Hospital of 
North Durham project and the Pinderfields 
and Pontefract Hospital project resulting  
in a net underlying gain of £93m after 
recycling a loss of £1m from reserves  
to the income statement.
Share of results of joint ventures 
and associates
Joint ventures and associates are those 
entities over which the Group exercises 
joint control or has significant influence 
and whose results are generally 
incorporated using the equity method 
whereby the Group’s share of the 
post-tax results of joint ventures and 
associates is included in the Group’s 
operating profit.
Underlying profit from operations
Underlying profit from continuing 
operations decreased to a loss of £58m 
from £146m profit (re-presented) in 2013. 
Support Services and Infrastructure 
Investments continued to deliver excellent 
operating results, including the benefit of 
£93m of gains from investment disposals. 
This was offset with increased losses  
in the UK construction business which 
was caused by poor operational and 
commercial controls in the business. 
Following the UK construction business 
contract reviews the Group has also 
reassessed its accounting for construction 
contracts and taken a more prudent 
position in estimating contract completion 
costs. This is a prospective change in 
accounting estimate and has resulted  
in a £51m expense in the current year.
A further £88m of losses attributable to 
ES which is part of the UK construction 
business, has been included in non-
underlying items as described below. 
Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items  
of financial performance which the  
Group believes should be separately 
identified on the face of the income 
statement to assist in understanding  
the underlying financial performance 
achieved by the Group. 
Non-underlying items from continuing 
operations of £224m before tax were 
charged to the income statement.  
These comprised amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets of £11m,  
the trading loss from Rail Germany of 
£24m, the losses resulting from legacy 
ES contracts of £88m and other loss 
items of £101m. 
Significant other non-underlying items 
included a £30m impairment charge of 
the assets within Rail Germany following 
an assessment of the carrying value of 
the assets compared to net realisable 
value. £23m of restructuring costs were 
also incurred in the year, mainly due to 
£11m for the restructuring of the  
UK construction business where six 
business units were integrated into  
three business streams. 
The Group continued its plan to transition 
other operating companies to its UK shared 
service centre in Newcastle-upon-Tyne 
incurring further cost in the year of £14m. 
In addition to this, the Group recognised  
an impairment charge of £21m in relation 
to its Oracle R12 software. 
Net finance costs
Net finance cost of £23m in the year 
represents an increase of 44% from  
£16m (re-presented) in 2013 mainly due  
to the recognition of a full year’s finance 
cost of £10m on the Group’s convertible 
bonds and an increase in net finance cost 
on the Group’s pension schemes of £7m. 
This was offset by a £6m reduction in 
interest on bank loans and overdrafts  
and a £4m increase in subordinated debt 
interest receivable. 
Taxation
The underlying tax credit for continuing 
operations excluding the Group’s share  
of the results of joint ventures and 
associates of £2m equates to an effective 
tax rate of 1.5%. 
Profit/(loss) from  
discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations 
shows the post-tax results relating to  
PB and certain Mainland European rail 
businesses, which were classified as 
discontinued operations. 
In October 2014 the Group completed  
the sale of PB for an agreed cash 
consideration of £812m. After transaction 
costs and other charges the disposal 
resulted in a non-underlying gain of 
£234m. PB contributed £38m (2013: 
£55m) to underlying profit from 
discontinued operations.
Rail Italy was classified as a discontinued 
operation in 2014 and incurred an underlying 
post-tax loss of £nil (2013: £5m). It  
incurred a £27m non-underlying loss  
(2013: £nil) primarily due to the impairment 
of its goodwill.
Earnings per share
Basic loss per share from continuing 
operations was (43.9)p (2013: (7.5)p 
re-presented), as a result of increased 
losses as discussed above. Underlying 
loss per share from continuing operations 
was (11.5)p (2013: earnings of 15.3p 
(re-presented)).
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 87 Notes
2014
£m
2013
 £m
Loss for the year (59) (35)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Items which will not subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
 Actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefit liabilities 30.1 232 (114)
 Tax on above 30.1 (48) 17
184 (97)
Items which will subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
 Currency translation differences 30.1 32 (14)
 Fair value revaluations – PPP financial assets 30.1 303 (192)
  – cash flow hedges 30.1 (156) 120
  – available-for-sale investments in mutual funds 30.1 2 7
 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal* 32.3/32.4 11 (21)
 Tax on above 30.1 (29) 20
163 (80)
Total other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 347 (177)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 30.1 288 (212)
Attributable to 
Equity holders 287 (212)
Non-controlling interests 1 –
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 30.1 288 (212)
*
 
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect. 
GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the year ended 31 December 2014
COMMENTARY ON GROUP 
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE 
INCOME
*
Total comprehensive income  
for 2014 was £288m comprising 
a total loss after tax including 
discontinued operations of  
£59m and other comprehensive 
income after tax of £347m. 
Background
The Group Statement of Comprehensive 
Income is presented on a total Group basis 
combining continuing and discontinued 
operations. Other Comprehensive Income 
(OCI) is categorised into items which will 
affect the profit and loss of the Group in 
subsequent periods when the gain or loss 
is realised and those which will not be 
recycled into the income statement.
Items which will not subsequently be 
reclassified to the income statement
Actuarial movements on retirement 
benefit liabilities are increases or 
decreases in the present value of the 
pension liability because of:
• differences between the previous 
actuarial assumptions and what has 
actually occurred; or
• changes in actuarial assumptions  
used to value the obligations. 
Actuarial gains for the Group including joint 
ventures and associates increased from 
£114m loss in 2013 to £232m gain in 2014. 
Refer to Note 28.
Items which will subsequently be 
reclassified to the income statement
Currency translation differences
The Group operates in a number of 
countries with different local currencies. 
Currency translation differences arise on 
translation of the balance sheet and results 
from the local functional currency into the 
Group’s presentational currency, sterling.
Fair value revaluations  
– PPP financial assets 
Assets constructed by PPP concession 
companies are classified principally as 
available-for-sale financial assets. In the 
operational phase fair value is determined 
by discounting the future cash flows 
allocated to the financial asset using 
discount rates based on long-term gilt 
rates adjusted for the risk levels associated 
with the assets, with market related fair 
value movements recognised in OCI and 
other fair value movements recognised  
in the income statement. During the year 
there was a decrease in gilt rates resulting 
in a fair value gain of £303m being taken 
through OCI. 
Fair value revaluations  
– cash flow hedges
Cash flow hedges are principally interest 
rate swaps, to manage the interest rate 
and inflation rate risks in the Group’s 
Infrastructure Investments’ subsidiary, 
joint venture and associate companies 
which are exposed by their long-term 
contractual agreements. The fair value  
of derivatives changes in response to 
prevailing market conditions. During the 
year LIBOR decreased resulting in a fair 
value loss on the interest rate swaps of 
£156m being recognised in OCI in 2014 
(2013: £120m gain).
Available-for-sale investments  
in mutual funds
The available-for-sale investments in 
mutual funds comprise holdings in a 
number of funds, based on employees’ 
investment elections, in respect of the 
deferred compensation obligations of  
the Group as disclosed in Note 28. 
The fair value of the available-for-sale 
investments is £20m, determined by  
the market price of each fund at the 
reporting date.
Recycling of reserves to the income 
statement on disposal
Fair value gains and losses relating to  
the PPP financial assets and derivatives 
recognised in OCI are transferred to the 
income statement upon disposal of  
the asset and therefore on disposal of 
Infrastructure Investments’ concessions, 
£1m loss was recycled to the income 
statement through OCI and is included  
in the gain on disposal. 
Following the disposal of Parsons 
Brinckerhoff, an £11m loss within reserves 
was recycled to the income statement 
comprising fair value gains arising from 
deferred compensation assets of £7m 
offset by foreign currency exchange  
losses of £18m. 
There is no associated tax on the amounts 
recycled to the income statement. 
*  The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 14 to 17.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
88 Notes
Called-up
share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
account
£m
Special 
reserve
£m
Share 
of joint 
ventures’ 
and 
associates’
reserves
 (Note 18.8)
£m
Other
reserves
(Note 30.1)
£m
Retained 
profits
£m
Non- 
controlling 
interests
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 344 63 25 337 289 252 3 1,313
Total comprehensive (expense)/income 
for the year 30.1 – – – (17) 11 (206) – (212)
Ordinary dividends 14 – – – – – (96) (1) (97)
Joint ventures’ and
associates’ dividends 18.1 – – – (47) – 47 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 29.1 – 1 – – – – – 1
Issue of convertible bonds 29.2.2 – – – – 26 – – 26
Movements relating to 
share-based payments – – – – (1) 5 – 4
Reserve transfers relating to joint venture and 
associate disposals 18.8 – – – 3 – (3) – –
Other transfers – – (1) 2 (2) 1 – –
At 31 December 2013 344 64 24 278 323 – 2 1,035
Total comprehensive income for the year 30.1 – – – 142 69 76 1 288
Ordinary dividends 14 – – – – – (96) – (96)
Joint ventures’ and
associates’ dividends 18.1 – – – (56) – 56 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 29.1 1 – – – – – – 1
Movements relating to 
share-based payments – – – – (3) 5 – 2
Reserve transfers relating to joint venture and 
associate disposals 18.8 – – – (24) – 24 – –
Other transfers – – (1) – (249) 250 – –
At 31 December 2014 345 64 23 340 140 315 3 1,230
GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 December 2014
COMMENTARY ON GROUP 
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
*
Total equity holders’ funds of 
£1,230m at 31 December 2014 
increased by 19% primarily  
due to movements in other 
comprehensive income offset  
by the payment of dividends. 
Background
The Group Statement of Changes in Equity 
includes the total comprehensive income 
attributable to equity holders of the 
Company and non-controlling interests 
and also discloses transactions which  
have been recognised directly in equity 
and not through the income statement.
Dividends
The Board has not recommended a final 
dividend in respect of 2014, resulting in  
a full-year dividend of 5.6p (2013: 14.1p). 
The full-year dividend paid during 2014 
equated to £96m. 
Joint ventures’ and  
associates’ dividends
Dividends of £56m were received  
in the year from joint ventures and 
associates (JVA) resulting in a transfer 
of this amount between JVA reserves  
and Group retained profits.
Share issues
During the year 420,380 ordinary shares 
were issued for £1m.
Special reserve
A special reserve of £185m was created  
in 2004 as a result of cancelling £181m  
of share premium and cancelling the £4m 
capital redemption reserve in Balfour 
Beatty plc. This was approved by the court 
and becomes distributable to the extent  
of future increases in share capital and 
share premium, of which £1m occurred  
in 2014 (2013: £1m). 
Other reserves
Other reserves comprise: the equity 
components of the preference shares  
of £18m (2013: £18m) and convertible 
bonds £26m (2013: £26m); the Group’s 
hedging reserves £(74)m (2013: £(56)m); 
PPP financial asset revaluation reserve 
£101m (2013: £56m); currency translation 
reserve £55m (2013: £8m); merger 
reserve £nil (2013: £249m); and other 
reserves £14m (2013: £22m). The merger 
reserve, which was wholly relating to the 
acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff in 
2009, was fully transferred to retained 
earnings in the year following the  
disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
Other reserve transfers relating to 
joint venture and associate disposals 
On disposal of JVAs, retained profits 
relating to these businesses are transferred 
from the JVA reserves to the Group’s 
retained profits. 
*  The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 14 to 17.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 89 2014 2013
Notes
Underlying
items
1
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 10)
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
items
1
 
£m
Non-
underlying
items
(Note 10)
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 4 168 – 168 97 – 97
Gain on disposal of interests in investments
+
32.3.2 49 – 49 – – –
Net operating expense (17) (15) (32) (19) (3) (22)
Profit/(loss) from operations 200 (15) 185 78 (3) 75
Investment income 8 8 – 8 5 – 5
Finance costs 9 (49) – (49) (42) – (42)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 159 (15) 144 41 (3) 38
Taxation 11 12 – 12 4 (3) 1
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders 171 (15) 156 45 (6) 39
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10).
+
 The gain relates to the disposal of the Company’s 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Durham) Holdings Ltd. Refer to Note 32.3.2.
COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Notes
2014
£m
2013
£m
Profit for the year 156 39
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Items which will not subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 30.2 – 1
 Tax on above 27.2 – (1)
– –
Items which will subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
 Currency translation differences 30.2 – (1)
 Tax on share-based payments transferred 27.2 – (2)
 Tax on preference shares due to change in rate 27.2 – 1
– (2)
Total other comprehensive expense for the year – (2)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders 30.2 156 37
COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
90 Notes
Called-up 
share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
account
£m
Special 
reserve 
£m
Other 
reserves
(Note 30.2)
£m
Retained 
profits
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 344 63 25 338 326 1,096
Total comprehensive income for the year 30.2 – – – 1 36 37
Ordinary dividends 14 – – – – (96) (96)
Issue of ordinary shares 29.1 – 1 – – – 1
Issue of convertible bonds 29.3 – – – 26 – 26
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – (3) 4 1
Other transfers – – (1) – 1 –
At 31 December 2013 344 64 24 362 271 1,065
Total comprehensive income for the year 30.2 – – – – 156 156
Ordinary dividends 14 – – – – (96) (96)
Issue of ordinary shares 29.1 1 – – – – 1
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – 5 – 5
Other transfers – – (1) (249) 250 –
At 31 December 2014 345 64 23 118 581 1,131
For the year ended 31 December 2014
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 91 Group Company
Notes
2014
£m
2013
£m 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 15 826 1,048 – –
 – other 16 216 204 – –
Property, plant and equipment 17 171 208 – –
Investments in joint ventures and associates 18 759 666 – –
Investments 19 51 95 1,571 1,567
PPP financial assets 20 559 455 – –
Trade and other receivables 23 111 113 11 17
Deferred tax assets 27 52 122 – –
Derivative financial instruments 39 – – 1 –
2,745 2,911 1,583 1,584
Current assets
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 21 170 135 – –
Due from construction contract customers 22 562 631 – –
Trade and other receivables 23 966 1,190 1,381 1,262
Cash and cash equivalents  – infrastructure concessions 26 40 65 – –
       – other 26 691 539 249 –
Current tax assets 8 8 – –
Derivative financial instruments 39 2 2 2 4
2,439 2,570 1,632 1,266
Assets held for sale 12 60 231 – –
2,499 2,801 1,632 1,266
Total assets 5,244 5,712 3,215 2,850
Current liabilities
Due to construction contract customers 22 (350) (360) – –
Trade and other payables 24 (1,959) (2,046) (1,591) (1,337)
Provisions 25 (120) (100) – –
Borrowings – non-recourse loans 26 (14) (9) – –
 – other 26 (4) (170) (142) (106)
Current tax liabilities (5) (33) – –
Derivative financial instruments 39 (14) (19) (2) (6)
(2,466) (2,737) (1,735) (1,449)
Liabilities held for sale 12 (47) (219) – –
(2,513) (2,956) (1,735) (1,449)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 (134) (182) (25) (25)
Provisions 25 (77) (93) (2) (1)
Borrowings  – non-recourse loans 26 (471) (410) – –
    – other 26 (468) (435) (224) (212)
Liability component of preference shares 29 (96) (94) (96) (94)
Retirement benefit liabilities 28 (128) (434) – –
Deferred tax liabilities 27 (49) (18) (2) (3)
Derivative financial instruments 39 (78) (55) – (1)
(1,501) (1,721) (349) (336)
Total liabilities (4,014) (4,677) (2,084) (1,785)
Net assets 1,230 1,035 1,131 1,065
Equity
Called-up share capital 29 345 344 345 344
Share premium account 30 64 64 64 64
Special reserve 30 23 24 23 24
Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ reserves 30 340 278 – –
Other reserves 30 140 323 118 362
Retained profits 30 315 – 581 271
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,227 1,033 1,131 1,065
Non-controlling interests 30 3 2 – –
Total equity 1,230 1,035 1,131 1,065
On behalf of the Board
Duncan Magrath  Peter Zinkin
Director   Director
24 March 2015
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
92
BALANCE SHEETS
At 31 December 2014 COMMENTARY ON THE GROUP 
BALANCE SHEET
*
Total assets of £5.2bn were  
8% less than last year. Total 
liabilities of £4.0bn decreased  
by 14% primarily due to the 
decrease in the pension  
deficits during the year. 
Background
The Group’s Balance Sheet shows the 
Group’s assets and liabilities as at 31 
December 2014. In accordance with IAS 1 
Presentation of Financial Statements and 
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale 
and Discontinued Operations, the Group 
does not re-present the prior year balance 
sheet for discontinued operations or 
disposals. At December 2014, all assets 
and liabilities relating to the discontinued 
operations are no longer consolidated line 
by line in the Group’s balance sheet but 
shown within assets held for sale or 
liabilities held for sale. This should be 
borne in mind when making year-on-
year comparisons. 
Goodwill
The goodwill on the Group’s balance  
sheet at 31 December 2014 decreased  
to £826m (2013: £1,048m), primarily due 
to the disposal of goodwill relating to 
Parsons Brinckerhoff of £227m. 
Impairment reviews have been carried 
out on all goodwill resulting in £24m 
impairments relating to goodwill in  
respect of Rail Italy. 
Investments in joint ventures and 
associates
Investments in joint ventures and 
associates increased during the year 
primarily due to fair value gains on 
revaluations of their PPP financial assets.
PPP financial assets
The £104m increase in PPP financial 
assets is principally driven by the financial 
close of Thanet OFTO and the reduction  
in gilts rates leading to an increase in fair 
value, partially offset by the reduction 
arising from the disposal of Knowsley BSF. 
Working capital
Net movements in working capital are 
discussed in the statement of cash flows 
commentary on page 95. 
Provisions are discussed in the working 
capital commentary and in detail in 
Note 25.
Borrowings
Borrowings excluding non-recourse 
loans
The Group’s principal committed  
facilities total £760m and extend through 
to 2016. The purpose of these facilities,  
and some other smaller facilities, is to 
provide liquidity from a group of core 
relationship banks to support Balfour 
Beatty in its activities. 
The Group’s borrowings include recourse 
borrowings to the Group arising from its 
Infrastructure Investment projects in North 
America amounting to £19m (2013: £8m). 
Non-recourse loans
In addition, the Group has non-recourse 
facilities in companies engaged in 
infrastructure concessions projects. 
At 31 December 2014, the Group’s share 
of non-recourse net borrowings amounted 
to £1,925m (2013: £1,953m), comprising 
£1,480m (2013: £1,599m) in relation to 
joint ventures and associates as disclosed 
in Note 18.2 and £445m (2013: £354m)  
on the Group balance sheet in relation  
to subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 26.
Retirement benefit liabilities
The Group’s balance sheet includes 
aggregate liabilities ie deficits of £128m 
(2013: £434m) in the Group’s pension 
schemes. The retirement liabilities 
decreased primarily due to actuarial gains 
on pension scheme assets. Refer to Note 
28 for further details. 
Any surplus of deficit contributions  
would be recoverable by way of a 
reduction in future contributions as the 
Group has the ability to use surplus funds  
in the defined benefit section of the 
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF) to pay 
its contributions due under the defined 
benefit and defined contribution sections 
of the BBPF. 
Assets and liabilities held for sale
Refer to Note 12 for an analysis of the 
assets and liabilities held for sale and 
discontinued operations at the year end. 
The Group is continuing negotiations with 
interested parties and does not consider 
the value of the remaining Mainland 
European rail businesses to be impaired  
at the year end. The Group completed  
the sale of Rail Italy on 11 March 2015. 
Refer to Note 37. 
Other
In addition to the liabilities on the  
balance sheet, in the normal course  
of its business, the Group arranges for 
financial institutions to provide customers  
with guarantees in connection with its 
contracting activities, commonly referred  
to as bonds. These bonds provide a 
customer with a level of financial 
protection in the event that a contractor 
fails to meet its commitments under the 
terms of a contract. They are customary  
or mandatory in many of the markets in 
which the Group operates. In return for 
issuing the bonds, the financial institutions 
receive a fee and a counter-indemnity from 
the Company. As at 31 December 2014, 
contract bonds in issue by financial 
institutions under uncommitted facilities 
covered £3.0bn (2013: £2.8bn) of the 
contract commitments of the Group.
Equity commitments
During 2014 the Group invested £53m 
(2013: £48m) in a combination of equity 
and shareholder loans to Infrastructure 
Investments’ project companies and at the 
end of the year had committed to provide  
a further £143m from 2015 onwards, 
inclusive of £34m expected for two 
projects at preferred bidder stage. £56m 
of this is expected to be invested in 2015.
*  The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 14 to 17.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 93 Group Company
Notes
2014
£m
2013
2,3,4,5
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash (used in)/generated from:
– continuing operations – underlying
1
31.1 (192) (135) 289 208
  – non-underlying 31.1 (114) (81) (15) (3)
– discontinued operations 31.1 (46) 54 – –
Income taxes paid (20) (13) – –
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (372) (175) 274 205
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from:
– joint ventures and associates 18.7 56 47 6 6
– discontinued operations – 1 – –
Interest received – infrastructure concessions
6
23 25 6 3
Interest received – other
6
5 3 – –
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 32.1 (3) (14) – –
Purchases of:
– intangible assets – infrastructure concessions
6
16 (28) (20) – –
– intangible assets – other
6
16 (35) (18) – –
– property, plant and equipment – infrastructure concessions
6
17 (23) (11) – –
– property, plant and equipment – other
6
17 (43) (71) – –
– other investments 19 (8) (12) – –
Investments in and long-term loans to joint ventures and associates 18.7 (40) (51) – –
Short-term loans to joint ventures and associates (4) – – –
Loans repaid from joint ventures and associates 18.7 2 2 – –
PPP financial assets cash expenditure 20 (232) (62) – –
PPP financial assets cash receipts 20 37 59 – –
Disposals of:
– investments in joint ventures 18.7/32.3.2 117 103 55 –
– subsidiaries net of cash disposed, separation and transaction costs 32.3.7 735 152 – –
– property, plant and equipment – underlying
1
16 11 – –
– property, plant and equipment – non-underlying – 8 – –
– other investments 19 12 20 – –
Net cash from investing activities 587 172 67 9
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of ordinary shares 30.3 (2) (2) – –
Proceeds from:
– issue of ordinary shares 29.1 1 1 1 1
– convertible bonds 29.3 – 246 – –
– US private placement – 231 – 231
– other new loans – infrastructure concessions
6
31.3 236 110 – –
– other new loans – other
6
31.3 11 – – –
– finance leases 31.3 1 1 – –
Repayments of:
– loans – infrastructure concessions
6
31.3 (7) (12) – (410)
– loans – other
6
31.3 (83) (396) – –
– finance leases 31.3 (3) (2) – –
Ordinary dividends paid 14 (96) (96) (96) (96)
Other dividends paid – non-controlling interest 14 – (1) – –
Interest paid – infrastructure concessions
6
(21) (29) – (22)
Interest paid – other
6
(29) (27) (22) –
Preference dividends paid (11) (11) (11) (11)
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (3) 13 (128) (307)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 31.3 212 10 213 (93)
Effects of exchange rate changes (12) 3 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 526 532 (106) (13)
Net decrease/(increase) in cash within assets held for sale 12 1 (19) – –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 31.2 727 526 107 (106)
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10).
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
4
 Re-presented to show the results of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts as non-underlying items (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
5
 Re-presented to separately identify cash flows from underlying and non-underlying operations and discontinued operations.
6
 Re-presented to separately identify cash flows from infrastructure concessions and other. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
94
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the year ended 31 December 2014 COMMENTARY ON THE GROUP 
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
*
Cash and cash equivalents 
increased by 38% during the  
year to £727m. Cash used in 
operating activities deteriorated 
by 113% to £372m.
Background 
The statement of cash flows shows the 
cash flows from operating, investing and 
financing activities during the year.
Working capital
Working capital includes: inventories  
and non-construction work in progress; 
amounts due to and from construction 
contract customers; operating trade and 
other receivables; operating trade and 
other payables; and operating provisions. 
Where the net working capital balance is 
in an asset position, ie the inventory and 
receivables balances are greater than the 
payables and provisions, this is referred  
to as “unfavourable/positive working 
capital”. Where this is not the case this  
is referred to as “favourable/negative 
working capital”.
Working capital movements
The movement of the individual working 
capital balances on the balance sheet  
will not be reflective of the underlying 
movement of working capital in the year 
because the December 2014 balances 
exclude amounts relating to discontinued 
operations and disposals whereas the  
prior year balances include these balances.
The movement in working capital is also 
distorted by the inclusion of risk provisions 
relating to Construction Services UK. 
These provisions have primarily been 
reflected within the balances for amounts 
due to construction contract customers 
and amounts due from construction 
contract customers. 
Working capital movements are disclosed 
in Note 31.1. 
Inventories and non-construction work 
in progress
During 2014 underlying inventories  
and non-construction work in progress 
increased by £22m for continuing 
operations primarily relating to an increase 
in development land held in the UK.
Amounts due from construction 
contract customers
During 2014 there was a £104m  
increase in underlying amounts due  
from construction contract customers 
from continuing operations primarily  
due to the timing on conversion to trade 
receivables at the balance sheet date in 
respect of Construction Services UK and 
Construction Services US of amounts 
subsequently billed in 2015. 
Operating trade and other receivables
During 2014 there was a £69m increase  
in underlying operating trade and other 
receivables for continuing operations 
primarily due to an increase in business 
experienced in Infrastructure Investments 
North America and the timing of this 
increase in business. 
Amounts due to construction  
contract customers
During 2014 there was a £70m increase  
in underlying amounts due to construction 
contract customers for continuing 
operations primarily due to the lifecycle on 
certain projects in Construction Services 
UK and Construction Services US. 
Operating trade and other payables
During 2014 there was a £135m increase 
in underlying operating trade and other 
payables for continuing operations 
primarily due to the timing of an increase  
in new business in the second half of  
the year. 
Operating provisions
During 2014 there was a £16m increase  
in underlying operating provisions for 
continuing operations primarily related  
to indemnity provisions created for 
significant disposals which occurred 
during the year. 
Cash used in operations
Underlying cash used in continuing 
operations of £192m (2013: £135m 
(re-presented)) was impacted by a loss 
from operations of £58m (2013: £146m 
profit) and a working capital inflow of 
£26m (2013: £121m outflow), after 
adjusting for the following items: share  
of results of joint ventures and associates 
£55m (2013: £71m), depreciation charges 
of £33m (2013: £50m), pension deficit 
payments of £49m (2013: £57m) and  
profit on disposals of investments in 
infrastructure concessions of £93m  
(2013: £82m). 
Non-underlying cash used in continuing 
operations of £114m (2013: £81m 
(re-presented)) was impacted by a loss 
from operations of £223m (2013: £179m) 
and a working capital inflow of £38m 
(2013: £3m), after adjusting for the 
following non-cash items: a £21m (2013: 
£nil) impairment of the Group’s Oracle R12 
asset, a £30m (2013: £nil) impairment  
of assets in Rail Germany, a depreciation 
charge of £10m (2013: £nil) relating to  
Rail Germany and an amortisation charge 
of £11m (2013: £17m). 
Cash used in discontinued operations  
was £46m (2013: £54m (re-presented) 
cash from discontinued operations) was 
impacted by profit from operations of 
238m (2013: £35m) and a working capital 
outflow of £95m (2013: £7m inflow),  
after adjusting for a non-cash movement 
relating to goodwill impairment of  
£24m (2013: £nil (re-presented)), net  
gain on disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff  
of £234m, a depreciation charge of  
£11m (2013: £6m) and an amortisation 
charge of £8m (2013: £15m).
Cash flows from investing activities
The Group received dividends of £56m 
(2013: £47m) from joint ventures and 
associates during the year. 
During the year the Group incurred 
additional spend on intangible assets  
of £63m (2013: £38m) of which £28m 
(2013: £20m) related to the Edinburgh 
student accommodation and £35m  
(2013: £18m) related to software and other 
intangible assets. Of the £66m (2013: 
£82m) property, plant and equipment 
purchased during the year, £49m (2013: 
£71m) related to continuing operations  
and comprised: capitalisation of the cost  
of constructing student accommodation  
in Iowa and Reno in the US of £23m  
(2013: £12m); the purchase of plant  
and equipment £19m (2013: £39m); and 
capitalisation of leasehold improvements 
£7m (2013: £20m). 
The Group disposed of interests in  
two infrastructure concession joint 
ventures during the year for £117m. In 
addition the Group fully disposed of one 
infrastructure concession subsidiary for 
£42m. The Group also received £723m 
from the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff, 
the global infrastructure design and 
consultancy business, being consideration 
of £812m less separation and transaction 
costs paid and cash disposed of £89m.
During the year the Group incurred cash 
expenditure of £232m (2013: £62m) and 
received cash receipts of £37m (2013: 
£59m) relating to PPP financial assets.
Cash flows from financing activities
The Group made further drawdowns  
on its non-recourse borrowings of £236m 
(2013: £110m) mainly to finance the 
construction and transfer of assets within 
its infrastructure portfolio. The Group also 
repaid £83m (2013: £396m) of other loans. 
Ordinary dividends of £96m were declared 
and paid during the year and preference 
dividends of £11m were paid.
Total interest payments amounted to 
£50m (2013: £56m) during the year of 
which £21m (2013: £29m) related to 
infrastructure concessions and £29m 
(2013: £27m) related to recourse 
borrowings drawn down by the Group.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents increased  
from £526m to £727m excluding those 
that are held within assets held for sale.
*  The commentary is unaudited and forms part of the 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 14 to 17.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 95 1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The annual financial statements have  
been prepared on a going concern  
basis as discussed on page 17 and in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union and therefore comply 
with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation 
and with those parts of the Companies  
Act 2006 that are applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. The Group has 
applied all accounting standards and 
interpretations issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB)  
and International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee as adopted 
by the European Union and effective  
for accounting periods beginning on  
1 January 2014. 
The financial statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost 
convention, except as described 
under Note 2.26. The functional and 
presentational currency of the Company 
and the presentational currency of the 
Group is sterling. 
2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
2.1 Accounting standards
Adoption of new and revised 
standards
The following accounting standards, 
interpretations and amendments have 
been adopted by the Group in the  
current period: 
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 
• IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests  
in Other Entities
• IFRIC 21: Levies 
• Amendments to the following 
standards: 
 − IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: 
Investment Entities 
 − IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: 
Transition Guidance
 − IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 
 − IAS 28 Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures
 − IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and 
Continuation of Hedge Accounting.
The above new and amended standards 
do not have a material quantitative effect 
on the Group. As a result of the adoption 
of IFRS 12, the Group has included 
additional disclosures in relation to its joint 
ventures and associates. Refer to Note 18. 
Accounting standards not yet  
adopted by the Group
The following accounting standards, 
interpretations and amendments have 
been issued by the IASB but had either  
not been adopted by the European Union 
or were not yet effective in the European 
Union at 31 December 2014: 
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
• IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts
• IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts  
with Customers
• Amendments to the following 
standards:
 − IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or 
Contribution of Assets between  
an Investor and its Associate or  
Joint Venture
 − IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: 
Investment Entities: Applying the 
Consolidation Exemption
 − IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions 
of Interests in Joint Operations
 − IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative 
 − IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of 
Acceptable Methods of Depreciation 
and Amortisation
 − IAS 16 and IAS 41: Agricultural:  
Bearer Plants
 − IAS 19 Employee Benefits:  
Defined Benefit Plans: Employee 
Contributions
 − IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate 
Financial Statements.
Of these, IFRS 9 is expected to have the 
most significant effect. 
The requirements of IFRS 9 in issue as  
at 31 December 2014 might result in  
the Group’s PPP financial assets being 
reclassified from “available-for-sale”, 
which is a category that would no longer 
exist under the current new standard,  
to a debt instrument measured either at 
amortised cost or at fair value through 
profit or loss. Assuming the Group  
adopts the fair value through profit or  
loss option, movements in the fair value  
of PPP financial assets will no longer  
be recognised in other comprehensive 
income. Retrospective application of  
this requirement would result in the 
closing balance of fair value movements 
recognised in PPP financial asset reserves 
being transferred to retained earnings. The 
effect within the Group’s reserves would 
be a transfer of £101m from PPP financial 
asset reserves to retained earnings. The 
effect within the share of joint ventures’ 
and associates’ reserves would be a 
transfer of £422m from PPP financial  
asset reserves to retained earnings.
The Directors have made initial 
assessments of the impact of IFRS 15  
and do not expect any material quantitative 
impact to the Group. The Group will  
carry out a systematic review of all  
existing major contracts to ensure that  
the impact and effect of the new standard  
is fully understood and changes to the 
current accounting procedures are 
highlighted and acted upon in advance  
of the effective date.
The Group has chosen not to adopt any  
of the above standards and interpretations 
earlier than required. 
2.2 Re-presentation of comparative 
information
Discontinued operations
The Income Statement has been re-
presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff 
and Rail Italy as discontinued operations. 
Rail Germany has been reclassified from 
discontinued operations in 2014 and its 
performance has been included within 
non-underlying items as part of continuing 
operations. The Group has presented  
Rail Germany outside of underlying items  
as it remains committed to exiting its 
Mainland European rail businesses as  
soon as possible and does not consider its 
operations part of the Group’s underlying 
activity. When initially classified as a 
discontinued operation on 28 June 2013 
the German business was being marketed 
to be sold as an entire unit. Subsequently 
it became apparent that this would not  
be possible and disposal of part of the 
business was agreed in November 2014. 
As a result, Rail Germany does not satisfy 
the criteria under IFRS 5 Non-current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations for it to remain as a discontinued 
operation and the prior year comparatives 
have been restated accordingly. 
Refer to Notes 12 and 38.
Engineering Services
The performance of external Engineering 
Services (ES) contracts linked to poor 
legacy management and in regions that  
ES has withdrawn from tendering for 
third-party work has also been included  
in non-underlying items as the size and 
nature of the losses due to the problematic 
delivery of these contracts are exceptional 
and distort the underlying performance  
of the Group. ES has stopped bidding 
external work in London, South East and 
the South West. At 31 December 2014,  
12 of these contracts were still active,  
with the last of these contracts currently 
scheduled to complete in January 2016. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
96
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2 Re-presentation of comparative 
information continued 
Separate disclosure of these contracts 
aids the reader’s understanding of the 
underlying performance of the remainder 
of the Group. Performance on these 
contracts including any claims recovery 
will be presented in non-underlying items 
through to their completion. Prior year 
comparatives have been restated 
accordingly. Refer to Note 38.
Segmental analysis
The Group no longer presents a 
Professional Services segment following 
the sale of Parsons Brinckerhoff on 31 
October 2014 which constituted the vast 
majority of this segment. Refer to Note 5. 
The remaining continuing operations, 
principally comprising the operations of 
Heery Inc. which were previously reported 
in Professional Services, now report into 
Construction Services management and 
consequently have been re-presented 
within the Construction Services segment. 
Prior year comparatives have been 
restated accordingly.
The 2013 segmental analysis has  
also been re-presented to include the  
net non-recourse borrowings directly 
attributable to Infrastructure Investments 
within the Infrastructure Investments 
segment. All other net debt is classified 
within Corporate activities. 
2.3 Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements include  
the results of the Company and its 
subsidiaries, together with the Group’s 
share of the results of joint ventures and 
associates, drawn up to 31 December 
each year.
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the 
Group. The Group controls an entity when 
it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable 
returns from its involvement with the 
entity and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the entity. 
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated 
from the date that control commences 
until the date that control ceases. 
The acquisition method of accounting 
is used to account for the acquisition of 
subsidiaries by the Group. On acquisition, 
the assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at 
their fair values at the date of acquisition. 
Any excess of the fair value of the cost 
of acquisition over the fair values of 
the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency 
of the cost of acquisition below the fair 
values of the identifiable net assets 
acquired (discount on acquisition) is 
credited to the income statement  
in the period of acquisition. 
The interest of non-controlling equity 
holders is stated at the non-controlling 
equity holders’ proportion of the fair value  
of the assets and liabilities recognised. 
When the Group loses control of a 
subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal  
is calculated as the difference between  
(i) the aggregate of the fair value of the 
consideration received and the fair value  
of any retained interest less direct costs  
of the transaction and (ii) the previous 
carrying amount of the assets (including 
goodwill), less liabilities of the subsidiary. 
The fair value of any investment retained  
in the former subsidiary at the date when 
control is lost is regarded as the fair value 
on initial recognition for subsequent 
accounting under IAS 39 Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement or, when applicable, the  
cost on initial recognition of an investment 
in an associate or jointly controlled entity. 
Amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income in relation to the 
subsidiary are accounted for in the same 
manner as would be required if the 
relevant assets or liabilities were disposed 
of (ie reclassified to profit or loss or 
transferred directly to retained earnings).
Any acquisition or disposal which does not 
result in a change in control is accounted 
for as a transaction between equity 
holders. The carrying amounts of the 
controlling and non-controlling interests 
are adjusted to reflect the changes in their 
relative interests in the subsidiary. Any 
difference between the fair value of the 
consideration paid or received and the 
amount by which the non-controlling 
interests are adjusted is recognised 
directly in equity and attributed to the 
owners of the parent.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are 
adjusted where necessary to ensure 
consistency with those used by the Group. 
All intra-Group transactions, balances, 
income and expenses are eliminated  
on consolidation.
b) Joint ventures and associates 
Joint ventures are those entities over 
whose activities the Group has joint 
control, whereby the Group has rights  
to the net assets of the entity, rather  
than rights to its individual assets and 
obligations for its individual liabilities.
Associates are those entities over whose 
financial and operating policies the Group 
has significant influence, but not control  
or joint control. Significant influence is 
presumed to exist when the Group holds 
between 20% and 50% of the voting 
power of another entity. 
The results, assets and liabilities of joint 
ventures and associates are incorporated  
in the financial statements using the 
equity method of accounting except 
when classified as held for sale. The  
Group may elect to measure some of  
its investments in associates at fair value 
through profit or loss in accordance  
with IAS 39 where the investment is  
held by a Group entity which meets  
the classification of a venture capital 
organisation, in which case the investment 
will be marked to market with movements 
being recognised in the income statement. 
The equity return from the military housing 
joint ventures of the Group is contractually 
limited to a maximum level of return, 
beyond which the Group does not share in 
any further return. Therefore the Group’s 
investment in these projects is recognised 
at initial equity investment plus the value 
of the Group’s accrued preferred return 
from the underlying projects. 
Any excess of the fair value of the cost  
of acquisition over the Group’s share  
of the fair values of the identifiable net 
assets of the joint venture or associate 
entity at the date of acquisition is 
recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency  
of the fair value of the cost of acquisition 
below the Group’s share of the fair values 
of the identifiable net assets of the joint 
venture or associate at the date of 
acquisition (discount on acquisition) 
is credited to the income statement 
in the period of acquisition. 
Investments in joint ventures and 
associates are initially carried in the 
balance sheet at cost (including goodwill 
arising on acquisition) and adjusted by 
post-acquisition changes in the Group’s 
share of net assets of the joint venture or 
associate, less any impairment in the value 
of individual investments. Losses of joint 
ventures and associates in excess of the 
Group’s interest in those joint ventures  
and associates are only recognised to the 
extent that the Group is contractually liable 
for, or has a constructive obligation to 
meet, the obligations of the joint ventures 
and associates.
Unrealised gains and losses on 
transactions with joint ventures and 
associates are eliminated to the extent  
of the Group’s interest in the relevant  
joint venture or associate.
c) Joint operations
The Group’s share of the results, assets  
and liabilities of contracts carried out 
in conjunction with another party are 
included under each relevant heading in  
the income statement and balance sheet. 
2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 97 2.4 Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are 
recorded at the rate of exchange at the 
date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rates of 
exchange at the reporting date. Significant 
exchange rates used in the preparation 
of these financial statements are shown 
in Note 3.
For the purpose of presenting 
consolidated financial statements, the 
results of foreign subsidiaries, associates 
and joint venture entities are translated at 
average rates of exchange for the year, 
unless the exchange rates fluctuate 
significantly during that period, in which 
case the exchange rates at the date 
of transactions are used. Assets and 
liabilities are translated at the rates of 
exchange prevailing at the reporting date. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising 
on the acquisition of a foreign entity are 
treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the rates of 
exchange at the reporting date. Currency 
translation differences arising are 
transferred to the Group’s foreign currency 
translation reserve and are recognised in 
the income statement on disposal of the 
underlying investment. 
In order to hedge its exposure to certain 
foreign exchange risks, the Group may 
enter into forward foreign exchange 
contracts. Refer to Note 2.26c for details 
of the Group’s accounting policies in 
respect of such derivative financial 
instruments. 
2.5 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of 
the consideration received or receivable 
for goods and services provided, net of 
trade discounts, value added and similar 
sales based taxes, after eliminating 
revenue within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows:
• revenue from construction and service 
activities represents the value of work 
carried out during the year, including 
amounts not invoiced
• revenue from manufacturing activities 
is recognised when title has passed
• interest income is accrued on a time 
basis using the effective interest 
method by reference to the principal 
outstanding and the effective interest 
rate, which is the rate that exactly 
discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life  
of the financial asset to that asset’s  
net carrying amount
• dividend income is recognised when  
the equity holder’s right to receive 
payment is established. 
2.6 Construction and service contracts
When the outcome of individual contracts 
can be estimated reliably, contract revenue 
and contract costs are recognised as 
revenue and expenses respectively 
by reference to the stage of completion 
at the reporting date. 
Costs are recognised as incurred and 
revenue is recognised on the basis of the 
proportion of total costs at the reporting 
date to the estimated total costs of  
the contract.
No margin is recognised until the outcome 
of the contract can be estimated with 
reasonable certainty. 
Provision is made for all known or 
expected losses on individual contracts 
once such losses are foreseen. 
Revenue in respect of variations to 
contracts and incentive payments is 
recognised when it is probable it will  
be agreed by the customer. Revenue in 
respect of claims is recognised when 
negotiations have reached an advanced 
stage such that it is probable that the 
customer will accept the claim and the 
probable amount can be measured reliably. 
Profit for the year includes the benefit of 
claims settled in the year on contracts 
completed in previous years.
2.7 Segmental reporting
The Group considers its Board of Directors 
to be the chief operating decision maker 
and therefore the segmental disclosures 
provided in Note 5 are aligned with the 
monthly reports provided to the Board of 
Directors. The Group’s reporting segments 
are based on the types of services 
provided. Operating segments with similar 
economic characteristics have been 
aggregated into three reportable segments. 
A description of each reportable segment 
is provided in Note 5. Further information 
on the business activities of each reportable 
segment is set out on pages 18 to 26.
Working capital is the balance sheet 
measure reported to the chief operating 
decision maker. The profitability measure 
used to assess the performance of the 
Group is underlying profit from operations.
Segment results represent the  
contribution of the different segments  
after the allocation of attributable 
corporate overheads. Transactions 
between segments are conducted at 
arm’s length market prices. Segment 
assets and liabilities comprise those 
assets and liabilities directly attributable  
to the segments. Corporate assets and 
liabilities include cash balances, bank 
borrowings, tax balances and dividends 
payable. Non-recourse net borrowings  
are directly attributable to Infrastructure 
Investments and therefore not included 
within Corporate activities. 
Major customers are defined as 
customers contributing more than  
10% of the Group’s external revenue.
2.8 Pre-contract bid costs  
and recoveries
Pre-contract costs are expensed as 
incurred until it is virtually certain that a 
contract will be awarded, from which time 
further pre-contract costs are recognised 
as an asset and charged as an expense 
over the period of the contract. Amounts 
recovered in respect of pre-contract costs 
that have been written off are deferred 
and amortised over the life of the contract.
For construction and services projects,  
the relevant contract is the construction 
or services contract respectively. With 
respect to PPP projects, an assessment  
is made as to which contractual element 
the pre-contract costs relate to, in order  
to determine the relevant period for 
amortisation. The relevant contract is that 
which gives rise to a financial or intangible 
asset, which is either the construction 
contract or the contract which transferred 
the asset to the project.
2.9 Profit from operations
Profit from operations is stated after the 
Group’s share of the post-tax results of 
equity accounted joint venture entities and 
associates, but before investment income 
and finance costs.
2.10 Finance costs 
Finance costs of debt, including premiums 
payable on settlement and direct issue 
costs, are charged to the income 
statement on an accruals basis over the 
term of the instrument, using the effective 
interest method. 
2.11 Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of financial 
performance which the Group believes 
should be separately identified on the face 
of the income statement to assist in 
understanding the underlying financial 
performance achieved by the Group. Such 
items will not affect the absolute amount 
of the results for the period and the trend 
of results. Underlying items are items 
before non-underlying items.
Non-underlying items include: 
• gains and losses on the disposal of 
businesses and investments, unless  
this is part of a programme of releasing 
value from the disposal of similar 
businesses or investments such as 
infrastructure concessions
• costs of restructuring and reorganisation 
of existing businesses
• costs of integrating newly  
acquired businesses
2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
98 2.11 Non-underlying items continued
• acquisition and similar costs related  
to business combinations such as 
transaction costs
• impairment and amortisation charges  
on intangible assets arising on business 
combinations (amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets) 
• impairment of goodwill. 
These are examples, however, from time 
to time it may be appropriate to disclose 
further items as non-underlying items 
in order to highlight the underlying 
performance of the Group. 
The results of Rail Germany and certain 
legacy ES contracts have been included  
as non-underlying in 2014, with prior year 
comparatives re-presented accordingly. 
Refer to Notes 2.2 and 38. 
2.12 Taxation
The tax charge comprises current tax and 
deferred tax, calculated using tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the reporting date. Current tax 
and deferred tax are charged or credited to 
the income statement, except when they 
relate to items charged or credited directly 
to equity, in which case the relevant tax is 
also accounted for within equity. Current 
tax is based on the profit for the year.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using 
the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements. 
Deferred tax on such assets and liabilities is 
not recognised if the temporary difference 
arises from the initial recognition of 
goodwill or from the initial recognition 
(other than in a business combination) of 
other assets and liabilities in a transaction 
that affects neither the taxable profit nor 
the accounting profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised  
to the extent that it is probable that  
future taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised. The carrying amount 
of deferred tax assets is reviewed at  
each reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, 
except where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary difference can be 
controlled by the Group and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
offset when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority and 
the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
2.13 Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of 
subsidiaries and other businesses, joint 
ventures and associates and represents 
the excess of the fair value of 
consideration over the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. 
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries 
and other businesses is included in 
non-current assets. Goodwill on 
acquisitions of joint ventures and 
associates is included in investments 
in joint ventures and associates. 
Goodwill is reviewed annually for 
impairment and is carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill  
is included when determining the profit 
or loss on subsequent disposal of the 
business to which it relates.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the 
date of transition to IFRS (1 January 2004) 
has been retained at the previous UK 
GAAP amounts subject to being tested 
for impairment. Goodwill written off or 
discount arising on acquisition credited to 
reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998  
has not been reinstated and is not included 
in determining any subsequent profit or 
loss on disposal. 
b) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are stated at  
cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses. Amortisation charges 
in respect of software are included in 
underlying items. 
c) Research and development
Internally generated intangible assets 
developed by the Group are recognised 
only if all the following conditions are met:
• an asset is created that can be identified
• it is probable that the asset created will 
generate future economic benefits 
• the development cost of the asset can 
be measured reliably.
Other research expenditure is written off 
in the period in which it is incurred.
2.14 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated 
at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses. Cost includes 
expenditure associated with bringing  
the asset to its operating location  
and condition. 
2.15 Leasing
Leases which transfer substantially all 
of the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee are classified as finance 
leases. All other leases are classified 
as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are 
recognised as assets of the Group at  
their fair value or, if lower, at the present 
value of the minimum lease payments, 
determined at the inception of the lease, 
and depreciation is provided accordingly. 
The liability to the lessor is included in  
the balance sheet as a finance lease 
obligation. Lease payments are 
apportioned between finance charges 
and reduction of the lease obligation so 
as to achieve a constant effective rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of 
the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases 
are charged to income on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Benefits received and receivable as an 
incentive to enter into an operating lease 
are also spread on a straight-line basis  
over the lease term.
2.16 Impairment of assets
Goodwill arising on acquisitions and other 
assets that have an indefinite useful life 
and are not subject to amortisation are 
reviewed at least annually for impairment. 
Other intangible assets and property, 
plant and equipment are reviewed for 
impairment whenever there is any 
indication that the carrying amount 
of the asset may not be recoverable. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset 
is less than its carrying amount, an 
impairment loss is recognised.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use. 
Value in use is assessed by discounting 
the estimated future cash flows that the 
asset is expected to generate. For this 
purpose assets, including goodwill, are 
grouped into cash-generating units 
representing the level at which they are 
monitored by the Board of Directors for 
internal management purposes. Goodwill 
impairment losses are not reversed in 
subsequent periods. Reversals of other 
impairment losses are recognised in 
income when they arise.
2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 99 2.17 Investments
Investments are recognised and 
derecognised on the trade date where a 
purchase or sale of an investment is under 
a contract whose terms require delivery 
of the investment within the timeframe 
established by the market concerned, and 
are initially measured at cost, including 
transaction costs.
Available-for-sale investments are 
measured at fair value. Gains and losses 
arising from changes in the fair value 
of available-for-sale investments are 
recognised in equity, until the investment  
is disposed or is determined to be 
impaired, at which time the cumulative 
gain or loss is included in the net  
profit or loss for the period. Held to 
maturity investments are measured  
at amortised cost.
2.18 Assets held for sale and 
discontinued operations
Non-current assets and groups of assets  
to be disposed of are classified as held 
for sale if their carrying amounts will 
be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use.  
Held for sale assets are measured at  
the lower of their carrying amount on 
classification as held for sale or fair  
value less costs to sell.
A component of the Group is presented  
as a discontinued operation if it has  
either been disposed of or is classified  
as held-for-sale and it is a separate major 
line of business or geographic operation  
or the proposed sale is part of a single 
co-ordinated plan to dispose of a single 
separate major line of business or 
geographical operation. When classified  
as a discontinued operation, income 
statement performance is reported  
in summary form outside continuing 
operations and comparative figures  
are restated.
2.19 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. 
Cost includes an appropriate proportion 
of manufacturing overheads incurred in 
bringing inventories to their present 
location and condition and is determined 
using the first-in first-out method. Net 
realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price less all estimated costs of 
completion and costs to be incurred in 
marketing, selling and distribution.
2.20 Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recorded  
at fair value and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost as reduced by allowances 
for estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
2.21 Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing 
and are stated at cost. 
2.22 Provisions
Provisions for insurance liabilities  
retained in the Group’s captive insurance 
companies, legal claims, defects and 
warranties, environmental restoration, 
onerous leases, and other onerous 
commitments are recognised at the best 
estimate of the expenditure required to 
settle the Group’s liability. 
Provisions are recognised when: the 
Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of a past event; it is 
probable that an outflow of resources  
will be required to settle the obligation; 
and the amount of the obligation can be 
estimated reliably. 
2.23 Borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts 
are recorded at the proceeds received,  
net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, 
including premiums payable on settlement 
or redemption and direct issue costs, are 
charged to income on an accruals basis 
using the effective interest method and 
are added to the carrying amount of  
the instrument. 
2.24 Retirement benefit costs
The Group, through trustees, operates 
a number of defined benefit and defined 
contribution retirement and other  
long-term employee benefit schemes, 
the majority of which are of the defined 
benefit type and are funded. Defined 
benefit contributions are determined  
in consultation with the trustees,  
after taking actuarial advice. 
For defined benefit retirement benefit 
schemes, the cost of providing benefits 
recognised in the income statement 
and the defined benefit obligations 
are determined at the reporting date 
by independent actuaries, using the 
projected unit credit method. The liability 
recognised in the balance sheet comprises 
the present value of the defined benefit 
pension obligation, determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash 
flows using the market yield on a high- 
quality corporate bond, less the fair value 
of the scheme assets. Actuarial gains  
and losses are recognised in the period  
in which they occur in the statement 
of comprehensive income.
Contributions to defined contribution 
pension schemes are charged to the 
income statement as they fall due.
Any surplus of deficit contributions would 
be recoverable by way of a reduction in 
future contributions as the Group has the 
ability to use surplus funds in the defined 
benefit section of the BBPF to pay its 
contributions due under the defined 
benefit and defined contribution sections  
of the BBPF. 
2.25 Share-based payments
Employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of share options, 
performance share plan awards and 
deferred bonus plan awards are charged  
in the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on  
the fair values of the options or awards  
at the date of grant and the numbers 
expected to become exercisable. 
The credits in respect of the amounts 
charged are included within separate 
reserves in equity until such time as the 
options or awards are exercised, when  
the proceeds received in respect of share 
options are credited to share capital and 
share premium or the shares held by  
the employee trust are transferred to 
employees in respect of performance 
share plan awards and deferred bonus 
plan awards. 
2.26 Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities 
are recognised in the Group’s balance 
sheet when the Group becomes a party  
to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument.
a) Classification of financial liabilities 
and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments 
are classified according to the substance 
of the contractual arrangements. An equity 
instrument is any contract that evidences 
a residual interest in the assets of the 
Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the 
Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs. 
b) Cumulative convertible redeemable 
preference shares and convertible 
bonds
The Company’s cumulative convertible 
redeemable preference shares and the 
Group’s convertible bonds are compound 
instruments, comprising a liability 
component and an equity component. 
The fair value of the liability components 
was estimated using the prevailing market 
interest rates at the dates of issue for 
similar non-convertible instruments. The 
difference between the proceeds of issue 
of the preference shares and convertible 
bonds and the fair value assigned to 
the respective liability components, 
representing the embedded option to 
convert the liability components into the 
2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
100 2.26 Financial instruments continued
Company’s ordinary shares, is included  
in equity. 
The interest expense on the liability 
components is calculated by applying 
applicable market interest rates for similar 
non-convertible debt prevailing at the 
dates of issue to the liability components  
of the instruments. 
The difference between this amount  
and the dividend interest paid is added  
to the carrying amount of the liability 
component and is included in finance 
charges, together with the dividend/
interest payable. 
c) Derivative financial instruments 
and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments to manage interest rate risk 
and to hedge exposures to fluctuations in 
foreign currencies and commodity prices 
in accordance with its risk management 
policy. The Group does not use derivative 
financial instruments for speculative 
purposes. A description of the Group’s 
objectives, policies and strategies with 
regard to derivatives and other financial 
instruments is set out in Note 39. 
Derivatives are initially recognised in the 
balance sheet at fair value on the date the 
derivative transaction is entered into and 
are subsequently re-measured at their 
fair values. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives 
that are designated and qualify as fair  
value hedges are recognised in the income 
statement together with any changes in 
the fair value of the hedged item that are 
attributable to the hedged risk. 
Changes in the fair value of the effective 
portion of derivatives that are designated 
and qualify as cash flow hedges are 
recognised in other comprehensive 
income (OCI). Changes in the fair value of 
the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges 
are recognised in the income statement. 
Amounts originally recognised in OCI are 
transferred to the income statement when 
the underlying transaction occurs or, if the 
transaction results in a non-financial asset 
or liability, are included in the initial cost  
of that asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments that do not qualify  
for hedge accounting are recognised  
in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when 
the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated, or exercised, or no longer 
qualifies for hedge accounting. At that 
time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in OCI  
is retained in equity until the hedged 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction 
is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in OCI 
is transferred to the income statement  
for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial 
instruments or other host contracts 
are treated as separate derivatives and 
recorded in the balance sheet at fair value 
when their risks and characteristics are  
not closely related to those of the host 
contract. Changes in the fair value of those 
embedded derivatives recognised in the 
balance sheet are recognised in the 
income statement as they arise.
d) PPP concession companies
Assets constructed by PPP concession 
companies are classified principally as 
available-for-sale financial assets.
In the construction phase, income is 
recognised by applying an attributable 
profit margin to the construction costs 
representing the fair value of construction 
services. In the operational phase, income 
is recognised by allocating a proportion 
of total cash received over the life of 
the project to service costs by means 
of a deemed constant rate of return on 
those costs. The residual element of 
projected cash is allocated to the financial 
asset using the effective interest rate 
method, giving rise to interest income. 
Due to the nature of the contractual 
arrangements the projected cash flows 
can be estimated with a high degree 
of certainty.
In the construction phase the fair value 
of the Group’s PPP financial assets is 
determined by applying an attributable 
profit margin on the construction costs 
representing the fair value of construction 
services performed. In the operational 
phase fair value is determined by 
discounting the future cash flows allocated 
to the financial asset using discount rates 
based on long-term gilt rates adjusted for 
the risk levels associated with the assets, 
with market related movements in fair 
value recognised in OCI and other 
movements recognised in the income 
statement. Amounts originally recognised  
in OCI are transferred to the income 
statement upon disposal of the asset.
2.27 Judgements and key sources 
of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of consolidated financial 
statements under IFRS requires 
management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect 
amounts recognised for assets and 
liabilities at the reporting date and the 
amounts of revenue and expenses 
incurred during the reporting period. 
Actual outcomes may differ from these 
judgements, estimates and assumptions. 
The judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that have the most 
significant effect on the carrying value 
of assets and liabilities of the Group as at 
31 December 2014 are discussed below. 
All of the below are both judgements  
and estimates made by the Group apart 
from the classification of non-underlying 
items which is an item that requires 
judgement only. 
a) Revenue and margin recognition
The Group’s revenue recognition and 
margin recognition policies, which are set 
out in Notes 2.5 and 2.6, are central to 
how the Group values the work it has 
carried out in each financial year. 
These policies require forecasts to be 
made of the outcomes of long-term 
professional services, construction 
services and support services contracts, 
which require assessments and 
judgements to be made on recovery 
of pre-contract costs, changes in the 
scope of work, contract programmes, 
maintenance and defects liabilities and 
changes in costs. 
Following the UK construction business 
contract reviews, the Group has 
reassessed its accounting for construction 
contracts and taken a more prudent 
position in estimating contract completion 
costs. This is a prospective change in 
accounting estimate and has resulted  
in a £51m expense in the current year. 
Given the scale of the UK construction 
business losses incurred in 2014, 
consideration has also been given as to 
whether any of the losses incurred in 2014 
should have been identified and accounted 
for in previous periods in accordance with 
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors. The 
results of the exercise showed that for the 
accounts for the year ended 31 December 
2013, the aggregate impact of any errors 
was not material and accordingly the 2013 
accounts have not been restated (more 
details are contained on page 14).
b) Taxation
The Group is subject to tax in a number  
of jurisdictions and judgement is required 
in determining the worldwide provision  
for income taxes. The Group provides for 
future liabilities in respect of uncertain 
tax positions where additional tax may 
become payable in future periods and such 
provisions are based on management’s 
assessment of exposures.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
provided for in full and deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is 
judged probable that future taxable profit 
will arise against which the temporary 
differences will be utilised. 
2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 101 2.27 Judgements and key sources 
of estimation uncertainty continued 
c) Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of financial 
performance which the Group believes 
should be separately identified on the face 
of the income statement to assist in 
understanding the underlying financial 
performance achieved by the Group. 
Determining whether an item is part of 
underlying items or non-underlying items 
requires judgment. A total non-underlying 
loss after tax of £5m was charged to the 
income statement for the year ended  
31 December 2014. Refer to Note 10. 
d) Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired 
requires an estimation of the value in use 
of the cash-generating units to which the 
goodwill has been allocated. The value in 
use calculation requires an estimate to be 
made of the timing and amount of future 
cash flows expected to arise from the 
cash-generating unit and the application 
of a suitable discount rate in order to 
calculate the present value. A nominal 
growth rate, based on real GDP growth 
plus CPI inflation, is used to calculate a 
terminal growth multiple in accordance 
with the Gordon Growth Model. The 
discount rates used are based on the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted to reflect the specific economic 
environment of the relevant cash-
generating unit. The carrying value 
of goodwill at 31 December 2014 was 
£826m (2013: £1,048m).
e) Available-for-sale financial assets 
At 31 December 2014, £2,918m  
(2013: £2,747m) of PPP financial assets 
constructed by the Group’s subsidiary, 
joint venture and associate companies are 
classified as “available-for-sale financial 
assets”. In the operational phase the fair 
value of these financial assets is measured 
at each reporting date by discounting the 
future value of the cash flows allocated  
to the financial asset. A range of discount 
rates, is used from 4.23% to 7.23%  
(2013: 5.5% to 8.5%), which reflects  
the prevailing risk-free interest rates and 
the different risk profiles of the various 
concessions. Movements in the fair value 
of PPP financial assets attributable to 
non-market related changes in future cash 
flow assumptions are recognised in the 
income statement. At December 2014 this 
has given rise to a fair value gain of £15m 
(2013: £nil) which has been recognised 
within underlying profit from operations. 
A £303m gain was taken to other 
comprehensive income in 2014 (2013: 
£192m loss) and a cumulative fair value 
gain of £683m had arisen on these 
financial assets as a result of movements 
in the fair value of these financial assets 
at 31 December 2014 (2013: £405m gain).
f) Recoverable value of  
recognised receivables
The Group has recognised trade 
receivables with a carrying value of £557m 
(2013: £803m). The recoverability of trade 
receivables is regularly reviewed in the 
light of the available economic information 
specific to each receivable and specific 
provisions are recognised for balances 
considered to be irrecoverable.
g) Provisions
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain 
timing or amount and therefore in making  
a reliable estimate of the quantum and 
timing of liabilities judgement is applied 
and re-evaluated at each reporting date. 
The Group recognised provisions at 
31 December 2014 of £197m 
(2013: £193m).
h) Retirement benefit obligations
Details of the Group’s defined benefit 
pension schemes are set out in Note 28, 
including tables showing the sensitivity 
of the Group pension scheme obligations 
and assets to different actuarial 
assumptions. 
At 31 December 2014, the retirement 
benefit liability recognised on the Group’s 
balance sheet was £128m (2013: £434m). 
The effects of changes in the actuarial 
assumptions underlying the benefit 
obligation, discount rates and the 
differences between expected and actual 
returns on the schemes’ assets are 
classified as actuarial gains and losses. 
During 2014 the Group recognised net 
actuarial gains of £232m in equity  
(2013: £114m loss), including its share  
of the actuarial gains and losses arising  
in joint ventures and associates.
i) Held for sale and discontinued 
operations
When it is highly probable that businesses 
will be sold within one year and they are 
being actively marketed they meet the 
criteria to be classified as held for sale. 
Discontinued operations are businesses  
or a group of businesses which meet the 
criteria to be classified as held for sale, 
have been sold or abandoned and form  
a separate major line of business of the 
Group. Details of the Group’s discontinued 
operations are set out in Note 12.
2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
102 3 EXCHANGE RATES 
The following key exchange rates were applied in these financial statements.
Average rates
£1 buys 2014 2013 Change
US$ 1.65 1.57 5.1%
Euro 1.24 1.18 5.1%
Closing rates
£1 buys 2014 2013 Change
US$ 1.56 1.65 (5.5)%
Euro 1.28 1.20 6.7%
4 REVENUE
Continuing operations
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
2,3
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Revenue from the provision of services
*
7,195 7,452 – –
Revenue from manufacturing activities 22 11 – –
Proceeds from sale of development land 47 25 – 7
Dividends from subsidiaries – – 162 84
Dividends from joint ventures and associates – – 6 6
Total revenue 7,264 7,488 168 97
Investment income (Note 8) 64 63 8 5
Total revenue and investment income 7,328 7,551 176 102
*
 Includes IAS 11 construction contract revenue of £6,195m (2013
2,3
: £6,489m).
2
 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
5 SEGMENT ANALYSIS 
Reportable segments of the Group:
• Construction Services – activities resulting in the physical construction of an asset
• Support Services – activities which support existing assets or functions such as asset maintenance and refurbishment
• Infrastructure Investments – acquisition, operation and disposal of infrastructure assets such as roads, hospitals, schools, student 
accommodation, military housing, offshore transmission networks and other concessions.
Rail Germany has been reclassified from discontinued operations in 2014 and its performance has been included within non-underlying 
items as part of continuing operations. The Group has presented Rail Germany outside of underlying items as it remains committed to 
exiting its Mainland European rail businesses as soon as possible and does not consider its operations part of the Group’s underlying 
activity. When initially classified as a discontinued operation on 28 June 2013 the German business was being marketed to be sold  
as an entire unit. Subsequently it became apparent that this would not be possible and disposal of part of the business was agreed in 
November 2014. As a result, Rail Germany does not satisfy the criteria under IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations for it to remain as a discontinued operation and the prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly. 
The performance of external Engineering Services (ES) contracts linked to poor legacy management and in regions that ES has 
withdrawn from tendering for third-party work has also been included in non-underlying items as the size and nature of the losses due  
to the problematic delivery of these contracts are exceptional and distort the underlying performance of the Group. ES has stopped 
bidding external work in London, South East and the South West. At 31 December 2014, 12 of these contracts were still active, with  
the last of these contracts currently scheduled to complete in January 2016. Separate disclosure of these contracts aids the reader’s 
understanding of the underlying performance of the remainder of the Group. Performance on these contracts including any claims 
recovery will be presented in non-underlying items through to their completion. Prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
The Group no longer presents a Professional Services segment following the sale of Parsons Brinckerhoff on 31 October 2014 which 
constituted the vast majority of this segment. Refer to Note 32.3.5. The remaining continuing operations, principally comprising the 
operations of Heery Inc. which were previously reported in Professional Services, now report into Construction Services management 
and consequently have been re-presented within the Construction Services segment. Heery Inc. provides project management, 
architectural, design or other technical services along with some construction management and risk work. Prior year comparatives  
have been restated accordingly.
The 2013 segmental analysis has also been re-presented to include the net non-recourse borrowings directly attributable to 
Infrastructure Investments within the Infrastructure Investments segment. All other net debt is classified within Corporate activities.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 103 SEGMENT ANALYSIS CONTINUED
5.1 Total Group
Income statement – performance by 
activity from continuing operations
Construction
Services
+
Support
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
+
Corporate
activities Total
Rail
Germany
Certain
legacy ES
contracts Total
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures  
and associates 6,597 1,273 570 – 8,440 291 62 8,793
Share of revenue of joint ventures  
and associates (1,168) (26) (296) – (1,490) (39) – (1,529)
Group revenue 5,429 1,247 274 – 6,950 252 62 7,264
Group operating (loss)/profit
^
(217) 49 81 (26) (113) (22) (88)
Share of results of joint ventures  
and associates 8 1 46 – 55 (1) –
(Loss)/profit from operations
^
 (209) 50 127 (26) (58) (23) (88)
Non-underlying items
–  include results from certain legacy ES 
contracts within Construction Services (88) – – – (88)
–  include results from Rail Germany within 
Construction Services (23) – – – (23)
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets (5) – (6) – (11)
– other non-underlying items (66) (27) (3) (5) (101)
(182) (27) (9) (5) (223)
(Loss)/profit from operations (391) 23 118 (31) (281)
Investment income 64
Finance costs (87)
Loss before taxation (304)
^ 
Presented before non-underlying items for underlying operations (Notes 2.11 and 10).
+ 
£10m of costs relating to the acceleration of the completion of construction works is included within Infrastructure Investments. Refer to page 24. 
Income statement – performance by 
activity from continuing operations
Construction 
Services
Support 
Services
Infrastructure
 Investments 
Corporate
 activities Total
Rail
Germany
Certain
legacy ES
contracts Total
2013
2,3,4,7
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2013
2,3,4
£m
2013
3
£m
2013
4
£m
2013
2,3
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures  
and associates 6,594 1,265 608 11 8,478 298 76 8,852
Share of revenue of joint ventures  
and associates (971) (33) (356) – (1,360) (4) – (1,364)
Group revenue 5,623 1,232 252 11 7,118 294 76 7,488
Group operating (loss)/profit
^
(19) 54 69 (29) 75 (22) –
Share of results of joint ventures  
and associates 37 1 33 – 71 – –
Profit/(loss) from operations
^
 18 55 102 (29) 146 (22) –
Non-underlying items
–  include results from Rail Germany within 
Construction Services (22) – – – (22)
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets (10) – (7) – (17)
– other non-underlying items (89) (15) – (36) (140)
(121) (15) (7) (36) (179)
(Loss)/profit from operations (103) 40 95 (65) (33)
Investment income 63
Finance costs (79)
Loss before taxation (49)
^ 
Presented before non-underlying items for underlying operations (Notes 2.11 and 10).
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
4  
Re-presented to show the results of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts as non-underlying items (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10). 
7
  Re-presented to include Heery Inc. which was previously included in Professional Services.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
104 5 SEGMENT ANALYSIS CONTINUED
5.1 Total Group continued
Assets and liabilities by activity
Construction
Services
Support
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
Corporate
activities Total
2014
+, #
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
Due from construction contract customers 406 156 – – 562
Due to construction contract customers (317) (33) – – (350)
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 82 84 – 4 170
Trade and other receivables – current 807 104 55 – 966
Trade and other payables – current (1,596) (278) (75) (10) (1,959)
Provisions – current (89) (15) – (16) (120)
Working capital from continuing operations* (707) 18 (20) (22) (731)
Classified as net assets held for sale (Note 12) (2) – – – (2)
Adjusted working capital (709) 18 (20) (22) (733)
*
 Includes non-operating items and current working capital.
Total assets 2,419 491 1,530 804 5,244
Total liabilities (2,274) (365) (701) (674) (4,014)
Net assets 145 126 829 130 1,230
+
 Includes net assets held for sale of £13m relating to the Rail disposal group (Note 12). 
#
 Includes Heery Inc. representing net assets of £11m.
Assets and liabilities by activity
Professional
Services
Construction
Services
Support
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
Corporate
activities Total
2013
#
£m
2013
+,#
£m
2013
£m
2013
^
£m
2013
^
£m
2013
£m
Due from construction contract customers 179 316 136 – – 631
Due to construction contract customers (115) (192) (53) – – (360)
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 1 62 71 – 1 135
Trade and other receivables – current 285 703 142 50 10 1,190
Trade and other payables – current (234) (1,445) (283) (58) (26) (2,046)
Provisions – current (4) (58) (10) (2) (26) (100)
Working capital from continuing operations* 112 (614) 3 (10) (41) (550)
Classified as net assets held for sale (Note 12) – (17) – – – (17)
Adjusted working capital 112 (631) 3 (10) (41) (567)
*
 Includes non-operating items and current working capital.
Total assets 776 2,190 486 1,278 982 5,712
Total liabilities (453) (2,102) (458) (613) (1,051) (4,677)
Net assets/(liabilities) 323 88 28 665
 
(69) 1,035
+
 Includes net assets held for sale of £12m relating to the Rail disposal group (Note 12). 
#
 Re-presented to include Heery Inc. within Construction Services, representing negative working capital of £27m and net assets of £11m. 
^
 Re-presented to include the net non-recourse borrowings directly attributable to Infrastructure Investments which were previously included within Corporate activities. 
Other information – continuing operations
Construction
Services
Support
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
Corporate
activities Total
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (Note 17) 15 11 23 – 49
Depreciation (Note 17) 25 15 2 1 43
Gain on disposals of interests in investments (Note 32.3) – – 93 – 93
Other information – continuing operations
Construction
Services
Support
Services
Infrastructure
Investments
Corporate
activities Total
2013
2,3,7
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2013
£m
2013
2,3,7
£m
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (Note 17) 19 11 11 7 48
Depreciation (Note 17) 18 18 2 1 39
Gain on disposals of interests in investments (Note 32.4) – – 82 – 82
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
7
  Includes Heery Inc. which was previously included in Professional Services.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 105 5 SEGMENT ANALYSIS CONTINUED
5.1 Total Group continued
Performance by geographic destination – continuing operations
United 
Kingdom
United
States
Rest of 
world Total
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
2014
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 4,271 3,123 1,399 8,793
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (329) (180) (1,020) (1,529)
Group revenue 3,942 2,943 379 7,264
Non-current assets excluding financial assets and deferred tax assets 1,135 709 128 1,972
Performance by geographic destination – continuing operations
United 
Kingdom
United
States
Rest of
world Total
2013
£m
2013
2
£m
2013
2,3
£m
2013
2,3
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 4,452 3,174 1,226 8,852
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (436) (167) (761) (1,364)
Group revenue 4,016 3,007 465 7,488
Non-current assets excluding financial assets and deferred tax assets 1,057 854 215 2,126
Classified as assets held for sale (Note 12) – – 52 52
Adjusted non-current assets excluding financial assets and deferred tax assets 1,057 854 267 2,178
2
 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
Major customers
Included in Group revenue are revenues from continuing operations of £1,201m (2013
2,3
: £1,357m) from the US Government and 
£1,597m (2013
2,3
: £1,760m) from the UK Government, which are the Group’s two largest customers. These revenues are included  
in the results across all three reported segments.
5.2 Infrastructure Investments
Underlying profit from operations
1
Group
2014
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 18.2)
+
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 18.2)
+
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
UK
^
2 40 42 2 27 29
North America 15 6 21 21 6 27
Infrastructure Fund – – – (2) – (2)
Infrastructure (2) – (2) (3) – (3)
Gain on disposals of interests in investments 93 – 93 82 – 82
108 46 154 100 33 133
Bidding costs and overheads (27) – (27) (31) – (31)
81 46 127 69 33 102
Net assets/(liabilities)
UK
^
475 522 997 391 433 824
North America 158 92 250 106 83 189
Infrastructure Fund (2) 20 18 – 11 11
Infrastructure 14 – 14 (3) – (3)
645 634 1,279 494 527 1,021
Infrastructure Investments central functions (5) – (5) (2) – (2)
Non-recourse borrowings net of associated cash and cash 
equivalents (Note 26) (445) – (445) (354) – (354)
Total Infrastructure Investments net assets 195 634 829 138 527 665
+
 The Group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates is disclosed net of investment income, finance costs and taxation.
^
 Including Singapore and Australia.
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10).
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
106 6 PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM OPERATIONS 
6.1 Profit/(loss) from continuing operations is stated after charging/(crediting)
2014
£m
2013
2,3
£m
Research and development costs 3 3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 43 39
Amortisation of intangible assets 17 20
Net charge of trade receivables impairment provision 5 4
Impairment/(impairment reversal) of property, plant and equipment 1 (3)
Impairment of inventory 1 3
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (7) (3)
Cost of inventory recognised as an expense 168 180
Exchange gains and losses – (2)
Auditor’s remuneration 5 5
Short-term hire charges for plant and equipment 117 125
Other operating lease rentals 64 61
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
6.2 Analysis of auditor’s remuneration – continuing and discontinued operations
2014
£m
2013
£m
Services as auditor to the Company 0.9 0.8
Services as auditor to Group subsidiaries 3.8 3.7
Total audit fees 4.7 4.5
Audit related assurance fees 1.6 0.5
Taxation compliance fees – 0.2
Taxation advisory fees – 0.1
Corporate finance fees 1.0 1.4
Other assurance fees 1.0 0.1
Other services 0.1 0.1
Total non-audit fees 3.7 2.4
Total fees in relation to audit and other services 8.4 6.9
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 107 7 EMPLOYEE COSTS 
7.1 Group – continuing and discontinued operations
Employee costs during the year 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Wages and salaries 1,896 2,299
Underlying redundancy costs 8 14
Non-underlying redundancy costs (Note 10) 14 32
Social security costs 176 225
Pension costs (Note 28) 77 147
Share-based payments (Note 33) 5 6
 2,176 2,723
Of the above employee costs, £1,421m (2013
2,3
: £1,535m) relates to continuing operations.
Average number of Group employees
2014
Number
2013
2,3
Number
Construction Services
7
15,833 16,531
Support Services 8,936 8,129
Infrastructure Investments 1,512 1,554
Corporate 149 154
Continuing operations 26,430 26,368
Discontinued operations 13,321 23,417
 39,751 49,785
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
7
  Includes Heery Inc. which was previously included in Professional Services. 
At 31 December 2014 the total number of Group employees was 25,818 (2013: 41,221) of which 25,693 (2013
2,3
: 26,719) relate to 
continuing operations and 125 (2013
2,3
: 14,502) relate to discontinued operations.
7.2 Company
On 1 February 2013, employees of the Company were transferred to Balfour Beatty Group Employment Ltd which has been established 
as the employing entity for the Balfour Beatty Group’s UK businesses. The Company did not have any employees and did not incur any 
employee costs in 2014. The average number of employees of Balfour Beatty plc in 2013 was 14. Total employee costs of Balfour 
Beatty plc in 2013 were £2m. Total employee costs in 2013 comprise: wages and salaries £2m; social security costs £nil; pension costs 
£nil; and share-based payments £nil.
8 INVESTMENT INCOME
Continuing operations
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
2,3
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Subordinated debt interest receivable 29 25 1 1
Interest receivable on PPP financial assets 26 33 – –
Interest receivable from subsidiaries – – 2 3
Other interest receivable and similar income 9 5 5 1
64 63 8 5
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
9 FINANCE COSTS
Continuing operations
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
2,3
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Non-recourse borrowings – bank loans and overdrafts 20 28 – –
Preference shares – finance cost 11 10 11 10
 – accretion 2 2 2 2
Convertible bonds – finance cost 5 1 – –
 – accretion 6 – – –
US private placement – finance cost 10 9 10 9
Other interest payable – loans under committed facilities 6 9 6 9
 – other bank loans and overdrafts – 3 1 1
 – commitment fees 5 4 5 4
 – other finance charges 6 4 – –
Net finance cost on pension scheme assets and liabilities (Note 28.1.2) 16 9 – –
Interest payable to subsidiaries – – 14 7
87 79 49 42
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
108 10 NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
2,3,4
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Items (charged against)/credited to profit 
10.1 Continuing operations 
10.1.1  Trading results from Rail Germany (including £15m (2013: £4m) of other net 
operating expenses and £1m (2013: £1m) of finance cost) (23) (23) – –
10.1.2 Results of certain legacy ES contracts (88) – – –
10.1.3 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (11) (17) – –
10.1.4 Other non-underlying items:
 – restructuring and reorganisation costs relating to continuing businesses (23) (37) – (3)
 – cost of implementing the shared service centre in the UK (14) (7) – –
 – impairment of assets within Rail Germany (30) – – –
 – goodwill impairment in respect of Rail Germany – (38) – –
 – Rail Germany regulatory matters (6) (2) – –
 – cost incurred in relation to the aborted merger discussions with Carillion plc (7) – (7) –
 – impairment of Oracle R12 intangible asset (21) – – –
 – pension fund settlement gain 2 – – –
 – pension curtailment charges and related costs – (52) – –
 – post-acquisition integration, reorganisation and other costs – (3) – –
 – cost associated with the liquidation of Blackpool Airport (1) – – –
 – loss on disposal of Stassfurt Signalling Workshop – (1) – –
 – cost incurred on disposal of businesses – – (10) –
 – release of provision against partial loan repayments from subsidiary – – 2 –
Total other non-underlying items from continuing operations (100) (140) (15) (3)
(222) (180) (15) (3)
10.1.5  Share of results of joint ventures and associates – goodwill impairment  
in respect of Middle East (1) – – –
10.1.6  Share of results of joint ventures and associates – trading results  
of Rail Germany (1) – – –
Charged against profit before taxation from continuing operations (224) (180) (15) (3)
10.1.7 Tax on items above 1 24 – (3)
Non-underlying items charged against profit for the year from  
continuing operations (223) (156) (15) (6)
10.2 Discontinued operations
10.2.1 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (8) (15) – –
10.2.2 Other non-underlying items:
 – gain on disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff 234 – – –
 – goodwill impairment in respect of Rail Italy (24) – – –
 – impairment of assets within Rail Italy (2) – – –
 – UK facilities management business disposal gain – 16 – –
 – restructuring charges in respect of discontinued businesses (1) (21) – –
 – net loss on disposal of Rail Spain – (4) – –
 – cost of implementing the shared service centre in the US – (10) – –
 – pension curtailment charges – (2) – –
 – post-acquisition integration, reorganisation and other costs – (1) – –
Total other non-underlying items from discontinued operations 207 (22) – –
Credited to/(charged against) profit before taxation from discontinued operations 199 (37) – –
10.2.3 Tax on items above 19 11 – –
Non-underlying items credited to/(charged against) profit for the year from 
discontinued operations 218 (26) – –
Charged against profit for the year (5) (182) (15) (6)
2
  Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, and 2.11).
4
 Re-presented to show the results of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts as non-underlying items (Notes 2.2, and 2.11). 
Continuing operations
10.1.1 Rail Germany has been reclassified from discontinued operations in the year and its results are now being presented as part of the 
Group’s non-underlying items within continuing operations. This is because Rail Germany no longer meets the definition of discontinued 
operations at 31 December 2014 under IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, however the Group 
remains committed to exiting the business. In 2014, Rail Germany generated a loss before tax excluding share of joint ventures and 
associates of £23m (2013: £23m). 
10.1.2 The Group has presented the results of certain external legacy Engineering Services (ES) contracts as non-underlying in the year. 
This is because the performance of these ES contracts is linked to poor legacy management and in regions where ES has withdrawn 
from tendering for third-party work due to the problematic delivery of these contracts and the size and nature of the losses are exceptional 
to the extent that they distort the underlying performance of the Group. These contracts resulted in a loss before tax for the Group of 
£88m in 2014 (2013: £nil). No tax credit has been recognised on this loss. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 109 10 NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS CONTINUED
Continuing operations continued
10.1.3 The amortisation of acquired intangible assets from continuing operations comprises: customer contracts £6m (2013: £9m); 
customer relationships £4m (2013: £6m); and brand names £1m (2013: £2m).
10.1.4.1 The Group continued to implement its plan to restructure a number of its businesses in order to increase its focus on the needs 
of customers and upon growth sectors, further integrate its service offerings to these customers, and realise operational efficiencies.  
In 2014 restructuring costs of £23m were incurred (2013: £37m) relating to: Construction Services UK £11m (2013: £14m), where six 
business units have been streamlined and restructured into one business with three business streams; Support Services UK £nil  
(2013: £5m); other UK entities £3m (2013: £7m); and other non-UK entities £9m (2013: £11m). 
The 2014 restructuring costs comprise: redundancy costs £13m (2013: £16m); external advisers £5m (2013: £7m); reversal of 
impairment of land and buildings £nil (2013 £(3)m); gain on sale of property £nil (2013: £(3)m); other property related costs £1m  
(2013: £4m); pension curtailment cost £nil (2013: £1m); and other restructuring costs £4m (2013: £15m).
The Company incurred restructuring costs of £nil (2013: £3m) during the year.
10.1.4.2 In 2014, transitioning other operating companies to the UK shared service centre in Newcastle-upon-Tyne and increasing the 
scope led to incremental costs of £14m (2013: £7m). 
10.1.4.3 An assessment of the carrying value of assets within Rail Germany was carried out in the year, which resulted in an impairment 
of £30m (2013: £nil). The impairment charge was recognised on the parts of Rail Germany which were sold to Rhomberg Sersa Rail 
Group in January 2015. Refer to Note 37. These assets have been included in assets held for sale at 31 December 2014. No impairment 
charge was recognised on the remaining parts of Rail Germany. 
10.1.4.4 In 2013, a goodwill impairment charge of £38m was recognised in respect of Rail Germany.
10.1.4.5 During 2014, Rail Germany booked costs of £6m (2013: £2m) in relation to allegations of historical anti-competitive behaviour 
occurring in Schreck-Mieves GmbH, a company acquired by Balfour Beatty in 2008.
10.1.4.6 In 2014, costs of £7m (2013: £nil) were incurred in relation to the aborted merger discussions with Carillion plc. 
10.1.4.7 In 2014, an impairment charge of £21m (2013: £nil) was recorded to write down the cost capitalised in relation to the Oracle R12 
software within intangible assets. Refer to Note 16.
10.1.4.8 A settlement gain of £2m (2013: £nil) was recognised in relation to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund following a commutation 
exercise performed in 2014. Refer to Note 28.
10.1.4.9 On 31 August 2013 the majority of members of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund ceased to accrue future defined benefits  
and became deferred members resulting in a curtailment charge of £51m with associated costs of £1m being incurred in 2013. 
10.1.4.10 Post-acquisition reorganisation costs of £3m were incurred in 2013 relating to Howard S. Wright. 
10.1.4.11 Blackpool Airport Ltd went into creditors’ voluntary liquidation on 16 October 2014 which resulted in costs of £1m (2013: £nil). 
10.1.4.12 On 1 August 2013, as the initial step in disposing of Rail Germany, the Group disposed of the Stassfurt Signalling Workshop  
to its local management for €1 resulting in a loss of £1m. Refer to Note 32.4.6.
10.1.4.13 In 2014, the Company incurred costs of £10m (2013: £nil) relating to the Parsons Brinckerhoff disposal. These costs were 
included as part of the gain on disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff at Group level. Refer to Note 10.2.2.1.
10.1.4.14 In 2014, the Company released £2m (2013: £nil) of provisions which were created against loans due from its subsidiary 
following a partial loan repayment. 
10.1.5 In 2014, a goodwill impairment charge of £1m (2013: £nil) was recognised in relation to one of the Group’s investments in a joint 
venture in the Middle East.
10.1.6 In 2014, joint ventures and associates within Rail Germany generated a loss of £1m for the Group (2013: £nil). 
10.1.7 The non-underlying items charged against Group operating profit from continuing operations gave rise to a tax credit of £1m 
comprising: £4m charge on the results of Rail Germany and £nil on certain legacy Engineering Services contracts; £4m credit on 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets; and £1m credit on other non-underlying items (2013: £24m credit comprising: £2m charge on 
the results of Rail Germany; £5m credit on amortisation of acquired intangible assets; and £21m credit on other non-underlying items).
The non-underlying items charged against Company operating profit gave rise to a tax charge of £nil (2013: £3m).
Discontinued operations
10.2.1 The amortisation of acquired intangible assets from discontinued operations comprises: customer contracts £1m (2013: £2m); 
customer relationships £2m (2013: £6m); and brand names £5m (2013: £7m). 
10.2.2.1 On 31 October 2014, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Parsons Brinckerhoff, resulting in a gain on disposal of £234m. 
Refer to Note 32.3.5. Included within the gain on disposal are costs of £2m in relation to the impairment of software intangible assets. 
Refer to Note 16.
10.2.2.2 Rail Italy met the criteria to be classified as held for sale at 27 June 2014. Rail Italy is carried at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value which resulted in a goodwill impairment of £24m in 2014, of which £4m arose after its transfer to assets held for sale. 
Refer to Note 15.
10.2.2.3 In 2014, an assessment of the carrying value of assets within Rail Italy was carried out in the year which resulted in an 
impairment of £2m (2013: £nil). 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
110 10 NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS CONTINUED 
Discontinued operations continued
10.2.2.4 On 13 December 2013 the Group disposed of the UK facilities management business, Balfour Beatty WorkPlace (BBW), 
resulting in a net estimated gain of £16m being recognised in 2013. Refer to Note 32.4.10. In 2014, the Group finalised the cash 
consideration due on this disposal, which resulted in a non-underlying gain on disposal of £6m. This was fully offset by an impairment 
charge for an intangible asset of £6m (refer to Note 16). The net non-underlying gain on disposal recognised in 2014 was therefore £nil. 
Refer to Note 32.3.6.
10.2.2.5 Restructuring costs of £1m (2013: £21m) were incurred in respect of discontinued businesses relating to: Rail Italy £1m  
(2013: £nil); Parsons Brinckerhoff Australia £nil (2013: £20m); and other Parsons Brinckerhoff entities £nil (2013: £1m). 
The 2014 restructuring costs comprise: redundancy costs £1m (2013: £13m); and onerous leases of £nil (2013: £8m).
10.2.2.6 On 1 March 2013 the Group disposed of Rail Spain for a net loss of £4m. Refer to Note 32.4.1.
10.2.2.7 In 2013, the implementation of Parsons Brinckerhoff’s shared service centre in Lancaster, Pennsylvania with the transfer  
of roles from New York led to costs of £10m. 
10.2.2.8 On 31 August 2013 the majority of members of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund ceased to accrue future defined benefits and 
became deferred members resulting in a curtailment charge of £2m being incurred in relation to Balfour Beatty WorkPlace employees. 
10.2.2.9 Post-acquisition reorganisation costs of £1m were incurred in 2013 relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
10.2.3 The non-underlying items charged against profit from discontinued operations gave rise to a tax credit of £19m comprising: £2m 
on amortisation of acquired intangible assets; and £17m on other non-underlying items (2013: £11m comprising: £4m on amortisation  
of acquired intangible assets; and £7m on other non-underlying items).
11 TAXATION
11.1 Taxation charge
Group
Continuing operations
x
Underlying
items
1 
2014 
£m 
Non-
underlying 
items
(Note 10)
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Total
2013
2,3
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Total UK tax (16) 1 (15) (9) (12) (1)
Total non-UK tax 14 (2) 12 13 – –
Total tax (credit)/charge (2) (1) (3) 4 (12) (1)
Continuing operations
x
UK current tax
– corporation tax for the year at 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 1 – 1 2 (9) (3)
– adjustments in respect of previous periods (14) – (14) (11) (2) 1
(13) – (13) (9) (11) (2)
Non-UK current tax
– non-UK tax on profits for the year 20 (14) 6 (5) – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods (19) (1) (20) (3) – –
1 (15) (14) (8) – –
Total current tax (12) (15) (27) (17) (11) (2)
UK deferred tax
– current year (credit)/charge (8) 1 (7) (16) (1) 1
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 3 – 3 10 – –
– UK corporation tax rate change 2 – 2 6 – –
(3) 1 (2) – (1) 1
Non-UK deferred tax
– current year (credit)/charge (3) 12 9 19 – –
– adjustments in respect of previous periods 16 1 17 2 – –
13 13 26 21 – –
Total deferred tax 10 14 24 21 (1) (1)
Total tax (credit)/charge from continuing operations (2) (1) (3) 4 (12) (1)
x
 Excluding joint ventures and associates.
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10).
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
The Group tax charge excludes amounts for joint ventures and associates (refer to Note 18.2), except where tax is levied at the 
Group level. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 111 11 TAXATION CONTINUED
11.1 Taxation charge continued
In addition to the Group tax credit, tax of £77m is charged (2013: £37m credited) directly to other comprehensive income, comprising:  
a deferred tax charge of £54m (2013: £9m credit); and a deferred tax charge in respect of joint ventures and associates of £23m  
(2013: £28m credit). Refer to Note 30.1.
In addition to the Company tax credit, £nil deferred tax is charged directly to other comprehensive income (2013: £2m).
11.2 Taxation reconciliation
Continuing operations
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
2,3
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
(Loss)/profit before taxation (304) (49) 144 38
Less: share of results of joint ventures and associates (53) (71) – –
(Loss)/profit before taxation (357) (120) 144 38
Add: non-underlying items charged excluding share of joint ventures and associates 222 180 15 3
Underlying (loss)/profit before taxation and the results of joint ventures and associates
1
(135) 60 159 41
Tax on (loss)/profit before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) (29) 14 34 9
Effects of
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1 (1) – 3
Dividend income not taxable – – (36) (21)
Non-taxable disposals (21) (20) (10) –
Tax levied at Group level on share of joint ventures’ and associates’ profits 7 7 – –
Preference share dividends not deductible 2 3 2 3
Deferred tax assets not recognised 47 19 – –
Recognition of losses not previously recognised (1) – – –
Higher tax rates on non-UK earnings 4 3 – –
UK corporation tax rate change 2 6 – –
Adjustments in respect of previous periods (14) (3) (2) 2
Total tax (credit)/charge on underlying (loss)/profit (2) 28 (12) (4)
Less: tax (credit)/charge on non-underlying items (1) (24) – 3
Total tax (credit)/charge on (loss)/profit from continuing operations (3) 4 (12) (1)
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10).
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
4
  Re-presented to show the results of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts as non-underlying items (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
12 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Rail disposal group
Following a strategic review in light of low activity levels and the commoditisation of work, the Group decided to divest all of its Mainland 
European rail businesses over time. The Group has been actively marketing its Mainland European rail businesses and accordingly, when 
it is probable that these businesses will be sold within a year and meet the criteria to be classified as an asset held for sale, or are sold or 
abandoned, they will form part of the Rail disposal group and be disclosed as discontinued operations.
To be classified as a discontinued operation, the businesses must represent a separate major line of business. Other than the Mainland 
European rail businesses there are no significant Group operations in Mainland Europe and therefore by exiting these businesses, the 
Group is exiting from a separate major geographical operation and meets the criteria to classify these businesses as discontinued 
operations.
On 1 March 2013, the Group disposed of its interest in Rail Iberica SA (Rail Spain) to its local management for a cash consideration  
of €1 resulting in a net £4m loss on disposal. Refer to Note 32.4.1.
On 28 June 2013, it was probable that Rail Germany and Rail Scandinavia would be disposed within a year and therefore met the  
criteria to be classified as an asset held for sale, with a £38m goodwill impairment in respect of Rail Germany recognised as a  
non-underlying item. 
On 1 August 2013, as the initial step in disposing of Rail Germany, the Group disposed of the Stassfurt Signalling Workshop to its local 
management for €1 resulting in a net loss of £1m and closed its Switches and Crossings manufacturing facility during the year. Refer  
to Note 32.4.6.
On 8 January 2014, the Group disposed of its Rail business in Scandinavia for a cash consideration of £2m. The disposal resulted in  
a £nil gain being recognised as a non-underlying item, comprising a £nil gain/loss in respect of the fair value of net assets disposed, 
including cash disposed of £9m, a £1m gain on recycling currency translation reserves to the income statement, and costs incurred  
and indemnity provisions of £1m. Refer to Note 32.3.1.
On 27 June 2014, following progression of talks with potential purchasers, it became highly probable that Rail Italy would be disposed 
within a year and met the criteria to be classified as an asset held for sale. Accordingly a £24m goodwill impairment charge was 
recognised in the year as a non-underlying item. Refer to Note 10.2.2.2. On 11 March 2015, the Group completed the sale of Rail Italy  
for a net consideration of £3m. Refer to Note 37.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
112 12 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS CONTINUED
Rail disposal group continued
Rail Germany has been reclassified from discontinued operations in 2014 and its performance has been included within non-underlying 
items as part of continuing operations. The Group has presented Rail Germany outside of underlying items as it remains committed to 
exiting its Mainland European rail businesses as soon as possible and does not consider its operations part of the Group’s underlying 
activity. When initially classified as a discontinued operation on 28 June 2013 the German business was being marketed to be sold  
as an entire unit. Subsequently it became apparent that this would not be possible and disposal of part of the business was agreed in 
November 2014. As a result, Rail Germany does not satisfy the criteria under IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations for it to remain as a discontinued operation and the prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly. 
At 31 December 2014, Rail Italy constitutes the Rail disposal group within discontinued operations. In 2013, discontinued operations 
included Rail Scandinavia and Rail Spain. 
The Rail disposal group was part of the Construction Services segment.
UK facilities management disposal group
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace (BBW) was the Group’s only significant buildings facilities management business in the UK and represented  
a separate major line of business. The Group disposed of BBW to GDF Suez Energy Services on 13 December 2013. 
During the year the Group finalised the cash consideration due on the disposal of BBW, giving rise to additional consideration for the 
Group of £1m. At the same time, an agreement was reached to discharge the Group’s obligation for which a provision of £14m had  
been made in return for a payment by the Group of £9m. This resulted in a non-underlying gain on disposal of £6m, which was fully 
offset with an impairment charge on an intangible asset of £6m (refer to Note 16). The net non-underlying gain on disposal recognised  
in the year was therefore £nil (2013: £16m gain). Costs of £6m which were incurred in 2013 were paid in 2014. Refer to Note 32.3.6. 
BBW was part of the Support Services segment.
Parsons Brinckerhoff
On 28 October 2014, shareholder approval was granted for the disposal of the Group’s 100% interest in Parsons Brinckerhoff. The deal 
subsequently completed on 31 October 2014 for an agreed cash consideration of £812m with the proceeds being received on that day. 
The disposal resulted in a net non-underlying gain of £234m being recognised within discontinued operations after incurring separation 
costs of £24m and transaction costs of £45m. The net gain comprises a gain of £314m before disposal costs in respect of the fair value 
of net assets disposed and a £11m loss in respect of reserves recycled to the income statement. This disposal includes cash disposed  
of £42m. Refer to Note 32.3.5. 
Parsons Brinckerhoff represented the majority of the Group’s Professional Services segment. As a result of its disposal, the Group no 
longer presents this segment. The remaining continuing operations that were presented within Professional Services now report into 
Construction Services management and consequently are now presented in the Construction Services segment. Refer to Note 5. 
Results of the discontinued operations included within the Group Income Statement 
 
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
2014 
£m
Rail
 disposal 
group 
2014 
£m
Total 
discontinued 
operations
2014
£m
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
2013
2
£m
Rail 
disposal 
group
2013
2,3
£m
UK facilities
management
disposal 
group 
2013 
£m
Total 
discontinued
 operations
2013
2,3
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures 
and associates 1,266 23 1,289 1,536 134 470 2,140
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (13) – (13) (13) – (45) (58)
Group revenue 1,253 23 1,276 1,523 134 425 2,082
Underlying group operating profit/(loss) 38 1 39 55 (2) 19 72
Share of results of joint ventures and associates – – – – – – –
Underlying profit/(loss) from operations 38 1 39 55 (2) 19 72
Net finance costs – – – (1) (1) (1) (3)
Underlying profit/(loss) before tax 38 1 39 54 (3) 18 69
Taxation on underlying profit/(loss) (14) (1) (15) (21) (2) (2) (25)
Underlying profit/(loss) after tax 24 – 24 33 (5) 16 44
Non-underlying items:
– amortisation of acquired intangible assets (8) – (8) (13) – (2) (15)
– gain/(loss) on disposal 234 – 234 – (4) 16 12
– other non-underlying items – (27) (27) (32) – (2) (34)
226 (27) 199 (45) (4) 12 (37)
Taxation on non-underlying items 13 6 19 10 – 1 11
Non-underlying profit/(loss) after tax 239 (21) 218 (35) (4) 13 (26)
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
discontinued operations 263 (21) 242 (2) (9) 29 18
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 113 12 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS CONTINUED
Major classes of assets and liabilities included within net assets held for sale
Rail disposal 
group
2014
£m
Rail disposal 
group
2013
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – other – 2
Property, plant and equipment – 42
Investments in joint ventures and associates – 8
Deferred tax asset 1 –
1 52
Current assets
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 2 13
Due from construction contract customers 14 73
Trade and other receivables 24 74
Current tax asset 1 –
Cash 18 19
59 179
Total assets classified as held for sale 60 231
Current liabilities
Due to construction contract customers (1) (47)
Trade and other payables (39) (120)
Provisions (2) (10)
Borrowings (3) –
Current tax liabilities – (3)
(45) (180)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables – (4)
Provisions – (3)
Retirement benefit liabilities (2) (30)
Deferred tax liabilities – (2)
(2) (39)
Total liabilities classified as held for sale (47) (219)
Net assets of disposal group 13 12
Reconciliation of net assets classified as held for sale 
Rail
disposal
group 
2014
£m
At 1 January 2014 12
Rail Germany reclassified from net assets held for sale into 
continuing operations
+
 (7)
Rail Italy reclassified into net assets held for sale 8
At 31 December 2014 13
+
 Includes impairments of assets of £30m. Refer to Note 10.1.4.3.
Included within the Group’s cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2014 are: net £1m operating cash outflows (2013: £10m);  
net £9m investing cash outflows (2013: £10m); and net £nil financing cash outflows (2013: £1m) relating to the Rail disposal group.
Included within the Group’s cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2014 are: net £43m operating cash outflows; net £703m 
investing cash inflows; and net £1m financing cash outflows relating to Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
Included within the Group’s cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2014 are: net £nil operating cash inflows (2013: £7m; and  
net £14m investing cash outflows (2013: £139m inflows) relating to the UK facilities management disposal group.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
114 13 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Earnings
Basic
2014 
£m
Diluted
2014 
£m
Basic
2013
2,3,4
£m
Diluted
2013
2,3,4
£m
Continuing operations
Loss (302) (302) (53) (53)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £4m (2013
2,3,4
: £5m) 7 7 12 12
Other non-underlying items – net of tax charge of £3m (2013
2,3,4
: credit £19m) 216 216 144 144
Underlying (loss)/earnings (79) (79) 103 103
Discontinued operations
Earnings 242 242 18 18
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £2m (2013
2,3
: £4m) 6 6 11 11
Other non-underlying items – net of tax of credit of £17m (2013
2,3
: £7m) (224) (224) 15 15
Underlying earnings 24 24 44 44
Total operations
Loss (60) (60) (35) (35)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – net of tax credit of £6m (2013
2,3,4
: £9m) 13 13 23 23
Other non-underlying items – net of tax credit of £14m (2013
2,3,4
: £26m) (8) (8) 159 159
Underlying (loss)/earnings (55) (55) 147 147
Basic
2014 
m
Diluted
2014 
m
Basic
2 01 3  
m
Diluted
2013
m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 686 686 685 686
Earnings per share
Basic
2014 
Pence
Diluted
2014
Pence
Basic
2013
2,3,4
Pence
Diluted
2013
2,3,4
Pence
Continuing operations
Loss per ordinary share (43.9) (43.9) (7.5) (7.5)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 1.1 1.1 1.8 1.8
Other non-underlying items 31.3 31.3 21.0 21.0
Underlying (loss)/earnings per ordinary share (11.5) (11.5) 15.3 15.3
Discontinued operations
Earnings per ordinary share 35.3 35.3 2.4 2.4
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.8 0.8 1.6 1.6
Other non-underlying items (32.6) (32.6) 2.2 2.2
Underlying earnings per ordinary share 3.5 3.5 6.2 6.2
Total operations
Loss per ordinary share (8.6) (8.6) (5.1) (5.1)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 1.9 1.9 3.4 3.4
Other non-underlying items (1.3) (1.3) 23.2 23.2
Underlying (loss)/earnings per ordinary share (8.0) (8.0) 21.5 21.5
2
 Re-presented to include Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
   Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
4
  Re-presented to show the results of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts as non-underlying items (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
14 DIVIDENDS ON ORDINARY SHARES
Per share
2014
Pence 
Amount 
2014 
£m
Per share
2013
Pence 
Amount 
2013 
£m
Proposed dividends for the year
Interim – current year 5.6 38 5.6 38
Final – current year – – 8.5 58
5.6 38 14.1 96
Recognised dividends for the year
Final – prior year 58 58
Interim – current year 38 38
96 96
The interim 2014 dividend was paid on 5 December 2014. Whilst the Board continues to recognise the importance of the dividend to its 
shareholders, in order to ensure balance sheet strength is maintained during the transformation programme it will not be recommending 
a final dividend payable for 2014. This results in a total dividend for the year of 5.6 pence (2013: 14.1 pence). The Board will look to 
reinstate the dividend payments in March 2016, at an appropriate level. 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Dividends on ordinary shares of the Company 96 96
Other dividends to non-controlling interests – 1
Total recognised dividends for the year 96 97
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 115 15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GOODWILL
Cost
£m
Accumulated
impairment
losses
£m
Carrying
amount
£m
At 1 January 2013 1,299 (139) 1,160
Currency translation differences (9) – (9)
Impairment charges in respect of Mainland European rail businesses (Note 10.1.4.8) – (38) (38)
Business acquired – prior year (1) – (1)
Reclassified to assets held for sale (134) 134 –
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) (64) – (64)
At 31 December 2013 1,091 (43) 1,048
Currency translation differences 24 5 29
Impairment charges in respect of Mainland European rail businesses (Note 10.2.2.2) – (20) (20)
Reclassified from assets held for sale relating to Rail Germany 113 (113) –
Reclassified to assets held for sale relating to Rail Italy (24) 20 (4)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (227) – (227)
At 31 December 2014 977 (151) 826
2014 2013
Carrying amounts of goodwill by segment
United 
Kingdom
£m
United
States
£m 
Total
£m
United 
Kingdom
+
£m
United
States
£m 
Rest of
world
£m
Total
£m
Professional Services
^
– – – 12 152 57 221
Construction Services
^
260 391 651 260 369 25 654
Support Services 129 – 129 129 – – 129
Infrastructure Investments 4 42 46 4 40 – 44
Group 393 433 826 405 561 82 1,048
^
  Re-presented to include goodwill relating to Heery Inc. of £13m within Construction Services. This was included within Professional Services in 2013.
Carrying amounts of goodwill by cash generating unit 
2014
£m
Pre-tax
discount
rate 2014
%
2013
+
£m
Pre-tax
discount
rate 2013
+
%
Parsons Brinckerhoff – – 219 12.5
Construction Services UK 260 10.4 260 10.7
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc. 356 12.6 338 12.8
Support Services 129 8.7 129 9.1–12.7
Other 81 8.7–12.8 102 9.1–12.1
Group total 826 1,048
+
  Re-presented to align 2013’s carrying amount of goodwill to 2014’s CGU allocation as a result of changes in management reporting structure. Construction Services US 
has also been split into two CGUs being Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc. and Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc., the latter being included within “Other”. 
The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value-in-use, a key input of which is forecast cash flows. The Group’s cash flow 
forecasts are based on the expected workload of each cash-generating unit (CGU), giving consideration to the current level of confirmed 
and anticipated orders. Cash flow forecasts for the next three years are based on the Group’s Three Year Plan (3YP), which covers the 
period from 2015 to 2017 and includes a stabilisation of performance in the Construction Services UK business. The cash flow forecasts 
for each CGU were compiled from each of its constituent business units as part of the Group’s annual financial planning process. 
It is anticipated that the UK construction market will grow modestly over the forecast period, with improvements in tender margins.  
The 3YP assumes a decline in revenue in 2015 as the business is restored to profitability. It is anticipated that the US construction 
market will continue to improve materially, as will tender margins. In the Support Services segment, market conditions are anticipated  
to be stable in the UK. The Support Services business has a portfolio of long-term contracts and has secured the majority of its workload 
for the forecast period.
The other key inputs in assessing each CGU are its long-term growth rate and discount rate. The discount rates have been calculated 
using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) method, which takes account of the Group’s capital structure (financial risk) as well 
as the nature of each CGU’s business (operational risk). Long-term growth rates are assumed to be the estimated future GDP growth 
rates based on published independent forecasts for the country or countries in which each CGU operates, less 1.0% to reflect current 
economic uncertainties and their consequent estimated effect on public sector spending on infrastructure.
In the derivation of each CGU’s value-in-use, a terminal value is assumed based on a multiple of earnings before interest and tax. The 
multiple is applied to a terminal cash flow, which is the normalised cash flow in the last year of the forecast period. The EBIT multiple is 
calculated using the Gordon Growth Model and is a factor of the discount rate and growth rate for each CGU. The nominal terminal value 
is discounted to present value. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
116 15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GOODWILL CONTINUED
2014 2013
Construction
Services UK
% 
Balfour
Beatty
 Construction 
Group Inc.
% 
Support
Services
%
Other
%
Professional
 Services
+
 
%
Construction
Services UK
% 
Balfour
Beatty
Construction
Group Inc.
+
% 
Support
Services
+
%
Other
+
%
Inflation rate 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.9 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4
Real growth rate 1.3 1.7 1.3 1.7 1.7 1.2 1.7 1.2 1.2
Nominal long-term revenue  
growth rate applied 3.2 3.6 3.2 3.6 4.1 3.6 4.1 3.6 3.6
+
  Re-presented to align 2013’s carrying amount of goodwill to 2014’s CGU allocation as a result of changes in management reporting structure. Construction Services US 
has also been split into two CGUs being Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc. and Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc, the latter being included within “Other”. 
Sensitivities
The Group’s impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used. The major assumptions that result in significant 
sensitivities are the discount rate and the long-term revenue growth rate. 
In light of the significant losses incurred within Construction Services UK in 2014 the Group has considered whether a reasonable 
possible change in assumptions would lead to an impairment of the goodwill in that CGU and concluded that it is not the case.  
The stabilisation and recovery of Construction Services UK to more normal levels of performance is however a key assumption 
underpinning the cash flow forecasts used to assess the recoverable amount of the related goodwill.
Except as noted below, a reasonable possible change in a single assumption will not give rise to an impairment in any of the  
Group’s CGUs. 
Using a pre-tax discount rate of 12.6% and revenue growth rate of 3.6% the recoverable amount of the remaining goodwill in  
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc. is £443m based on value in use, with consequent headroom of £87m. A 1.0% increase  
in the discount rate and a 1.0% reduction in the growth rate would lead to an impairment of £13m.
The recoverable amount of goodwill on Blackpool International Airport is £4m with £nil headroom, based on the fair value of the  
land. Any decrease in the fair value of the land will lead to an equivalent impairment of the goodwill. Blackpool Airport Ltd went  
into creditors’ voluntary liquidation on 16 October 2014. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 117 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – OTHER
Customer
contracts
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
Brand
names
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
 intangible
 £m
Software
 and other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 228 141 58 – 64 491
Currency translation differences (4) (2) – – – (6)
Additions – – – 21 17 38
Disposals – – – – (1) (1)
Impairment – continuing operations
2,3
– – – – (2) (2)
Reclassified from property plant and equipment (Note 17) – – – – 2 2
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) (1) (2) – – (6) (9)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) (3) (14) (3) – (3) (23)
At 31 December 2013 220 123 55 21 71 490
Currency translation differences 11 4 2 – – 17
Additions – – – 28 35 63
Disposals – – – – – –
Reclassified from property plant and equipment (Note 17) – – – – 4 4
Reclassified from assets held for sale (Note 12) – – – – 4 4
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) – – – – (1) (1)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (30) (70) (34) – (3) (137)
At 31 December 2014 201 57 23 49 110 440
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2013 (133) (95) (40) – (11) (279)
Currency translation differences 2 2 1 – – 5
Charge for the year – continuing operations
2,3
(9) (6) (2) – (3) (20)
Charge for the year – discontinued operations
2,3
(2) (6) (7) – – (15)
Disposals – – – – 1 1
Reclassified from property plant and equipment (Note 17) – – – – (1) (1)
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) 1 1 – – 5 7
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) 3 11 2 – – 16
At 31 December 2013 (138) (93) (46) – (9) (286)
Currency translation differences (6) (4) (1) – – (11)
Charge for the year – continuing operations (6) (4) (1) – (6) (17)
Charge for the year – discontinued operations (1) (2) (5) – – (8)
Impairment charge – continuing operations – – – – (21) (21)
Impairment charge – discontinued operations – – – –  (8) (8)
Reclassified from assets held for sale (Note 12) – – – – (4) (4)
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) – – – – 1 1
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) 29 65 33 – 3 130
At 31 December 2014 (122) (38) (20) – (44) (224)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 79 19 3 49 66 216
At 31 December 2013 82 30 9 21 62 204
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
  Re-presented to include the results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing 
operations (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
In 2013, the Group reached financial close on a student accommodation project in which the Group has demand risk and therefore, 
under IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, recognises an intangible asset as “Infrastructure Investments intangible”. The 
project to design, build and maintain postgraduate accommodation at the University of Edinburgh is in the construction phase, with  
build completion expected in 2016. Additional spend of £28m (2013: £21m) was incurred in the year in respect of this project. 
Software and other primarily comprises software of the UK shared service centre and operating companies with a cost of £100m 
(2013: £70m) and accumulated amortisation of £43m (2013: £9m), including internally generated software with a cost of £75m (2013: 
£62m) and accumulated amortisation and impairment of £34m (2013: £4m). 
In 2014, an impairment charge of £27m was recognised against internally generated software intangible assets, of which £6m relates  
to discontinued operations. This represents capitalised costs on the development and implementation of the Oracle R12 business suite. 
Due to curtailments in the scope of the rollout of this asset, it is not expected to provide service potential as originally planned, which 
represents a significant change in the extent to which the asset is to be used and as such the future benefits expected to be generated 
are reduced. The impairment was recognised as a non-underlying charge. Refer to Notes 10.1.4.7 and 10.2.2.4.
A further impairment charge of £2m was also recognised against the Group’s knowledge sharing and collaboration assets which arises 
on the loss of future economic benefits associated with Parsons Brinckerhoff. This has been recognised as a non-underlying loss as part 
of the gain on disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff. Refer to Note 10.2.2.1.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, which are one to four years for customer 
contracts, three to 10 years for customer relationships, three to seven years for software, and up to five years for brand names, 
except for customer contracts and relationships relating to Balfour Beatty Investments US which are amortised on a basis matching the 
returns earned over the life of the underlying contracts and relationships. These contracts have a duration of up to 50 years for customer 
contracts relating to Balfour Beatty Investments US. 
The Infrastructure Investments intangible is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the project which is 50 years. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
118 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – OTHER CONTINUED
The software for the UK shared service centre and operating companies is amortised on a basis matching its usage profile over its 
seven-year life. The Group’s remaining knowledge sharing and collaboration software is amortised on a basis matching its usage profile 
over its five-year life. Other intangible assets are amortised up to 10 years.
17 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
17.1 Movements
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Infrastructure
leasehold
improvements
£m
Assets in
course of
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2013 112 522 – – 634
Currency translation differences (1) (3) – – (4)
Additions – continuing operations
2,3
4 32 – 12 48
Disposals – continuing operations
2,3
(16) (42) – – (58)
Impairment reversal 3 – – – 3
Reclassified to software (Note 16) – (2) – – (2)
Additions – discontinued operations
2,3
16 18 – – 34
Disposals – discontinued operations
2,3
– (6) – – (6)
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) (10) (82) – – (92)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) – (25) – – (25)
At 31 December 2013 108 412 – 12 532
Currency translation differences 3 3 – 1 7
Additions – continuing operations 7 19 – 23 49
Disposals – continuing operations (4) (40) – – (44)
Reclassified to software (Note 16) – (4) – – (4)
Reclassified to inventories (3) – – – (3)
Transfers – – 34 (34) –
Additions – discontinued operations 8 9 – – 17
Disposals – discontinued operations – (9) – – (9)
Reclassified from assets held for sale (Note 12) 7 35 – – 42
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) (4) (9) – – (13)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (53) (54) – – (107)
At 31 December 2014 69 362 34 2 467
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2013 (49) (338) – – (387)
Currency translation differences – 2 – – 2
Charge for the year – continuing operations
2,3
(5) (34) – – (39)
Charge for the year – discontinued operations
2,3
(5) (12) – – (17)
Disposals – continuing operations
2,3
7 40 – – 47
Disposals – discontinued operations
2,3
– 4 – – 4
Reclassified to software (Note 16) – 1 – – 1
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) 4 46 – – 50
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) – 15 – – 15
At 31 December 2013 (48) (276) – – (324)
Currency translation differences (1) – – – (1)
Charge for the year – continuing operations (5) (38) – – (43)
Charge for the year – discontinued operations (4) (7) – – (11)
Impairment – continuing operations – (1) – – (1)
Impairment – discontinued operations (2) – – – (2)
Disposals – continuing operations 2 35 – – 37
Disposals – discontinued operations – 6 – – 6
Reclassified from assets held for sale (Note 12) (4) (20) – – (24)
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) 4 9 – – 13
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) 24 30 – – 54
At 31 December 2014 (34) (262) – – (296)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2014 35 100 34 2 171
At 31 December 2013 60 136 – 12 208
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
  Re-presented to include the results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing 
operations (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 119 17 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED 
17.1 Movements continued 
In 2014, the Group completed construction on two student accommodation projects in Iowa and Reno. Expenditure on these buildings 
amounted to £23m in 2014 (2013: £11m) and was previously capitalised as assets under construction. Both buildings are held under 
short leaseholds.
The carrying amount of the Group’s property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was £1m (2013: £5m). The Company has 
no property, plant and equipment held under finance leases.
Except for land and assets in the course of construction, the costs of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line 
basis over their expected useful lives. Buildings are depreciated at 2.5% pa or over the term of the lease, and plant and equipment is 
depreciated at 4% to 33% pa.
17.2 Analysis of carrying amount of land and buildings
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Freehold 16 18
Long leasehold – over 50 years unexpired 2 5
Short leasehold 17 37
35 60
18 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
18.1 Movements 
Net assets
£m
Loans
£m
Provisions
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 543 270 (87) 726
Currency translation differences (5) – – (5)
Income recognised – continuing operations
2,3 
71 – – 71
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets (Note 30.1) (167) – – (167)
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges (Note 30.1) 65 – – 65
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit obligations (Note 30.1) 3 – – 3
Tax on items taken directly to equity (Note 30.1) 28 – – 28
Dividends (47) – – (47)
Additions
§
 26 – – 26
Disposals (18) (36) – (54)
Fair value of retained interest in CNDR (Note 32.4.9) 6 3 – 9
Loans advanced – 29 – 29
Loans repaid – (2) – (2)
Provisions utilised (43) (44) 87 –
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) (8) – – (8)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) (8) – – (8)
At 31 December 2013 446 220 – 666
Currency translation differences 11 – – 11
Income recognised – continuing operations
 
53 – – 53
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets (Note 30.1) 224 – – 224
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges (Note 30.1) (102) – – (102)
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit obligations (Note 30.1) (5) – – (5)
Tax on items taken directly to equity (Note 30.1) (23) – – (23)
Dividends (56) – – (56)
Additions 25 – – 25
Disposals (33) (20) – (53)
Loans advanced – 15 – 15
Loans repaid – (2) – (2)
Goodwill impairment (1) – – (1)
Reclassified from assets held for sale (Note 12) 8 – – 8
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (1) – – (1)
At 31 December 2014 546 213 – 759
§ 
Includes £4m non-cash addition.
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
  Re-presented to include the results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing 
operations (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
The principal joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 41. The original cost of the Group’s investments in joint ventures and 
associates was £123m (2013: £137m). 
The Group’s share of borrowings of joint ventures and associates is shown in Note 18.2. The amount which was supported by the Group 
and the Company was £10m (2013: £nil), relating to the Group’s share of guaranteed borrowings. The non-recourse borrowings of joint 
venture and associate entities relating to infrastructure concessions projects are repayable over periods extending up to 2046.  
The non-recourse borrowings arise under facilities taken out by project specific joint venture and associate concession companies. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
120 18 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
18.1 Movements continued
The borrowings of each concession company are secured by a combination of fixed and floating charges over that concession 
company’s interests in its project’s assets and revenues and the shares in the concession company held by its immediate parent 
company. A significant part of these loans has been swapped into fixed rate debt by the use of interest rate swaps. 
As disclosed in Note 41f, the Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding of joint ventures and associates in 
Infrastructure Investments’ projects and military housing concessions. Further, in respect of a number of these investments the Group 
has committed not to dispose of its equity interest until construction is complete. As is customary in such projects, banking covenants 
restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions. 
There were no provisions utilised in the year. Provisions utilised of £87m in 2013 relate to the investments in Metronet BCV Ltd  
and Metronet SSL Ltd. On 18 July 2007, a PPP Administrator was appointed to the principal trading subsidiaries (Infracos) of these 
companies. On 27 May 2008, the business and the majority of assets and liabilities of the Infracos was transferred to new companies 
owned by TfL and on 11 December 2009 the Infracos entered into compulsory liquidation.
18.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates 
Infrastructure Investments
Income statement – continuing operations 
Construction
Services
2014
£m
Support
Services
2014
£m
UK
^
2014
£m
North
America
2014
£m
Infrastructure
 Fund
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Total
2014 
£m
Revenue
1
1,168 26 249 47 – 296 1,490
Underlying operating profit
1 
10 1 11 8 –   19 30
Investment income 1 – 176 2 – 178 179
Finance costs – – (135) (4) – (139) (139)
Profit before taxation
1
11 1 52 6 – 58 70
Taxation (3) – (12) – – (12) (15)
Profit after taxation before non-underlying items 8 1 40 6 – 46 55
Share of results within non-underlying items (2) – – – – – (2)
Profit after taxation 6 1 40 6 – 46 53
Balance sheet
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 29 – – – – – 29
  – Infrastructure Investments intangible – – 24 – – 24 24
  – other – – 6 – – 6 6
Property, plant and equipment 41 – 16 4 – 20 61
Investment in joint ventures and associates 5 – – – – – 5
PPP financial assets – – 2,326 33 – 2,359 2,359
Military housing projects – – – 91 – 91 91
Infrastructure Fund investment – – – – 20 20 20
Other non-current assets 52 – 34 – – 34 86
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 258 2 161 107 – 268 528
Other current assets 447 7 49 – – 49 503
Total assets 832 9 2,616 235 20 2,871 3,712
Current liabilities 
Borrowings  – recourse (10) – – – – – (10)
Borrowings  – non-recourse – – (51) – – (51) (51)
Other current liabilities (608) (7) (137) (7) – (144) (759)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings  – non-recourse (40) – (1,566) (131) – (1,697) (1,737)
Other non-current liabilities (51) – (340) (5) – (345) (396)
Total liabilities (709) (7) (2,094) (143) – (2,237) (2,953)
Net assets 123 2 522 92 20 634 759
^ Including Singapore and Australia.
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10).
The Group’s investment in military housing joint ventures’ and associates’ projects is recognised at the initial equity investment plus the 
value of the Group’s accrued preferred return from the underlying projects. The military housing joint ventures and associates have total 
non-recourse net borrowings of £2,099m (2013: £1,858m). Note 41(e) details the Group’s military housing projects.
The Group has elected to recognise its investment in Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners LP (Infrastructure Fund) at fair value with 
movements in fair value being recognised through the income statement. The Infrastructure Fund holds multiple assets which are 
valued by third parties. 
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted which has not been provided for in the financial statements of the joint ventures and 
associates amounted to £1m (2013: £2m). 
As a result of the net fair value revaluations of PPP financial assets and cash flow hedges on one Infrastructure Investments concession, 
where the borrowings are non-recourse to the Group, the Group has not recognised cumulative fair value revaluation charges to other 
comprehensive income of £15m (2013: £24m). 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 121 18 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
18.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates continued 
Infrastructure Investments
Income statement – continuing operations 
Professional
Services
2
2013
£m
Construction
Services
+
2013
£m
Support
Services
2013
£m
UK
^
2013
£m
North
America
2013
£m
Infrastructure
 Fund
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Total
2013
2,+
£m
Revenue
1
– 971 33 356 – – 356 1,360
Underlying operating profit
1 
– 38 1 11 6 – 17 56
Investment income – 2 – 164 – – 164 166
Finance costs – – – (142) – – (142) (142)
Profit before taxation
1
– 40 1 33 6 – 39 80
Taxation – (3) – (6) – – (6) (9)
Profit after taxation – 37 1 27 6 – 33 71
Balance sheet
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill – 29 – – – – – 29
–  Infrastructure Investments 
intangible – – – 23 – – 23 23
– other – – – 6 – – 6 6
Property, plant and equipment – 43 – 8 – – 8 51
Investments in joint ventures and associates – 2 – – – – – 2
PPP financial assets – – – 2,292 – – 2,292 2,292
Military housing projects – – – – 83 – 83 83
Infrastructure Fund investment – – – – – 11 11 11
Other non-current assets – 38 – 45 – – 45 83
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 2 235 3 192 – – 192 432
Other current assets 1 345 8 45 – – 45 399
Total assets 3 692 11 2,611 83 11 2,705 3,411
Current liabilities 
Borrowings  – non-recourse – – – (47) – – (47) (47)
Other current liabilities (2) (480) (8) (160) – – (160) (650)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings  – non-recourse – (44) – (1,744) – – (1,744) (1,788)
Other non-current liabilities – (33) – (227) – – (227) (260)
Total liabilities (2) (557) (8) (2,178) – – (2,178) (2,745)
Net assets 1 135 3 433 83 11 527 666
^
 Including Singapore.
+
 Re-presented to reflect the change in IFRS 11 for joint arrangements within the Group’s joint ventures.
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10).
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff as a discontinued operation (Notes 12 and 38).
18.3 Aggregate information of joint ventures and associates that are not individually material
Joint
ventures
2014
£m
Associates
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
The Group’s share of profit from continuing operations 45 8 53
Aggregate carrying amount of the Group’s interest 652 107 759
Joint
ventures
2013
£m
Associates
2013
£m
Total
2013
2
£m
The Group’s share of profit from continuing operations 65 6 71
Aggregate carrying amount of the Group’s interest 567 99 666
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff as a discontinued operation (Notes 12 and 38).
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
122 18 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED 
18.4 Details of material joint ventures 
Dutco
^
Gammon
China Ltd
Connect
 Plus (M25)
Ltd
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Proportion of the Group’s ownership interest in the joint venture 49% 49% 50% 50% 40% 40%
Income statement – continuing operations
Revenue 361 263 1,372 1,122 249 340
Underlying operating (loss)/profit (30) 11 29 36 5 4
Investment income – 2 1 1 139 137
Finance costs – – – – (105) (108)
Income tax (charge)/credit – – (6) (5) (8) (6)
(Loss)/profit and total comprehensive (expense)/income (100%) (30) 13 24 32 31 27
Group’s share of (loss)/profit and total comprehensive  
(expense)/income (15) 6 12 16 12 11
Dividends received by the Group during the year – 5 8 8 9 5
Balance sheet
Non-current assets 39 30 135 113 2,127 1,879
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 14 410 264 130 151
Other current assets 404 300 366 285 32 22
404 314 776 549 162 173
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (138) (114) (501) (371) (28) (31)
Provisions – – (39) (26) – –
Borrowings  – recourse (20) – – – – –
Borrowings  – non-recourse – – – – (6) (6)
Other current liabilities (231) (155) (118) (38) (43) (44)
(389) (269) (658) (435) (77) (81)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (10) (4) (54) (35) (122) (90)
Provisions – – (15) (12) – –
Borrowings  – non-recourse – – (80) (88) (1,074) (1,078)
Other current liabilities – – (12) (1) (286) (200)
(10) (4) (161) (136) (1,482) (1,368)
Net assets (100%) 44 71 92 91 730 603
Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the above joint 
ventures recognised in the consolidated financial statements:
Net assets of joint venture (100%) 44 71 92 91 730 603
Group’s share of net assets 22 35 46 46 292 241
Goodwill 1 2 26 24 – –
Carrying amount of the Group’s interest in the joint venture 23 37 72 70 292 241
^
 Represents the results of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
18.5 Infrastructure Investments’ investments
Net
investment
2014
£m
Reserves
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Net
investment
2013
£m
Reserves
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Roads 127 250 377 107 201 308
Hospitals 40 25 65 62 (8) 54
Schools 40 21 61 37 9 46
Other concessions 16 3 19 15 10 25
UK
^
223 299 522 221 212 433
North America 70 22 92 64 19 83
Infrastructure Fund 19 1 20 11 – 11
Total investments 312 322 634 296 231 527
^
 Including Singapore and Australia. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 123 18 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
18.6 Infrastructure Fund investment 
2014
£m
2013
£m
At 1 January 11 –
Capital calls 9 11
Distributions received (1) –
Currency translation differences 1 –
At 31 December 20 11
18.7 Cash flow from/(to) joint ventures and associates
Infrastructure Investments Infrastructure Investments
Cash flows from investing 
activities
UK
^
2014
£m
North
America
2014
£m
Infra-
structure
Fund
2014
£m
Other
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
UK
^
2013
£m
North
America
2013
£m
Infra-
structure
Fund
2013
£m
Other
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Dividends from joint
ventures and associates 20 8 – 28 56 20 8 – 19 47
Subordinated debt interest received 24 – – – 24 26 – – – 26
Investments in and loans to joint 
ventures and associates (24) (6) (8) – (38) (16) (21) (11) (1) (49)
Equity (19) (6) – – (25) – (21) – (1) (22)
Subordinated debt invested (7) – – – (7) (18) – – – (18)
Subordinated debt repaid 2 – – – 2 2 – – – 2
Other investments and loans – – (8) – (8) – – (11) – (11)
Disposal of investments in 
joint ventures 117 – – – 117 102 – – 1 103
Net cash flow from/(to)
joint ventures and associates 137 2 (8) 28 159 132 (13) (11) 19 127
^
 Including Singapore and Australia.
18.8 Share of reserves of joint ventures and associates
Accumulated
profit/(loss)
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
PPP
financial
 assets
£m
Currency
translation
reserve
£m
Total
(Note 30.1)
£m
At 1 January 2013 136 (218) 399 20 337
Currency translation differences – – – (2) (2)
Income recognised – continuing operations 71 – – – 71
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets – – (167) – (167)
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges – 65 – – 65
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 3 – – – 3
Tax on items taken directly to equity – (21) 49 – 28
Dividends (47) – – – (47)
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal – 20 (35) – (15)
Reserves disposed 3 – – – 3
Other movements – (3) 5 – 2
At 31 December 2013 166 (157) 251 18 278
Currency translation differences – – – 2 2
Income recognised – continuing operations 53 – – – 53
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets – – 224 – 224
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges – (102) – – (102)
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities (5) – – – (5)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 21 (45) – (23)
Dividends (56) – – – (56)
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal – 1 (8) – (7)
Reserves disposed (24) – – – (24)
At 31 December 2014 135 (237) 422 20 340
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
124 19 INVESTMENTS 
19.1 Group
Held to 
maturity 
bonds
£m
Available-
 for-sale 
investments 
in mutual 
funds
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 42 52 94
Currency translation differences – (1) (1)
Fair value movements – 7 7
Interest accrued – 3 3
Additions 7 5 12
Maturities/disposals (14) (6) (20)
At 31 December 2013 35 60 95
Currency translation differences – 2 2
Fair value movements – continuing operations – 1 1
 – discontinued operations – 2 2
Additions  – continuing operations – 1 1
 – discontinued operations – 7 7
Maturities/disposals – continuing operations (4) (6) (10)
 – discontinued operations – (2) (2)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) – (45) (45)
At 31 December 2014 31 20 51
The held to maturity bonds are held by the Group’s captive insurance company, Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, and comprise 
fixed rate bonds or treasury stock with an average yield to maturity of 1.10% (2013: 1.61%) and weighted average life of 2.1 years 
(2013: 2.7 years). The fair value of the bonds is £33m (2013: £38m), determined by the market price of the bonds at the reporting date. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2014 is the carrying amount. These bonds have been pledged as security for 
letters of credit issued in respect of Delphian Insurance Company Ltd. 
The available-for-sale investments in mutual funds comprise holdings in a number of funds, based on employees’ investment elections, 
in respect of the deferred compensation obligations of the Group as disclosed in Note 28. The fair value of the available-for-sale 
investments is £20m (2013: £60m), determined by the market price of the funds at the reporting date. 
19.2 Company
Note 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Investment in subsidiaries
^
1,671 1,666
Investment in joint ventures and associates 32.3.2 2 3
Provisions (102) (102)
1,571 1,567
^ 
The movement in investment in subsidiaries of £5m in 2014 represents additional non-cash equity contributions made from the Company to its subsidiaries. 
20 PPP FINANCIAL ASSETS
Schools 
£m 
Roads
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 217 280 45 542
Income recognised in the income statement:
– construction contract margin – 1 – 1
– interest income (Note 8) 12 17 4 33
(Losses)/gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
– fair value movements (14) (21) 10 (25)
Other movements:
– cash expenditure – 40 22 62
– cash received (19) (25) (15) (59)
– disposal of interest in CNDR (Note 32.4.11) – (99) – (99)
At 31 December 2013 196 193 66 455
Income recognised in the income statement:
– construction contract margin – 1 – 1
– interest income (Note 8) 5 16 5 26
Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
– fair value movements 4 32 43 79
Other movements:
– cash expenditure – 39 193 232
– cash received (8) (21) (8) (37)
– disposal of interest in Knowsley (Note 32.3.7) (197) – – (197)
At 31 December 2014 – 260 299 559
Assets constructed by PPP subsidiary concession companies are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and are denominated 
in sterling. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the PPP financial assets. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 125 20 PPP FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED 
In 2014, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Transform Schools (Knowsley) Holdings Ltd (Knowsley). Refer to Note 32.3.3. 
The Group also achieved financial close on Thanet OFTO which is an offshore transmission network concession. This resulted in cash 
expenditure of £179m in the year. 
There were no impairment provisions in 2014 or 2013.
21 INVENTORIES
2014
£m
2013
£m
Unbilled non-construction work in progress 61 51
Raw materials and consumables 44 39
Development and housing land and work in progress 53 42
Manufacturing work in progress 5 1
Finished goods and goods for resale 7 2
170 135
22 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
Contracts in progress at reporting date
2014
£m
2013
£m
Due from construction contract customers 562 631
Due to construction contract customers (350) (360)
212 271
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses for all contracts in progress that had not reached 
practical completion at the reporting date was £10,720m from total operations (2013: £15,201m).
23 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Current
Trade receivables 583 827 – –
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (26) (26) – –
557 801 – –
Other receivables 56 76 26 17
Due from subsidiaries – – 1,354 1,243
Due from joint ventures and associates 33 28 – –
Due from joint operations 29 3 – –
Contract retentions receivable
#
210 198 – –
Accrued income 39 21 – 1
Prepayments 42 47 1 1
Due on acquisitions – 16 – –
966 1,190 1,381 1,262
Non-current
Trade receivables – 8 – –
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables – (6) – –
– 2 – –
Other receivables 7 2 – –
Due from joint ventures and associates 16 11 11 17
Due from joint operations 4 – – –
Contract retentions receivable
#
84 98 – –
111 113 11 17
Total trade and other receivables 1,077 1,303 1,392 1,279
Comprising
Financial assets (Note 39) 1,035 1,256 1,391 1,278
Non-financial assets – prepayments 42 47 1 1
1,077 1,303 1,392 1,279
#
  Including £291m (2013: £295m) construction contract retentions receivable.
Based on prior experience, an assessment of the current economic environment and a review of the financial circumstances of individual 
customers, the Directors believe no further credit risk provision is required in respect of trade receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current trade and other receivables approximate their fair values. The fair value of 
non-current trade and other receivables amounts to £107m (2013: £108m) and has been determined by discounting future cash flows 
using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
126 23 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED
Movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables 
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
At 1 January (32) (29)
Currency translation differences (1) (2)
(Charged)/credited to the income statement: 
– additional provisions – continuing operations
2
(8) (9)
– additional provisions – discontinued operations
2
(6) (3)
– unused amounts reversed – continuing operations
2
3 5
– unused amounts reversed – discontinued operations
2
3 5
Utilised during the year 5 1
Reclassified from assets held for sale (1) –
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold 11 –
At 31 December (26) (32)
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
Maturity profile of impaired trade receivables
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Up to three months 7 1
Three to six months – 1
Six to nine months – 2
Nine to 12 months 4 8
More than 12 months 15 20
26 32
At 31 December 2014, trade receivables of £83m (2013: £217m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of individual 
customers where there is no reason to believe that the receivable is not recoverable. 
Maturity profile of trade receivables past due but not impaired
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Up to three months 44 153
Three to six months 20 24
Six to nine months 7 12
Nine to 12 months 6 7
More than 12 months 6 21
83 217
The Company had no provision for impairment of trade receivables and no trade receivables that were past due but not impaired 
in either year.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 127 24 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Current
Trade and other payables 905 857 16 4
Accruals 961 1,044 17 14
Deferred income 5 6 – –
Advance payments on contracts
*
1 14 – –
VAT, payroll taxes and social security 79 115 11 13
Due to subsidiaries – – 1,542 1,301
Due to joint ventures and associates – 1 – –
Dividends on preference shares 5 5 5 5
Due on acquisitions 3 4 – –
1,959 2,046 1,591 1,337
Non-current
Trade and other payables 65 112 – –
Accruals 24 20 – –
Deferred income 3 7 – –
Due to joint ventures and associates 27 27 25 25
Due on acquisitions 15 16 – –
134 182 25 25
Total trade and other payables 2,093 2,228 1,616 1,362
Comprising
Financial liabilities (Note 39) 1,972 2,025 1,605 1,349
Non-financial liabilities:
– accruals not at amortised cost 33 61 – –
– deferred income 8 13 – –
– advance payments on contracts 1 14 – –
– VAT, payroll taxes and social security 79 115 11 13
2,093 2,228 1,616 1,362
*
 Including £nil (2013: £11m) advances on construction contracts. 
Maturity profile of the Group’s non-current financial liabilities at 31 December 
Trade
and other
payables
2014
£m
Accruals
2014
£m
Due to
joint
ventures
and 
associates
2014
£m
Due on 
acquisitions
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Due within one to two years 43 11 1 2 57
Due within two to five years 7 7 5 7 26
Due after more than five years 15 6 21 6 48
65 24 27 15 131
Fair values 65 23 20 15 123
Trade
and other
payables
2013
£m
Accruals
2013
£m
Due to
joint
ventures
and 
associates
2013
£m
Due on
 acquisitions
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Due within one to two years 73 9 – 2 84
Due within two to five years 8 7 5 7 27
Due after more than five years 31 4 22 7 64
112 20 27 16 175
Fair values 97 17 18 16 148
The fair value of non-current trade and other payables has been determined by discounting future cash flows using yield curves  
and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
128 25 PROVISIONS
Group Company
Contract
provisions 
£m
Employee
provisions 
£m
Other
provisions 
£m
Total 
£m
Other
provisions 
£m
At 1 January 2013 125 57 46 228 5
Currency translation differences (2) – – (2) –
Transfers 3 (4) 1 – –
Charged/(credited) to the income statement – continuing operations
2
:
– additional provisions 72 25 12 109 –
– unused amounts reversed (33) (14) (12) (59) (3)
Utilised during the year (48) (17) (7) (72) (1)
(Credited)/charged to the income statement – discontinued operations
2
(5) (1) 9 3 –
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) (10) (3) – (13) –
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) – (1) – (1) –
At 31 December 2013 102 42 49 193 1
Currency translation differences 3 – – 3 –
Transfers – (3) 3 – –
Reclassified to accruals (1) – (1) (2) –
Charged/(credited) to the income statement – continuing operations:
– additional provisions 78 28 10 116 1
– unused amounts reversed (27) (7) (12) (46) –
Utilised during the year (54) (11) (10) (75) –
Charged to the income statement – discontinued operations 1 – 10 11 –
Reclassified from assets held for sale 7 2 – 9 –
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (12) – – (12) –
At 31 December 2014 97 51 49 197 2
Group Group Company Company
Contract
provisions
2014
£m
Employee
provisions
2014
£m
Other
provisions
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Contract
provisions
2013
£m
Employee
provisions
2013
£m
Other
provisions
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Other
provisions
2014
£m
Other
provisions
2013
£m
Due within one year 67 25 28 120 57 15 28 100 – –
Due within one to 
two years 13 11 6 30 16 10 7 33 – –
Due within two to 
five years 12 12 12 36 20 14 10 44 2 1
Due after more than 
five years 5 3 3 11 9 3 4 16 – –
97 51 49 197 102 42 49 193 2 1
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
Contract provisions include construction insurance liabilities, principally in the Group’s captive insurance companies, and defect and 
warranty provisions on contracts, primarily construction contracts, that have reached practical completion. 
Employee provisions are principally liabilities relating to employers’ liability insurance retained in the Group’s captive insurance 
companies and provisions for employee termination liabilities arising from the Group’s restructuring programmes.
Other provisions principally comprise: motor and other insurance liabilities in the Group’s captive insurance companies; legal claims  
and costs, where provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress; 
property-related provisions, mainly onerous lease commitments, some of which arise from the Group’s restructuring programmes;  
and environmental provisions.
The Group takes actuarial advice when establishing the level of provisions in the Group’s captive insurance companies and certain  
other categories of provision.
Insurance-related provisions within these categories were £76m (2013: £86m) as follows: Contract provisions £39m (2013: £52m); 
Employee provisions £32m (2013: £28m); and Other, mainly motor provisions £5m (2013: £6m).
Restructuring provisions within these categories were £15m (2013: £12m) as follows: Employee provisions £8m (2013: £7m); and Other, 
mainly property-related, provisions £7m (2013: £5m). 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 129 26 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND BORROWINGS 
26.1 Group
Current
2014
£m
Non-current
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Current
2013
£m
Non-current
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
– bank overdrafts (4) – (4) (78) – (78)
– US private placement (Note 26.2) – (224) (224) – (212) (212)
– liability component of convertible bonds (Note 26.3) – (227) (227) – (221) (221)
– other loans – (16) (16) (91) – (91)
Secured borrowings at amortised cost
– finance leases – (1) (1) (1) (2) (3)
 (4) (468) (472) (170) (435) (605)
Cash and deposits at amortised cost 653 – 653 472 – 472
Term deposits at amortised cost 38 – 38 67 – 67
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding infrastructure concessions) 691 – 691 539 – 539
 687 (468) 219 369 (435) (66)
Non-recourse infrastructure concessions project finance loans at 
amortised cost with final maturity between 2027 and 2037 (14) (471) (485) (9) (410) (419)
Infrastructure concessions cash and cash equivalents 40 – 40 65 – 65
26 (471) (445) 56 (410) (354)
Net cash/(borrowings) 713 (939) (226) 425 (845) (420)
The loans relating to infrastructure concessions project finance arise under non-recourse facilities taken out by project-specific 
subsidiary concession companies. The loans of each concession company are secured by a combination of fixed and floating charges 
over that concession company’s interests in its project’s assets and revenues and the shares in the concession company held by its 
immediate parent company. A significant part of these loans has been swapped into fixed rate debt by the use of interest rate swaps.
Included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted cash of: £23m (2013: £17m) held by the Group’s captive insurance company, Delphian 
Insurance Company Ltd, which is subject to Isle of Man insurance solvency regulations; £2m (2013: £2m) currently not readily remittable 
from Argentina; £17m (2013: £1m) held within construction project bank accounts; and £40m (2013: £65m) relating to the maintenance 
and other reserve accounts in the Infrastructure Investments subsidiaries.
Cash, deposits and term deposits include the Group’s share of amounts held by joint operations of £212m (2013: £211m).
Maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December
Infrastructure
concessions
non-recourse
project
finance
2014
£m
Finance
leases
2014
£m
Other
borrowings
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Infrastructure
concessions
non-recourse
project
finance
2013
£m
Finance
leases
2013
£m
Other
borrowings
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Due on demand or within one year (14) – (4) (18) (9) (1) (169) (179)
Due within one to two years (31) (1) (19) (51) (10) (1) – (11)
Due within two to five years (33) – (256) (289) (36) (1) (248) (285)
Due after more than five years (407) – (192) (599) (364) – (185) (549)
(485) (1) (471) (957) (419) (3) (602) (1,024)
The carrying values of the Group’s borrowings are equal to the fair values at the reporting date. The fair values are determined by 
discounting future cash flows using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. 
Undrawn Group committed borrowing facilities at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent were satisfied
Infrastructure
concessions
non-recourse
project
finance
2014
£m
Other
borrowings
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Infrastructure
concessions
non-recourse
project
finance
2013
£m
Other
borrowings
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Expiring in one year or less 69 – 69 36 – 36
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 32 791 823 38 – 38
Expiring in more than two years – – – 26 990 1,016
101 791 892 100 990 1,090
26.2 US private placement
In March 2013, the Group raised US$350m (£231m) of borrowings through a US private placement of a series of notes with an average 
coupon of 4.94% per annum and an average maturity of 9.3 years. At 31 December 2014, as a result of movements in exchange rates, 
the balance outstanding was £224m (2013: £212m).
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
130 26 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED
26.3 Convertible bonds
On 3 December 2013, the Group issued convertible bonds of £100,000 each maturing on 3 December 2018 at a total issue price of 
£252.7m and incurred transaction costs of £6.3m resulting in net proceeds of £246.4m. The bonds have a coupon of 1.875% per annum 
payable semi-annually in arrears and the initial conversion price has been set at £3.6692 per share. On 23 April 2014, the conversion 
price was revised to £3.6212. 
From 14 January 2014 until 14 days prior to final maturity one bond is convertible at the option of the holder into one preference share  
in Balfour Beatty Finance No 2 Ltd which is immediately transferred to the Company in exchange for the issue of ordinary shares in the 
Company. The Group has the option to redeem the bonds from December 2015 under certain circumstances. 
The bonds are a compound instrument, comprising an equity and a liability component. The fair value of the liability component at the 
date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was £220m estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 4.29% for a similar 
non-convertible instrument. The difference between the net proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds after the transaction costs and 
the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the value of the equity conversion component, is included in equity 
holders’ funds. Refer to Note 29.3.
Liability component recognised in the Balance Sheet
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 221 220
Accretion 6 1
Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 227 221
The fair value of the liability component of the convertible bonds at 31 December 2014 was £231m (2013: £220m). 
The finance cost of the convertible bonds is calculated using the effective interest method.
26.4 Company
Current
2014
£m
Non-current
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Current
2013
£m
Non-current
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Cash and deposits 249 – 249 – – –
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
– bank loans and overdrafts (142) – (142) (106) – (106) 
– US private placement (Note 26.2) – (224) (224) – (212) (212)
Net borrowings 107 (224) (117) (106) (212) (318)
The bank loans and overdrafts are sterling denominated, variable rate instruments and repayable on demand. 
27 DEFERRED TAX
27.1 Group
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends  
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Net deferred tax position at 31 December 
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Deferred tax assets 52 122 – –
Deferred tax liabilities (49) (18) (2) (3)
 3 104 (2) (3)
Movement for the year in the net deferred tax position 
Group
£m
Company
£m
At 1 January 2013 106 –
Currency translation differences (1) –
Charged to income statement – continuing operations
#,2,3
(21) (1)
Credited to income statement – discontinued operations
#,2,3
8 –
Credited/(charged) to equity
#
9 (2)
Reclassified to assets held for sale 2 –
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold 1 –
At 31 December 2013 104 (3)
Currency translation differences 1 –
(Charged)/credited to income statement – continuing operations
#
(24) 1
Credited to income statement – discontinued operations
#
23 –
Charged to equity
#
(54) –
Reclassified from liabilities held for sale (Note 12) (2) –
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) (1) –
Reclassified to assets held for sale and subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (44) –
At 31 December 2014 3 (2)
#
  Group includes £2m charged (2013: £6m) to the income statement and £nil charged (2013: £10m) to equity in relation to reductions in the UK corporation tax rate.
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38). 
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10). 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 131 27 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED
27.1 Group continued 
The below table shows the deferred tax assets and liabilities before being offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
tax authority.
Deferred tax assets
Depreciation
in excess of
capital
allowances
£m
Retirement
benefit
liabilities
£m
Unrelieved
trading 
losses
£m
Share-
based
payments
£m
Provisions
£m
Derivatives
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 20 79 21 3 20 5 148
Currency translation differences – (1) – – – – (1)
Credited/(charged) to income statement –  
continuing operations
2,3
(3) 1 (6) – (5) – (13)
Credited/(charged) to income statement –  
discontinued operations
2,3
– – 2 – 2 – 4
Credited/(charged) to equity – 15 – – – (7) 8
Reclassified to assets held for sale and 
subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) (2) – – – (1) 2 (1)
At 31 December 2013 15 94 17 3 16 – 145
Currency translation differences – 1 1 – 1 – 3
Transfers to deferred tax liabilities 2 1 – – 14 – 17
Credited/(charged) to income statement –  
continuing operations 6 (8) 2 – (1) – (1)
Credited/(charged) to income statement –  
discontinued operations – 1 (1) – 18 – 18
Credited/(charged) to equity – (47) – (1) – – (48)
Reclassified to assets held for sale and 
subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) (5) (16) (5) – (18) – (44)
At 31 December 2014 18 26 14 2 30 – 90
Deferred tax liabilities
Revaluation
of properties
£m
Goodwill
£m
Preference
shares
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Loss
of IBAs
£m
Derivatives
£m
Other GAAP 
differences 
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 (1) (7) (5) (28) (1) – – (42)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 
– continuing operations
2,3
– 1 – (9) – – – (8)
Credited/(charged) to income statement – 
discontinued operations
2,3
– – – 4 – – – 4
Credited/(charged) to equity – – 1 – – – – 1
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) – – – 2 – – – 2
Reclassified to assets held for sale and 
subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) – – – 2 – – – 2
At 31 December 2013 (1) (6) (4) (29) (1) – – (41)
Currency translation differences – – – (3) – – 1 (2)
Transfers from deferred tax assets – – – – – – (17) (17)
Credited/(charged) to income statement – 
continuing operations 1 – 1 (11) – – (14) (23)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 
– discontinued operations – 7 – (2) – – – 5
Credited/(charged) to equity – – – – – (6) – (6)
Reclassified from liabilities held for sale  
(Note 12) – – – – – – (2) (2)
Reclassified to assets held for sale (Note 12) – (1) – – – – – (1)
Reclassified to liabilities held for sale and 
subsequently sold (Note 32.3.7) – – – 3 – (2) (1) –
At 31 December 2014 – – (3) (42) (1) (8) (33) (87)
 
Total net deferred tax asset 3
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38). 
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying within continuing operations  
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
At the reporting date the Group had unrecognised tax losses from operations that arose over a number of years of approximately  
£708m (2013: £452m) which are available for offset against future profits. £7m (2013: £15m) will expire between five and 20 years  
after the year in which they arose, using losses incurred in earlier years before those incurred in later years, with the first expiry in 2015. 
The remaining losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the reporting date the undistributed reserves for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised were £7m (2013: £6m) in 
respect of subsidiaries and £2m (2013: £3m) in respect of joint ventures and associates. 2013 has been restated to remove Parsons 
Brinckerhoff and only reflect undistributed reserves that may give rise to a tax liability on distribution. No liability has been recognised in 
respect of these differences because either no temporary difference arises or the timing of any distribution is under the Group’s control 
and no distribution which gives rise to taxation is contemplated.
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets for UK corporation tax trading losses of £55m. Based on profit forecasts, it is probable 
that there will be sufficient taxable profits in the future against which both temporary differences and these tax losses will be utilised. 
The Group also has UK corporation tax trading losses of £376m which are not recognised as deferred tax assets.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
132 balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 133
27 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED
27.2 Company
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by HMRC and the Company intends to settle its 
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Deferred tax
liability
Deferred tax
assets
Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Preference
shares
£m
Share-
based
payments
£m
Retirement
benefit
liabilities
£m
Provisions
£m
Total
£m
Net deferred
tax assets/
(liability)
£m
At 1 January 2013 (5) 2 1 2 5 –
Charged to income statement – – – (1) (1) (1)
Credited/(charged) to equity
#,^
1 (2) (1) – (3) (2)
At 31 December 2013 (4) – – 1 1 (3)
Credited to income statement 1 – – – – 1
At 31 December 2014 (3) – – 1 1 (2)
# 
The Company includes £nil credited (2013: £2m) to equity in relation to reductions in the UK corporation tax rate. 
^  
On 1 February 2013, employees of the Company transferred to Balfour Beatty Group Employment Limited, a company established as the employing entity for the Balfour 
Beatty Group’s UK businesses, resulting in £nil (2013: £3m) being charged to equity. 
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITIES
28.1 Group 
28.1.1 Introduction 
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. 
Defined contribution schemes are those where the Group’s obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme and  
the scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks. 
Defined benefit schemes are schemes other than defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligation is to provide specified 
benefits on retirement. 
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (IAS 19) prescribes the accounting for defined benefit schemes in the Group’s financial statements. 
Obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method and discounted to a net present value using the market yield on  
a high-quality corporate bond. The pension expense relating to current service cost is charged to contracts or overheads based on  
the function of scheme members and is included in cost of sales and net operating expenses. The net finance cost arising from the 
expected interest income on plan assets and interest cost on scheme obligations is included in finance costs. Actuarial gains and  
losses are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The IAS 19 accounting valuations are set out in Note 28.1.2.
A different calculation is used for the formal triennial funding valuations undertaken by the scheme trustees to determine the future 
company contribution level necessary so that over time the scheme assets will meet the scheme obligations. The principal difference 
between the two methods is that under the funding basis the obligations are discounted using a rate of return reflecting the composition 
of the assets in the scheme, rather than the rate of return on a high quality corporate bond as required by IAS 19 for the financial 
statements. Details of the latest formal triennial funding valuations are set out in Note 28.1.3. 
The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Group’s financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, 
or other assets of, the Group.
Principal schemes 
The Group’s principal schemes are the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF), which includes defined contribution and defined benefit 
sections, and the Balfour Beatty Shared Cost Section of the Railways Pension Scheme (RPS). The defined benefit sections of both 
schemes are funded and closed to new members with the exception of employees where employment has transferred to the Group 
under certain agreed arrangements. Pension benefits are based on employees’ pensionable service and their pensionable salary. 
The schemes operate under trust law and are managed and administered by trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the 
terms of the trust deed and rules and relevant legislation. Defined benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, 
after taking actuarial advice. The trustees are responsible for establishing the investment strategy and ensuring that there are sufficient 
assets to meet the cost of current and future benefits. 
These schemes expose the Group to investment and actuarial risks where additional contributions may be required if assets are not 
sufficient to pay future pension benefits: 
 − Investment risk: Equity returns are a key determinant of investment return but the investment portfolio is also subject to a range  
of other risks typical of the investments held, for example, credit risk on corporate bond holdings. 
 − Actuarial risk: The ultimate cost of providing pension benefits is affected by inflation rates and members’ life expectancy. The net 
present value of the obligations is affected by the market yield on a high quality corporate bond used to discount the obligations.
Changes in the principal actuarial assumptions based on market data, such as inflation and the discount rate, and experience, such as  
life expectancy, expose the Group to fluctuations in the net IAS 19 liability and the net finance cost.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
134
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITIES CONTINUED
28.1.1 Introduction continued 
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund
The investment strategy of the BBPF is to hold assets of appropriate liquidity and marketability to generate income and capital growth. 
The BBPF invests partly in a diversified range of assets including equities and hedge funds in anticipation that, over the longer term, they 
will grow in value faster than the obligations. The equities are in the form of pooled funds and are a combination of UK, other developed 
market and emerging market equities. The remaining BBPF assets are principally fixed and index-linked bonds and swaps in order to 
match the duration and inflation exposure of the obligations and enhance the resilience of the funding level of the scheme. The 
performance of the assets is measured against market indices.
A formal triennial funding valuation of the BBPF was carried out as at 31 March 2013. As a result the Group agreed with effect from  
April 2013 to make ongoing deficit payments of £50m per annum, increasing to: £55m per annum from April 2016; £60m per annum 
from April 2017; and £65m per annum from April 2018 to May 2020, increasing each year by CPI (minimum 0% and capped at 5%) plus 
(in the period before the next actuarial valuation is agreed) 200% of any increase in the Company’s dividend in excess of capped CPI.  
If the Company makes any one-off return of value to shareholders such as a special dividend, share buy-back, capital payment or similar 
before the next actuarial valuation is agreed, there will be an additional increase in the deficit payment for the following year only, 
calculated as the regular deficit payment for that year multiplied by 75%, multiplied by the value of the one-off return of value, divided  
by the total of the regular dividends for the year prior to the year in which the one-off return was made. This agreement constitutes  
a minimum funding requirement under IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and  
their Interaction. Under the terms of the trust deed and subject to the agreement of the trustees (who would need to balance their 
responsibility to set contribution rates in accordance with the trust rules together with the interests of the beneficiaries at the time), the 
Group has the ability to use surplus funds, should they arise, in the defined benefit section of the BBPF to pay its contributions towards 
further service benefits in the defined benefit and defined contribution sections of the scheme. The Directors consider that, as the 
Group is permitted to assume that it would not be required to make contributions to maintain a surplus, should one arise, these further 
service benefits will exceed the minimum funding requirement.
In 2014, the Group commenced a commutation exercise for pensioner members and dependants. This gave members the option to 
extinguish their benefits within the BBPF in exchange for a cash lump sum and was offered to all pensioner members and dependants 
with benefits with a value of less than £10,000 and £18,000, respectively. The acceptance of this offer by certain members and 
dependants gave rise to a settlement event resulting in a decrease in liabilities of £2m, which was recognised in non-underlying income. 
Refer to Note 10.1.4.8.
In anticipation of the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff and the then proposed £200m return of capital to shareholders, and following  
the scheme apportionment arrangement made in relation to the disposal of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace, agreement was reached on  
24 September 2014 with the trustee of the BBPF for additional deficit payments of £100m in 2015, of which £15m was in respect of 
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace and £85m was in respect of Parsons Brinckerhoff. In February 2015, this agreement was varied and it is 
anticipated that £85m of infrastructure concession assets will be transferred into a Scottish limited partnership in which the BBPF  
will participate. The £15m is being paid to the BBPF in 2015 in agreed monthly instalments. The BBPF will receive the £85m deficit 
payments over the period to 2023, with the first payment of £4m due in 2016.
Railways Pension Scheme
The RPS is a shared cost scheme. The legal responsibility of the Group in the RPS is approximately 60% of the scheme’s assets and 
liabilities based on the relevant provisions of the trust deed and rules and trustee guidelines regarding future surplus apportionments  
and deficit financing.
In 2013 and previous years, the assumed cost of providing benefits was split between the Group and the members in the ratio 60:40.  
To date, this has been a reasonable assumption to make of how costs might be shared over the long term. 
Because of a declining population of active members, it is becoming less likely that the costs of providing benefits borne by the Group  
will be capped in line with its economic interest of 60%. 
Based on discussions arising from the ongoing 2013 triennial valuation process, it is estimated that members might only be able to afford  
to fund 5% of the scheme deficit. For 2014, the long-term cost of providing the benefits has therefore been assumed to be split between 
the Group and the members in the ratio 95:5. The balance sheet asset and liability disclosed at 31 December 2014, therefore, are equal to 
95% of the total scheme asset and liability. Any future surplus or deficit is assumed to be split in this manner. This change in assumption 
gives rise to a net deficit increase of £22m, which was recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The RPS invests in a range of pooled investment funds intended to generate a combination of capital growth and income and as 
determined by the trustee, taking account of the characteristics of the obligations and the trustee’s attitude to risk. The majority of the 
RPS’ assets that are intended to generate additional returns, over the rate at which the obligations are expected to grow, are invested  
in a single pooled “growth” fund. This fund is invested in a wide range of asset classes and the fund manager RPMI has the discretion  
to vary the asset allocation to reflect its views on the relative attractiveness of different asset classes at any time. The remaining assets  
in the RPS are principally fixed and index-linked bonds.
Following the formal triennial funding valuation carried out as at 31 December 2010, the Group agreed to make ongoing fixed deficit 
contributions of £1.3m per annum plus an additional 1% of the active members’ payroll costs. The valuation as at 31 December 2013  
is currently underway.  balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 135
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITIES CONTINUED
28.1.1 Introduction continued 
Other schemes
Other schemes comprise unfunded post-retirement benefit obligations in Europe and North America, the majority of which are closed to 
new entrants, and deferred compensation schemes in the US, where an element of employees’ compensation is deferred and invested 
in available-for-sale assets (as disclosed in Note 19.1) in a trust, the assets of which are for the ultimate benefit of the employees but are 
available to the Group’s creditors in the event of insolvency.
Membership of the principal schemes
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
2014
Railways
Pension Scheme
2014
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
2013
Railways
Pension Scheme
2013 
Number 
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
 duration
Years
Number 
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
 duration
Years
Number 
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
 duration
Years
Number 
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
 duration
Years
Defined benefit
– active members 69 6 20 156 63 21 97 3 20 250 44 19
–  de f e rr ed 
pensioners 13,423 1,539 23 1,389 99 20 13,876 1,372 23 1,433 54 18
–  p e nsi o n e r s , 
widow(er)s 
and dependants 20,772 1,595 11 1,578 157 12 22,244 1,589 11 1,531 93 11
Defined contribution 12,809 – – – – – 13,238 – – – – –
Total 47,073 3,140 17 3,123 319 16 49,455 2,964 16 3,214 191 14
28.1.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations
Principal actuarial assumptions for the IAS 19 accounting valuations of the Group’s principal schemes
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
%
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
%
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2013
%
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2013
%
Discount rate 3.60 3.60 4.35 4.35
Inflation rate – RPI 2.95 2.95 3.30 3.30
 – CPI 1.55 1.55 2.10 2.10
Future increases in pensionable salary 1.55 1.55 2.10 2.10
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (or such other rate as is guaranteed) 2.80 1.80 3.05 2.25
In December 2014, following independent advice from the Group’s actuaries based on further announcements by the Office for National 
Statistics, the Group reassessed the difference between RPI and CPI measures of price inflation from 1.2% in January 2014 to 1.4% 
reducing the pension liability by a further £31m which was recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
The BBPF actuary undertakes regular mortality investigations based on the experience exhibited by pensioners of the BBPF and due to 
the size of the membership of the BBPF (47,073 members at 31 December 2014) is able to make comparisons of this experience with 
the mortality rates set out in the various published mortality tables. The actuary is also able to monitor changes in the exhibited mortality 
over time. This research is taken into account in the Group’s mortality assumptions across its various defined benefit schemes. 
The mortality assumptions as at 31 December 2014 have been updated to reflect the experience of Balfour Beatty pensioners for the 
period 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2014. The mortality tables adopted for the 2014 IAS 19 valuations are the Self-Administered Pension 
Scheme (SAPS) S2 tables (2013: SAPS S1 tables) with a multiplier of 102% for all male and female members (2013: 101%) and 109% 
for female widows and dependants (2013: 110%); all with future improvements in line with the CMI 2014 core projection model  
(2013: 2012 core projection model), with long-term improvement rates of 1.25% pa and 1.00% pa for males and females respectively 
(2013: 1.25% pa and 1.00% pa).
2014
Average life
 expectancy
at 65 years of age
2013
Average life 
expectancy
at 65 years of age
Male Female Male Female
Members in receipt of a pension 22.2 24.0 22.4 24.4
Members not yet in receipt of a pension (current age 50) 23.5 25.1 23.7 25.6 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
136
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITIES CONTINUED
28.1.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement
The BBPF defined contribution employer contributions paid and charged to the income statement have been separately identified  
in the table below and the defined contribution section assets and liabilities amounting to £306m (2013: £259m) have been excluded 
from the oher tables on pages 136 to 139. Defined contribution charges for other schemes include contributions to multi-employer 
pension schemes.
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2013
2
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2013
£m
Other
schemes
2013
2,3
£m
Total
2013
2,3
£m
Continuing operations
Current service cost (3) (2) (2) (7) (23) (2) (1) (26)
Curtailment cost
– ceasing future accrual – – – – (51) – – (51)
– restructuring costs – – – – (1) – – (1)
Defined contribution charge (49) – (3) (52) (29) – (7) (36)
Included in employee costs (Note 7) (52) (2) (5) (59) (104) (2) (8) (114)
Interest income 113 6 – 119 101 6 – 107
Interest cost (126) (7) (2) (135) (107) (7) (2) (116)
Net finance cost (Note 9) (13) (1) (2) (16) (6) (1) (2) (9)
Settlements (Note 7) 2 – – 2 – – – –
Total charged to income statement from 
continuing operations (63) (3) (7) (73) (110) (3) (10) (123)
Discontinued operations
Current service cost (Note 7) – – (4) (4) (6) – (5) (11)
Curtailment cost – ceasing future accrual 
(Note 7) – – – – (2) – – (2)
Defined contribution costs (Note 7) (4) – (12) (16) (9) – (11) (20)
Net finance cost – – (1) (1) (1) – (1) (2)
Total charged to income statement from 
discontinued operations (4) – (17) (21) (18) – (17) (35)
Total charged to income statement (67) (3) (24) (94) (128) (3) (27) (158)
2
 Re-presented to include Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
†
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2013
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2013
£m
Other
schemes
†
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Actuarial movements on pension scheme obligations (195) (128) (14) (337) (63) (5) (5) (73)
Actuarial movements on pension scheme assets 465 109 – 574 (48) 4 – (44)
Total actuarial movements recognised in the  
Statement of Comprehensive Income (Note 30.1) 270 (19) (14) 237 (111) (1) (5) (117)
Cumulative actuarial movements recognised in the 
Statement of Comprehensive Income (176) (53) (34) (263) (446) (34) (20) (500)
†
  Other schemes include the Rail Germany pension scheme in 2014 which was held as a liability held for sale in 2013. 
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of £693m (2013: £79m). 
Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
†
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2013
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2013
£m
Other
schemes
†
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Present value of obligations (3,140) (319) (59) (3,518) (2,964) (191) (74) (3,229)
Fair value of plan assets 3,128 261 1 3,390 2,641 153 1 2,795
Liabilities in the balance sheet (12) (58) (58) (128) (323) (38) (73) (434)
†
  Other schemes include the Rail Germany pension scheme in 2014 which was held as a liability held for sale in 2013. Available-for-sale investments in mutual funds  
of £20m (2013: £60m) are held by the Group to satisfy the Group’s deferred compensation obligations (Note 19.1).
The defined benefit obligation comprises £58m (2013: £73m) arising from wholly unfunded plans and £3,460m (2013: £3,156m) arising 
from plans that are wholly or partly funded. balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 137
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITIES CONTINUED
28.1.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued 
Movement in the present value of obligations
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2013
2
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2013
£m
Other
schemes
2013
£m
Total
2013
2
£m
At 1 January (2,964) (191) (74) (3,229) (2,863) (184) (99) (3,146)
Currency translation differences – – (1) (1) – – 1 1
Current service cost – continuing operations (3) (2) (2) (7) (23) (2) (1) (26)
Curtailment costs 
– ceasing future accrual – continuing operations – – – – (51) – – (51)
– restructuring – continuing operations – – – – (1) – – (1)
Finance cost – continuing operations (126) (7) (2) (135) (107) (7) (2) (116)
Income statement costs relating 
to discontinued operations – – (5) (5) (25) – (6) (31)
Actuarial movements from reassessing the 
difference between RPI and CPI 27 4 – 31 62 12 – 74
Other financial actuarial movements (226) (133) (13) (372) (126) (13) 4 (135)
Actuarial movements from changes 
in demographic assumptions 9 2 – 11 (25) (3) – (28)
Experience gains/(losses) (5) (1) (1) (7) 26 (1) (9) 16
Total actuarial movements (195) (128) (14) (337) (63) (5) (5) (73)
Contributions from members – – – – (1) – – (1)
Benefits paid 146 9 9 164 139 7 8 154
Settlements 2 – – 2 – – – –
Reclassified to liabilities held for sale for Rail 
Italy (Note 12) – – 1 1 – – – –
Reclassified (from)/to liabilities held for sale for 
Rail Germany (Note 12) – – (21) (21) – – 30 30
Reclassified to liabilities held for sale 
and subsequently sold (Notes 32.3.7 and 
32.4.11) – – 50 50 31 – – 31
At 31 December (3,140) (319) (59) (3,518) (2,964) (191) (74) (3,229)
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
Movement in the fair value of plan assets
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2014
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2014
£m
Other
schemes
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2013
2
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2013
£m
Other
schemes
2013
£m
Total
2013
2
£m
At 1 January 2,641 153 1 2,795 2,665 147 1 2,813
Interest income – continuing operations 113 6 – 119 101 6 – 107
Interest income – discontinued operations – – – – 16 – – 16
Actuarial movements 465 109 – 574 (48) 4 – (44)
Contributions from employer
– regular funding 4 1 – 5 21 2 – 23
– ongoing deficit funding – continuing operations 48 1 – 49 49 1 – 50
– ongoing deficit funding – discontinued operations – – – – 2 – – 2
– conditional deficit funding – – – – 7 – – 7
Benefits paid (146) (9) – (155) (139) (7) – (146)
Settlements 3 – – 3 – – – –
Reclassified to liabilities held for sale and 
subsequently sold (Note 32.4.11) – – – – (33) – – (33)
At 31 December 3,128 261 1 3,390 2,641 153 1 2,795
2
 Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38). Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
138
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITIES CONTINUED
28.1.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Fair value of the assets held by the schemes at 31 December 
Balfour
 Beatty 
Pension
 Fund 
value
2014
£m
Railways
 Pension
Scheme
 value
†
2014
£m
Other
 schemes
value
2014
£m
Total 
2014
£m
Return-seeking 979 197 – 1,176
– Developed nation equities 356 – – 356
– Emerging market equities 115 – – 115
– Emerging market debt and currency 134 – – 134
– Hedge funds 313 – – 313
– Return-seeking growth pooled funds – 197 – 197
– Other return-seeking assets 61 – – 61
Liability matching bond-type assets 1,944 64 – 2,008
– Corporate bonds 681 – – 681
– Fixed interest gilts 464 – – 464
– Index-linked gilts 583 – – 583
– Liability matching pooled funds – 64 – 64
– Interest and inflation rate swaps 216 – – 216
Other 205 – 1 206
Total 3,128 261 1 3,390
Balfour
 Beatty 
Pension
 Fund 
value
2013
£m
Railways
 Pension
 Scheme
value
2013
†
£m
 Other
 schemes
value
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Return-seeking 1,115 117 – 1,232
– Developed nation equities 451 – – 451
– Emerging market equities 108 – – 108
– Emerging market debt and currency 148 – – 148
– Hedge funds 335 – – 335
– Return-seeking growth pooled funds – 117 – 117
– Other return-seeking assets 73 – – 73
Liability matching bond-type assets 1,462 36 – 1,498
– Corporate bonds 617 – – 617
– Fixed interest gilts 438 – – 438
– Index-linked gilts 373 – – 373
– Liability matching pooled funds – 36 – 36
– Interest and inflation rate swaps 34 – – 34
Other 64 – 1 65
Total 2,641 153 1 2,795
†
 The amounts in 2014 represent 95% of the scheme’s assets (2013: 60%).
All assets have quoted prices in active markets with the exception of the following where the classification is in accordance with IFRS 13 
Fair Value Measurement:
 − £105m of the corporate bonds (Level 2) 
 − interest and inflation rate swaps (Level 2)
 − hedge funds (Level 3)
 − return-seeking growth pooled funds (Level 3)
 − other return-seeking assets (Level 3) 
 − liability matching pooled funds (Level 3). balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 139
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITIES CONTINUED
28.1.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Estimated contributions expected to be paid to the Group’s principal defined benefit schemes during 2015
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
2015
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2015
£m
Total
2015
£m
Regular funding 3 1 4
Ongoing deficit funding 50 1 51
Deficit funding relating to Balfour Beatty WorkPlace 15 – 15
Total 68 2 70
Following the disposal of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace (BBW), an additional funding agreement was reached between the Group and the 
trustees which set out additional deficit contributions to be paid by the Group into the BBPF over and above the existing schedule of 
contributions. In particular, after allowing for the transfer of certain pension liabilities associated with the disposal of BBW, it was agreed 
that the Group would pay a further £15m into the BBPF in 2015. 
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations at 31 December 2014 to different actuarial assumptions 
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible changes in assumptions occurring at the end of the 
reporting period. In each case the relevant change in assumption occurs in isolation from potential changes in other assumptions. In 
practice more than one variable is likely to change at the same time. The sensitivities have been calculated using the projected unit 
credit method. 
Obligations
Percentage 
points/
Years
(Decrease)/
increase in 
obligations
%
(Decrease)/ 
increase in 
obligations
£m
Increase in discount rate 0.5% (7.8) (271)
Increase in market expectation of RPI inflation 0.5% 5.6 192
Increase in salary growth 0.5% 0.1 3
Increase in life expectancy 1 year 3.7 126
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement benefit assets at 31 December 2014 to changes in market conditions 
Assets
Percentage
points
(Decrease)/
increase
 in assets
%
(Decrease)/
increase
in assets
£m
Increase in interest rates 0.5% (8.1) (273)
Increase in market expectation of RPI inflation 0.5% 4.7 160
The asset sensitivities only take into account the impact of the changes in market conditions on bond type assets. The value of the 
schemes’ return-seeking assets is not directly correlated with movements in interest rates or RPI inflation. 
Year end historical information for the Group’s retirement defined benefit schemes
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Present value of obligations (3,518) (3,229) (3,146) (2,910) (2,780)
Fair value of assets 3,390 2,795 2,813 2,640 2,344
Deficit (128) (434) (333) (270) (436)
Experience adjustment for obligations (7) 16 (39) (11) 62
Experience adjustment for assets 574 (44) 83 148 128
Total deficit funding 49 59 61 113 80
28.1.3 Latest formal triennial funding valuations
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
£m
Railways
Pension Scheme
£m
Date of last formal triennial funding valuation 31/03/2013 31/12/2010
Scheme deficit
Market value of assets 3,103 260
Present value of obligations (3,522) (268)
Deficit in defined benefit scheme (419) (8)
Funding level 88.1% 97.0%
28.2 Company
Until 1 February 2013, certain employees of the Company were members of the BBPF. Retirement benefit assets, liabilities, income  
and expenditure relating to this fund were allocated on an appropriate basis to Group companies participating in the scheme based  
on pensionable payroll for the year. On 1 February 2013 the employees of the Company and the net pension deficit allocated to the 
Company were transferred to Balfour Beatty Group Employment Ltd, which has been established as the employing entity for the 
Group’s UK businesses.  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
140
29 SHARE CAPITAL
29.1 Ordinary shares of 50p each
 Issued
Million £m
At 1 January 2013 688 344
Shares issued 1 –
At 31 December 2013 689 344
Shares issued 1 1
At 31 December 2014 690 345
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid. Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income but each share carries the right to one vote at 
general meetings of the Company.
Ordinary shares issued during the year credited as fully paid
Ordinary
shares
 2014
Number
Consideration
2014
£m
Ordinary
shares
 2013
Number
Consideration
2013
£m
Savings-related share options exercised 101,540 – 386,386 1
Executive share options exercised 318,840 1 270,895 –
420,380 1 657,281 1
At 31 December 2014 there were 591,789 share options outstanding under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE) which 
were granted in 2010 (2013: 1,364,265 granted between 2008 and 2010). The weighted average exercise price is 236.0p (2013: 242.1p). 
No options have been granted under the SAYE since 2010.
At 31 December 2014 there were no share options outstanding under the Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) (2013: 387,733 
granted in 2004). These options are normally exercisable between three and 10 years after the grant date. Performance conditions have 
been met for all outstanding options under the ESOS. The weighted average exercise price in 2013 was 227.3p. No options have been 
granted under the ESOS since 2004.
29.2 Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each
Issued
Million £m
At 31 December 2013 and 2014 112 1
All issued preference shares are fully paid. During the current and prior year no preference shares were repurchased for cancellation 
by the Company.
Holders of preference shares are entitled to a preferential dividend equivalent to a gross payment of 10.75p per preference share per 
annum, payable half-yearly. A preference dividend of 5.375p gross (4.8375p net) per cumulative convertible redeemable preference 
share of 1p was paid on 1 July 2014 in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2014. A preference dividend of 5.375p gross (4.8375p 
net) per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share of 1p was paid on 1 January 2015 in respect of the six months ended  
31 December 2014. 
On 1 July 2020 any preference shares still outstanding are redeemable at £1 each, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, 
unless the holder exercises any option granted by the Company to extend the redemption date. The maximum redemption value of  
all of the issued and outstanding preference shares, excluding any arrears or accruals of dividend, was £112m at 31 December 2014 
(2013: £112m).
At the option of the holder, preference shares are convertible on the first day of the next calendar month following receipt of 
the conversion notice into new Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares effectively on the basis of 24.69136 ordinary shares for every 
100 preference shares, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. The Company is entitled to convert all outstanding preference 
shares into ordinary shares if there are fewer than 44,281,239 preference shares in issue or if the average of the closing mid-market 
price for a Balfour Beatty plc ordinary share during a 30-day period exceeds 810p, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
The preference shares carry no voting rights at a general meeting of the Company, except where the dividend is six months or more 
in arrears, or where the business of the meeting includes a resolution which directly affects the rights and privileges attached to the 
preference shares or a resolution for the winding up of the Company. On winding up the Company, holders are entitled to receive the 
sum of £1 per preference share, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, in priority to any payment on any other class of shares.
The preference shares are a compound instrument, comprising an equity and a liability component. The fair value of the liability 
component at the date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 13.5% 
for a similar non-convertible instrument. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and the fair value 
assigned to the liability component, representing the value of the equity conversion component, is included in equity holders’ equity, 
net of deferred tax. balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 141
29 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
29.2 Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each continued
Liability component recognised in the Balance Sheet 
2014
£m
2013
£m
Redemption value of shares in issue at 1 January 112 112
Equity component (18) (18)
Deferred tax and interest element – (2)
Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 94 92
Interest accretion 2 2
Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 96 94
The fair value of the liability component of the preference shares at 31 December 2014 amounted to £111m (2013: £113m). The fair value 
is determined by using the market price of the preference shares at the reporting date.
Interest expense on the preference shares is calculated using the effective interest method.
29.3 Convertible bonds
On 3 December 2013 the Group issued convertible bonds for net proceeds of £246m. The convertible bond is a compound instrument 
comprising equity and liability components. The fair value of the liability component was estimated as £220m using the prevailing 
market rate at the date of issue for a similar non-convertible instrument. The difference between the net proceeds and the fair value of 
the liability represented the embedded option to convert the liability into the Company’s ordinary shares being the equity component  
of £26m. Refer to Note 26.3.
30 MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY
30.1 Group 
Other reserves
Called-
up share
capital 
2014
£m
Share
premium
account
2014
£m
Special
reserve
2014
£m
Share
of joint
ventures’
and
associates’
reserves
(Note 18.8)
2014
£m
Equity
component
of
preference
shares
 and 
convertible
bonds
2014
£m
Hedging
reserves
2014
£m
PPP
financial
assets 
2014
£m
Currency
translation
reserve 
2014
£m
Merger
reserve
2014
£m
Other
2014
£m
Retained
profits
2014
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
At 1 January 2014 344 64 24 278 44 (56) 56 8 249 22 – 2 1,035
Profit for the year – – – 53 – – – – – – (113) 1 (59)
Currency translation 
differences – – – 2 – – – 30 – – – – 32
Actuarial movements on 
retirement benefit liabilities – – – (5) – – – – – – 237 – 232
Fair value revaluations
– PPP financial assets – – – 224 – – 79 – – – – – 303
– cash flow hedges – – – (102) – (54) – – – – – – (156)
–  a v ai l a b l e - f o r - s al e 
investments in mutual funds – – – – – – – – – 2 – – 2
Recycling of revaluation 
reserves to the income 
statement on disposal
@
– – – (7) – 26 (18) 17 – (7) – – 11
Tax on items recognised in 
other comprehensive income
@
– – – (23) – 10 (16) – – – (48) – (77)
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year – – – 142 – (18) 45 47 – (5) 76 1 288
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – – – – – (96) – (96)
Joint ventures’ and associates’ 
dividends – – – (56) – – – – – – 56 – –
Issue of ordinary shares 1 – – – – – – – – – – – 1
Movements relating to
share-based payments – – – – – – – – – (3) 5 – 2
Reserve transfers relating to 
joint venture and associate 
disposals – – – (24) – – – – – – 24 – –
Other transfers – – (1) – – – – – (249) – 250 – –
At 31 December 2014 345 64 23 340 44 (74) 101 55 – 14 315 3 1,230
@ 
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
142
30 MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY CONTINUED
30.1 Group continued
Other reserves
Called-
up share
capital 
2013
£m
Share
premium
account
2013
£m
Special
reserve
2013
£m
Share
of joint
ventures’
and
associates’
reserves
(Note 18.8)
2013
£m
Equity
component
of
preference
shares
 and 
convertible
bonds
2013
£m
Hedging
reserves
2013
£m
PPP
financial
assets 
2013
£m
Currency
translation
reserve 
2013
£m
Merger
reserve
2013
£m
Other
2013
£m
Retained
profits
2013
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
At 1 January 2013
2
344 63 25 337 17 (109) 93 21 249 18 252 3 1,313
Profit for the year – – – 71 – – – – – – (106) – (35)
Currency translation 
differences – – – (2) – – – (12) – – – – (14)
Actuarial movements on 
retirement benefit liabilities – – – 3 – – – – – – (117) – (114)
Fair value revaluations
– PPP financial assets – – – (167) – – (25) – – – – – (192)
– cash flow hedges – – – 65 – 55 – – – – – – 120
–  a v ai l a b l e - f o r - s al e 
investments in mutual funds – – – – – – – – – 7 – – 7
Recycling of revaluation 
reserves to the income 
statement on disposal
@
– – – (15) – 10 (15) (1) – – – – (21)
Tax on items recognised in 
other comprehensive income
@
– – – 28 1 (15) 8 – – (2) 17 – 37
Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year – – – (17) 1 50 (32) (13) – 5 (206) – (212)
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – – – – – (96) (1) (97)
Joint ventures’ and associates’ 
dividends – – – (47) – – – – – – 47 – –
Issue of ordinary shares – 1 – – – – – – – – – – 1
Issue of convertible bonds – – – – 26 – – – – – – – 26
Movements relating to
share-based payments – – – – – – – – – (1) 5 – 4
Reserve transfers relating to 
joint venture and associate 
disposals – – – 3 – – – – – – (3) – –
Other transfers – – (1) 2 – 3 (5) – – – 1 – –
At 31 December 2013 344 64 24 278 44 (56) 56 8 249 22 – 2 1,035
@ 
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect.
30.2 Company
Other reserves
Called-up
share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Special
reserve 
£m
Equity
component
of preference
shares and
convertible
bonds 
£m
Merger
reserve 
£m
Other 
£m
Retained
profits
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 344 63 25 17 249 72 326 1,096
Profit for the year – – – – – – 39 39
Currency translation differences – – – – – – (1) (1)
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities – – – – – – 1 1
Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income – – – 1 – – (3) (2)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 1 – – 36 37
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – (96) (96)
Issue of ordinary shares – 1 – – – – – 1
Issue of convertible bonds – – – 26 – – – 26
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – – (3) 4 1
Other transfers – – (1) – – – 1 –
At 31 December 2013 344 64 24 44 249 69 271 1,065
Profit for the year – – – – – – 156 156
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – – 156 156
Ordinary dividends – – – – – – (96) (96)
Issue of ordinary shares 1 – – – – – – 1
Movements relating to share-based payments – – – – – 5 – 5
Other transfers – – (1) – (249) – 250 –
At 31 December 2014 345 64 23 44 – 74 581 1,131 balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 143
30 MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY CONTINUED
30.2 Company continued
The retained profits of Balfour Beatty plc are wholly distributable. By special resolution on 13 May 2004, confirmed by the court on 
16 June 2004, the share premium account was reduced by £181m and the £4m capital redemption reserve was cancelled, effective 
on 25 June 2004, and a special reserve of £185m was created. This reserve becomes distributable to the extent of future increases 
in share capital and share premium account, of which £1m occurred in 2014 (2013: £1m). 
30.3 The retained profits in the Group and the retained profits of the Company are stated net of investments in Balfour Beatty plc 
ordinary shares acquired by the Group’s employee discretionary trust, the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust, to satisfy 
awards under the Balfour Beatty Performance Share Plan and the Balfour Beatty Deferred Bonus Plan. In 2014, 0.6m (2013: 0.7m) 
shares were purchased at a cost of £1.7m (2013: £1.6m). The market value of the 2.9m (2013: 3.3m) shares held by the Trust at 
31 December 2014 was £6.2m (2013: £9.3m). The carrying value of these shares is £9.0m (2013: £10.0m). Following confirmation 
of the performance criteria at the end of the performance period in the case of the Performance Share Plan, and at the end of the 
vesting period in the case of the Deferred Bonus Plan, the appropriate number of shares will be unconditionally transferred to 
participants. In 2014, 0.1m shares were transferred to participants in relation to the April 2013 special awards under the Performance 
Share Plan (2013: nil), no shares were transferred to participants in relation to the April 2011 awards under the Performance Share Plan 
(2013: no shares were transferred to participants in relation to the April 2010 awards under the Performance Share Plan), and 0.9  m 
shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan (2013: 1.1m). The trustees have waived  
the rights to dividends on shares held by the trust. Other reserves in the Group and the Company include £4.3m relating to unvested 
Performance Share Plan awards (2013: £5.1m), £0.4m relating to unvested share options (2013: £1.1m), and £2.1m relating to unvested 
Deferred Bonus Plan awards (2013: £3.3m).
31 NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Continuing operations
Notes
Underlying 
items
1
2014
£m
Non-
underlying 
items
(Note 10)
2014
£m
Discontinued
operations
(Note 12)
2014
£m
Group 
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
31.1 Cash (used in)/generated from operations
(Loss)/profit from operations (58) (223) 238 (43) 1 185 75
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 18 (55) 2 – (53) (71) – –
Dividends received – continuing operations – – – – – (168) (90)
Dividends received – discontinued operations – – – – (1) – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 33 10 11 54 56 – –
Amortisation of other intangible assets 16 6 11 8 25 35 – –
Impairment of Oracle R12 intangible asset 17 – 21 – 21 – – –
Pension deficit payments: 
– ongoing deficit funding 28.2 (49) – – (49) (52) – –
– conditional deficit funding 28.2 – – – – (7) – –
Pension curtailment charge – ceasing future accrual 28.2 – – – – 53 – –
Pension curtailment charge – restructuring 28.2 – – – – 1 – –
Pension fund settlement gain 10 – (2) – (2) – –
Movements relating to share-based payments 33 5 – – 5 6 – –
Profit on disposal of investments in 
infrastructure concessions 32.3 (93) – – (93) (82) (49) –
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (7) – – (7) (6) – –
Contingent consideration for acquisitions – – – – (4) – –
Net gain on disposal of other businesses 32.3 – – (234) (234) (11) – –
Goodwill impairment in respect of Mainland 
European rail businesses 10 – – 24 24 38 – –
Impairment of assets in Rail Germany 10 – 30 – 30 – – –
Impairment of assets in Rail Italy 10/17 – – 2 2 – – –
Impairment of other intangible assets 16 – – – – 2 – –
Impairment/(impairment reversal) of property,  
plant and equipment 17 1 – – 1 (3) – –
Impairment of inventory – – – – 1 – –
Other non-cash items (1) (1) – (2) (1) – –
Operating cash flows before movements in 
working capital (218) (152) 49 (321) (45) (32) (15)
(Increase)/decrease in operating working capital 26 38 (95) (31) (117) 306 220
Inventories and non-construction work in progress (22) (1) (7) (30) 2 – –
Due from construction contract customers (104) 54 (42) (92) (81) – –
Trade and other receivables (69) 20 6 (43) (191) 42 (34)
Due to construction contract customers 70 (8) (12) 50 33 – –
Trade and other payables 135 (19) (31) 85 148 264 258
Provisions 16 (8) (9) (1) (28) – (4)
Cash generated (used in)/from operations (192) (114) (46) (352) (162) 274 205
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10).  Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
144
31 NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS CONTINUED
Group 
2014
£m
Group 
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
31.2 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and deposits 653 472 249 –
Term deposits 38 67 – –
Cash balances within infrastructure concessions 40 65 – –
Bank overdrafts (4) (78) (142) (106)
727 526 107 (106)
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of less than three months and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the 
balance sheet.
Infrastructure
concessions
non-recourse
 project
finance
2014 
£m
Other 
2014 
£m
Group 
2014 
£m
Group 
2013 
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
31.3 Analysis of movement in net (borrowings)/cash
Opening net borrowings (354) (66) (420) (333) (318) (423)
Currency translation differences – (21) (21) 3 (12) 19
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (25) 237 212 10 213 (93)
Proceeds from US private placement – – – (231) – (231)
Proceeds from convertible bonds and accretion – (6) (6) (221) – –
Proceeds from new loans (236) (11) (247) (110) – –
Proceeds from new finance leases – (1) (1) (1) – –
Repayments of loans 7 83 90 408 – 410
Repayments of finance leases – 3 3 2 – –
Disposal of non-recourse borrowings (Notes 32.3.7 and 32.4.11) 163 – 163 72 – –
Net decrease/(increase) in cash within assets held for sale (Note 12) – 1 1 (19) – –
Closing net (borrowings)/cash (445) 219 (226) (420) (117) (318)
31.4 Borrowings 
During the year ended 31 December 2014 the significant movements in borrowings were: a net increase in cash (excluding cash held  
in infrastructure concession projects) of £237m (2013: £68m net increase in overdrafts); a net repayment of short-term loans of £83m 
(2013: £396m); an increase of £236m (2013: £110m increase) in non-recourse loans funding the development of financial assets in 
infrastructure concessions subsidiaries; disposal of non-recourse borrowings in Transform Schools (Knowsley) Holdings Ltd £163m 
(2013: £72m on disposal of Connect CNDR Ltd); and repayment of £7m (2013: £12m) of non-recourse loans.
In 2013, a drawdown of US private placement loans of £231m was made together with the issue of unsecured convertible bonds with  
a liability component of £221m. 32 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
32.1 Current and prior year acquisitions
32.1.1 There were no material acquisitions during the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013. 
32.1.2 Deferred consideration paid during 2014 in respect of acquisitions completed in earlier years was £3m, £1m relating to the 
acquisition of Subsurface Group Inc. (Subsurface) and £2m relating to other acquisitions. 
32.2 Contingent consideration arrangements
Parsons
Brinckerhoff
Inc. 
£m
Subsurface
£m
Total
£m
Contingent consideration recoverable/(payable)
At 1 January 2014 16 (1) 15
(Recovered)/paid during the year (15) 1 (14)
Released to the income statement (1) – (1)
At 31 December 2014 – – –
32.3 Current year disposals 
Notes Disposal date Entity/business
Percentage
disposed 
%
Cash
consideration
£m
Net assets
disposed 
£m
Amount
 recycled
 from
 reserves
£m
Direct costs
 incurred,
indemnity
provisions 
created and
fair value
uplift
£m
Underlying
 gain
 £m
Non-
underlying
 gain
 £m 
32.3.1 8 January 2014 Rail Scandinavia
*
100 2 (2) 1 (1) – –
32.3.2 22 May 2014
Consort Healthcare (Durham) 
Holdings Ltd
^
50 55 (43) 15 – 27 –
32.3.3 30 May 2014
Transform Schools (Knowsley) 
Holdings Ltd
*
100 42 (10) (8) – 24 –
32.3.4 1 October 2014
Consort Healthcare (Mid 
Yorkshire) Holdings Ltd
^
50 62 (12) (8) – 42 –
32.3.5 31 October 2014 Parsons Brinckerhoff
*
100 812 (498) (11) (69) – 234
973 (565) (11) (70) 93 234
*
 Subsidiary.
^
 Joint venture.
32.3.1 On 8 January 2014, the Group disposed of its Rail business in Scandinavia for a cash consideration of £2m. The disposal resulted  
in a £nil gain/loss being recognised as a non-underlying item, comprising a £nil gain/loss in respect of the fair value of net assets 
disposed and a £1m gain on recycling currency translation reserves to the income statement. Costs of disposal incurred and indemnity 
provisions of £1m were charged to the income statement which resulted in the overall £nil gain/loss. The disposal included cash 
disposed of £9m. 
32.3.2 On 22 May 2014, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Durham) Holdings Ltd (CHDHL) for an agreed 
cash consideration of £55m, including a settlement of short-term loans due from joint ventures of £5m. On this date the Group ceased 
to jointly control CHDHL by virtue of a put/call structure with a preferred bidder. The disposal was completed on 30 June 2014 and the 
proceeds were received in July 2014. This disposal resulted in a net gain of £27m being recognised within underlying operating profit  
in the income statement, comprising a gain of £12m in respect of the disposal of the investment in the joint venture and a £15m gain  
in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement.
The Company recognised an underlying gain of £49m in respect of this disposal. 
32.3.3 On 30 May 2014, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Transform Schools (Knowsley) Holdings Ltd (TSKHL) for an agreed 
cash consideration of £42m. On this date the Group ceased to jointly control TSKHL by virtue of a put/call structure with a preferred 
bidder. The disposal of the subsidiary was completed on 12 June 2014. This disposal resulted in a net gain of £24m being recognised 
within underlying profit, comprising a gain of £32m in respect of the fair value of net assets disposed and an £8m loss in respect of 
revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement. The disposal included cash disposed of £8m.
32.3.4 On 1 October 2014, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Mid Yorkshire) Holdings Ltd for an agreed  
cash consideration of £62m. This disposal was completed on 1 October 2014 and resulted in a gain of £42m being recognised within 
underlying operating profit, comprised of a £50m gain in respect of the disposal of the investment in the joint venture and an £8m loss  
in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement. 
32.3.5 On 28 October 2014, shareholder approval was granted for the disposal of the Group’s 100% interest in Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
The deal subsequently completed on 31 October 2014 for an agreed cash consideration of £812m with the proceeds being received  
on that day. The disposal resulted in a net non-underlying gain of £234m being recognised within discontinued operations after incurring 
separation costs of £24m and transaction costs of £45m. The net gain comprises a gain of £314m before disposal costs in respect of  
the fair value of net assets disposed and a £11m loss in respect of reserves recycled to the income statement. This disposal includes 
cash disposed of £42m. Additional consideration may be received based on the agreement of the final working capital position of 
Parsons Brinckerhoff. 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 145 32 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS CONTINUED 
32.3 Current year disposals continued
32.3.6 During the year the Group finalised the cash consideration due on the disposal of its UK facilities management business,  
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace (BBW), amounting to an additional consideration for the Group of £1m. At the same time, an agreement was 
reached to discharge the Group’s obligation for which a provision of £14m had been made in return for a payment by the Group of £9m. 
This resulted in a non-underlying gain on disposal of £6m, which was fully offset with an impairment charge for an intangible asset  
of £6m (refer to Note 16). The net non-underlying gain on disposal recognised in the year was therefore £nil (2013: £16m gain). Costs  
of £6m incurred in 2013 were subsequently settled in 2014. Refer to Note 32.4.10. 
32.3.7 Subsidiaries net assets disposed
Net assets disposed Notes
Parsons 
Brinckerhoff
£m
Knowsley
£m
Rail 
Scandinavia
£m
Total
£m
Intangible assets – goodwill 15 227 – – 227
Intangible assets – other 16 7 – – 7
Property, plant and equipment 17 53 – 7 60
Investment in joint ventures and associates 18 1 – – 1
Available-for-sale investments 19 45 – – 45
PPP financial assets 20 – 197 – 197
Deferred taxation 27 42 2 – 44
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 116 – 5 121
Trade and other receivables 300 3 21 324
Trade and other payables (269) (4) (30) (303)
Provisions 25 (12) – (2) (14)
Retirement benefit liabilities 28 (50) – (8) (58)
Current taxation (4) – – (4)
Derivatives – (33) – (33)
Cash 42 8 9 59
Non-recourse borrowings
31.3
– (163) – (163)
498 10 2 510
Reserves recycled to the income statement 11 8 (1) 18
Costs directly related to the sale 69 – 1 70
578 18 2 598
Net cash consideration (812) (42) (2) (856)
Gain on disposal (234) (24) – (258)
Net cash flow effect
Total consideration 812 42 2 856
Cash and cash equivalents disposed (42) (8) (9) (59)
Transaction and separation costs paid (47) – (1) (48)
Net cash consideration 723 34 (8) 749
Net payments made in relation to BBW disposal and associated transaction 
costs (Note 32.3.6) (14)
735
32.4 Prior year disposals 
Notes Disposal date Entity/business
Percentage
disposed 
%
Cash
consideration
£m
Net assets
disposed 
£m
Amount
 recycled
 from
 reserves
£m
Direct costs
 incurred,
indemnity
provisions 
created and
fair value
uplift
£m
Underlying
 gain
 £m
Non-
underlying
 gain/(loss)
 £m 
32.4.1 1 March 2013 Rail Iberica SA
*
100 – (5) 1 – – (4)
32.4.2 26 April 2013
Consort Healthcare 
(Tameside) Holdings Ltd
^
50 16 (11) 4 – 9 –
32.4.3 30 April 2013
Transform Schools: 
Bassetlaw
^
; Birmingham
^
; 
Rotherham
^
; Stoke
^
50 43 (24) 5 – 24 –
32.4.4 20 June 2013
Consort Healthcare (Salford) 
Holdings Ltd
^
50 22 (10) – – 12 –
32.4.5 25 June 2013 Exeter and Devon Airport Ltd
^
60 – – – – – –
32.4.6 1 August 2013
Stassfurt Signalling 
Workshop – – (1) – – – (1)
32.4.7 31 October 2013 Balfour Sevan LLC
^
50 1 (1) – – – –
32.4.8 4 November 2013
Connect A30/A35 Holdings 
Ltd
^
65 21 (9) 6 – 18 –
32.4.9 4 November 2013 Connect CNDR Holdings Ltd
*
75 26 (16) 5 4 19 –
32.4.10 13 December 2013 Balfour Beatty WorkPlace
*
100 155 (120) – (19) – 16
284 (197) 21 (15) 82 11
*
 Subsidiary.
^
 Joint venture.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
146 32 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS CONTINUED
32.4 Prior year disposals continued
32.4.1 On 1 March 2013, the Group disposed of its interest in Rail Iberica SA (Rail Spain) to its local management for a cash 
consideration of €1. The disposal resulted in a net £4m loss being recognised as a non-underlying item, comprising a £5m loss in 
respect of the fair value of net assets disposed, including cash disposed of £7m, and a £1m gain on recycling revaluation reserves to  
the income statement. The Group continues to guarantee certain bonds on behalf of Rail Spain until their expiry. 
32.4.2 On 26 April 2013, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Tameside) Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration 
of £16m. This disposal resulted in a net £9m gain being recognised in underlying operating profit, comprising a gain of £5m in respect  
of the disposal of the investment in the joint venture and a £4m gain on recycling revaluation reserves to the income statement.
32.4.3 On 30 April 2013, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in four Transform Schools projects: Bassetlaw; Birmingham; 
Rotherham; and Stoke, for a combined cash consideration of £43m. This disposal resulted in a net gain of £24m being recognised within 
underlying operating profit, comprising a gain of £19m in respect of the disposal of the investments in the joint ventures and a £5m gain 
on recycling revaluation reserves to the income statement.
32.4.4 On 20 June 2013, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Consort Healthcare (Salford) Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration  
of £22m. This disposal resulted in a net gain of £12m being recognised within underlying operating profit. There were no material 
revaluation reserves.
32.4.5 On 25 June 2013, the Group disposed of its interest in Exeter and Devon Airport Ltd held through an intermediary company 
wholly owned by its joint venture Regional & City Airports (Exeter) Holdings Ltd, in which the Group has a 60% interest. The proceeds 
from the sale were used to repay secured lenders. The carrying value of the Group’s investment had been written down to £nil in 2012 
and the disposal therefore resulted in a £nil gain/loss.
32.4.6 On 1 August 2013, as part of its initial step in disposing of Rail Germany, the Group disposed of Stassfurt Signalling Workshop  
to its local management for a cash consideration of €1 resulting in a £1m loss on disposal. 
32.4.7 On 31 October 2013, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Balfour Sevan LLC for a cash consideration of £1m. The carrying 
value of the Group’s investment amounted to £1m and the disposal resulted in a £nil gain/loss.
32.4.8 On 4 November 2013, the Group disposed of a 65% interest in Connect A30/A35 Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration of £21m. 
This disposal resulted in a gain of £18m being recognised within underlying operating profit, comprising a gain of £12m in respect of the 
disposal of the investment in the joint venture and a £6m gain in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement.  
The Group retains a 20% interest in the joint venture.
32.4.9 On 4 November 2013, the Group disposed of a 75% interest in Connect CNDR Holdings Ltd (CNDR) for a cash consideration  
of £26m. This disposal resulted in a gain of £19m being recognised within underlying operating profit, comprising: a gain of £10m  
in respect of the disposal of the investment in the subsidiary; a £5m gain in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income 
statement; and £4m representing the fair value uplift of the interest retained. The Group retains a 25% interest in CNDR which will  
be accounted for as a joint venture using the equity method.
32.4.10 On 13 December 2013, the Group disposed of its UK facilities management business, Balfour Beatty WorkPlace (BBW) for cash 
proceeds of £155m resulting in a net non-underlying gain of £16m recognised within discontinued operations after creating indemnity 
provisions of £10m and incurring transaction costs of £9m. Refer to Notes 12 and 32.3.6.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 147 32 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS CONTINUED
32.4 Prior year disposals continued
32.4.11 Prior year subsidiaries net assets disposed
Net assets disposed Notes
BBW
£m
CNDR
£m
Rail Spain
£m
Total
£m
Intangible assets – goodwill 15 64 – – 64
Intangible assets – other 16 7 – – 7
Property, plant and equipment 17 10 – – 10
Investment in joint ventures and associates 18 8 – – 8
PPP financial assets 20 – 99 – 99
Deferred taxation 27 1 (2) – (1)
Inventories and non-construction work in progress 23 – – 23
Trade and other receivables 120 2 5 127
Trade and other payables (121) (3) (6) (130)
Provisions 25 (1) – – (1)
Retirement benefit liabilities 28 2 – – 2
Current taxation – – (1) (1)
Derivatives – (16) – (16)
Cash 7 13 7 27
Non-recourse borrowings
31.3
– (72) – (72)
Net assets of interest retained in CNDR – (5) – (5)
120 16 5 141
Indemnity liabilities raised on disposal 11 – – 11
Fair value uplift of retained investment in CNDR – (4) – (4)
Reserves recycled to the income statement – (5) (1) (6)
Costs directly related to the sale 8 – – 8
139 7 4 150
Net cash consideration (155) (26) – (181)
(Gain)/loss on disposal (16) (19) 4 (31)
Net cash flow effect
Total consideration 155 26 – 181
Cash and cash equivalents disposed (7) (13) (7) (27)
Transaction costs paid (2) – – (2)
Net cash consideration 146 13 (7) 152
33 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company operates four equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 
(SAYE), the Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS), the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP). The Group 
recognised total expenses relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions of £4.9m in 2014 (2013: £5.8m). Refer to the 
Remuneration Report for details of the various schemes and to Note 29.1. 
33.1 Movements in share options
SAYE options ESOS options
2014
Number
Weighted
average
exercise 
price 
2014
Pence
2013
Number
Weighted
average
exercise 
price 
2013
Pence
2014 
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
2014
Pence
2013 
Number
Weighted
average
exercise
price 
2013
Pence
Outstanding at 1 January 1,364,265 242.1 3,645,518 254.9 387,733 227.3 689,049 205.6
Forfeited during the year (187,464) 242.8 (361,496) 248.4 – – – –
Exercised during the year (101,540) 242.3 (386,386) 238.4 (318,840) 227.3 (270,895) 172.2
Expired during the year (483,472) 249.2 (1,533,371) 271.9 (68,893) 227.3 (30,421) 227.3
Outstanding at 31 December 591,789 236.0 1,364,265 242.1 – – 387,733 227.3
Exercisable at 31 December – – 49,678 250.5 – – 387,733 227.3
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those SAYE options exercised during the year was 274.7p (2013: 266.3p) 
and the weighted average remaining contractual life of SAYE options outstanding at 31 December 2014 is 0.5 years (2013: 1.0 year).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those ESOS options exercised during the year was 296.4p (2013: 251.7p). 
There are no ESOS options outstanding as at 31 December 2014. The weighted average remaining contractual life of ESOS options 
outstanding at 31 December 2013 was 0.3 years.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
148 33 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
33.2 Movements in share plans
PSP conditional awards DBP conditional awards
2014
Number 
2013
Number 
2014
Number 
2013
Number 
Outstanding at 1 January 9,615,176 9,688,585 1,797,335 2,275,048
Granted during the year 2,521,625 3,815,247 490,541 575,983
Awards in lieu of dividends – – 96,973 102,609
Forfeited during the year (2,431,898) (1,209,841) (116,179) (40,879)
Exercised during the year (143,337) – (923,197) (1,115,426)
Expired during the year (2,728,501) (2,678,815) – –
Outstanding at 31 December 6,833,065 9,615,176 1,345,473 1,797,335
Exercisable at 31 December – – 30,239 101,062
The weighted average remaining contractual life of those PSP awards outstanding at 31 December 2014 is 1.1 years (2013: 1.4 years).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for those DBP awards exercised during the year was 273.7p (2013: 243.3p) 
and the weighted average remaining contractual life of DBP awards outstanding at 31 December 2014 is 1.7 years (2013: 1.3 years).
The principal assumptions, including expected volatility determined from the historical weekly share price movements over the three-
year period immediately preceding the award date, used by the consultants in the stochastic model for the PSP awards in 2014 subject 
to market conditions, were:
Award date
Closing
share
price before
award date
Pence
Expected
volatility of
shares 
%
Expected
term of
awards
Years
Risk free
interest 
rate
%
Calculated
fair value 
of an
award 
Pence
31 March 2014 299.6 34.7 3.0 1.12 178.8
For the DBP awards in 2014, the fair value of the awards is the closing share price before award date.
34 COMMITMENTS
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for which has not been provided for in the financial statements amounted to £3m 
(2013: £7m) in the Group and £nil (2013: £nil) in the Company.
The Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding and subordinated debt in Infrastructure Investments projects 
which have reached financial close. Refer to Note 41f.
In January 2013, the Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners Fund (Infrastructure Fund) reached first close with US$317m of 
commitments, of which Balfour Beatty committed US$110m. Final close was reached in July 2014 with a total of US$618m committed. 
The Group has invested a net US$33m in the Infrastructure Fund, of which US$33m was invested in 2014. 
The Group leases land and buildings, equipment and other various assets under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases 
have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The lease expenditure charged to the income statement for continuing 
operations is disclosed in Note 6.1.
Future operating lease expenditure commitments 
Continuing operations 
Land and
buildings
2014
£m
Other
2014
£m
Land and
buildings
2013
2,3
£m
Other
2013
2,3
£m
Group
Due within one year 30 29 30 52
Due between one and five years 57 41 46 46
Due after more than five years 23 5 19 6
 110 75 95 104
2 
Re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38). 
3
  Re-presented to include results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying items within continuing operations 
(Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
The Company did not have any future operating lease expenditure commitments as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil). 
Future committed operating lease income
Continuing operations
Land and
buildings
2014
£m
Land and
buildings
2013
£m
Group
Due within one year 1 1
Due between one and five years 1 1
2 2
The Company did not have any future committed operating lease income as at 31 December 2014 (2013: £nil). 
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 149 35 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into  
counter-indemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Group’s own contracts and given guarantees in respect of their share of certain 
contractual obligations of joint ventures and associates and certain retirement benefit liabilities of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and  
the Railways Pension Scheme. Guarantees are treated as contingent liabilities until such time as it becomes probable payment will be 
required under the terms of the guarantee.
Provision has been made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress. The Group 
takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on 
that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed, or that the Group cannot make a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation. 
36 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Joint ventures and associates
The Group has contracted with, provided services to, and received management fees from, certain joint ventures and associates 
amounting to £673m (2013: £777m). These transactions occurred in the normal course of business at market rates and terms. In 
addition, the Group procured equipment and labour on behalf of certain joint ventures and associates which were recharged at cost with 
no mark-up. The amounts due from or to joint ventures and associates at the reporting date are disclosed in Notes 23 and 24 respectively.
Pension schemes
The Group recharged the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund with the costs of administration and advisers’ fees borne by the Group amounting 
to £7m in 2014 (2013: £8m).
Key management personnel
Remuneration of key management personnel of the Company
2014
£m
2013
^
£m
Short-term benefits 2.274 2.662
Long-term benefits 0.167 0.191
Post-employment benefits 0.002 0.058
Payments for loss of office 0.574 0.588
Share-based payments 0.988 1.284
4.005 4.783
^
 Restated to include remuneration of non-executive Directors.
Key management personnel comprise the executive Directors who are directly responsible for the Group’s activities and the non-
executive Directors. The remuneration included above is that paid in respect of the period of the year during which the individuals were 
Directors. Further details of Directors’ emoluments, post-employment benefits and interests are set out in the 2014 Remuneration 
Report on pages 64 to 80.
On 1 February 2013, the employees of the Company were transferred to Balfour Beatty Group Employment Ltd (BBGEL), which has 
been established as the employing entity for the Balfour Beatty Group’s UK businesses. During the year employee costs of £11m  
(2013: £16m) were recharged from BBGEL to the Company.
37 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE
On 31 January 2015, the Group completed the sale of JumboTec, Austria and Track (which constituted parts of Rail Germany) to 
Rhomberg Sersa Rail Group for a net consideration of £nil after taking into account cash that will transfer with the business. The deal 
was announced on 14 November 2014, and a non-underlying loss on disposal was estimated at that time at £25m. At 31 December 
2014, in light of the consideration expected to be received on completion of the deal, the Group recognised an impairment of £30m 
to write down the net assets of these businesses to the consideration expected. This has been recognised as a non-underlying item. 
Refer to Note 10.1.4.3. 
On 16 February 2015, the Group announced the sale of an 80% interest in the Thanet offshore transmission (OFTO) project for £40m 
to Equitix. The consideration is consistent with the Directors’ valuation at 31 December 2014. The Group retains a 20% interest in the 
joint venture. 
On 18 February 2015, the Group announced the acquisition of the Gwynt y Môr offshore transmission (OFTO) project, in which the 
Group will be joint venture partners with Equitix. The Group’s stake is £28m which represents 60% of equity required.
On 11 March 2015, the Group completed the sale of Rail Italy for net cash consideration of £3m to Alpiq InTec AG. The consideration 
reflected the Group’s carrying value of the business at 31 December 2014.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
150 balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 151
38 PRIOR YEAR COMPARISONS
Group
The 2013 income statement has been re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as part of discontinued operations 
at the year end. Refer to Note 12.
The 2013 income statement has also been re-presented to reclassify Rail Germany from a discontinued operation to non-underlying 
items within continuing operations. Refer to Note 12.
The performance of Engineering Services (ES) contracts linked to poor legacy management and in regions that ES has withdrawn  
from tendering for third party work has also been moved to non-underlying items. Refer to Note 2.11.
The effect on the financial statements is as follows.
Income statement
As 
previously 
reported
 2013 
Year
£m 
Effect of
 Parsons 
Brinckerhoff
2013
Year
£m
Effect of
 Rail Italy
 2013
Year
£m
Effect of
 Rail Germany
 2013
Year
£m
Effect of
certain
legacy ES 
contracts 
 2013
Year
£m
As 
re-presented
 2013
Year
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates
1
10,118 (1,536) (28) – (76) 8,478
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates
1
(1,373) 13 – – – (1,360)
Group revenue
1
8,745 (1,523) (28) – (76) 7,118
Underlying group operating profit/(loss)
1
132 (55) (2) – – 75
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 71 – – – – 71
Underlying profit/(loss) from operations
1
203 (55) (2) – – 146
Investment income 65 (2) – – – 63
Finance costs (81) 3 – – – (78)
Underlying profit/(loss) before taxation from continuing 
operations
1
187 (54) (2) – – 131
Taxation on underlying profit/(loss) from continuing operations (50) 21 1 – – (28)
Underlying profit/(loss) for the year from continuing 
operations
1
137 (33) (1) – – 103
Non-underlying items after tax from continuing operations (120) 35 – (71) – (156)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 17 2 (1) (71) – (53)
Underlying (loss)/profit for the year from discontinued 
operations after tax (15) 33 1 25 – 44
Non-underlying items after tax from discontinued operations (37) (35) – 46 – (26)
(Loss)/profit for the year from discontinued operations (52) (2) 1 71 – 18
Loss for the year (35) – – – – (35)
1
 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.11 and 10).
Earnings per share Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings/(loss) per ordinary share from continuing operations 2.5 0.3 (0.1) (10.2) – (7.5)
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share from discontinued 
operations (7.6) (0.3) 0.1 10.2 – 2.4
Basic loss per ordinary share (5.1) – – – – (5.1)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share from continuing 
operations 2.5 0.3 (0.1) (10.2) – (7.5)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share from discontinued 
operations (7.6) (0.3) 0.1 10.2 – 2.4
Diluted loss per ordinary share (5.1) – – – – (5.1) Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
152
39 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
39.1 Capital risk management
The Group and Company manage their capital to ensure their ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital 
structure to reduce the cost of capital. The components of capital are as follows: equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 
comprising issued ordinary share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 29.1 and 30; preference shares as 
disclosed in Note 29.2; US private placement as disclosed in Note 26; convertible bonds as disclosed in Note 26; and cash and cash 
equivalents and borrowings as disclosed in Note 26.
The Group and Company maintain or adjust their capital structure through the payment of dividends to equity holders, issue of new 
shares and buyback of existing shares, and drawdown of new borrowings and repayment of existing borrowings. The policy of the Group 
and the Company is to ensure an appropriate balance between cash, borrowings (other than the non-recourse borrowings of companies 
engaged in Infrastructure Investments projects), working capital and the value in the Infrastructure Investments investment portfolio.
The overall capital risk management strategy of the Group and the Company remains unchanged from 2013.
39.2 Group
Categories of financial instruments
Group
Loans and
receivables
at
amortised
cost, cash
and 
deposits
2014
£m
Financial
liabilities 
at
amortised
cost
2014
£m
Available-
for-sale
financial
assets
2014
£m
Held to
maturity
financial
assets
2014
£m
Derivatives
2014
£m
Loans and
receivables
at
amortised
cost, cash
and 
 deposits
2013
£m
Financial
liabilities 
at
amortised
cost
2013
£m
Available-
for-sale
financial
assets
2013
£m
Held to
maturity
financial
assets
2013
£m
Derivatives
2013
£m
Financial assets
Fixed rate bonds and 
treasury stock – – – 31 – – – – 35 –
Mutual funds – – 20 – – – – 60 – –
PPP financial assets – – 559 – – – – 455 – –
Cash and deposits 731 – – – – 604 – – – –
Trade and other receivables 1,035 – – – – 1,256 – – – –
Derivatives – – – – 2 – – – – 2
Total 1,766 – 579 31 2 1,860 – 515 35 2
Financial liabilities
Liability component
of preference shares – (96) – – – – (94) – – –
Trade and other payables – (1,972) – – – – (2,025) – – –
Unsecured borrowings – (471) – – – – (602) – – –
Secured borrowings – (1) – – – – (3) – – –
Infrastructure concessions 
non-recourse term loans – (485) – – – – (419) – – –
Derivatives – – – – (92) – – – – (74)
Total – (3,025) – – (92) – (3,143) – – (74)
Net 1,766 (3,025) 579 31 (90) 1,860 (3,143) 515 35 (72)
Current year comprehensive 
income/(expense) excluding share 
of joint ventures and associates 29 (68) 89 1 28 19 (63) – 2 65
Derivatives
Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities
Current
2014
£m
Non-
current
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Current
2014
£m
Non-
current
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Current
2013
£m
Non-
current
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Current
2013
£m
Non-
current
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Foreign currency 
contracts
Held for trading at fair value 
through income statement 2 – 2 (1) – (1) 2 – 2 (4) – (4)
Designated as
cash flow hedges – – – (1) – (1) – – – (1) – (1)
Interest rate swaps
Designated as
cash flow hedges – – – (12) (78) (90) – – – (14) (55) (69)
2 – 2 (14) (78) (92) 2 – 2 (19) (55) (74) balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 153
39 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
39.2 Group continued 
Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities. The table reflects the 
undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial liabilities including interest that will accrue on those liabilities except where the 
Group is entitled to and intends to repay the liability before its maturity. The discount column represents the possible future cash flows 
included in the maturity analysis, such as future interest, that are not included in the carrying value of the financial liability.
Maturity profile of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December 
Infrastructure
concessions
non-recourse
project
finance
2014
£m
Other
borrowings
2014
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
2014
£m
Total
non-
 derivative
financial
liabilities
2014
£m
Discount
2014
£m
Carrying
value
2014
£m
Due on demand or within one year (18) (4) (1,852) (1,874) 14 (1,860)
Due within one to two years (43) (18) (69) (130) 23 (107)
Due within two to five years (73) (278) (57) (408) 99 (309)
Due after more than five years (609) (197) (169) (975) 226 (749)
(743) (497) (2,147) (3,387) 362 (3,025)
Discount 258 25 79 362
Carrying value (485) (472) (2,068) (3,025)
Infrastructure 
concessions
non-recourse
project
finance
2013
£m
Other
borrowings
2013
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
2013
£m
Total
non-
 derivative
financial
liabilities
2013
£m
Discount
2013
£m
Carrying
value
2013
£m
Due on demand or within one year (11) (170) (1,872) (2,053) 13 (2,040)
Due within one to two years (14) (1) (91) (106) 15 (91)
Due within two to five years (34) (280) (57) (371) 63 (308)
Due after more than five years (534) (185) (191) (910) 206 (704)
(593) (636) (2,211) (3,440) 297 (3,143)
Discount 174 31 92 297
Carrying value (419) (605) (2,119) (3,143)
Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its derivative financial liabilities. The table reflects the undiscounted net 
cash inflows/(outflows) on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis (interest rate swaps) and undiscounted gross inflows/
(outflows) for those derivatives that are settled on a gross basis (foreign exchange contracts). When the amount payable or receivable 
is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates, using the yield curves at the 
reporting date.
Maturity profile of the Group’s derivative financial liabilities at 31 December 
Payable
2014
£m
Receivable
2014
£m
Net payable
2014
£m
Payable
2013
£m
Receivable
2013
£m
Net payable
2013
£m
Due on demand or within one year (193) 172 (21) (285) 263 (22)
Due within one to two years (21) 5 (16) (21) 7 (14)
Due within two to five years (45) 1 (44) (17) 4 (13)
Due after more than five years (105) – (105) (84) – (84)
Total (364) 178 (186) (407) 274 (133)
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk; credit risk; and liquidity risk. The Group’s financial risk 
management strategy seeks to minimise the potential adverse effect of these risks on the Group’s financial performance.
Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board. Group Treasury liaises 
with the Group’s operating companies to identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks. The Board provides written principles for overall 
financial risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, 
use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with 
policies and exposure limits is monitored through the Group’s internal audit and risk management procedures. The Group uses derivative 
financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The Group does not trade in financial instruments, including derivative financial 
instruments, for speculative purposes. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
154
39 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
39.2 Group continued 
(a) Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The 
Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
• forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities transacted in a currency that is not the 
functional currency of the operating company
• interest rate swaps to mitigate the cash flow variability in Infrastructure Investments concessions arising from variable interest rates 
on borrowings.
There has been no material change to the Group’s exposure to market risks and there has been no change in how the Group manages 
those risks since 2013.
(i) Foreign currency risk management
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from exposure to various currencies, primarily to US 
dollars, euros, Hong Kong dollars and United Arab Emirate dirhams. Foreign exchange risk arises from future trading transactions, assets 
and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy requires operating companies to manage their transactional foreign exchange risk against their functional currency. 
Whenever a current or future foreign currency exposure is identified with sufficient reliability Group Treasury enters into forward 
contracts on behalf of operating companies to cover 100% of foreign exchange risk above materiality levels determined by the Chief 
Financial Officer. 
Refer to page 152 for details of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the reporting date in respect of foreign currency 
transactional exposures. 
As at 31 December 2014, the notional principal amounts of foreign exchange contracts in respect of foreign currency transactions where 
hedge accounting is not applied was £176m (2013: £324m) receivable and £181m (2013: £325m) payable with related cash flows 
expected to occur in up to three (2013: four) years. The foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from fair valuing these unhedged 
foreign exchange contracts will affect the income statement throughout the same periods.
The Group has designated forward exchange contracts with a notional principal amount of £2m (2013: £63m) receivable and £2m  
(2013: £66m) payable as cash flow hedges against highly probable cash flows which are expected to occur in up to two (2013: four) 
years. Fair value gains on these contracts of £nil (2013: £nil) have been taken to hedging reserves through other comprehensive income. 
The cumulative amount deferred in the hedging reserves relating to cash flow hedges at the reporting date is £nil (2013: £nil). 
No significant amounts in relation to hedge ineffectiveness have been charged or credited to the income statement in relation to any 
foreign exchange cash flow hedges. 
The Group’s investments in foreign operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risks. The Group does not enter into forward 
foreign exchange or other derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency denominated net assets. 
In March 2013 the Group raised US$350m through a US private placement which has been designated as a net investment hedge 
against changes in the value of the Group’s US net assets due to exchange movements. The Group has reassessed this hedge following 
the sale of Parsons Brinckerhoff and has concluded that the hedge continues to be effective. Exchange movements in the year totalled 
£12m (2013: £19m). 
The hedging policy is reviewed periodically. At the reporting date there had been no change to the hedging policies since 2013. 
(ii) Interest rate risk management
Interest rate risk arises in the Group’s Infrastructure Investments concessions which borrow funds at both floating and fixed interest 
rates and hold available-for-sale financial assets. Floating rate borrowings expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group’s 
policy to manage this risk is to swap floating rate interest to fixed rate, using interest rate swap contracts. 
In an interest rate swap, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on 
agreed notional principal amounts. The net effect of a movement in interest rates on income would therefore be immaterial. The fair 
value of interest rate swaps is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the yield curve at the reporting date. 
During 2014 and 2013, the Group’s infrastructure concessions subsidiaries’ borrowings at variable rates of interest were denominated  
in sterling.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding subsidiaries’ interest rate swaps outstanding at 31 December 2014 totalled £419m 
(2013: £357m) with maturities that match the maturity of the underlying borrowings ranging from one year to 25 years. 
At 31 December 2014, the fixed interest rates range from 3.5% to 5.1% (2013: 4.3% to 5.1%) and the principal floating rates are LIBOR 
plus a fixed margin.
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate in which financial instruments are held would lead to a £3m increase (2013: £2m) 
/£4m decrease (2013: £3m) in amounts taken directly to other comprehensive income by the Group in relation to the Group’s exposure 
to interest rates on the available-for-sale financial assets and cash flow hedges of its Infrastructure Investments subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk also arises on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and other borrowings. A 50 basis point increase/
decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which these financial instruments are held would lead to a £nil (2013: £nil) increase/£nil 
(2013: £1m) decrease in the Group’s net finance cost. balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 155
39 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
39.2 Group continued 
(iii) Price risk management
The Group’s principal price risk exposure arises in its Infrastructure Investments concessions. At the commencement of the concession 
an element of the unitary payment by the customer is indexed to offset the effect of inflation on the concession’s costs. The Group is 
exposed to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in financial loss. Credit risk arises from cash 
and deposits, derivative financial instruments and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed 
transactions. The Group has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of potential customers before entering into transactions. 
For cash and deposits and derivative financial instruments the Group has a policy of only using counterparties that are independently 
rated with a minimum long term credit rating of BBB+. At 31 December 2014, £13m (2013: £44m) did not meet this criterion due to  
the operational and relationship difficulties in transferring certain balances, however no losses are anticipated from these counterparties. 
The credit rating of a financial institution will determine the amount and duration for which funds may be deposited under individual  
risk limits set by the Board of Directors for the Group and subsidiary companies. Management monitors the utilisation of these credit 
limits regularly. 
For trade and other receivables credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable using independent 
ratings where available or by assessment of the customer’s credit quality based on its financial position, past experience and other 
factors. The Group’s most significant customers are public or regulated industry entities which generally have high credit ratings or 
are of a high credit quality due to the nature of the customer.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of the above at the reporting date is the carrying value of financial assets recorded  
in the financial statements, net of any allowance for losses.
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash balances and banking facilities, continuously monitoring forecast and 
actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 
are set out in Note 26.1. The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities is set out on page 153.
Fair value estimation 
The Group holds certain financial instruments on the balance sheet at their fair values. The following hierarchy classifies each class  
of financial asset or liability in accordance with the valuation technique applied in determining its fair value.
Level 1 – The fair value is calculated based on quoted prices traded in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Group  
holds available-for-sale investments in mutual funds which are traded in active markets and valued at the closing market price at the 
reporting date. 
Level 2 – The fair value is based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly or indirectly. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows utilising yield curves at the 
reporting date and taking into account own credit risk. Own credit risk for the Infrastructure Investments’ swaps is not material and  
is calculated using the following credit valuation adjustment (CVA) calculation: loss given default multiplied by exposure multiplied  
by probability of default. 
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield 
curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts. Own credit risk for the other 
derivative liabilities is not material and is calculated by applying a relevant credit default swap (CDS) rate obtained from a third party. 
Level 3 – The fair value is based on unobservable inputs. 
There have been no transfers between these categories in the current or preceding year.
PPP financial assets
The fair value of the Group’s PPP financial assets is determined in the construction phase by applying an attributable profit margin by 
reference to the construction margin on non-PPP projects reflecting the construction risks retained by the construction contractor, and 
fair value of construction services performed. In the operational phase it is determined by discounting the future cash flows allocated  
to the financial asset at a discount rate which is based on long-term gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets.  
The consequent movement in the fair value is taken to other comprehensive income.
Investment in the Infrastructure Fund
The Group’s investment in the Infrastructure Fund (the Fund) is subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s offering 
documentation. The investment in the Fund is primarily valued based on the latest available financial information provided by the Fund’s 
General Partner, which is a related party of the Group. Management reviews the details of the reported valuation obtained from the Fund  
and considers: (i) the valuation of the underlying investments; (ii) the value date of the net asset value (NAV) provided; (iii) cash flows 
(calls/distributions) since the latest value date; and (iv) the basis of accounting and, in instances where the basis of accounting is other 
than fair value, fair value information provided by the Fund’s General Partner. 
Where the information provided by the Fund’s General Partner is not considered appropriate, management will make amendments  
to the NAV obtained as noted above in order to present a carrying value that more appropriately reflects the fair value of the Group’s 
investment at the reporting date. In determining the continued appropriateness of the valuation, management reviews the valuation 
reports received from the Fund’s General Partner. The terms of the Fund’s partnership agreement require these valuation reports  
to be supported by an annual external valuation. Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
156
39 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
39.2 Group continued 
Financial instruments at fair value
 2014 2013
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Available-for-sale mutual fund financial assets 20 – – 20 60 –     –     60
Available-for-sale PPP financial assets – – 559 559 – –     455 455
Financial assets – foreign currency contracts – 2 – 2 –     2 –     2
Total assets measured at fair value 20 2 559 581 60 2 455 517
Financial liabilities – foreign currency contracts – (2) – (2) –     (5) –     (5)
Financial liabilities – infrastructure 
concessions interest rate swaps – (90) – (90) –     (69) –     (69)
Total liabilities measured at fair value – (92) – (92) –     (74) –     (74)
Level 3 financial assets
PPP financial assets 
A change in the discount rate would have a significant effect on the value of the asset and a 50 basis points increase/decrease,  
which represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in the risk adjusted discount rate, would lead to a £27m 
decrease (2013: £21m) / £27m increase (2013: £22m) in the fair value of the assets taken through equity. Refer to Note 20 for a 
reconciliation of the movement from the opening balance to the closing balance.
Investment in the Infrastructure Fund
Management has determined that an absolute shift of 15% represents a reasonably possible change in the fair value of the Group’s 
investment in the Fund and would result in an absolute change of £3m. In arriving at this value management have considered the 
economic assumptions and discount rates used in the valuation of the underlying investments. Refer to Note 18.6 for a reconciliation  
of the movement from the opening balance to the closing balance. 
At 31 December 2014, management considered that the NAV provided by the Fund’s General Partner appropriately reflected the fair 
value of the Group’s investment.
39.3 Company
Categories of financial instruments
Company
Loans and
receivables
at amortised
cost, cash
 and 
deposits
2014
£m
Financial
liabilities
at
amortised
cost
2014
£m
Available-
for-sale
financial
assets
2014
£m
Held to
maturity
financial
assets
2014
£m
Derivatives
2014
£m
Loans and
receivables
at amortised
cost, cash
and deposits
2013
£m
Financial
liabilities
at
amortised
cost
2013
£m
Available-
for-sale
financial
assets
2013
£m
Held to
maturity
financial
assets
2013
£m
Derivatives
2013
£m
Financial assets
Cash and deposits 249 – – – – – – – – –
Trade and other receivables 1,391 – – – – 1,278 – – – –
Derivatives – – – – 3 – – – – 4
Total 1,640 – – – 3 1,278 – – – 4
Financial liabilities
Liability component of preference 
shares – (96) – – – – (94) – – –
Trade and other payables – (1,605) – – – – (1,349) – – –
Unsecured borrowings – (366) – – – – (318) – – –
Derivatives – – – – (2) – – – – (7)
Total – (2,067) – – (2) – (1,761) – – (7)
Net 1,640 (2,067) – – 1 1,278 (1,761) – – (3)
Current year comprehensive 
income/(expense) 8 (49) – – – 5 (42) – – –
Derivatives
Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities
Current
2014
£m
Non-
current
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Current
2014
£m
Non-
current
2014
£m
Total
2014
£m
Current
2013
£m
Non-
current
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Current
2013
£m
Non-
current
2013
£m
Total
2013
£m
Held for trading at fair 
value through
income statement 2 1 3 (2) – (2) 4 – 4 (6) (1) (7)
The Company is responsible for executing all of the Group’s external derivative contracts, except for those in relation to infrastructure 
concessions. The Company’s external derivative contracts are matched with derivative contracts issued by the Company to the Group’s 
operating companies. The Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value are the derivative foreign currency 
contracts shown in the table above. The fair value of these foreign currency contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange 
rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.
The Company’s derivatives are classified as Level 2 in the fair value estimation hierarchy detailed above. balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 157
39 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
39.3 Company continued
Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
Maturity profile of the Company’s non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December
Borrowings
2014
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
2014
£m
Total
non-
derivative
financial
liabilities
2014
£m
Total
discount
2014
£m
Carrying
value
2014
£m
Due on demand or within one year (142) (1,593) (1,735) 13 (1,722)
Due within one to two years – (12) (12) 11 (1)
Due within two to five years (32) (37) (69) 32 (37)
Due after more than five years (192) (147) (339) 32 (307)
(366) (1,789) (2,155) 88 (2,067)
Discount – 88 88
Carrying value (366) (1,701) (2,067)
Borrowings
2013
£m
Other
financial
liabilities
2013
£m
Total
non-
derivative
financial
liabilities
2013
£m
Total
discount
2013
£m
Carrying
value
2013
£m
Due on demand or within one year (106) (1,337) (1,443) 13 (1,430)
Due within one to two years – (11) (11) 11 –
Due within two to five years (24) (37) (61) 32 (29)
Due after more than five years (188) (148) (336) 34 (302)
(318) (1,533) (1,851) 90 (1,761)
Discount – 90 90
Carrying value (318) (1,443) (1,761)
Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
Maturity profile of the Company’s derivative financial liabilities at 31 December 
Payable
2014
£m
Receivable
2014
£m
Net
 receivable
2014
£m
Payable
2013
£m
Receivable
2013
£m
Net payable
2013
£m
Due on demand or within one year (151) 152 1 (315) 313 (2)
Due within one to two years (12) 12 – (14) 14 –
Due within two to five years (3) 3 – (6) 6 –
Due after more than five years – – – (56) 54 (2)
Total (166) 167 1 (391) 387 (4)
Financial risk factors
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign currency risk management
For the Company, there would be no material effect of any strengthening/weakening in US dollar, euro, Hong Kong dollar or United Arab 
Emirates dirham exchange rates against sterling. The Company’s external forward foreign exchange contracts hedge the currency risk 
on foreign currency loans entered into with Group companies or are offset by forward foreign exchange contracts with the Group’s 
operating companies where Group Treasury is hedging the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities on their behalf.
(ii) Interest rate risk management
A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which financial instruments are held would lead to a £8m 
(2013: £10m) increase/decrease in the Company’s net finance cost. This is mainly attributable to the Company’s exposure to UK interest 
rates on its cash and cash equivalents and term deposits and amounts due to and from its subsidiaries. There would be no effect on 
amounts taken directly by the Company to other comprehensive income.
(b) Credit risk
The Company bears credit risk in respect to trade and other receivables and payables due from/to subsidiaries. There were no amounts 
past due at the reporting date. The maximum exposure is the carrying value of the financial assets recorded in the financial statements. 40 AUDIT EXEMPTIONS TAKEN FOR SUBSIDIARIES
The following subsidiaries are exempt from the requirements 
under the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual 
financial statements by virtue of Section 479A of the Act. 
Company 
registration 
number
Balfour Beatty Building Ltd 1881683
Balfour Beatty CE Ltd 2306280
Balfour Beatty Construction International Ltd 1878848
Balfour Beatty Education Ltd 6863458
Balfour Beatty Engineering Solutions Ltd 1531651
Balfour Beatty International Ltd 920030
Balfour Beatty Living Places Ltd 2067112
Balfour Beatty Management Ltd 4590162
Balfour Beatty Projects and Engineering Ltd 169240
Balfour Beatty Rail Investments Ltd 3048949
Balfour Beatty Rail Track Systems Ltd 2311350
Balfour Beatty Refurbishment Ltd 3107653
Balfour Beatty Regional Civil Engineering Ltd SC382011
Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions Ltd 1062438
Consort Healthcare Infrastructure Investments Ltd 6859623
Dean & Dyball Rail Ltd 5503947
EIMCO Ltd 3159250
Heery International Ltd 2759565
Painter Brothers Ltd 238081
SEIMCO Ltd 3159074
The Telegraph Construction and Maintenance 
Company Ltd 1147
41 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES 
AND ASSOCIATES
Country of
 incorporation
or registration
(a) Principal subsidiaries
Construction and Support Services
Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc US
Balfour Beatty Construction, LP Canada
Balfour Beatty Engineering Services Ltd Scotland
Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc US
Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH Germany
Balfour Beatty Rail Inc US
Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd
Balfour Beatty Rail SpA Italy
Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions Ltd
Mansell Construction Services Ltd
Infrastructure Investments  
(refer Note 41)
Balfour Beatty Communities LLC US
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investments Ltd
*
Balfour Beatty Investments Inc US
Balfour Beatty Investments, LP Canada
Balfour Beatty Communities, LP Canada
Balfour Beatty Investments Ltd
Other
Balfour Beatty Holdings Inc. US
Delphian Insurance Company Ltd
*
Isle of Man
Country of
 incorporation
or registration
Ownership
interest
%
(b) Principal joint ventures and associates
Construction and Support Services
BK Gulf LLC Dubai 49.0
Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC Dubai 49.0
Gammon China Ltd Hong Kong 50.0
(c) Principal joint operations
The Group carries out a number of its larger contracts in joint 
arrangement with other contractors so as to share resources and 
risk. The principal joint projects in progress during the year are 
shown below.
South-East England Roads 65.0
Crossrail 26.7
M25 Maintenance 52.5
M25 LUS 50.0
Gotthard Base Tunnel Switzerland 25.0
Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center US 50.0
Parkland Acute Care Hospital US 40.0
DFW Terminal Development Program US 60.0
Notes
(i)  Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose results did not, in the opinion  
of the Directors, materially affect the results or net assets of the Group are  
not shown.
(ii)  Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the equity capital is owned and companies  
are registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company 
are conducted in the country of incorporation.
* 
Indicates held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
158 41 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK
Roads
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 13 road and street lighting projects to construct new roads, to upgrade 
and maintain existing roads and to replace and maintain street lighting.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract in the roads concessions is the project agreement with the governmental highway 
authority setting out the obligations for the construction, operation and maintenance of the roads including lifecycle replacement for the 
life of the concession to specified standards. In the case of M1-A1, A30/A35 and A50 the inflation-indexed payment is related to traffic 
volumes. In the case of M77/GSO and CNDR, the inflation-indexed payment is partly based on availability and partly on traffic volumes, 
and is subject to any performance related deductions. In the case of M25 and Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route, the inflation-indexed 
payment is wholly based on availability and is subject to any performance related deductions. Construction of the roads was subcontracted 
to construction joint ventures in which Balfour Beatty had an interest or, in the case of the M77/GSO and CNDR, 100% to Balfour Beatty 
subsidiaries. On the street lighting projects, payment is by a periodic inflation-indexed availability payment subject to performance 
deductions and the replacement and maintenance obligations have been subcontracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. There are no 
provisions to reprice the contracts and all assets transfer to the client at the end of the concessions.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding
Financial
close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Connect M1-A1 Ltd 30km road 290 50% March 1996 30 1999
Connect A50 Ltd 57km road 42 25% May 1996 30 1998
Connect A30/A35 Ltd 102km road 127 20% July 1996 30 2000
Connect M77/GSO plc (ii) 25km road 167 85% May 2003 32 2005
Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd Street lighting 27 100% August 2003 25 2008
Connect Roads South 
Tyneside Ltd
Street lighting 28 100% December 2005 25 2010
Connect Roads Derby Ltd Street lighting 36 100% April 2007 25 2012
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd J16 – J23, J27 – J30 and 
A1(M) Hatfield Tunnel
1,309 40% May 2009 30 2012
Connect CNDR Ltd Carlisle Northern 
Development Route
176 25% July 2009 30 2012
Connect Roads Coventry Ltd Street lighting 56 100% August 2010 25 2015
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Ltd Street lighting 51 100% April 2011 25 2016
Connect Roads Northamptonshire Ltd Street lighting 64 100% August 2011 25 2016
Aberdeen Roads Ltd Aberdeen Western Peripheral 
Route
665 33.3% December 2014 33 2018
Notes
(i)  Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Connect M77/GSO plc and Aberdeen Roads Ltd which 
are registered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland.
(ii)  Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the 
financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control this company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Hospitals
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in four hospital projects to build hospital accommodation and to provide 
certain non-medical facilities management services over the concession period.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the NHS Trust.  
An inflation-indexed payment is primarily based upon availability of the hospital subject to any performance related deductions.  
The only projects where construction of the hospitals was subcontracted to construction joint ventures in which Balfour Beatty 
subsidiaries did not participate 100% is Edinburgh Royal Infirmary where the Group’s share was 85%. The payments for the facilities 
management services are repriced every five years. All assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession, with the exception 
of Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, where the customer has the option to terminate the arrangement for the provision of the hospital and  
the services in 2028.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Consort Healthcare  
(Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Ltd
Teaching hospital and 
medical school
220 50% August 1998 30 2003
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Ltd Teaching hospital and mental 
health hospital
553 40% June 2006 40 2011
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd General hospital 170 50% April 2009 30 2011
Balfour Beatty Healthcare (Irvine) Ltd Mental health hospital 58 100% June 2014 27 2016
Notes
(i)  Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Consort Healthcare (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary) Ltd, 
Consort Healthcare (Fife) Ltd and Balfour Beatty Healthcare (Irvine) Ltd which are registered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 159 41 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK continued
Schools
Summary Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in eight schools projects to design, build or refurbish schools and to 
provide certain non-educational services over the concession period under the UK Government Building Schools for the Future (BSF) 
programme.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the local authority 
that provides for an inflation-indexed payment based upon availability subject to any performance related deductions. For projects other 
than Aura Newcastle Ltd, construction was subcontracted to construction joint ventures of Balfour Beatty subsidiaries. The payments 
for the facilities management services are repriced every five years. All assets transfer to the client at the end of the concession.
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Aura Newcastle Ltd BSF 47 20% July 2007 25 2012
Transform Islington Ltd (ii) BSF 77 80% July 2008 26 2013
4 Futures Ltd (ii) BSF 70 80% May 2009 26 2014
Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton LEP Ltd (ii) BSF 85 80% January 2010 25 2011
Derby City BSF Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF 39 80% December 2010 25 2012
Future Ealing Ltd (ii) BSF 36 80% December 2010 25 2012
Oldham Education Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF 40 90% December 2010 25 2012
Hertfordshire Schools Building Partnership Ltd (ii) BSF 55 80% January 2011 25 2012
Notes
(i)   Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales. 
(ii)   Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the 
financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control this company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Other concessions 
Summary Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd (PCDL) has a 25-year contract with the Environment Agency to maintain a shingle bank  
sea defence in East Sussex. Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd has a contract to design, build and finance the Institute of Technical 
Education (ITE) College West in Singapore and provide long term facilities management services for the remainder of the 27-year 
project. Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd is contracted to design, construct, fund and provide facilities for 16 community fire 
stations in Merseyside, Cumbria and Lancashire. UBB Waste (Essex) Ltd has a 28-year PPP contract to design, build and operate a new 
sustainable waste treatment facility for Essex County Council and Southend-on-Sea Borough Council. UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) Ltd 
has a 28-year PPP contract to design, build and operate a new sustainable waste treatment facility for Gloucestershire County Council. 
Holyrood Student Accommodation involves the design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of a 1,153 bed student 
accommodation facility in the centre of Edinburgh. Aberystwyth Student Accommodation involves the design, construction, operation 
and maintenance of a 1,000 bed student accommodation facility adjacent to the Penglais Campus of Aberystwyth University. Greater 
Gabbard involves the operation of transmission assets of the Greater Gabbard offshore wind farm project located off the Sussex coast, 
as part of the Offshore Transmission Owners (OFTO) regulatory regime. Thanet involves the operation of transmission assets of the 
Greater Gabbard offshore wind farm project located off the Kent coast. Birmingham Bio Power involves the design, construction, 
financing, operation and maintenance of a 9.3MW waste wood gasifier located at Tyseley Energy Park, Birmingham. Wollongong 
Student Accommodation involves the finance, design, construction and operation of new and existing student accommodation for  
the University of Wollongong, Australia. 
Contractual arrangements PCDL’s principal contract is the flood defence services agreement with the Environment Agency that 
provides for an inflation-indexed payment subject to any performance related deductions. For the Singapore project, the principal 
agreement is the project agreement with the ITE of Singapore that provides for an inflation-indexed availability based payment subject  
to any performance deductions. Construction is subcontracted to Gammon Pte Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Gammon China Ltd  
in which the Group has a 50% interest. The facilities management services under the ITE agreement are provided by a third party. The 
principal contract for Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd is the project agreement between the concession company and Cumbria 
County Council, Lancashire Combined Fire Authority and Merseyside Fire and Rescue Authority. This agreement provides for an 
inflation-indexed payment based upon availability subject to any performance related deductions. Construction is subcontracted to 
Balfour Beatty subsidiaries. The principal contract for UBB Waste (Essex) Ltd is the project agreement between the concession 
company, Essex County Council and Southend-on-Sea Borough Council. This agreement provides for an inflation-indexed payment 
linked to both the availability of the plant and waste processed. Construction services are subcontracted to a joint venture in which the 
Group has a 30% interest and operations are subcontracted to a subsidiary of the other shareholder. There are no provisions to reprice 
contracts and all assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession. The principal contract for UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) 
Ltd is the project agreement between the concession company and Gloucestershire County Council. This agreement provides for an 
inflation-indexed payment linked to both the availability of the plant and waste processed. At Edinburgh Holyrood the unitary payment is 
based upon fluctuations in rental demand and subject to any performance related deductions and construction is contracted to a Balfour 
Beatty subsidiary. At Aberystwyth the unitary payment is based upon availability subject to any performance related deductions and 
construction is contracted to a Balfour Beatty subsidiary. Greater Gabbard and Thanet OFTOs will operate and maintain the transmission 
assets under the terms of a perpetual licence granted by Ofgem which contains the right to be paid a revenue stream over a 20-year 
period on an availability basis. On Birmingham Bio Power, construction is contracted outside of the Group. At Wollongong Student 
Accommodation the unitary payment is based partially upon rental demand and partially upon availability. 
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
160 41 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK continued
Other concessions continued
Concession company (i) Project
Total debt 
and equity
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd Sea defences 3 25% July 2000 25 n/a
Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd Technical education college 100 50% August 2008 27 2010
Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd Fire stations 55 100% February 2011 25 2013
UBB Waste (Essex) Ltd Waste processing plant 146 30% May 2012 28 2015
UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) Ltd Waste processing plant 209 49.5% February 2013 28 2017
Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd Student accommodation 82 100% July 2013 50 2016
Aberystwyth Student Accommodation Ltd Student accommodation 51 100% July 2013 35 2015
Greater Gabbard OFTO Ltd Offshore transmission 351 33.3% November 2013 20 n/a
Thanet OFTO Ltd Offshore transmission 197 100% December 2014 20 n/a
Birmingham Bio Power Ltd Waste wood gasifier 53 37.5% December 2013 n/a n/a
Living and Learning Unit Trust Student accommodation in 
Wollongong, Australia 144 50% December 2014 34 2017
Notes
(i)  Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Gammon Capital (West) Pte Ltd which is registered  
in and conducts its principal operations in Singapore and Living and Learning Unit Trust which is registered in and conducts its principal operations in Australia.
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America
Military housing 
Summary Balfour Beatty through its subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities LLC is a manager, developer, and investor in a number of 
US military privatisation projects associated with a total of 55 US government military bases which includes 55 military family housing 
communities and one unaccompanied personnel housing community that are expected to contain approximately 42,800 housing units 
once development, construction and renovation are complete.
The projects comprise 11 military family housing privatisation projects with the United States Department of the Army (Army), seven 
projects with the United States Department of the Air Force (Air Force) and two projects with the United States Department of the  
Navy (Navy). In addition, there is one unaccompanied personnel housing (UPH) project with the Army at Fort Stewart. 
Contractual arrangements The first phase of the project, known as the initial development period, covers the period of initial 
construction or renovation of military housing on a base, typically lasting three to eight years. With respect to Army and Navy projects, 
the government becomes a member or partner of the project entity (Project LLC); the Air Force is not a named partner or member in 
Balfour Beatty Communities’ Project LLCs, however it contributes a commitment to provide a government direct loan to the Project LLC 
and has similar rights to share in distributions and cash flows of the Project LLC. On each project, the Project LLC enters into a ground 
lease with the government, which provides the Project LLC with a leasehold interest in the land and title to the improvements on the 
land for a period of 50 years. Each of these military housing privatisation projects includes agreements covering the management, 
renovation, and development of existing housing units, as well as the development, construction, renovation and management of new 
units during the term of the project, which, in the case of the Army, could potentially extend for up to an additional 25 years. The 50-year 
duration of each project calls for continuous renovation, rehabilitation, demolition and reconstruction of housing units. At the end of the 
ground lease term the Project LLC’s leasehold interest terminates and all project improvements on the land generally transfer to the 
government.
Preferred returns The projects will typically receive, to the extent that adequate funds are available, an annual minimum preferred  
rate of return. On most existing projects, this annual minimum preferred rate of return ranges from 9% to 12% of Balfour Beatty 
Communities’ initial equity contribution to the project. During the initial development period, the project is precluded from distributing 
funds to pay the minimum preferred rate of return. The unpaid amounts will generally accrue and accumulate, and can be used to fund 
renovation and construction costs, if necessary. If the accumulated funds are not needed to fund renovation and construction costs,  
at the end of the initial development period they are distributed to pay accrued preferred returns to Balfour Beatty Communities and  
the government in accordance with the terms of the project agreements.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 161 41 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued
Military housing continued 
Allocation of remaining operating cash flows Subsequent to the initial development period, any operating cash flow remaining after 
the annual minimum preferred rate of return is paid is shared between Balfour Beatty Communities and the reinvestment account held 
by the project for the benefit of the government. On most of the existing projects, the total amount that Balfour Beatty Communities  
is entitled to receive (inclusive of the preferred return) is generally capped at an annual modified rate of return, or cash-on-cash return,  
on its initial equity contribution to the project. Historically, these caps have ranged between approximately 9% to 18% depending on the 
particular project and the type of return (annual modified rates of return or cash-on-cash). However, in some of the more recent projects, 
there are either no annual caps or lower projected annual rates of return. The total capped return generally will include the annual 
minimum preferred return discussed above. The reinvestment account is an account established for the benefit of the military, but funds  
may be withdrawn for construction, development and renovation costs during the remaining life of a privatisation project upon approval  
by the applicable military service.
Return of equity Generally, at the end of a project term, any monies remaining in the reinvestment account are distributed to Balfour 
Beatty Communities and the Army, Navy or Air Force, in a predetermined order of priority. Typically these distributions will have the 
effect of providing the parties with sufficient funds to provide a minimum annual return over the life of the project and a complete return 
of the initial capital contribution. After payment of the minimum annual return and the return of a party’s initial contribution, all remaining 
funds will typically be distributed to the applicable military service.
Military concession company (i)(ii) Projects
Total project
funding 
£m Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Military family housing
Fort Carson Family Housing LLC Army base 113 November 2003 46 2004
– Fort Carson expansion 84 November 2006 43 2010
– Fort Carson GTA expansion 63 April 2010 39 2013
Stewart Hunter Housing LLC Two Army bases 240 November 2003 50 2012
Fort Hamilton Housing LLC Army base 39 June 2004 50 2009
Fort Detrick/Walter Reed Army Medical Center 
Housing LLC Two Army bases 71 July 2004 50 2008
Northeast Housing LLC Seven Navy bases 318 November 2004 50 2010
Fort Eustis/Fort Story Housing LLC Two Army bases 112 March 2005 50 2011
– Fort Eustis expansion 5 July 2010 45 2011
– Fort Eustis – Marseilles Village 17 March 2013 42 2015
Fort Bliss/White Sands Missile Range Housing LP Two Army bases 274 July 2005 50 2011
– Fort Bliss expansion 31 December 2009 46 2011
– Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase I 105 July 2011 44 2014
– Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase II 94 November 2012 43 2016
Fort Gordon Housing LLC Army base 70 May 2006 50 2012
Carlisle/Picatinny Family Housing LP Two Army bases 54 July 2006 50 2011
– Carlisle Heritage Heights phase II 14 October 2012 44 2014
AETC Housing LP Four Air Force bases 230 February 2007 50 2012
Southeast Housing LLC 11 Navy bases 357 November 2007 50 2013
Vandenberg Housing LP Air Force base 99 November 2007 50 2012
Leonard Wood Family Communities LLC Army base 148 Acquired June 2008 47 2014
AMC West Housing LP Three Air Force bases 282 July 2008 50 2015
West Point Housing LLC Army base 141 August 2008 50 2016
Fort Jackson Housing LLC Army base 116 October 2008 50 2013
Lackland Family Housing LLC Air Force base 67 Acquired December 2008 50 2013
Western Group Housing LP Four Air Force bases 211 March 2012 50 2017
Northern Group Housing LP Six Air Force bases 276 August 2013 50 2019
ACC Group Housing LLC Two Air Force bases 37 June 2014 50 2018
Military unaccompanied personnel housing 
Stewart Hunter Housing LLC 23 January 2008 50 2010
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
(ii) The share of results of the military housing joint ventures of Balfour Beatty Communities is limited to a pre-agreed preferred return on funds invested.
The Group evaluated each of its interests in the military housing projects to determine if the associated entities should be consolidated. 
This analysis included, but was not limited to, identifying the activities that most significantly impact an entity’s economic performance, 
which party or parties control those activities and the risks associated with these entities. Decision making power over key facets of  
the contracts were evaluated when determining which party or parties had control over the activities that most significantly impacted  
a project’s economics. Based on this review, the Company determined that it did not have the power to direct these activities and does 
not have control and therefore does not consolidate the military housing projects.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
162 41 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued
Hospitals 
Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in two hospital projects in Canada.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession companies and the authorities.  
An inflation-indexed payment is primarily based upon availability of the hospital subject to any performance related deductions. The 
construction services for the BC Children’s and BC Women’s Hospital project were subcontracted to a joint venture in which the Group 
has a 50% participation and the facilities maintenance services were subcontracted to a joint venture in which the Group also has a 50% 
participation. The soft facilities management services at North Island Hospital were subcontracted to a Group company and the hard 
facilities management services were subcontracted to a third party. The payments for the soft facilities management services, at both 
projects, are initially market adjusted after the third year of operations and then every six years thereafter. All assets transfer to the 
authorities at the end of the concession.
Hospitals (i) Project
Total project
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Affinity Partnerships (ii) 
BC Children and BC Women’s 
Hospital 248 70% April 2014 33 2017
THP Partnerships (ii) North Island Hospital 279 50% June 2014 32 2017
Notes
(i) Registered in the Province of Manitoba in Canada and the principal operations of each project are conducted in British Columbia, Canada.
(ii) Balfour Beatty has joint control over the above projects through unanimous consent over all significant operating and financing decisions, and therefore does not 
consolidate these projects.
Residential investments 
Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in a multifamily residential project.
Contractual arrangements Balfour Beatty formed a joint venture to purchase a 152 unit residential apartment building in Lady Lake, 
Florida. The joint venture entered into an agreement with Balfour Beatty Communities LLC to manage the operations and renovation 
work.
Residential investments (i)
Total project
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Renovation 
completion
Carmendy Square 9 45% September 2014 n/a 2016
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in Florida, US.
Student accommodation
Summary Through its subsidiary, Balfour Beatty Campus Solutions LLC, Balfour Beatty is a manager on one student accommodation 
project, where it acted as a developer and until December 2012 as a bond investor, and is a developer and owner of two additional 
student accommodation projects. 
Contractual arrangements The principal contract in the Florida Atlantic University project is the property management agreement 
with the state university setting out the obligations for the operation and maintenance of the student accommodation. The principal 
contracts in the other two student accommodation projects where Balfour Beatty is an owner are the ground leases, development 
leases and operating agreements with the state universities setting out the obligations for the construction, operation and maintenance  
of the student accommodation including lifecycle replacement during the concession period.
Concession company (i)
Total project
funding 
£m Shareholding Financial close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
CBBC Management/CBBC Development (Florida) 64 (ii) March 2010 30 2011
Hawkeye Housing LLC (Iowa) 20 100% June 2013 41 2014
BCS UN Reno Housing LLC (Reno) 14 100% August 2013 43 2014
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
(ii) 50% holding in the management company. The Company held US$3m of bonds in the concession company until December 2012.
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 163 41 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES CONTINUED
(f) Balfour Beatty Investments UK and North America
Total future committed equity and debt funding for Infrastructure Investments’ project companies 
Concessions
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2017 
£m
2018 
onwards 
£m
Total 
£m
UK
Roads 6 11 – 20 37
Hospitals – 5 – – 5
Student accommodation 14 1 – – 15
Other UK 36 3 – 21 60
56 20 – 41 117
North America
Military housing – 2 – – 2
Social infrastructure – – 2 4 6
Hospitals – 1 17 – 18
– 3 19 4 26
56 23 19 45 143
Projects at financial close 28 23 17 41 109
Projects at preferred bidder stage 28 – 2 4 34
Total 56 23 19 45 143
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
164 2014 
£m
2013
2,3,4
£m
2012
2,3,4
 
£m
2011
2,3,4
£m
2010
2,3,4
£m
Income
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 8,793 8,852 8,681 8,842 7,842
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates (1,529) (1,364) (1,301) (1,420) (1,082)
Group revenue from continuing operations 7,264 7,488 7,380 7,422 6,760
Underlying (loss)/profit from continuing operations (58) 146 188 212 197
Underlying net finance costs (22) (15) (6) (14) (24)
Underlying (loss)/profit before taxation (80) 131 182 198 173
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (11) (17) (20) (27) (30)
Other non-underlying items (213) (163) (159) (21) 4
Profit from continuing operations before taxation (304) (49) 3 150 147
Taxation on profit from continuing operations 3 (4) (6) (30) (30)
Profit from continuing operations after taxation (301) (53) (3) 120 117
Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations after taxation 242 18 38 53 19
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders (59) (35) 35 173 136
Capital employed
Equity holders’ funds 1,227 1,033 1,310 1,259 1,156
Liability component of preference shares 96 94 92 91 89
Net borrowings –  infrastructure concessions 445 354 368 332 270
Net (cash)/borrowings – other (219) 66 (35) (340) (518)
 1,549 1,547 1,735 1,342 997
2014 
Pence
2013 
Pence
2012 
Pence
2011 
Pence
2010 
Pence
Statistics
Underlying earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations
*
(11.5) 15.3 23.6 22.0 28.0
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (43.9) (7.5) (0.3) 17.5 25.6
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (43.9) (7.5) (0.3) 17.5 25.6
Proposed dividends per ordinary share 5.6 14.1 14.1 13.8 12.7
Underlying (loss)/profit from continuing operations before net finance costs 
including share of joint ventures and associates  
as a percentage of revenue including share of joint ventures and associates (0.7)% 1.6% 2.2% 2.4% 2.5%
Notes
*  Underlying earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations have been disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance.
2
 Prior years 2010-2013 have been re-presented to classify Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy as discontinued operations (Notes 12 and 38).
3
  Prior years 2010-2013 have been re-presented to include the results of Rail Germany, which no longer meets the definition of a discontinued operation, as non-underlying   
items within continuing operations (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
4
 Prior years 2010-2013 have been re-presented to show the results of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts as non-underlying items (Notes 2.2, 2.11 and 10).
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 165
UNAUDITED GROUP FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY Financial calendar
2015
14 May Annual General Meeting
21 May Ex-dividend date for July 2015 preference dividend
22 May July 2015 preference dividend record date
3 July Preference dividend payable
12 August* Announcement of 2015 half-year results
*
 Provisional date.
International payment service
Shareholders outside the UK may elect  
to receive dividends direct into their 
overseas bank account, or by currency 
draft, instead of by sterling cheque.  
For further information, contact the 
Company’s Registrars on +44 20 8639 
3405 (from outside the UK) or 0871 664 
0385 from the UK (calls cost 10p per 
minute plus network extras). Lines  
are open Monday to Friday 9.00 am to 
5.30 pm, UK time. Alternatively, you can 
log on to www.balfourbeatty-shares.com 
and click on the link for International 
Payment Service.
Shareholder information on the 
internet and electronic 
communications
Our website www.balfourbeatty.com 
provides a range of information about  
the Company, our people and businesses 
and our policies on corporate governance 
and corporate responsibility. It should be 
regarded as your first point of reference  
for information on any of these matters. 
The share price can also be found there. 
You can create a Share Portal account, 
through which you will be able to access  
the full range of online shareholder 
services, including the ability to: view  
your holdings and indicative share price 
and valuation; view movements on your 
holdings and your dividend payment 
history; register a dividend mandate  
to have your dividends paid directly  
into your bank account; change your 
registered address; sign up to receive 
e-communications or access the online 
proxy voting facility; and download  
and print shareholder forms.
The Share Portal is easy to use. Please 
visit www.balfourbeatty-shares.com. 
Alternatively, you can email:  
shareportal@capita.co.uk.
Unsolicited telephone calls
In the past, some of our shareholders have 
received unsolicited telephone calls or 
correspondence concerning investment 
matters from organisations or persons 
claiming or implying that they have some 
connection with the Company. These are 
typically from overseas based “brokers” 
who target UK shareholders offering to sell 
them what often turn out to be worthless 
or high-risk shares in UK or overseas 
investments. Shareholders are advised  
to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, 
offers to buy shares at a discount or  
offers of free reports on the Company. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment 
advice:
• always ensure the firm is on the  
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Register and is allowed to give financial 
advice before handing over your money. 
You can check via http://www.fsa.gov.
uk/register/home.do
• double-check the caller is from the firm 
they say they are – ask for their name 
and telephone number and say you will 
call them back. Check their identity by 
calling the firm using the contact 
number listed on the FCA Register. If 
there are no contact details on the FCA 
Register or you are told that they are out 
of date, or if you have any other doubts, 
call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 
0800 111 6768 
• check the FCA’s list of known 
unauthorised overseas firms at http://
www.fca.org.uk. However, these firms 
change names regularly, so even if a 
firm is not listed, it does not mean they 
are legitimate. Always check that they 
are listed on the FCA Register 
• if you are approached about a share 
scam, you should inform the FCA using 
the share fraud reporting form at  
www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams/
report-scam/share-fraud-form, where 
you can also find out about the latest 
investment scams or alternatively, you 
can call the FCA Consumer Helpline 
(see above). If you use an unauthorised 
firm to buy or sell shares or other 
investments, you will not have access  
to the Financial Ombudsman Service  
or be eligible to receive payment under 
the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme if things go wrong 
Registrars
All administrative enquiries relating to 
shareholdings and requests to receive 
corporate documents by email should,  
in the first instance, be directed to the 
Company’s Registrars and clearly state 
your registered address and, if available, 
your shareholder reference number. 
Please write to:
Capita Asset Services, The Registry,  
34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent 
BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from 
the UK (calls cost 10p per minute plus 
network extras) and +44 20 8639 3399 
from outside the UK (Monday to Friday 
9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time). 
Alternatively, you can email: 
Shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk.
They can help you to: check your 
shareholding; register a change of address 
or name; obtain a replacement dividend 
cheque or tax voucher; record the death  
of a shareholder.
Dividends and dividend  
reinvestment plan
Dividends may be paid directly into your 
bank or building society account through 
the Bankers Automated Clearing System 
(BACS). The Registrars can provide  
a dividend mandate form. A dividend 
reinvestment plan (DRIP) is offered which 
allows holders of ordinary shares to 
reinvest their cash dividends in the 
Company’s shares through a specially 
arranged share dealing service. Full details 
of the DRIP and its charges, together 
with mandate forms, are available at 
www.balfourbeatty-shares.com.
166
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION • you should also report any approach 
to Action Fraud, who are the UK’s 
national fraud reporting centre at  
www.actionfraud.police.uk, or by  
calling 0300 123 2040.
Gifting shares to your family  
or to charity
To transfer shares to another member  
of your family as a gift, please ask the 
Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer 
form. Alternatively, if you only have a small 
number of shares whose value makes it 
uneconomic to sell them, you may wish  
to consider donating them to the share 
donation charity ShareGift (registered 
charity no. 1052686), whose work 
Balfour Beatty supports. 
Any shares you donate to ShareGift will be 
aggregated, sold when possible, and the 
proceeds will be donated to a wide range 
of other UK charities. Since ShareGift was 
launched, over £18m has been given to 
more than 2,000 charities. 
The relevant share transfer form may be 
obtained from the Registrars. For more 
information visit www.sharegift.org.
Share dealing services
Capita Share Dealing Services (a trading 
name of Capita IRG Trustees Limited) 
provide a telephone and online share 
dealing service for UK and EEA resident 
shareholders. To use this service, 
telephone: 0871 664 0364 from the UK 
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
extras) and +44 20 3367 2686 from 
outside the UK (Monday to Friday 8.00 am 
to 4.30 pm, UK time). Alternatively, you 
can log on to www.capitadeal.com.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited is authorised 
and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and is also authorised to conduct 
cross-border business within the EEA 
under the provisions of the EU Markets  
in Financial Instruments Directive.
London Stock Exchange Codes
The London Stock Exchange Daily Official 
List (SEDOL) codes are: Ordinary shares: 
0096162. Preference shares: 0097820.
The London Stock Exchange ticker codes 
are: Ordinary shares: BBY; Preference 
shares: BBYB.
Capital gains tax (CGT)
For CGT purposes the market value on 
31 March 1982 of Balfour Beatty plc’s 
ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p 
per share. This has been adjusted for the 
1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, the 2 for 
11 rights issue in September 1996 and  
the 3 for 7 rights issue in October 2009 
and assumes that all rights have been 
taken up. 
Consolidated tax vouchers
Balfour Beatty issues a consolidated tax 
voucher annually to all shareholders who 
have their dividends paid direct to their 
bank accounts. If you would prefer to 
receive a tax voucher at each dividend 
payment date rather than annually, please 
contact the Registrars. A copy of the 
consolidated tax voucher may be 
downloaded from the Share Portal at 
www.balfourbeatty-shares.com.
Enquiries
Enquiries relating to Balfour Beatty’s 
results, business and financial position 
should be made in writing to the Corporate 
Communications Department at the 
address shown below or by email to  
info@balfourbeatty.com.
Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 
130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ 
Registered in England Number 395826
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 167
balfourbeatty.com/AR2014 Forward-looking statements
This document may include certain 
forward-looking statements, beliefs or 
opinions, including statements with 
respect to Balfour Beatty plc’s business, 
financial condition and results of 
operations. These forward-looking 
statements can be identified by the use 
of forward-looking terminology, including 
the terms ‘believes’, ‘estimates’, ‘plans’, 
‘anticipates’, ‘targets’, ‘aims’, ‘continues’, 
‘expects’, ‘intends’, ‘hopes’, ‘may’, ‘will’, 
‘would’, ‘could’ or ‘should’ or in each 
case, their negative or other various 
or comparable terminology. These 
statements are made by the Balfour 
Beatty plc Directors in good faith based 
on the information available to them at  
the date of this report and reflect the 
Balfour Beatty plc Directors’ beliefs and 
expectations. By their nature these 
statements involve risk and uncertainty 
because they relate to events and depend 
on circumstances that may or may not 
occur in the future. A number of factors 
could cause actual results and 
developments to differ materially from 
those expressed or implied by the 
forward-looking statements, including, 
without limitation, developments in the 
global economy, changes in UK and US 
government policies, spending and 
procurement methodologies, failure  
in Balfour Beatty’s health, safety or 
environmental policies and those  
factors set out under ‘Principal Risks’  
on pages 31 to 35 of this document.
No representation or warranty is made 
that any of these statements or forecasts 
will come to pass or that any forecast 
results will be achieved. Forward-looking 
statements speak only as at the date of 
this document and Balfour Beatty plc  
and its advisers expressly disclaim any 
obligations or undertaking to release 
any update of, or revisions to, any 
forward-looking statements in this 
document. No statement in the document 
is intended to be, or intended to be 
construed as, a profit forecast or to be 
interpreted to mean that earnings per 
Balfour Beatty plc share for the current  
or future financial years will necessarily 
match or exceed the historical earnings 
per Balfour Beatty plc share. As a  
result, you are cautioned not to place  
any undue reliance on such forward-
looking statements.
Follow us on: 
Twitter
@balfourbeatty
LinkedIn
linkedin.com/company/balfour-beatty-plc
Facebook
facebook.com/balfourbeatty 
 
  
YouTube
youtube.com/BalfourBeattyPlc
Google+
plus.google.com/+BalfourBeattyBBplc
168
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Designed and produced by 
Printed in England by Pureprint
The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, of which 100% is de-inked post-consumer 
waste. All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process (ECF). Printed in the UK  
by Pureprint using its  and environmental printing technology, with vegetable inks 
used throughout. Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. Both the manufacturing mill and printer are 
registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 
(FSC) chain-of-custody certified. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
130 Wilton Road 
London SW1V 1LQ
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7216 6800 
Facsimile: +44 (0) 20 7216 6950
www.balfourbeatty.com 
Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
