 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Transforming  
homes
Annual report and accounts 2015 We are the destination brand for carpets, floors and beds. Because we’re 
the market leader in flooring, we can offer our customers the biggest and 
most inspiring choice to suit every stage of their life.  
We make quality affordable for everyone, with interest free credit, a price 
promise, transparent pricing and great deals.  Shopping with us is easy, 
enjoyable and convenient.  Our friendly team of experts are on hand to 
help at every step, from measuring up to delivery day and beyond. We can 
help every customer get the floor they want and transform their home.
Transforming  
homes
Group highlights
Over 
3,000
people
4
Countries
597
stores
Financial highlights
53 weeks 
ending 
2 May 2015
Pro forma 52 
weeks ending  
25 April 2015
2
52 weeks 
ending 
26 April 2014
Pro forma
52 weeks 
Change
Revenue £469.8m £462.6m £447.7m 3.3% 
Underlying profit before tax
1
£14.2m £13.0m £4.6m 182.6% 
Profit/(loss) before tax £6.6m £5.4m (£7.2m) 175.0% 
Underlying earnings per share
1
15.5p 13.7p 4.7p 191.5% 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 6.7p 5.0p (5.3p) – 
Dividend per share Nil Nil Nil – 
Operating cash flow £23.0m – £11.3m £11.7m
Carpetright plc operates through two reportable business segments: the UK and  
the Rest of Europe (comprising the Netherlands, Belgium and the Republic of Ireland). 
All references to Group represent the consolidation of these two segments.
1.  Where this report makes reference to ‘Underlying’, these relate to profit/earnings 
before exceptional items.
2.  For the UK and Republic of Ireland the 2015 accounting period represents trading  
for the 53 weeks to 2 May 2015 (the year). The comparative period 2014 represents 
trading for the 52 weeks to 26 April 2014 (the prior year). Where this reports makes 
reference to a 52 week basis 2015 it is the 52 weeks to 25 April 2015. This does 
not affect the Netherlands and Belgium which report on a calendar year basis with 
the 2015 accounting period ending 30 April 2015, the comparative period being the 
calendar year to 30 April 2014. All figures in this report are shown before exceptional 
items unless otherwise stated. Strategic report
Carpetright at a glance  IFC
Chairman’ s statement 2
Our business model 3
Our markets and trends 4
Chief Executive’ s Q&A 5
Our strategy 8
Strategic update 9
Financial review 12
Measuring our performance 17
Risk management 18
Principal risks and  
uncertainties 19
Corporate responsibility 20
Directors’ report
Board of Directors 22
Corporate governance 24
Audit Committee report 27
Directors’ remuneration  
report 31
Other information 49
Financial statements
Financial statements 54
Notes to the financial  
statements 58
Group five-year  
financial summary 89
Independent auditors’ report 90
Shareholder information
Calendar  96
Advisers  96
Chief Executive’s Q&A
Carpetright’ s CEO has been with the 
business almost twelve months and 
discusses his thoughts on the business. 
Strategic update
Read about our strategic plans for  
the business.
Financial review
Neil Page, Group Finance Director, outlines 
the financial achievements of the year.
See page 5 for more detail >
More online
Increasing numbers of our shareholders 
are choosing to receive their annual  
report online. This report, along with  
our other announcements and stakeholder 
information, can be found on our corporate 
website www.carpetright.plc.uk.
www.carpetright.plc.uk
See page 9 for more detail > See page 12 for more detail >
Inside this report
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
1 Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
“ We believe that the strategic plan  
we are implementing will reshape 
Carpetright to ensure the business 
better capitalises on its market  
leading position.”
Earnings and dividend
T otal revenue for the year ended 2 May 
2015 increased by 4.9% (2014: £447.7m). 
Underlying profit before tax increased by 
208.7% to £14.2m (2014: £4.6m).  After 
the impact of exceptional items, profit 
before tax was £6.6m (2014: loss of £7.2m).  
Underlying earnings per share increased to 
15.5p (2014: 4.7p) and basic earnings per 
share was 6.7p (2014: loss of 5.3p).
The Board has decided not to pay a final 
dividend. In taking this decision, the Board 
has considered that whilst there has been 
an improvement in profitability during the 
year, the priority for the use of cash is to 
accelerate activity to reduce the fixed 
occupancy costs and to invest in the 
remaining stores to broaden the appeal  
of the brand.  That said, if we maintain  
our current progress the Board would  
look favourably on restoring the dividend  
in due course.
The Board
There have been a number of changes to 
the Board during the year .  The management 
team is led by the new CEO, Wilf Walsh, 
supported by an excellent team. They have 
begun the hard work of repositioning the 
business to better capitalise on its market 
leading position, to deliver the performance 
our shareholders expect and deserve.
During the year, Andrew Page took on  
the role of Senior Independent Director  
and Sandra Turner became the Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee.  David 
Clifford remains as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and, together, these three 
Board colleagues provide a strong team  
of Non-Executive Directors.  Further details 
of the Board’ s work can be found in the 
Directors’ report starting on page 22 of this 
Annual Report.
Our people
The Group is undergoing a period of 
significant change as we reposition the 
business.  On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to thank everyone who has worked for 
Carpetright over the past year. Working in 
our stores, distribution centre or support 
offices presents many challenges every 
day and we are grateful for the outstanding 
dedication and commitment of them all.
Summary and outlook 
After a difficult few years, it is pleasing to 
report these much improved results for  
the year, with growth in profits, strong and 
consistent like-for-like sales growth in the 
UK, a return to profit in the Rest of Europe 
and a net cash position at the end of  
the period.
We believe that the strategic plan we are 
implementing will reshape Carpetright to 
ensure the business better capitalises  
on its market leading position.  These 
changes will take time to take full effect  
but the initial signs are encouraging.   
We are absolutely focused on building  
on the recent improvement in the Group 
performance, as well as devoting our 
energies to revitalising our brand and 
operations. 
Bob Ivell
Chairman
Overview
This is my first Annual Report since being 
appointed Chairman of Carpetright in 
November 2014.  I am pleased to be able 
to report on a year of significant progress 
under the leadership of Wilf Walsh, following 
his appointment as Chief Executive Officer 
in July 2014.
The opportunity to revitalise Carpetright 
after a period of sustained economic 
turbulence is significant.  Wilf, with the 
support of his team, has begun to 
implement a strategy focused on 
broadening the appeal of the brand by 
placing greater emphasis on the unrivalled 
breadth and quality of our product range; 
the expertise of our colleagues; and the 
role floor coverings play in transforming  
our customers’ homes; while also retaining 
our well-established value heritage.
The strategic update on page 9 provides 
more details on this plan.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
2 Our business model
Our business model
As a retailer, we generate profit from the combination of driving top line sales volumes; optimising low cost sourcing; maintaining 
an efficient supply chain; and providing our customers with excellent service. This is delivered across a national network of stores 
in each of the countries we operate, supported by country-specific websites. The size of our operation means that we leverage 
advantages of scale and spread the cost of our back office functions.
Delivering  
value
We operate a state of the art cutting and 
distribution facility, where a significant 
proportion of customers’ orders are cut-to- 
measure and despatched to stores. These 
orders are generally delivered and fitted 
using one of our recommended independent 
fitters. The majority of the remaining orders 
are either purchased from stock in store, or 
ordered and delivered directly to customers’ 
homes by the manufacturer. 
The majority of beds are delivered 
directly by the manufacturer, 
minimising handling and 
freight costs whilst 
maximising speed of 
delivery and quality 
of service.
We employ over 3,000 colleagues in stores, 
depots and offices across the countries in which 
it trades. We seek to employ and retain ambitious, 
skilled individuals who are focused on delivering 
great customer service. 
We train our colleagues in both product 
knowledge and the skills required to carry  
out their jobs.
We offer a free estimating service, allowing 
customers to buy with confidence that the  
floor covering will fit the relevant room.
Carpetright approved fitters are all required  
to be independently assessed by the Flooring 
Industry Trade Association (FITA) before we  
will recommend them.
Our buying leverage creates value. The majority 
of our flooring products are sourced direct from 
suppliers from mainland Europe and the UK.  
Our branded beds are sourced from well  
known and respected UK-based suppliers. 
We work in coordination with our suppliers to 
design and engineer product ranges that provide 
customers with a comprehensive product choice 
at the keenest of prices, whilst ensuring that 
suppliers adhere to strict ethical trading practices, 
such as sourcing wood flooring products from 
sustainable sources.
Sales are driven through a combination of  
our reputation in the market; advertising; the  
use of promotional activity; and maximising 
market penetration through our national  
networks of stores.
Our websites give customers the opportunity  
to conduct pre-purchase research on our  
ranges and prices; and request samples  
and estimator visits.
Value creation
Sales
Sourcing
Service
Supply chain
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
3 The period of sustained economic 
uncertainty has been especially challenging 
for the floor coverings sector in the UK, 
with near stagnant housing markets,  
fragile consumer confidence and shoppers 
deferring big ticket purchases. These 
factors combined have had a significant 
impact, with consumer spending in this 
market contracting almost 30% over the 
past five years.
Our market is highly fragmented, with 
approximately 4,000 floor covering 
businesses. Current estimates place the 
UK market at £1.7bn per annum for the 
calendar year to December 2014, placing 
ourselves as the market leader with a share 
of around 25%. 
The nature of our product means that the 
vast majority of customers prefer to visit  
a store to make their purchase, to give 
them the opportunity to see and touch 
their choice of floor covering. However,  
the internet is playing an ever-increasing 
role in pre-purchase behaviour, becoming 
a vital research tool for many customers, 
and the rapid growth of smart phone and 
tablet use also underlines the importance 
of having an effective and integrated  
digital proposition. 
Within our operations in the Rest of 
Europe, the businesses in the Netherlands 
and Belgium have faced tough trading 
conditions. Since 2011, there has been a 
prolonged period of consumer uncertainty, 
a weak economic environment and the 
impact of government austerity measures.
In the Republic of Ireland, the downturn in 
consumer demand since 2007 has been 
severe and well documented.
It is, however, encouraging to see early 
signs that our markets appear to be 
stabilising following a period of significant 
economic turbulence.
In our UK business, beds provide an 
important complementary revenue stream 
to our core floor coverings offer and we 
believe this category has significant further 
growth potential. The total beds and 
bedding market is estimated at £3.2bn  
and our market penetration, whilst low,  
is growing steadily as we establish our 
credentials in this competitive sector.
Strategic report continued
Our markets and trends
“ Our markets appear to be stabilising following 
a period of significant economic turbulence.”
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
4 Transforming  
homes
Q. Y ou’ve now been CEO 
for almost a year – has what 
you’ve seen on the inside of the 
business matched your original 
expectations?
A. Yes. The quality and enthusiasm of the 
people who work here primarily and the 
fact that the business has an opportunity 
to build on our popularity with customers 
much more effectively.
Q. What have you changed  
in the period you have been  
in post?
A. It’ s a team effort but apart from who we 
are, what we sell, how we sell it and where 
we sell it – not much actually! We  have 
been working hard on re-engineering all 
aspects of the customer offer and really 
ensuring that the journey from researching 
us online to having the product fitted in 
your home is better than the competition 
every step of the way.
Q. What can you tell us about 
your first 100 days?
A. Like being at a new school really, but 
mainly listening and learning about how 
this business works. The key is trying to 
look at it from a customer’ s point of view 
which, given my lack of relative experience 
in this market, was fairly easy for me.  
On the positive side, I have been able  
to come into the job with no previous 
baggage and a completely open mind.
Q. What were your initial 
priorities when you came  
on board last July?
A. T o inject some stability into the business 
after a fairly fraught few years littered with 
profit warnings and senior management 
changes. T o restore confidence and to 
develop a clear, unequivocal strategy that 
colleagues could identify with and that 
customers would respond to positively.
 
“ We have been working hard  
on re-engineering all aspects  
of the customer offer and really 
ensuring that the journey from 
researching us online to having  
the product fitted in your home  
is better than the competition  
every step of the way.”
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s Q&A
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
5 Strategic report continued
Chief Executive’ s Q&A continued
Q. The Group’ s performance 
improved significantly last  
year – which factors contributed 
to the turnaround?
A. Sheer hard work and we have only 
scratched the surface. We identified a clear 
strategy based around Choice, Experience, 
Value and Convenience and all our activities 
have been geared around this – giving the 
customer the right ranges, at the best 
prices with great customer service.  
People often try to make shop keeping 
complicated which is a big mistake.
Q. What will the business 
do this year to build on this 
momentum?
A. There is a lot going on but the biggest 
areas for change will be around our total 
floor covering offering – we are testing a 
whole new range of products especially in 
the non-carpet area as we drive to be the 
customer’ s number one flooring destination 
of choice. We are also opening our four 
new test stores over the summer – we are 
testing a new logo, new ranges, fixtures 
and fittings, which is all very exciting.
Q. Looking at operating 
performance in 2015, what 
stands out for you?
A. Well, ultimately it’ s all down to the 
numbers and you hope that like-for-like 
sales growth in the UK of 7.3% and a Group 
profit increase of 208.7% speaks for itself. 
Importantly, the reaction of our colleagues, 
some of them very long serving, to the 
changes we have introduced has been 
very positive. We have also enjoyed a 
stellar performance in our beds category, 
which is driving both footfall and profit.
Q. Y ou conducted a strategic 
review of the business – what 
were the key conclusions and 
what are the implications for 
Carpetright’ s future direction?
A. The business wasn’t broken and still 
had a leading market share. The issue was 
that customer expectations had moved on 
and overtaken where Carpetright was and 
we are now addressing this. For instance 
Value is a key pillar of our offer, but we had 
been running too many heavily discounted 
deals in the 60% and 70% range which 
was devaluing our brand and switching  
off customers who are motivated by other 
criteria such as service or availability of the 
highest quality ranges.
We introduced interest free credit very 
successfully and this, along with our “Price 
Promise” (never beaten on price), and the 
promotion of the day should ensure we 
have a clear proposition for the consumer 
when it comes to Value.
Q. There’ s a sense that 
Carpetright needs to  
modernise its stores –  
what needs to be done? 
A. A store modernisation programme has 
been underway for some time – over 300 
stores have been refitted – but this needs 
to be bolder far-reaching, rather than 
incremental.  Our aim is to broaden the 
appeal of the brand and attract new 
customers that would not have previously 
considered shopping with us, without 
alienating our loyal existing customer base.
Our stores need revitalising, with a new 
more contemporary feel that’ s more in-tune 
with today’ s retail market and we need to 
make buying floor coverings a hassle-free 
experience, eliminating those elements  
of the process that customers tell us they 
find confusing or irritating.  We’re trialling 
some new ideas in four stores in and 
around London and the lessons learnt  
from this programme will used to shape 
the development of a new store format 
which will be rolled out across our UK estate.
We also need to look at the size and  
shape of our store portfolio to make  
sure it’ s appropriate for the current market.  
Given today’ s customer does their research 
online and will drive a longer distance for 
the right deal, the need to have two or 
three Carpetright’ s in a single town, as we 
still do in some places, is clearly redundant 
and we’re addressing that.  We also have  
a small number of loss-makers and a 
number of stores that only make a small 
contribution and we need to tackle those 
with greater urgency.  On the flip side,  
there are still parts of the UK where we  
are under-represented which present  
the opportunity for new store openings.
Shopping habits have changed significantly 
over the last decade and Carpetright 
needs to make sure its stores have moved 
with them.
Q. Y ou’ve talked about plans 
to extend the appeal of the 
Carpetright brand – how will  
you achieve that?
A. Anybody who has seen our recent 
press and television advertising will have 
noted a “softening” of the message away 
from just price and an extended focus on 
home transformation without losing the 
Value message. We want to extend our 
appeal to all kinds of customers and we 
have previously under-indexed on higher 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
6 Q. The business is implementing change across a broad  
front, how quickly can you roll out these multiple initiatives  
and when will the results begin to become apparent?
A. It’ s started and we’re getting results now. For instance, customer service is 
absolutely central to the whole experience. Unlike other big ticket retailers, buying 
floor coverings has a whole raft of moving parts – someone comes into your home 
to measure up for instance and another one comes in to do the fitting. Making the 
whole process as painless as possible is key to our success.
I want to get more letters like this –
Dear Mr. Walsh, 
We recently visited your Erdington store and my expectations sank from the 
moment my wife saw the tartan carpet priced at over £50 a square metre.   
I used reason and the fact that neither of us is Scottish.  So we, naturally, 
ordered the Stewart carpet.
The chap who took our order was very polite and helpful but not in deterring 
my wife from spending over two thousand pounds on a sitting room carpet.
Your estimator came along to the house and was very professional and 
supportive but did not try very hard to put my wife off the tartan carpet.
The carpet was fitted today by two very professional and helpful chaps that 
kept telling us what a wise choice we had made which was annoying as they 
could have said, it didn’t fit or something.
T onight, we have a very beautiful carpet that my wife loves and has been 
complemented by both our daughters, friends, neighbours, etc.  In truth  
I like it but I’m not yet prepared to admit it.
In honesty, at £50 plus a square metre it is an expensive carpet but it looks 
great and is worth every penny.  My wife will, hopefully, feel guilty enough  
to agree to me spending a couple of days fly-fishing in Hampshire.  
Thank you, your company who have delivered in every way possible and 
provided excellent value for money.
I wish you and your company every success in the future and please pass 
on my compliments to your Erdington staff.
Richard Hornsby 
Birmingham
Obviously, I have received a few letters and emails pointing out some instances 
where the service has not been so glowing but I have chosen not to publish  
them here!
We have successfully rolled out the ‘Do We Measure Up?’ programme across the 
estate since the start of 2015. Since the start of this programme we have received 
over 70,000 emails from customers detailing their experience – it’ s essential 
information that allows us to tackle specific service issues as well as to continue  
our improvements in this area. Our overall scores are continuing to improve and it 
keeps colleagues focused on providing great service.
We have rolled out numerous initiatives successfully over the past few months, 
including Interest Free Credit, a completely refreshed Carpetright website, revised 
product ranges – the list goes on, but these are all things that both customer 
research and colleague feedback have told us we need to do.
A good example is Rugs – when I first looked at our choice and range and 
compared it to the competition it made me realise very quickly that on design and 
pricing we had some significant work to do. We have resolved that with a range 
that covers all price points and is creatively worthy of the market leader.
spend customers. Nonetheless, the 
message is clear – Carpetright is for all 
customers with a broad appeal and  
Value will always be central to our offer.
Q. What is your main strategic 
agenda as CEO?
A. T o reinforce our position as the market 
leader in floor coverings across all our 
territories.
Q. How will strategic success be 
defined in the next five years?
A. Increased market share, substantially 
increased profits and stronger brand 
approval ratings.
Q. What are the opportunities or 
catalysts for earnings growth?
A. Redressing our estate portfolio will be 
key – reducing the number of stores and 
getting our rent and rates bill down is 
essential. Other than that, it is doing the 
customer facing stuff extremely well.
Q. How about operations 
outside the UK?
A. Because of the economy and the legacy 
property portfolio, the Republic of Ireland  
is a challenge from a profit perspective. 
Nonetheless, recent significant double digit 
growth in LFL sales will go a long way to 
mitigating the problem. 
As for the Netherlands and Belgium,  
Nick Worthington and the team in Utrecht 
have done a great job managing costs  
and margin and have turned around a 
€4.4m loss last year into a €0.4m profit this 
year. We have also seen two consecutive 
quarters of LFL growth for the first time in a 
long time and we are extending a curtains 
and blinds trial in the Netherlands which 
looks like a sustainable profit opportunity.
Q. The Company’ s performance 
has suffered in recent years, are 
you optimistic for the future?
A. Extremely positive – I have a team  
of people around me who are absolutely 
focused and aligned on what we have to 
do. We need to get on the front foot and 
build on our popularity with customers. 
Nobody should be able to match our 
website, our comprehensive store 
coverage, our range, our prices or our 
customer service. It’ s a compelling offer, 
which when executed properly should be 
unbeatable – that’ s the plan.
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
7 Our objective
The Group’ s primary business objective is to maximise value for our 
shareholders by delivering long-term sustainable growth in earnings  
per share and cash flow.  We do this by focusing on our mission to  
help customers transform their homes by offering a comprehensive 
range of products at great value, supported by excellent customer 
service, accessed through an integrated multi-channel proposition. 
Our strategy
Choice
Bringing inspiration and 
breadth of choice to  
our range architecture.
Value
Delivering a “crystal clear” 
price proposition that is  
easy for both staff and 
customers to understand.
Experience
Promoting both online and 
in-store the quality of our 
services as a key added  
value benefit in “making it  
easy to transform your home”.
Convenience
Making it easy for customers 
to buy flooring and beds 
through an integrated 
multi-channel proposition.
Strategic report continued
Our strategy
People
T echnology
People
Brand
Customer
Choice
Convenience
Experience
Value
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
8 1. Revitalising the Carpetright brand
While Carpetright enjoys high brand awareness and a strong 
reputation for value within its core customer base, encouraging 
potential new customers to consider us when they shop for floor 
coverings requires a repositioning and updating of the brand.
Having completed a comprehensive review of our brand, sub 
brands, tone of voice and identity, work is well-progressed on the 
development of an updated brand positioning that is more in tune 
with the contemporary retail market.  
Key elements of this work include:
 – the introduction of new promotional messaging in 2015, with 
revised point-of-sale and advertising campaigns, which are 
dramatically different in style and message from the predominantly 
price-led theme adopted historically.  The early signs, evidenced 
by like-for-like sales growth, indicate that these changes have 
been embraced positively by customers and colleagues alike;
 – a trial of new retail concepts in four stores in and around 
London, beginning in July 2015.  Each store will trial an 
experimental shop fit that is a significant departure from  
existing stores, with new elements to inspire customers  
and encourage experimentation, sampling and discovery.  
The emphasis is on a smooth, dedicated service to customers 
that takes the pressure out of selection and purchase.  Lessons 
learnt from this trial will be used to shape the development  
of a new store format which will be rolled out in full, or in part, 
across our estate in due course; and
 – as part of the store trial we will be testing a new identity for  
the Carpetright brand. A new logo has been developed to  
give a more contemporary feel that will attract customer groups 
in which the business has previously under-indexed, without 
alienating our loyal existing customer base.
Overview
The opportunity to revitalise Carpetright after a period of sustained 
economic turbulence is significant.
At the time of the interim results in December 2014, we outlined 
the key themes of our strategic plan to update and reposition the 
business to extend Carpetright’ s consumer appeal and to ensure 
that it is better able to capitalise on its market leadership position.
Our focus during the second half has been on transferring this 
strategic intent into a broad-based operational plan, which 
translates each element into action.  We are pleased to report  
we have made strong progress across a range of initiatives, while 
simultaneously continuing to drive forward the trading performance 
of the Group.
At the heart of our strategic thinking is an opportunity to broaden 
the appeal of the brand by placing a greater emphasis on the 
unrivalled breadth and quality of our product range, the expertise 
of our colleagues, and the role floor coverings play in transforming 
our customers’ homes, while retaining our well-established value 
heritage.  Furthermore, in today’ s retail environment, where 
customers place a high value on convenience and speed, we 
need to make buying floor coverings a hassle-free experience, 
eliminating those elements of the process that can confuse or 
irritate the customer.
The strategic plan identified clear areas of focus which, together, 
will be critical in enhancing Carpetright’ s competitive position and 
delivering the turnaround of the business.  An update on progress 
to date with each element of the plan is provided below.
The key areas of focus are: 
1. Revitalising the Carpetright brand 
2. Unrivalled choice of floor coverings
3. Providing an outstanding customer experience
4. Unbeatable value 
5. Multi-channel convenience 
6. Managing the store portfolio 
“ The management team is fully galvanised 
behind a clear strategy to revitalise the 
brand and create value for all stakeholders.” 
Strategic update
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
9 Strategic report continued
Strategic update continued
2. Unrivalled choice of floor coverings
As market leader, we have has long offered the broadest range of 
carpets in the marketplace, including premium and specialist lines, 
but this capability to offer a full range of floor covering options is 
not universally recognised by our potential customer base.
T o address this, we are repositioning our ranges and adapting  
our sales process to move from a simple functional carpet sale  
to a more consultative approach which recognises our important 
role in helping customers transform their homes.  
Key initiatives include:
 – strengthening our in-house design/new product development 
teams, with a number of key appointments, to bring a more 
innovative, contemporary and inspiring approach to our  
range selection;
 – introducing competitive offers on premium, branded carpets, 
such as Brintons, Ulster and Westex, to broaden our customer 
appeal, and drive average transaction values and cash margins; 
 – repositioning our hard flooring selection in the UK, building on 
our extensive knowledge and success in continental Europe, 
where this product category makes up a much greater 
proportion of the sales mix.  A decision to lower price points in 
March 2015 generated incremental sales and profit, and we are 
introducing the market leading brands of Balterio, Kronospan 
and Quickstep to our range in Summer 2015, as well as testing 
re-engineered wood;
 – the introduction of an entirely new rug range, which is both 
contemporary in look and at a lower entry price point, has 
strengthened our competitive position in this market significantly, 
with very encouraging initial results; and
 – the development of a new carpet range in conjunction with 
House Beautiful Magazine, which is due to launch in Autumn 
2015.  We believe this kind of high profile brand collaboration 
has an important role to play in enhancing the design and home 
transformation credentials of the Carpetright brand.
3. Providing an outstanding customer experience
Customers’ expectations of service standards have risen 
significantly over the past decade and while independent data 
identified a significant improvement in our service performance  
in recent years, it also identified a need for greater consistency  
in this area.  The strategic plan puts the customer’ s needs at  
the heart of everything we do and the business is committed  
to making customer service a genuine point of sustained 
competitive advantage.  
Key initiatives undertaken to date include: 
 – the introduction of ‘Do We Measure Up?’ a new web-based 
customer service programme, across the entire UK store network 
in January 2015.  We are now receiving an average of 2,500 
reviews per week which enables each store to receive direct 
customer feedback on their shopping experience.  This 
important initiative is driving service standards higher and 
helping to improve our online customer ratings.  In the six 
months since the launch of the initiative in January 2015  
we have received over 70,000 individual customer reviews;
 – people form the essential element in the customer journey and 
feedback tells us that friendly, engaged and knowledgeable staff 
are key factors when customers make their purchasing decisions. 
We are investing in training programmes with a medium term 
plan to develop a Carpetright ‘Academy’ where all retail team 
members will receive the appropriate training in service and 
product knowledge to reinforce our position as the authoritative 
market leader; 
 – the business is investing £4.5m in a complete systems upgrade 
at store level to ensure quick, efficient order processing to make  
buying from us a smoother, hassle-free experience; 
 – the completion of plans to implement a web-based home 
appointment booking system for our estimators has made  
the service much more efficient for customers.  This service  
will be further enhanced by the introduction of a tablet PC-
based solution for the production of cutting plans during the 
next year; and
 – we have completed the development of a new debit/credit 
card-based payment system for use by our approved fitters in 
the UK, replacing the current outdated cash payment process.
4. Unbeatable value 
While we have a long-established and well-deserved reputation  
for value among our core customer base, the main customer 
proposition, with an absolute focus on price, has been unchanged 
for many years and the strategic review identified an opportunity  
to introduce some important changes to this.  However, ‘value’  
is an important part of our brand’ s heritage and will remain a key 
strategic pillar now and into the future.   
Key initiatives include:
 – a Group-wide review of discount levels, which resulted  
in a clearer and more consistent approach for customers;
 – the adoption of a more rounded execution of our value 
proposition, which recognised the importance of factors  
other than price in the consumers’ decision to purchase.   
This includes a focus on range authority and customer service;
 – the introduction of Interest Free Credit (“IFC”), which is a common 
feature across the home retail sector but which Carpetright had 
not offered historically.  IFC was rolled-out across our UK store 
base from Boxing Day 2014 and has been received very 
positively by our customers, enabling them to purchase the 
carpet, floor or bed they really love.  This has translated through 
to both higher sales and higher average transaction values; and
 – our now well established “Price Promise”, where customers can 
be confident that we will price match competitor deals on the 
same product.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
10 5. Multi-channel convenience 
While physical stores remain crucial in the flooring market,  
with almost all customers visiting a store at some point in  
their purchase journey, the additional convenience that digital 
technology can bring to the process is of growing importance.
While the ability to visit a store to touch and view the product  
and to obtain specialist advice prior to making a purchase remain 
critical, the internet has become a vital research tool for many 
customers and the rapid growth in the use of mobile devices has 
made an integrated multi-channel proposition a necessity.  With 
our extensive geographic coverage, we see an opportunity to 
leverage the accessibility of our store estate, combined with the 
strength of our marketing reach and supported by an inspirational 
website, as a key advantage when compared to the competition.  
Key areas of progress include:
 – an average of over 111,000 unique weekly visitors to our 
consumer website, a 27.6% increase on the prior year, with a 
corresponding rise in appointment leads and sample requests;
 – a further improvement in our conversion to sales ratio, through  
a call centre and improved follow-up at store level.  Sales from 
this combination of the call centre and an online capability have 
grown significantly during the year and are equivalent in turnover 
to one of our top ten retail stores;
 – investment in an updated and more inspirational website, 
launched at the end of April 2015, which reflects the new brand 
messaging discussed above and which has been successful  
in driving more customers from the website to our stores.   
The site has also been adapted for compatibility with mobile 
devices, which is crucial in a channel that continues to evolve  
at a rapid pace; and
 – inspirational, quirky and entertaining campaigns on Social Media 
that are topical and engage customers on all aspects of home 
design and improvement.
6. Managing the store portfolio 
While we have been implementing measures to optimise the size 
of its store estate for a number of years, these are being accelerated 
under the new strategic plan.  We are actively managing our store 
portfolio to reduce total square footage (but not necessarily store 
numbers); to eliminate store catchment overlap; improve the 
quality of the estate by relocating to better sites; and to reduce 
property costs, to ensure the retail base is better aligned with the 
needs of today’ s customers.
Key initiatives include:
 – at year-end 2015 we had 460 stores trading in the UK, opening 
12 stores and closing 24 during the year. This net reduction is 
primarily the result of completing the initial phase of the 
previously announced plan to eliminate stores with overlapping 
catchments.  We will continue to take advantage of similar 
opportunities.  In addition, we have negotiated exits from eight 
locations where we had onerous leases, removing us from all 
future liabilities associated with those properties;
 – we continue to take a robust view at lease renewal, which 
provides an opportunity to secure lower rents for future years.  
Within the next five years 27% of the UK estate has a lease 
renewal scheduled, providing further opportunity to reduce the 
fixed store operating costs.  By year-end 2015 the average 
length of lease had fallen to 7.1 years (2014: 7.7 years);
 – in the Rest of Europe we had 137 stores, opening three  
and closing eight during the year.  In line with the UK activity, 
discussions are being held with landlords in respect of lease 
renewals and this process is delivering rental reductions.   
The potential to secure reductions is generally dictated by the 
average length of lease remaining, with this being 3.1 years 
(2014: 3.2 years) in the Netherlands and 1.9 years (2014: 1.6 
years) in Belgium.  In the Republic of Ireland this period is 10.1 
years (2014: 11.2 years), reflecting the agreement of long term 
deals during the expansion into this market in the period from 
2001 to 2008;
 – following the strategic review and based on recent evidence, we 
have made a revised assessment for the unavoidable onerous 
lease costs for loss making stores, resulting in a £7.0m charge.  
This has been treated as an exceptional item; and 
 – by this time next year we anticipate being able to show the 
positive results of our accelerated property activity during 2015/16. 
Our target is a combination of a geographic store portfolio and a 
digital offer that provides a streamlined, cost effective solution to 
enable all customers to access the Carpetright brand. This will 
also include new store openings in locations where we are 
under-represented.
Outlook
Carpetright has endured a difficult period in the years since the 
onset of the financial crisis but retains the fundamentals of a 
leading retail business – high brand recognition, critical mass and  
a market leadership position.  Our task is to build on these strong 
foundations and modernise the Group to ensure it exploits these 
advantages to the full in the retail market of today.  
We have made an encouraging start, establishing a real momentum 
for change within the business which is invigorating.  While this is 
just the beginning of the journey to transform Carpetright, we have 
a clear direction and are already seeing positive results from a 
number of our initial activities which gives us confidence that we 
are on the right path.
T o that end I want to thank a number of people who have been 
invaluable in supporting me personally since July 2014. The newly 
constituted Board have been outstanding in backing the changes 
we have been making and my Operating Committee have worked 
long hours making the new strategy come to life – it is just 
beginning to bear fruit and while, inevitably, there will be a few 
bumps in the road, we believe that we can ensure sustainability  
in our collective performance over the short and medium term.
My thanks go to all the support staff in Purfleet and Utrecht and  
to the people who really make it happen – our retail teams across 
the UK, Republic of Ireland, the Netherlands and Belgium. I’d also 
like to thank our investors, particularly our long term shareholders, 
who have shown a remarkable patience and fortitude over the 
past few years.
Thank you.
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
11 Summary
The 2015 financial year represents the trading period for 53  
weeks to 2 May 2015.  The comparative period for financial  
year 2014 represents the 52 weeks to 26 April 2014.  We  
believe that the pro forma 52 week result for the 2015 financial 
year better reflects the underlying performance of the business 
when compared to the prior year.  On this basis, all commentary 
included in this report is based on the 52 week period to 25 April 
2015 unless otherwise stated.
Overview
T otal Group sales for the year increased by 3.3% to £462.6m,  
with the UK business up 5.4% and a decline of 7.4% in the Rest 
of Europe.  Our continued focus on rationalising and repositioning 
the store portfolio saw the Group open 15 stores and close 32, 
giving a net decrease of 17 stores and a total store base of 597. 
T otal store space declined by 3.3% to 5.4 million square feet.
Group underlying operating profit increased by 111.6% to 
£14.6m, supported by solid like-for-like sales growth in the UK  
and a return to profit in our Rest of Europe business.  Underlying 
net finance charges were £0.7m lower at £1.6m.  These factors 
combined to generate an underlying profit before tax of £13.0m,  
a 182.6% increase on the prior year.
Exceptional charges totalled £7.6m (2014: £11.8m), primarily 
costs associated with onerous leases and exiting stores. 
As a result, all of the above combine to produce Group profit 
before tax of £5.4m (2014: £7.2m loss).  Basic earnings per  
share were 5.0p (2014: 5.3p loss).
In the UK business, the 53rd week contributed a further £7.2m  
to revenue and £1.2m to Group profit before tax.  Our businesses 
in the Netherlands and Belgium report on a calendar month basis 
and, as a result, there was no impact from the 53rd week in these 
operations.  Whilst our business in the Republic of Ireland operates 
on a similar calendar to the UK, the impact of the 53rd week is not 
material.  As a consequence, the Group underlying profit before 
tax for the 2015 financial period was £14.2m, profit before tax was 
£6.6m and basic earnings per share were 6.7p.
The combination of stronger cash flow from the growth in 
underlying profitability and control of capital expenditure, negated 
in part by the impact of the 53rd week and the introduction of 
interest free credit, enabled the Group to end the year with net 
cash of £0.5m, a favourable movement of £11.6m from the 
£11.1m net debt reported at the 2014 year-end.
“ Our significantly improved 
performance in 2015 
reflects solid like-for-like 
sales growth in the UK  
and a return to profit in our 
Rest of Europe business.”
Neil Page
Group Finance Director
Strategic report continued
Financial review
53 week  
2015  
£m 
Pro forma 
52 week 
2015 
£m
52 week 
2014  
£m 
52 week 
Change 
Revenue 469.8 462.6 447.7 3.3%
Underlying operating profit 15.8 14.6 6.9 111.6%
Net finance charges (1.6) (1.6) (2.3) 
Underlying profit before tax 14.2 13.0 4.6 182.6%
Exceptional items (7.6) (7.6) (11.8) 35.6%
Profit/(loss) before tax 6.6 5.4 (7.2) 175.0%
Earnings/(loss) per share (pence)
– underlying 15.5p 13.7p 4.7p 191.5%
– basic 6.7p 5.0p (5.3p) –
Dividends per share Nil – Nil –
Net cash/(debt) 0.5 – (11.1) £11.6m
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
12 The total UK cost base increased by 2.1% compared with the 
prior year to £229.1m (2014: £224.4m). Costs as a percentage  
of sales were 57.9%, which compared very favourably to 59.7%  
in the prior year, reflecting the operational gearing of the business.  
The movement in costs was a combination of:
 – a 3.1% increase in store payroll costs to £60.6m (2014: 
£58.8m), reflecting commission payments associated with 
stronger sales growth;
 – a reduction in occupancy costs to £125.3m (2014: £125.7m).  
This masked inflationary cost increases being offset by reductions 
resulting from the net decrease in the number of stores and 
successful rent negotiations.  The underlying rent in like-for-like 
stores held broadly level with the prior year, with the majority  
of rent reviews being settled at or near zero; and
 – marketing and central support costs increased by 8.3% to 
£43.2m (2014: £39.9m), primarily the result of employee profit 
share costs increasing by £2.1m, due to targets across the 
business being exceeded as a result of the strong business 
performance, along with £1.2m of costs incurred as part of  
the initiatives to revitalise the brand.
The culmination of the above factors led to underlying operating 
profit increasing by 33.6% to £14.3m (2014: £10.7m).  The 53rd 
week contributed an additional £1.2m to this figure, increasing  
it to £15.5m for the 2015 financial period.
In an improving trading environment revenue increased by 5.4%  
to £396.0m.  We opened 12 stores and closed 24 stores in the 
year, which translated into a net space decline of 87,000 sq ft,  
a decrease of 2.1%.  After taking into account the movement in 
number of stores, like-for-like sales grew by 7.3% across the year 
as a whole, the second half performance was stronger at 8.1%, 
following 6.5% growth in the first half.  At the close of the year 
there were 265 stores trading with a bed department (2014: 260).  
Sales within the beds category now represent 8.7% of the sales 
mix (2014: 7.6%).
Gross profit increased by £8.3m to £243.4m, representing 61.4% 
of sales, a decrease of 110 basis points. The decline in margin rate 
was a result of:
 – implementing market beating promotions to drive footfall and 
top line sales volumes; and
 – an increase in bed sales, which have a lower gross margin, 
resulting in an adverse mix impact.
UK – Performance review
The key financial results for the UK were:
53 week 
2015 
£m
Pro forma 
52 week 
2015 
£m
52 week 
2014 
£m
52 week
Change
Revenue 403.2 396.0 375.8 5.4%
Like-for-like sales – 7.3% (0.2%)
Gross profit 247.6 243.4 235.1 3.5%
Gross profit % 61.4% 61.4% 62.5% (1.1ppts)
Costs (232.1) (229.1) (224.4) (2.1%)
Costs to sales % 57.6% 57.9% 59.7% 1.8ppts
Underlying operating profit 15.5 14.3 10.7 33.6%
Underlying operating profit % 3.8% 3.6% 2.8% 0.8ppts
The UK portfolio is now as follows: 
Store numbers Sq ft (’000)
26 April 2014 Openings Closures 2 May 2015 26 April 2014 2 May 2015
Standalone 457 10 (19) 448 4,039 3,963
Concessions 15 2 (5) 12 27 16
Total 472 12 (24) 460 4,066 3,979
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
13 Strategic report continued
Financial review continued
Rest of Europe – Performance review
The key financial results for the Rest of Europe were:
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Change 
(Reported 
currency)
Change 
(Local 
currency) 
Revenue 66.6 71.9 (7.4%) Level
Like-for-like sales 0.3% (8.6%)
Gross profit 39.6 40.8 (2.9%) 4.5%
Gross profit % 59.5% 56.7% 2.8ppts
Costs (39.3) (44.6) 11.9% 5.2%
Costs to sales % 59.0% 62.0% 3.0ppts
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 0.3 (3.8)
Underlying operating profit/(loss) % 0.5% (5.3%) 5.8ppts
The Rest of Europe portfolio is now as follows: 
Store numbers Sq ft (’000)
26 April 2014 Openings Closures 2 May 2015 26 April 2014 2 May 2015
Netherlands 95 3 (5) 93 1,104 1,046
Belgium 25 – (3) 22 298 257
Republic of Ireland 22 – – 22 162 162
Total 142 3 (8) 137 1,564 1,465
Gross profit percentage increased by 280 basis points to 59.5% 
(2014: 56.7%) resulting principally from improved sourcing and 
operational disciplines curtailing local discounting.  The improvement 
in margin rate was sufficient to offset the impact of lower sales 
volumes, resulting in an increase in gross profit of 4.5%.  However, 
after taking account of exchange rate movements this resulted  
in a decline of 2.9% in reported currency.
Operating costs in local currency reduced by 5.2%.  The majority 
of the savings were driven by the consolidation of our offices in 
Continental Europe and a reduction in advertising spend.  This 
was reflected in the decline in the costs as a percentage of sales 
to 59.0%, a reduction on the prior year figure of 62.0%.  In reported 
currency, this was a reduction in costs of 11.9% to £39.3m.
The net result was an improvement in underlying operating profit of 
£4.1m to £0.3m, reversing the losses experienced in the prior year.
The flooring market in the Netherlands and Belgium remained 
weak, impacted by government austerity measures which 
reduced customers’ disposable income and lowered consumer 
confidence.  That said, improvements in a number of economic 
indicators, such as rising housing transactions in the Netherlands, 
give grounds for cautious optimism for the future.  The level of 
consumer confidence has also increased in the Republic of Ireland 
on the back of an improvement in economic conditions.  Sales 
across the Rest of Europe business units have shown signs of 
improvement, with a return to growth in the second half in local 
currency terms, after 18 consecutive quarters of decline.
Our Rest of Europe portfolio reduced by a net five stores during 
the year, a result of exiting four poor performing sites, relocating 
three stores in the Netherlands and one temporary closure due to 
fire.  The estate is now trading from 137 stores.  In local currency 
terms, the three businesses combined to produce total sales that 
were level with the prior year, with like-for-like sales increasing by 
0.3%.  After exchange rate movements, total sales fell by 7.4%  
in reported currency.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
14 Net finance costs and taxation
Underlying net finance charges were £1.6m (2014: £2.3m).   
The decrease was principally driven by our lower level of average 
net debt over the period.
The taxation charge on profit for the year was £2.1m (2014:  
£3.6m credit).  The weighted average annual effective tax rate  
for the period is a charge of 31.3% (2014: credit of 52.0%).   
The increase is due to current period profitability, mix of tax rates  
in different countries, and one off credits recognised in the prior 
period not repeated.
Exceptional items 
The Group recorded a net charge of £7.6m (2014: £11.8m 
charge) in the year.
(Charge)
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Property profits/(losses) (0.4) (1.6)
Onerous lease provision (7.0) (6.6)
Impairment charge:
– store assets (0.2) (0.5)
– freehold properties – (1.9)
European office restructuring – (1.2)
Pre tax exceptional items (7.6) (11.8)
A net loss of £0.4m was made on property disposals in the year 
(2014: £1.6m loss).  This was principally the result of surrender 
premiums being paid to exit loss-making stores.
At 26 April 2014 there were 22 vacant properties in the UK and 
three in the Republic of Ireland classed as onerous leases, against 
which we carried a provision.  During the year we disposed of 
eight stores, relieving us from all future liabilities associated with 
these properties.  The charge associated with exiting these stores 
equalled the provisions carried for the named locations.  There 
were no additions or re-openings of onerous stores during the 
period therefore there were 17 onerous stores remaining at the 
end of the financial period.
Following the strategic review, we have made a revised assessment 
of the unavoidable onerous lease costs for loss-making stores, 
resulting in a charge of £7.0m.  There was no charge against other 
property related provisions (2014: £6.6m charge).
We have reviewed the carrying value of the store assets in our 
balance sheet, consistent with the approach in previous years.  
These tests have led to a net charge of £0.2m (2014: £0.5m).
As with previous years, we have reviewed the carrying value  
of the Group’ s freehold properties.  As part of this review we 
commissioned an independent valuation of the Group’ s freehold 
assets.  The review concluded that the carrying values of our 
freehold assets are appropriate and therefore there is no change  
to the impairment provisions held (2014: £1.9m).
Earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share, for 52 week period to 25 April 
2015, was 13.7 pence (2014: 4.7 pence), an increase of 191.5%.  
Underlying earnings per share, for the 53 week period to 2 May 
2015, was 15.5 pence.
Basic earnings per share, for the 52 week period, was 5.0 pence 
(2014: loss of 5.3 pence) and for the 53 week period, 6.7 pence.
Dividend
The Board has decided not to pay a final dividend (2014: nil).  
In taking this decision, the Board has considered that whilst there 
has been an improvement in profitability during the year, the priority 
for the use of cash is to accelerate activity to reduce the fixed 
occupancy costs and to invest in the remaining stores to broaden 
the appeal of the brand.  That said, if we maintain our current 
progress the Board would look favourably on restoring the 
dividend in due course. 
Balance sheet
The Group had net assets of £59.5m at the end of the year  
(2014: £61.1m), a year-on-year decrease of £1.6m.
2 May 2015 
£m
26 April 2014  
£m
Freehold & long leasehold property 64.9 71.0
Other non-current assets 106.5 114.4
Stock 34.1 33.9
Trade & other current assets 25.2 19.8
Creditors < 1 year (97.9) (93.5)
Creditors > 1 year (69.8) (70.1)
Net debt 0.5 (11.1)
Pension deficit (4.0) (3.3)
Net assets 59.5 61.1
During the period, two freehold property disposals were completed.  
The Group owns a significant property portfolio, most of which is 
used for retail purposes.  The carrying values are supported by a 
combination of value in use and independent valuations.
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
15 Cash flow
Group net cash at 2 May 2015 was £0.5m, a favourable 
movement of £11.6m on the prior year end position of £11.1m  
net debt.  The reduction in debt was driven by the underlying 
operating profit performance being offset in part by a £4.6m  
cash outflow related to provisions, £0.9m contributions to closed 
defined benefit pension schemes and a £1.2m increase in working 
capital.  This increase in working capital was attributable to a 
combination of higher merchandise creditors (a consequence  
of higher sales), offset by the amortisation of property lease 
incentives, the timing impact of the 53rd week and the  
introduction of interest free credit.
The resulting net inflow of cash generated by operations of 
£23.0m was partially negated by net capital expenditure, interest 
and tax net outflows totalling £11.7m.
The Group’ s average net debt was £4.9m over the period  
(2014: £16.4m).
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Underlying operating profit 15.8 6.9
Depreciation & other non-cash 
items 14.0 13.9
(Increase)/Decrease in stock (1.0) 3.5
Increase in working capital (1.2) (8.1)
Provisions paid (4.6) (4.9)
Operating cash flows 23.0 11.3
Net interest paid (1.6) (1.4)
Corporation tax paid (4.4) (0.7)
Net capital expenditure (5.7) (10.2)
Free cash flows 11.3 (1.0)
Other 0.3 0.1
Movement in net debt 11.6 (0.9)
Opening net debt (11.1) (10.2)
Closing net debt 0.5 (11.1)
Net capital expenditure was £5.7m (2014: £10.2m). This can be 
broken down into the following principal categories:
2015  
£m
2014  
£m
Capital expenditure (8.8) (10.8)
Proceeds from freehold property 
disposals 1.2 0.4
Proceeds from leasehold property 
disposals 1.9 0.2
Net capital expenditure (5.7) (10.2)
The majority of the capital expenditure was focused on new  
stores and refurbishing existing stores, along with a £0.9m cost  
of re-platforming the UK website.  The latter to provide an updated 
and more inspirational online customer experience.
Current liquidity
At the year end the Group held cash balances of £7.3m (2014: 
£6.3m), principally a combination of Sterling and Euros.  Gross 
bank borrowings at the balance sheet date were £4.4m (2014: 
£14.9m), all of which were drawn down from overdraft facilities.  
The Group had further undrawn facilities of £53.6m at the balance 
sheet date.
In April 2015, the Group completed a refinancing arrangement  
of its principal facilities, providing approximately £58m of debt 
capacity split between revolving credit facilities and overdrafts  
in a mixture of Sterling and Euro currencies.  The revolving credit 
facility matures in July 2019.  Arrangement fees and legal costs  
will be amortised over the life of the facility, although paid in cash  
at the outset.  The facilities contain financial covenants which  
are believed to be appropriate in the current economic climate  
and tested on a quarterly basis, against which the Group  
monitors compliance.
Pensions
At 2 May 2015 the IAS 19 net retirement benefit deficit was  
£4.0m (2014: £3.3m). The discount rate was 3.4% (2014: 4.2%), 
reflecting prevailing corporate bond rates.  The higher market  
value of plan assets and additional Company contributions have 
been more than offset by increases in scheme liabilities during  
the period, a result of the lower discount rate.  As previously 
announced, the Company scheme was closed to future accrual 
with effect from 1 May 2010.  The Company agreed a recovery 
plan with the Trustees in 2015 and this will be reviewed following 
the completion of the next triennial valuation, which will be 
performed as at 5 April 2017.
Neil Page
Group Finance Director
Strategic report continued
Financial review continued
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
16 Measuring our performance
The Board of Directors and executive management receive a wide range of management information delivered in a timely manner.  
Listed below are the principal measures that are reviewed on a regular basis to monitor the performance of the Group.
Like-for-like  
sales % growth
Definition
Calculated as this year’ s  
net sales divided by last 
year’ s net sales for all stores 
that are at least 12 months 
old at the beginning of the 
financial year. Stores closed 
during the year are excluded 
from both years (calculated 
in local currency).
Rationale
Maximising like-for-like  
sales opportunities drives 
cash inflow. This KPI  
also measures the health  
of our core retail estate  
and reflects customer 
reaction to our products, 
proposition and price.
Performance
UK
-6.0%
6.7%
-0.2%
2.2%
-0.2%
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
(%)
-8
-4
4
8
Rest of Europe
-10
-6
-8
-4
-2
2
0.3% -4.0% -1.2%-11.0%-8.6%
-12
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
(%)
Gross profit 
percentage
Definition
Gross profit as a percentage 
of net sales (calculated in 
local currency).
Rationale
Gross profit is an important 
indicator of the Group’ s 
financial performance. It 
reflects our ability to source 
effectively, run an efficient 
supply chain, and promote 
and deliver the correct mix  
of products to maximise 
cash margin.
Performance
UK
2011 2012
62.2%
61.4%
58.9%
61.5%
62.5%
2013 2014 2015
(%)
55
60
65
70
50
Rest of Europe
59.3%
57.1% 57.0%57.2%
56.7%
(%)
55
60
65
70
50
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Store colleague 
productivity
Definition
Productivity is calculated  
as gross turnover per 
colleague, per store,  
per week.
Rationale
Productivity is used as  
a measure in order to 
determine whether the 
colleague levels are 
appropriate and whether 
they need to be increased  
or reduced accordingly. 
Performance
UK
(£/FTE/Wk)
2011
3,918
4,148 4,126
4,084
4,322
2012 2013 2014 2015
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
Rest of Europe
2011
4,143
4,209
3,996
3,911
3,978
2012 2013 2014 2015
(€/FTE/Wk)
3,000
3,500
4,500
Operating  
cash flow
Definition
This measure is  
determined by taking 
underlying operating  
profit and adding  
back non-cash items  
and any movements  
in working capital. 
Rationale
The Group’ s ability  
to finance its future 
investment, pay  
corporation taxes,  
pay interest on its  
borrowings and make 
returns to shareholders  
is aided by strong cash  
flows from its operations.
Group
(£m)
2011
32.1
29.1
17.4
11.3
23.0
2012 2013 2014 2015
10
20
40
30
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
17 The ERC also considers new and emerging risks as a standing 
agenda item, including those identified by the Board of Directors. 
The Committee has also reviewed the ranking of the business’  
key strategic risks during the year, to ensure that this remains  
an appropriate reflection of their relative standing.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business are set 
out on page 19.
Oversight and assurance
Our Group Finance department is responsible for the financial 
policies and standards adopted within the Group. It also manages 
our financial reporting processes to ensure the timely and accurate 
provision of information which enables the Board to discharge  
its responsibilities.
Our Company Secretary and Legal Director is responsible  
for maintaining and developing the Group’ s framework of 
governance, including our anti-bribery policy and whistleblowing 
process, alongside ensuring that any changes to the Group’ s legal 
obligations are brought to the attention of the relevant teams who 
are responsible for the implementation of any changes.
The Internal Audit department provides independent assessment 
on the robustness and effectiveness of the systems and processes 
of risk management and control across the Group. It achieves this 
through undertaking reviews which are approved by and reported 
to the Audit Committee. The Group also uses the services of 
independent third party advisers and consultants to review 
controls and processes where the nature of the review requires 
expertise not available in-house.
Principal risks and uncertainties
We are subject to the same general risks as many other businesses; 
for example, changes in general economic conditions, currency 
and interest rate fluctuations, changes in taxation legislation,  
cyber-security breaches, failure of our IT infrastructure, the cost  
of our raw materials, the impact of competition, political instability 
and the impact of natural disasters. 
We use our risk management process as described on page  
18 to identify, monitor, evaluate and escalate such issues as  
they emerge, enabling management to take appropriate action 
wherever possible in order to control them and also enabling  
the Board to keep risk management under review.
The risk factors addressed below are those which we believe  
to be the most material to our business model, which could 
adversely affect the operations, revenue, profit, cash flow or  
assets of the Group and which may prevent us from achieving  
the Group’ s strategic objectives. Additional risks and uncertainties 
currently unknown to us, or which we currently believe are 
immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the Group.
Our approach to risk management
Carpetright recognises that effective business management 
requires regular review of business risks. We have established a 
flexible and practical framework, sponsored by senior executives, 
which aims to identify and manage the principal risks that may 
prevent us from achieving the Group’ s strategic objectives.
The Board and Audit Committee
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’ s risk appetite, 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
In order to fulfil this responsibility, the Directors have established  
an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, 
lines of responsibility and delegated authority which has operated 
throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval  
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements. 
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate  
and manage significant risks associated with the achievement  
of the Group’ s objectives. Because of the limitations inherent in  
any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the 
Group’ s particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed rather 
than eliminate risk altogether. Consequently, it can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee assists the Board through its work covering 
the Group’ s system of internal controls, the assessment of risks 
and related compliance activities. This includes the Committee’ s 
oversight of the Group’ s Internal Audit Department, which:
 – undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the field, 
based on a risk assessment model;
 – provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective 
assurance on the control environment across the Group; and
 – monitors adherence to the Group’ s key policies and principles.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its activities and 
makes recommendations and escalates significant risks or issues 
to the Board as appropriate. Its role is described in more detail  
on pages 27 to 30.
The Board has reviewed the Group’ s systems of internal control 
including financial, operational and compliance controls as well  
as risk management, and is satisfied that these accord with the 
guidance on internal controls set out in Internal Control: Revised 
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
Identification of business risks
An Executive Risk Committee (‘ERC’) comprising the Executive 
Directors and senior managers exists to review key risk and 
control issues, the Group’ s principal risks are individually 
sponsored by a member of the ERC. The ERC met quarterly 
during the year reported. 
The ERC identifies and assesses risks to the Group’ s medium-
term strategy and directs the risk management processes within 
both the UK and the Rest of Europe to address each of the 
identified risks, formulate a mitigation strategy and assess the likely 
impact of such risk occurring. The Group Finance Director provides 
regular reports to the Audit Committee in relation to its work.
Strategic report continued
Risk management
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
18 Risk description Mitigation & controls
Strategic
Customer proposition & changing  
customer preferences
A failure to respond to changing customer expectations 
and preferences, across our in-store and online 
propositions, could lead to a failure to deliver our 
business objectives.
We continue to invest in both our existing estate and online 
platforms to ensure we remain relevant and contemporary. 
We actively engage with our customer base utilising a wide  
range of methods including customer satisfaction surveys and 
employ this feedback to improve our products and services.
Property portfolio 
The Group operates from a substantial property portfolio 
with a large geographical spread across four Northern 
European countries.  There is a risk associated with 
changing property values and long-term commitments 
reduce flexibility to adjust our property portfolio. 
Managing the location planning and cost base 
associated with this infrastructure represents a key  
risk to both profit and long-term cash flow.
There are regular meetings of appropriate executives to review 
property decisions set against a framework of delegated authority 
from the Board.  The Group has also invested in a detailed 
location planning model which aids our understanding of store 
catchments and customer demographics.  This model supports 
our store opening and re-location plans, allowing us to assess  
the impact of portfolio movements before committing to change. 
We also consult external advisers, where appropriate, to provide 
expert advice and inform decision making.
Marketing strategy and pricing
We recognise that if our products are, or are perceived to 
be of poor value for money, or that our marketing 
channels and promotions fail to engage with our target 
audience, we risk losing sales.
Throughout the year we monitor the effectiveness of our pricing, 
promotional and marketing strategies across our businesses, 
tailoring our consumer offering where appropriate.
Reputation and product
The Carpetright name is a key asset of the business and 
as the largest operator in its markets, expectations of the 
Group are high.  Failure to provide high quality products 
and services could lead to a loss of trust and confidence, 
and damage the Group’ s reputation and brand. This 
could result in a decline in the customer base and affect 
our ability to recruit good people.
The Group works closely with its suppliers to ensure the  
products it sells are of the highest quality and meet the 
organisation’ s required ethical and safety standards.  
We ensure our flooring customers receive a first class fitting 
experience by having the work of our third party contractors 
independently assessed, ensuring they are fully insured and  
have been checked for criminal records. The performance  
of our bed delivery partner is continuously monitored, with 
improvements made as necessary. We regularly engage with  
our customers and where their feedback, either via social media 
or more traditional channels, suggests that their experience has 
not met expectation, we strive to resolve their issue promptly.
Operational
People
The Group relies upon attracting and retaining talented 
and appropriately qualified people in order to deliver its 
long-term objectives.  An inability to maintain an 
adequate pool of suitable resource could disrupt 
business operations and potentially undermine the 
Group’ s ability to deliver sustainable growth.
We aim to recruit, train and develop a suitably skilled and qualified 
team of people to meet the current and future operational needs 
of the Group.  We are also committed to creating opportunities 
for individuals to progress their careers.
IT performance and security
Carpetright is dependent on the reliability and capability 
of key information systems and technology.  A major 
incident or sustained performance problems with regard 
to store, logistics, multi-channel or support office systems 
could constitute a significant threat to the business and 
reputation, at least in the short term.
The Group has extensive controls in place to maintain the  
integrity of our systems and to ensure that systems changes  
are implemented in a controlled manner.  The business has 
developed and tested continuity plans and has separate disaster 
recovery facilities to mitigate significant risks and Group systems 
are mirrored in a separate location.  The systems are regularly 
tested to provide assurance as to their security.
Financial
Cash management
The Group risks exposure to exchange rate, interest  
rate, liquidity and credit risks having an adverse or 
unexpected impact on results, funding requirements  
or purchasing ability.
The Group frequently reviews its financial position to ensure  
that its funding requirements are being met.  Bank covenant  
tests are regularly monitored.  Rolling cash flow forecasts  
are produced weekly.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
19 Strategic report continued 
Corporate responsibility 
Our Corporate Responsibility (CR) policy is designed to support  
our objectives and strategy. 
Our principal areas of focus are: 
− Our customers – how our activities affect our current and  
future customers; 
− Our people – the Group’s policies and actions towards  
our employees; and 
− Our environment – the impacts we have on the wider 
environment and how we are seeking to reduce this. 
Wilf Walsh is the director responsi ble for CR.  The previous role  
of the Customer and Corporate Responsibility Committee was 
taken over by executive management in September 2014. 
Our customers 
Corporate responsibility starts with our relationship with customers 
and during the year we introduced a programme known as ‘Do we 
measure up?’, whereby customers are invited to rate and provide 
feedback on the three stages of their experience – in-store 
ordering, estimating and fitting.  The ratings and feedback are 
immediately available to our Store and Support Office colleagues, 
where they are used to monitor and improve our levels of service  
to our customers. 
We recognise that matters such as how we treat our people,  
the environment and ethical trading are important to customers,  
and details can be found below. 
Our people 
The Group employs over 3,000 people.  
Equal opportunities 
The Board believes in creating, throughout the Group, a culture 
that is free from discrimination and harassment, and will not tolerate 
discrimination in any form. We are an equal opportunities employer 
and our people and applicants are treated fairly and equally 
regardless of their age, colour, cree d, disability, full or part time 
status, gender, marital status, nationality or ethnic origin, race,  
or sexual orientation. Applications from people with disabilities  
are always fully considered. Should an individual become disabled 
while working for the Company, efforts are made to continue their 
employment and retraining is provided, if necessary. 
We believe the attributes of individuals and their different 
perspectives and experiences add value to our business.  
We recognise that a diverse workforce will provide us with an 
insight into different markets and help us anticipate and provide 
what our customers want from us.  
A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who were 
Directors of the Company, senior managers and other employees 
as at 2 May 2015, is set out below.  
Male Female 
Directors 5 1
Senior managers 6 1
Other employees 2,633 653
Total 2,644 655
Training and development 
Our training and development programmes are focused on giving 
our people the skills they need to carry out their jobs and in due 
course to move up to new roles, enabling them to develop their 
careers. This has included training in relation to health and safety, 
product knowledge and customer service. 
Engagement 
There are a number of communication channels in place to help 
people develop their knowledge of, and enhance their involvement 
with, the Group. These channels include surveys, management 
briefings, briefings to stores and offices, and other less formal 
communications. Additionally, all annual results and interim 
management statements are made available through the intranet. 
Directors and senior management regularly visit stores and discuss 
matters of current interest and concern with their colleagues. 
Share ownership 
All colleagues have an opportunity to invest in the Company’s  
shares through a Savings Related Share Option Scheme. 
Approximately 850 colleagues participate in this scheme. 
Bribery and whistleblowing  
As a responsible employer we main tain a firm stance against any 
type of corruption within the business. 
There is a Group-wide Anti-bri bery and Corruption Policy in  
place which requires compulsory Anti-Bribery compliance and  
a copy of the Policy is circulated to all new starters when they  
join the business.  
The Group operates whistleblowing hotlines through third party 
providers enabling matters of concern to be raised with the 
Company on a named or anonymous basis.  Further details  
can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 29. 
Health and safety 
We operate an established process for risk assessment and 
employees are expected and encouraged to be proactive  
on health and safety issues. 
Health and Safety Committees meet to review any issues to 
identify, prevent and militate against potential risks. Regular 
updates on health and safety are given at Board meetings. There 
have not been any fatalities this y ear (2014: nil).  Regrettably, the 
total number of accidents has increased to 110 (2014: 97) in the 
UK and the number of serious accidents that are reportable to the 
Health and Safety Executive also slightly increased in the period to 
11 (2014: 10).  There were 13 accidents in the Rest of Europe, of 
which 4 (2014: 7) accidents would have been reportable had they 
occurred in the UK. 
 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
20 Human rights 
We do not have a specific human rights policy at present, but  
we do have policies that adhere to international human rights 
principles. We will review from time to time whether a specific 
human rights policy is needed in the future, over and above our 
existing policies.  
Our environment 
In line with our strategy of building a sustainable business, we are 
committed to taking steps to control and minimise any damage our 
operations may cause to the en vironment through manufacturing 
processes, transport, energy usage and packaging. In particular, 
we are aware of the issue of climate change and we are taking 
steps to understand and minimise our carbon emissions. 
Products and suppliers 
We have an Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct (the 
Code) to ensure that we have an ethical supply chain and require 
our suppliers to sign up to the Code. The Code prohibits, for 
example, animal testing, the use of timber from non-sustainable 
sources and the use of certain chemicals which may be harmful  
to customers. 
In the UK we make our own cardboard tubes on site, thereby 
reducing the cost of delivery of what is, essentially, air in the centre 
of the tubes.  Where possible we re-use cardboard tubes. Sheet 
polythene wrapping and cardboard tubes that are not re-used but 
are delivered within the UK (excluding Northern Ireland) from our 
main distribution centre are recycled. 
No waste produced from our store support office, warehouse and 
distribution centre is sent to landfill.  General rubbish is compacted 
and incinerated to produce energy. 
Energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions 
We recognise that the Company benefits through reduced cost  
and the environment benefits by reducing our consumption of 
energy and water.  The release of greenhouse gases (ghg), notably 
CO2 generated by burning fossil fuels, has an impact on climate 
change, which presents a risk to both our business and the wider 
environment.  We accept our responsibility to continually improve 
our environmental performance. 
Much of the reduction in our carbon footprint (Scope 1, operation 
of facilities) is attributable to a warmer winter, with less heating 
required by stores.  Some of the re duction is attributable to better 
use of Automatic Meter Readers for electricity and gas, which 
enabled us to identify high-use lo cations and take corrective action 
where necessary, together with pro-active management preventing 
us heating stores overnight.  By way of example, the use of AMR 
meters has contributed to a 21% reduction in our consumption  
of natural gas. 
We have also invested in a fleet of more energy efficient delivery 
vehicles this year in the UK, which has resulted in greater fuel 
efficiency in delivering carpet and other flooring products to  
our stores.  Although overall fuel consumption has increased,  
this has been driven by additional deliveries to reflect the higher 
volumes of carpet and laminate being distributed, together  
with new routes in order to ensure products are available for  
our customers in a timely fashion.
Emissions data in respect of the financial year ended 2015 is  
as follows: 
Emission type 
CO2e (Carbon  
Dioxide 
equivalent)  
2015 
CO2e (Carbon 
Dioxide 
equivalent) 
2014 Change 
Scope 1: Operation 
of facilities 
9,389 11,915 (21%)
Scope 1: Combustion 5,681 5,360 6%
Scope 1 Emissions 15,070 17,275 (13%)
Scope 2: Purchased energy 20,684 21,590 (4%)
Scope 2 Emissions 20,684 21,590 (4%)
Total emissions 35,754 38,865 (8%)
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio: 
2015 2014 Change 
Total footprint 
(Scope 1 and Scope 2) 
35,754 38,865 (8%)
Turnover (£m) 469.8 447.7 5%
Intensity ratio (tCO2/turnover 
£000) 
0.076 0.087 (13%)
Notes: 
1. The 2014 figures have been restated in accordance with updated 
methodology produced by DEFRA. 
2. Our methodology has been based on the principles of the Greenhouse  
Gas Protocol. 
3. Consumption is based on utility bills. Data for the Netherlands and Belgium  
has been collected on a calendar year basis. 
4. Several stores are heated using fuel oil and one using propane gas.  
The consumption data for these stores is calculated from delivery invoices. 
5. We have reported on all the measured emission sources required under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations.  
This includes Scopes 1 and 2 but excludes any emissions from Scope 3.  
The period used is 1 May 2013 to 30 April 2014. 
6. Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions are those published 
by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in 2014 – GHG 
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. 
7. Refrigerant fugitive emissions have been excluded as the impact was immaterial. 
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
www.carpetright.plc.uk
21 Directors’ report
Board of Directors
Bob Ivell
Non-Executive Chairman
Bob joined the Board as Chairman on 1 November 2014.  
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Mitchells & Butlers 
plc and senior independent director of Britvic plc and AGA 
Rangemaster Group plc. He was previously chairman of  
David Lloyd Leisure Limited, Park Resorts Group Limited,  
Next Generation Clubs Pacific and a Non-Executive Director  
of The Restaurant Group plc. He has over 30 years’ experience 
in the food and beverage industry, holding executive roles with 
Regent Inns plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc and Whitbread plc, 
each of which involved the management of large consumer-
facing estates. Bob chairs the Nomination Committee.
Wilf Walsh
Chief Executive
Wilf was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive on  
21 July 2014. He has held senior positions in various roles, 
most recently as Chairman of Fortuna Entertainment Group  
NV , and was the Managing Director of Coral between 2000 
and 2008 and prior to that spent six years with HMV Media 
Group as the Managing Director of HMV Germany and as 
Operations Director for the UK and Ireland. He is a Non-
Executive Director of Gala Coral.
Neil Page
Group Finance Director
Neil joined Carpetright in July 2008 as Group Finance Director. 
Neil began his career with British Rail and Marks and Spencer. 
He joined Superdrug in 1991, holding a variety of finance  
and operational positions before taking up the role of Finance  
and IT Director for AS Watson (Health & Beauty) UK Ltd in  
July 2002. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
22 Sandra T urner
Non-Executive Director
Sandra joined the Board in October 2010.  She spent 21  
years at T esco and was part of its senior management team, 
holding senior commercial and operational roles in the UK and 
Ireland.  From 2003 to 2009 she was the Commercial Director 
of T esco Ireland.  She is the Senior Independent Director of 
Greggs plc and a Non-executive director of McBride plc, and 
Huhtamäki Oyj and was previously a Non-Executive Director  
of Northern Foods plc and Countrywide plc.  She chairs the 
Remuneration Committee.
David Clifford
Non-Executive Director
David, a chartered accountant, joined the Board in  
December 2011.  He was previously a senior partner with 
KPMG.  Throughout his career he held a variety of roles  
and led the Consumer Markets Unit of KPMG for a period, 
advising a number of retailers.  He is a Trustee and the 
Treasurer of the Gurkha Welfare Trust and a Non-Executive 
Director of AmicusHorizon, a housing association.  He chairs 
the Audit Committee.
Andrew Page
Senior Independent Director
Andrew joined the Board in July 2013.  He is the Senior 
Independent Director of Northgate plc, Non-Executive  
Director of JP Morgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc, 
Schroder UK Mid Cap Fund plc and RPS Group plc. Andrew 
retired as Chief Executive of The Restaurant Group plc (“TRG”) 
in September 2014 after thirteen years with TRG.  Prior to 
joining TRG, he held a number of senior positions in the leisure 
and hospitality industry including Senior Vice President with 
InterContinental Hotels. Andrew trained and qualified as a 
Chartered Accountant with KPMG. 
www.carpetright.plc.uk
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
23 Directors’ report continued 
Corporate governance  
Introduction 
One of the Board’s key responsibilities is to ensure that the 
Company is run in the long-term interests of its shareholders and 
broader stakeholder base.  The Group recognises the importance 
of high standards of corporate governance and is committed to 
operating within an effective corporate governance framework. 
Application of the UK Corporate  
Governance Code 
The version of the Corporate Governance Code applicable to  
the current reporting period is the September 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code).  The Code is issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council and is availabl e for review on its website. 
During the financial year ended 2 May 2015, the Company 
complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code except as set out below. 
The Company did not comply with provision A.2.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code for the entire period.  Lord Harris 
fulfilled the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, as Executive 
Chairman, until Wilf Walsh joined as Chief Executive on 21 July 
2014 and on this date the roles were separated. 
Between Baroness Noakes stepping down from the Board at  
the AGM on 4 September 2014 and 16 April 2015, the Board 
had not appointed a Senior Inde pendent Director.  There had  
been significant changes to the Board and it was happy for this  
to continue until a reconstituted Board had been established.  
Andrew Page was appointed as the Senior Independent  
Director on 16 April 2015. 
Governance structure 
The structure of the Board and its Committees is set out below: 
Carpetright plc Board of Directors 
 
The Board 
There have been significant changes to the Board in the year 
ended 2 May 2015, with three Executive Directors and two  
Non-Executive Directors stepping down and a new Chairman  
and a new Chief Executive joining the Board. 
Details of the number of meetings and Board attendance are set 
out below: 
Number of meetings: 11
Executive Directors Attendance 
Meetings eligible 
to attend
Wilf Walsh
1
 6 6
Neil Page  11 11
Lord Harris
2
 8 8
Martin Harris
3
 5 6
Graham Harris
4
 2 3
Notes: 
1. Wilf Walsh joined the Board as Chief Executive on 21 July 2014. 
2. Lord Harris was Chairman until 31 October 2014 when he stepped down from 
the Board. 
3. Martin Harris stepped down from the Board on 4 September 2014. 
4. Graham Harris stepped down from the Board on 20 May 2014. 
Non-Executive Directors Attendance 
Meetings eligible 
to attend
Bob Ivell
1
 4 4
Andrew Page  9 11
David Clifford  11 11
Sandra Turner  11 11
Baroness Noakes
2
 6 6
Alan Dickinson
3
 5 6
Notes: 
1. Bob Ivell joined the Board as Chairman on 1 November 2014.  
2. Baroness Noakes was Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director until 
4 September 2014 when she stepped down from the Board. 
3. Alan Dickinson stepped down from the Board on 4 September 2014.  
  
Carpetright plc
Board of 
Directors
Audit  
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
24 The Board views that it is appropriately balanced and currently 
consists of the Chairman, two Executive and three Non-Executive 
Directors, brief biographies of whom can be found on pages 22 
and 23.  Bob Ivell joined the Board on 1 November 2014 as 
Chairman and was independent on appointment.  There is a 
formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment  
of new Directors to the Board and this is described in the section 
concerning the Nomination Committee on page 25. 
The Board believes that its current size and structure are 
appropriate for managing the Group in an effective and  
successful manner. 
As reported last year, Wilf Wa lsh joined the Board as Chief 
Executive on 21 July 2014 and Graham Harris stepped down  
from the Board on 20 May 2014 following the decision to appoint  
a Chief Executive.  Lord Harris remained on the Board until a new 
Chairman had been identified, and stepped down from the Board 
on 31 October 2014. 
Following an externally facilitated search, Bob Ivell was appointed 
as Chairman on 1 November 2014. 
Baroness Noakes, Martin Harris and Alan Dickinson all stepped 
down from the Board on 4 September 2014. 
Whilst not required by the Code, as the Company is outside  
the FTSE 350, all Directors will offer themselves for election  
or re-election (as appropriate) at the Annual General Meeting. 
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company play a key 
governance role and bring an extra dimension to the Board’s 
deliberations.  The Board considered the independence of each 
Non-Executive Director against the criteria specified in the Code 
and has determined that each remains fully independent. 
An annual process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees has been undertaken.  
This was led by Bob Ivell with the assistance of the Company 
Secretary.  The results have been considered by the Board and 
confirmed the strength of leadership within the business and a 
sound governance framework. 
The Non-Executive Directors meet, with no Executive Directors 
present, at least once each year inter alia to review the 
performance of the Chairman. 
The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s objectives  
and policies, providing effective leadership and for approving  
the Group strategy, budgets, business plans and major capital 
expenditure.  It has responsibility for the management, direction 
and performance of the Group and is accountable to the 
Company’s shareholders for the pr oper conduct of its business.  
The Board has a formal schedule which sets out those matters 
requiring Board approval and specifically reserved to it for decision. 
Directors receive monthly trading results, commentary, briefing 
notes and reports for their consideration in advance of each Board 
meeting, including reports on the Group’s operations, to ensure 
that they remain briefed on the la test developments and are able  
to make fully informed decisions. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure 
whereby Directors may take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense.  In addition, such advice may include training 
in order to enable them to discharge their roles and responsibilities 
as a Director.  All new Directors r eceive an induction tailored to their 
particular requirements. 
Board committees 
The Board has three Committees, each of which has written  
terms of reference which are available on the Company’s  
corporate website (www.carpetright.plc.uk).  During the period  
the responsibilities of the Corp orate and Social Responsibility 
Committee were taken over by executive management. 
The Board periodically reviews the membership of its Committees 
to ensure that it is refreshed.  The Company provides the 
Committees with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.   
The Company Secretary, or his nominee, acts as Secretary to  
each Committee. 
The role of the Audit Committee, its members and details of how  
it carried out its duties are set ou t in the Audit Committee report  
on pages 27 to 30. 
The role of the Remuneration Committee, its members and  
details of how it carried out its du ties are set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 31 to 48. 
The Nomination Committee was chaired by Baroness Noakes  
until 4 September 2014.  Andrew Page took over as Committee 
Chairman between Baroness Noakes stepping down from the 
Board and the first meeting of the Committee following Bob Ivell’s 
appointment to the Board when Bob was appointed as the 
Committee Chairman.  Details of its membership and attendance 
are set out below: 
Number of meetings: 
 
4
Members Attendance 
Meetings eligible 
to attend
Bob Ivell
1 
Committee Chairman 
1 1
Andrew Page
2
 3 4
Sandra Turner
3
 3 3
David Clifford
4
 3 3
Baroness Noakes
5
 1 1
Lord Harris
6
 3 3
Alan Dickinson
7
  1 1
Notes: 
1. Bob Ivell became Committee Chairman on 16 April 2015. 
2. Andrew Page became the Committee Chairman on 4 September 2014  
and stepped down as Chairman on 16 April 2015.  He remains a member  
of the Committee. 
3. Sandra Turner joined the Committee on 4 September 2014.  
4. David Clifford joined the Committee on 4 September 2014. 
5. Baroness Noakes stepped down from the Committee on 4 September 2014. 
6. Lord Harris stepped down from the Committee on 31 October 2014. 
7. Alan Dickinson stepped down from the Committee on 4 September 2014. 
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
25 Directors’ report continued 
Corporate governance continued 
 
The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include:
− identifying and nominating candidates for appointment  
to the Board for the approval of the Board.  External  
search consultants are generally appointed to assist  
in the search process; 
− reviewing development needs of the Executives; and 
− making recommendations to the Board on Board 
composition and balance. 
The Committee considers the diversity of the Board (including 
gender) and the skills and competen cies of the existing Directors 
when drawing up specifications for new appointments.  It ensures 
that the development needs of Executive Directors and other senior 
managers are addressed appropriately. 
An external search consultancy is ordinarily used in relation to  
the appointment of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 
The Nomination Committee initiated the search for a new 
Chairman using an external fi rm, Spencer Stuart.  Spencer  
Stuart has no connection with the Company beyond acting as  
an independent search firm.  All of the Non-Executive Directors  
and Lord Harris were involved in the appointment of Bob Ivell  
as Chairman. 
The Committee also considers whether Directors due to retire  
at an Annual General Meeting should be recommended for  
re-appointment, and whether the appointment of Non-Executive 
Directors reaching the end of their three-year term should be 
renewed.  Committee members do not vote on their own  
re-appointment. 
Continuing professional development 
All Board members are updated on matters relevant to the  
Group, including legal and regulatory developments, and  
members of Board Committees are updated on matters relevant  
to their Committee membership.  In the year, the Remuneration 
Committee received updates on current best practice from  
New Bridge Street and individual training was also provided  
by New Bridge Street to some of the members of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
The performance of individual Directors is considered as  
part of the annual Board appraisal process.  The individual  
development needs of Executive Directors are overseen by  
the Nomination Committee.  
Non-Executive Directors have access to professional development 
provided by external bodies.  Their continuing competence is 
considered by the Nomination Committee as part of the annual 
process of recommending the reappointment of Directors at  
the AGM. 
Share capital 
Details of the Company’s share capital and significant shareholders 
can be found on page 50. 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
26  
Audit Committee report 
 
I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee  
for 2015. 
The Committee plays an important part in the governance of  
the Group, with its principal activities focused on the integrity of 
financial reporting, quality and effectiveness of internal and external 
audit, risk management and the system of internal control. 
I have set out below the main matters considered by the 
Committee during the year and the conclusions drawn.  We  
meet formally at key times within our reporting calendar and the 
agendas are designed to cover significant areas of risk over the 
course of the year and to provide oversight and challenge to the 
key financial judgments, controls and processes that operate  
within the Company. 
The Committee will continue to keep its activities under review in 
the light of regulatory developments and the emergence of best 
practice.  In particular, the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 
will take effect for the first time in our financial year ended 2016.  
Further, we will be re-tendering the appointment of our statutory 
auditors during 2016. 
Overall, I am satisfied that the activities of the Committee during  
the year enable it to gain a good understanding of the key matters 
impacting the Company along with the oversight of the governance 
and operation of its key controls. 
 
David Clifford 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
29 June 2015 
  
During the year the Audit Committee has undertaken the 
following tasks: 
− considered our financial results announcements and  
financial statements and monitored compliance with  
relevant statutory and listing requirements; 
− reported to the Board on the appropriateness of our 
accounting policies and practices; 
− overseen the relationship with the external auditors  
including reviewing the independence, objectivity and 
effectiveness of the external auditors and, on the basis  
of that review, recommending to the Board their  
re-appointment at the AGM; 
− reviewed the external auditors’ plan for the audit of the 
Group’s accounts, and approved the terms of engagement 
for the audit; 
− reviewed the process for ensuring that senior management 
confirm that they have supplie d the auditors with relevant 
audit information; 
− approved the audit fees paid to the external auditors and 
reviewed the application of the policy on non-audit work 
performed by them together with the non-audit fees  
payable to them; 
− reviewed the scope, resources, results and effectiveness  
of the activity of the Grou p internal audit department; 
− reviewed the work of the Executive Risk Committee, which 
oversees the identification and management of the risks to  
the business, together with reports on the Group’s systems  
of internal control; 
− performed in-depth reviews of specific areas of financial 
reporting, risk and internal controls and discussed these  
with the executives responsible for the relevant area; 
− considered all matters reported via the whistleblowing  
line and a report relating to frauds; and 
− reviewed its terms of reference and effectiveness. 
 
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
27 Directors’ report continued 
Audit Committee report continued
 
Composition 
The Committee meets at least four times during the year.   
Meetings are attended by the members who are independent  
Non-Executive Directors and, by invitation, the Chairman, the Chief 
Executive, the Group Finance Director, and the Director of Group 
Internal Audit.  The external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers  
LLP (PwC), are invited to two meetings per year, preceding the 
announcement of our interim and fu ll-year results.  Other relevant 
people from the business are also invited to attend certain 
meetings in order to provide a deeper level of insight into certain 
key issues and developments.  There are also regular private 
meetings with the external an d internal auditors without 
management present. 
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-
Executive Directors of the Company.  The terms of reference are 
regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and are then referred  
to the Board for approval.  Thes e are available on the Company’s 
corporate website at www.carpetright.plc.uk. 
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Clifford.  The Board  
has determined that David Clifford has recent and relevant  
financial experience.  Baroness Noakes stepped down from the 
Committee on 23 June 2014 and Andrew Page was appointed  
in her place.  Alan Dickinson stepped down from the Committee  
on 4 September 2014 and Sandra Turner was appointed in his 
place.  The biographies of the members of the Committee can  
be found on pages 22 and 23.  Details of membership and 
attendance are set out below: 
Number of meetings: 4
Members Attendance 
Meetings eligible 
to attend
David Clifford  
Committee Chairman 
4 4
Andrew Page 2 3
Sandra Turner 2 3
Alan Dickinson 1 1
Baroness Noakes 1 1
Main activities of the Committee during  
the year 
The Committee assisted the Board in carrying out its 
responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk 
management and the assessment of internal controls and has an 
agenda linked to events in the Group’s financial calendar.  It also 
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function 
and managed the Group’s relationship with the external auditors.  
The Committee chairman reported to the Board, as part of a 
separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and 
matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct  
of its work. 
Financial reporting 
The Committee reviewed with management and the external 
auditors, the half-year and annual financial statements, 
concentrating on, amongst other matters: 
− the appropriateness and application of accounting policies and 
compliance with the relevant fi nancial reporting requirements; 
− material areas in which signific ant judgments have been applied 
or there has been discussion wi th the external auditors; and 
− whether the Annual Report and Accounts contains the 
necessary disclosures to fairly reflect the Group’s financial 
condition and results of its operations. 
To aid its review, the Committee considered reports from the  
Group Finance Director and also re ports from the external auditors 
on the outcomes of their half-year review and annual audit. 
The primary areas of judgment considered by the Committee in 
relation to the 2015 accounts, and how these were addressed, are 
set out below.  In all cases the Committee discussed with PwC its 
work in respect of these areas. 
Goodwill impairment testing 
The judgments in relation to goodwill impairment largely relate to 
the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the 
business being tested for impairment, primarily the achievement  
of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic assumptions 
underlying the valuation process.  The Committee addressed  
these matters through receiving reports from management and 
discussing the assumptions used.  The Committee noted that the 
weighted average cost of capital used was outside the range  
used by PwC in its assessment.  The Committee agreed that  
no impairment was necessary. 
Impairment of the valuation of property 
The Committee has carried out a further review of the property 
valuations.  The Committee noted that the weighted average cost 
of capital used in the Directors’ valuation was outside the range 
used by PwC in its assessment.  Following discussions with both 
management and PwC, the Committee is satisfied that no further 
impairment of the property valuations is necessary. 
Onerous lease provision 
The practice is to treat a lease as being onerous if the store  
relative to the lease is closed or if the expected benefits of using the 
leased property are less than the unavoidable costs.  Management 
makes an assessment as to the cost of exiting the lease based  
on available information and knowledge of the property market.  
Following the strategic review, prov ision has been made in respect 
of certain loss-making stores.  The Committee has discussed  
with management the judgments and assumptions made in 
determining the provision and ag reed with management that  
an increase in the onerous le ase provision of £7m would be 
appropriate.  Further details can be found in note 5 to the  
financial statements on page 66. 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
28  
Rebates and supplier income 
In the year ended 2 May 2015 the Group received income from 
suppliers by way of both a disco unt, irrespective of the volume  
of products purchased, which are pre-negotiated and deducted 
from the value of each invoice from a supplier, and volume-driven 
rebates.  Given the well-publicised accounting issues at other retail 
businesses, the Committee carried out a review of the Group’s 
practice in this area.  In the period the Group received around 
£85m by way of rebates and supplier income.  Judgments are 
made in respect of the latter where volume-driven rebate 
arrangements span the end of a reporting period.  Rebates are 
accrued based upon management judgment as to the extent to 
which turnover targets will be me t which determine rebates to be 
earned on those deals.  The Committee addressed these matters 
through receiving reports from management and asking the 
external auditors to ensure that th is is an area of focus for them.  
The Committee satisfied itself that the accounting treatment in 
respect of rebates and supplier income is appropriate. 
Inventory 
Details of inventory are held in three systems, the store system,  
the warehouse system and the principal accounting system.  
Manual intervention is required to check consistency between  
the systems and to ensure that the correct stock value is used for 
accounting purposes.  During the year management started a 
programme of work to analyse and reconcile the data in the various 
systems and to better understand the process flows.  PwC were 
engaged to review the inventory data transfer between the store 
system and the principal accounting system.  The Committee 
considered the detailed review and findings to date of the 
programme and is comfortable with the reported stock valuation. 
Internal audit 
The Committee considered and approved the Annual Internal  
Audit plan and at each meeting reviewed reports from the Director 
of Group Internal Audit, incl uding those showing performance 
against the plan, and approved changes as appropriate.  The 
reports include updates on audit activities, progress of the Group 
audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the action 
plans to address these areas, and resource requirements of the 
Internal Audit department.  The in ternal audit team utilises the 
services of Deloitte LLP to assist in the discharge of its functions.  
Private discussions are held with the Director of Group Internal 
Audit as necessary throughout the year. 
Internal control 
The Committee reviewed the process by which the Group 
evaluated its control environment.  Its work here is driven  
primarily by the work undertaken by the Group’s Internal Audit 
department, which includes any reported fraud.  The Director of 
Group Internal Audit monitored th e timely implementation of any 
recommendations and reported to the Committee accordingly.  
The Committee also reviewed the documentation prepared to 
support the Board’s annual statement on internal controls before 
its consideration by the full Board. 
Whistleblowing 
The Company operates a whistleblowing telephone line in the UK 
and an email whistleblowing facilit y in Europe.  Both are operated 
by independent companies and reports are received by the 
Director of Group Internal Audit, the Company Secretary or the  
HR Director.  Matters reported related to individual treatment by line 
managers or colleagues, dishonesty, substance abuse and breach 
of Company policy.  In each case the issues were investigated, a 
judgment was made and action taken where appropriate.  The 
outcome of all matters was repo rted to the Audit Committee. 
Risk management 
The Group’s risk assessment process and the way in which 
significant business risks are manage d is a key area of focus for the 
Committee.  The Committee received and considered reports from 
the Group Finance Director on the Group’s risk evaluation process 
and reviewed changes to significant risks identified.  It also 
discussed emerging and potential risks. 
The Committee reviewed, in detail, the assessment and controls  
for the principal risks and uncertainties as set out on page 19.   
The work included a review of the controls in place to mitigate  
the risk, the assessment by the Director of Group Internal Audit  
and a discussion with the risk owne r, being a senior executive.   
The Committee considered in-depth reviews into reputation and 
marketing strategy and pricing. 
The Committee considers these reviews to be an important  
part of its role, as they allow it to meet executive management 
responsible for these areas and undertake independent challenge 
of their activities. 
External audit 
The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on 
appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.  
The Committee received a detailed audit plan from PwC, identifying 
their assessment of these key risks.  For the 2015 financial year the 
primary risks identified and how the scope of the audit addressed 
the area of focus are set out in the Auditors’ report on pages 90  
to 95. 
The Committee discusses the work done by the auditors to test 
management’s assumptions and estimates around these areas.  
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the audit process  
in addressing these matters throug h the reporting it receives from, 
and discussions with, PwC at both the half-year and year-end.   
In addition, the Committee also seeks feedback from management 
on the effectiveness of the audit process. 
For the 2015 financial year, management was satisfied that there 
had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of 
audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.  
The Audit Committee concurred with the view of management. 
The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditors 
twice a year to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and 
feedback from the auditors without management being present.  
Matters discussed include the transparency and openness of 
interactions with management and confirmation that there has 
been no restriction in scope placed on them by management.   
The Audit Committee chairman also meets with the audit partner 
from time to time outside the formal committee process. 
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
29 Directors’ report continued 
Audit Committee report continued
 
Appointment and independence 
The Committee and Board place great emphasis on the 
independence and objectivity of the Group’s auditors, PwC, when 
performing their role in the Group’s reporting to shareholders and 
considering their re-appointment each year. 
The Committee reviews the independence, objectivity and 
performance of the auditors annually, including the annual report 
on the auditors produced by the Audit Quality Review Team of the 
Financial Reporting Council and the auditors’ own annual report  
on its independence.  On the basis of its reviews, the Committee 
made a recommendation on the reappointment of the auditors  
to the Board. 
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner 
responsible for the Group audit every five years.  The audit of this 
Report and Accounts is the first to be carried out of the Group by 
the current audit partner. 
Re-tendering of audit services 
PwC have been auditors to the Company since 2005 when they 
were appointed following a competitive tender.  The Company 
intends to re-tender the audit in spring 2016 in compliance with 
current regulations, with a resolution being put to shareholders at 
the AGM in September 2016.  The auditors’ tenure runs from one 
AGM to the next and there are no contractual obligations that 
restrict the Committee’s choice of external auditors. 
Non-audit services 
To further safeguard the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditors from becoming compromised, the Committee 
has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external 
auditors to provide non-audit services.  No changes have been 
made to this policy during the year.  This precludes PwC from 
providing certain services such as valuation work or the provision of 
accounting services and also sets a presumption that PwC should 
only be engaged for non-audit services where the appointment of 
alternative supplier would be either impractical or inefficient, bearing 
in mind the particular circumstances. 
The auditors may only provide such services provided that such 
advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and 
ethical guidance.  There are financial limits in respect of which  
the engagement of PwC for non-audit services is pre-approved.  
For all other services, or those permitted services that exceed  
the specified fee limits, the Audit Committee Chairman’s approval  
is required before PwC can provide non-audit services. 
During the year the only non-audit services work undertaken by 
PwC related to the review of the inventory referred to on page 29,  
at a cost of £30k. 
Audit and non-audit fees 
Details of the auditors’ remuneration for audit work and non-audit 
fees for the period ended 2 May 2015 are disclosed in note 3 to 
the financial statements on page 65 and disclosed above.  The 
Committee approved the fees for audit services for 2015 after a 
review of the level and nature of work to be performed and after 
being satisfied that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the 
work required. 
Committee evaluation 
The Committee’s activities formed part of the review of Board 
effectiveness performed in the year.  Details of this process can  
be found on page 25.  No significant matters were identified which 
needed to be addressed. 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
30  
Directors’ remuneration report 
 
 
Part 1 – Annual Statement from the Chair  
of the Committee 
Dear Shareholder, 
Introduction 
I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
behalf of the Board, my first re port following my appointment as 
Chair in September 2014. 
Our remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at our 
AGM on 4 September 2014 and became effective for three years.  
We have set out our policy again to allow cross-reference against 
its operation during the year.  
This year’s report is separa ted into the following parts: 
− this “Annual Statement”, which identifies the key messages  
on remuneration for the year under review and explains the 
business context in which the Committee’s major decisions 
during the period were taken; 
− a forward looking “Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report”, 
which became binding with effect from the AGM held on  
4 September 2014; and 
− an “Annual Report on Remu neration”, which provides 
shareholders with details of the remuneration that was actually 
delivered to the Company’s Directors during financial year 2015 
and explains how the policy referred to above will be applied in 
financial year 2016 – this final pa rt of the report will be subject  
to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM. 
Business strategy and link to remuneration policy 
The Committee’s policy is to provide remuneration packages  
for the Executive Directors that include an appropriate balance 
between the fixed and variable elements of pay, and which reflect 
their responsibilities relative to th e size and nature of the business. 
It is committed to ensuring that the Executives are rewarded for 
delivering the Company’s growth plans and long-term shareholder 
value.  The Committee aims to set levels of fixed pay that are 
competitive within the markets within which it competes for talent, 
and short- and long-term incentive opportunities at levels that are 
sufficient to motivate Executives to achieve stretching short- and 
long-term goals without encouraging inappropriate behaviours.  
The remuneration strategy ensures that a significant element  
of Executives’ remuneration remains ‘at risk’. 
Activities of the Committee 
During the year the Remuneration Committee made a number  
of key decisions relating to the departure of Graham Harris, the 
appointment of Wilf Walsh as Chief Executive and the appointment 
of Bob Ivell as Chairman.  Details of the decisions concerning 
Graham Harris and Wilf Walsh were disclosed in last year’s 
Remuneration Report. 
The Committee reviewed Lord Harris’ remuneration as a result  
of changes to his responsibilities during the year, and agreed that 
his salary should remain at £400,000 until the AGM in September 
2014 to reflect the substantial time commitment to facilitate a 
successful handover to Wilf Walsh as the incoming Chief Executive, 
reducing to £125,000 until he left the Board on 31 October 2015,  
Bob Ivell was appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 November 
2014. The Committee determined that his fees will be £150,000 
per annum. 
The Committee also reviewed the proposed award levels and 
targets for the awards under the Carpetright Long-Term Incentive 
Plan 2013 which were made in July 2014.  It is anticipated that 
awards will normally be made fo llowing the announcement of the 
Company’s annual results.  The value of shares over which the first 
awards were made under the plan was consistent with awards 
made in January 2014, which were delayed from 2013. 
The Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors in 
April 2015 and determined that Wilf’s basic salary would increase 
by 2%, in line with a general increa se in basic salaries in the UK 
business, and Neil’s salary would increase to £300,000 to reflect 
additional responsibilities he has taken on for the Group’s property 
portfolio and increased involvement and responsibility for overall 
strategy and operational activity since Wilf joined the business in 
July 2014. 
Incentive payments 
I am pleased to report that financial performance for Executive 
Directors relating to the 2015 annual bonus results in a bonus 
between target and maximum.  Additionally, Wilf Walsh achieved 
the strategic and operational objectives which were set for his 
bonus in his introductory year.  The achievement of these targets 
gives rise to a payment of 85.6% of salary earned in the year to  
Wilf Walsh and 71.2% of salary earned in the year to Neil Page. 
Annual incentive arrangements for the financial year ending 2016 
for Executive Directors will be based upon the achievement of 
underlying profit targets and strategic objectives.  Further details  
of the metrics and targets are provided in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. Subject to commercial confidentiality, performance 
against these targets will be disc losed in next year’s report. 
As a result of financ ial performance in the year ended on 2 May 
2015, none of the long-term incentive awards granted in 2012  
will vest. 
I will be available to answer any questions at the AGM in 
September and hope that you will support the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Annual Report on Remuneration  
at our forthcoming meeting.  
 
Sandra Turner 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
31 Directors’ report continued 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report 
Introduction 
This report sets out the information requir ed by Part 4 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accou nts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended).  The report also sati sfies the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Fi nancial 
Conduct Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to directors ’ 
remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
As part of its responsibilities the Remuneration Committee prepar es the Policy Report, below, whic h sets out the remuneration policy  
that has applied to the Directors of the Company since 27 April 2014 and was adopted following a binding vote at the AGM held o n  
4 September 2014.  The policy report has been reproduced for in formation and updated to reflect the passage of time, such as ch ange  
in tense and page references and the Exec utive Directors’ current remuneration packages for the purp oses of the chart illustrating the 
application of the policy in the coming year. 
The Committee also determines the remuneration policy for the se nior management of the Company, including the Company Secretary 
and such other members of the senior executive as it is designated to consider by the Board.  Its aim is to attract, motivate a nd retain 
executives of the appropriate calibre and expertise, so that th e Company is managed successfully for the benefit of its stakeho lders.   
The framework has been designed as an integral part of the Company's overall business strategy.  
A description of each of the elements to be comprised in the remuneration package for the Company’s Directors is as follows: 
Policy Table – Elements of Directors’ remuneration package 
Remuneration 
element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum 
Performance 
measurement 
Base salary Helps to recruit and 
retain Executive 
Directors. 
Reflects 
responsibilities, 
performance, 
experience  
and role.  
 
Generally reviewed annually 
(with any change effective in May) 
but exceptionally at other times  
of the year. 
Set with reference to individual 
performance, experience and 
responsibilities, reflecting the 
market rate for the individual  
and their role. 
When reviewing the salaries  
of the Executive Directors, the 
Committee also has regard to  
the impact on the cost of pension 
provision and pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group.  In 
particular, the Committee takes 
account of the level of salary 
increases awarded to other 
employees of the Group  
when deciding on increases  
for Executive Directors. 
Annual increases generally in line 
with the level of standard increase 
awarded to other employees. 
More significant increases may be 
awarded at the discretion of the 
Committee in connection with: 
− an increase in the scope and 
responsibility of the individual’s 
role; or 
− the individual’s development  
and performance in the role 
following appointment. 
Not applicable
Benefits Helps recruit and retain 
Executive Directors. 
Executive Directors are entitled 
to a competitive package of 
benefits, including car benefits,  
life assurance and private  
medical cover. 
A car allowance up to a value  
of £27,500.  The cost to the 
Company of other benefits is  
not predetermined and may  
vary from year to year. 
Not applicable
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
32  
 
 
Remuneration 
element 
Purpose and link to 
strategy Operation Maximum Performance measurement 
Pension Helps recruit and 
retain Executive 
Directors. 
The Company previously operated 
a defined benefit pension plan, 
the Carpetright plc Pension Plan, 
which closed to future accrual  
from 30 April 2010. 
In its place, the Company operates 
a defined contribution Group 
Personal Pension Plan (‘GPPP’).  
Executive Directors are offered a 
specific percentage of their base 
salary to fund their own pension 
provision.  The Executive Directors 
are able to choose whether the 
allowance is paid to the GPPP  
or to receive the allowance by  
way of a salary supplement. 
Maximum allowance of 20% 
of base salary. 
Not applicable 
Annual 
bonus 
Rewards the 
achievement  
of annual KPIs 
and/or other 
objectives  
linked to the 
Company’s 
strategic goals. 
Bonuses are awarded by 
reference to performance  
against specific targets measured 
over a single financial year. 
Any amounts awarded to an 
Executive Director under this 
arrangement are paid out in full 
shortly after the assessment of 
the performance targets has  
been completed. 
Bonuses do not form part of  
the Executive Directors’ 
pensionable earnings. 
Bonuses are subject to clawback 
at the discretion of the Committee 
in the event of a material 
misstatement of the financial 
results, an error in assessing the 
size of the bonus or where the 
individual had committed an act 
of gross misconduct during the 
relevant financial year. 
Maximum (as a percentage 
of salary): 100% 
Minimum bonus that can  
be paid: 0% 
The percentage payable for  
on-target performance is 
determined by the Committee 
each year in light of the degree 
of stretch in the targets and 
affordability of the resulting 
bonus payouts relative to 
budgeted levels of profit. 
The measures and targets are 
set annually by the Committee in 
order to ensure they are relevant 
to participants and take account 
of the most up-to-date business 
plan and strategy. 
All or a significant majority of the 
bonus opportunity will normally  
be determined by reference  
to performance against a 
demanding Group underlying 
profit target. 
Additional targets applied may 
relate to the achievement of 
specific strategic or personal 
objectives. These measures will 
be disclosed in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration, where not 
deemed commercially sensitive. 
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
33 Directors’ report continued 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
Remuneration element 
Purpose and link to 
strategy Operation Maximum Performance measurement 
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’) 
Incentivises 
Executive 
Directors  
to deliver 
superior levels  
of long-term 
performance  
for the benefit  
of shareholders, 
thereby aligning 
their interests 
with those of  
the Company’s 
investors.  
The current LTIP was appr oved at the 
2013 AGM (Carpetright Long Term 
Incentive Plan 2013). 
Awards consist of annual awards of 
performance shares that vest three years 
after grant to the extent that performance 
conditions have been met over a three 
year performance period. 
Awards are subject to clawback at the 
discretion of the Committee in the event 
of a material misstatement of the financial 
results, an error in the calculation  
of performance conditions or if the 
participant ceases to be employed  
as a result of misconduct. 
Awards made in the 2014 
and 2015 financial years: 
− the rules permit a 
maximum of 250% of 
salary, although only 
approximately 150%  
of salary was, or will  
be, awarded. 
Awards from 2016 financial 
year onwards: 
− normal maximum  
of 150% of salary; and 
− exceptional 
circumstances 
maximum 250%  
of salary. 
Awards made prior to 
the 2014 financial year  
are subject to targets 
based on growth in EPS 
over three years and are 
disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration. 
Awards made in the 2014 
and 2015 financial years 
are subject to performance 
conditions measuring 
growth in the Company’s 
underlying profit before tax.
For awards made in the 
2014 and 2015 financial 
years, 25% will vest at 
threshold. 
The Committee has 
discretion to set different 
targets for future awards.  
All employee 
share schemes, 
including a 
Sharesave  
Plan and  
Share Incentive 
Plan (‘SIP’) 
Encourages  
a broad range  
of employees  
to become  
long-term 
shareholders. 
The Company operates HM Revenue 
and Customs approved Sharesave  
and SIP plans with standard terms.  
 
Sharesave and SIP 
participation limits are  
as set by the UK tax 
authorities from time  
to time.  
 
Not applicable 
Notes: 
1. A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in the table for the financial year ended 2016 is set out in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration from page 39. 
2. The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior executives is designed with regard to the policy for emplo yees across the Group as a whole.  
However, the differences set out above arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals. 
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the Executive Directors and senior executives, a greater emphasis is typically placed on performance-related pay.  
3. The following differences exist between the above policy for the remuneration of Directors and its approach to the payment of e mployees generally: 
− a lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the Executive Directors and certain senior ma nagers; 
− store-based colleagues receive commission based upon sales achieved, and field-based colleagues receive bonuses based upon the performance of their sphere 
of responsibility; 
− participation in the LTIP is limited to the Executive Directors and certain selected senior managers.  Other employees are elig ible to participate in the Company’s  
all employee share schemes; 
− under the Company’s defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is lower than that provided to Executive  
Directors; and 
− benefits offered to other employees generally comprise pension and colleague discount. 
4. The Committee may grant awards under the LTIP as conditional share awards or nil (or nominal) cost options. The Committee may a lso decide to grant cash-based 
awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, although it does not currently in tend to do so.  The Committee may 
decide that participants will receive a dividend equivalent payment (in cash and/or shares) on or shortly following the vesting of their awards. 
5. The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus reflect the Committee’s aim that annual incentives should promote growth in underlying 
earnings, while also promoting the achievement of key non-financial objectives.  The LTIP performance measure captures long-ter m growth in earnings performance, 
which we believe is most closely aligned with the financial performance expected by our shareholders.  In line with the Associa tion of British Insurers’ Guidelines on 
Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior ma nagement will not raise environmental, 
social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.  More generally, the Committee will ensure that the overall remuneration policy does not 
encourage inappropriate operational risk-taking. 
6. For the LTIP awards made in 2014, the Committee decided to measure performance on a cumulative basis in order to ensure consist ent enhanced performance as 
well as, given the current economic uncertainty, reducing the risk that a change in economic conditions in a single year of the performance period will unduly influence 
performance against the targets. 
7. The Company has a share ownership policy that requires the Execut ive Directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to the same multiple of base salary as 
awards are made under the LTIP.  Until such a holding is achieved, an Executive Director is obliged to retain shares with a min imum value equal to 50% of the net of tax 
gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Company’s share incentive plans.  Details of the extent to which the Execut ive Directors had complied with this 
policy as at 2 May 2015 are set out on pages 45 and 46. 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
34  
 
 
Incentive plan determinations and discretions 
The Committee will operate the annual bonus and LTIP according to their respective ru les, the policy set out above and in accor dance  
with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. A copy of the LTIP rules is available on request from the Company Secreta ry.   
The Committee, consistent with market practice, is required to make certain determinations under and retains discretion over a number  
of areas relating to the operation and administration of thes e plans.  These include (but are not limited to) the following: 
− who participates in the plans; 
− the timing of grant of award and/or payment; 
− the size of an award and/or a payment (within the limits set out in the policy table above); 
− the choice of (and adjustment of) performance measures and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set ou t 
above and the rules of each plan;  
− discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction; 
− determination of good leaver status for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment  
chosen; and 
− making adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, on a change of control and s pecial 
dividends), provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy. 
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explai ned in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropria te,  
be the subject of consultation with the Company’s major shareholders. 
Legacy arrangements 
In approving the Policy Report, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or forme r 
Directors that have been disclosed previously to shareholders.  It is also part of th is policy that we will honour payments or awards 
crystallising after the effective date of this policy but arising from commitments entered into pr ior to the effective date of the new policy,  
or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company. 
Consideration of employee views 
Although the Committee does not formally consult employees on ex ecutive remuneration, the Committee considers the general basic  
salary increase as well as pay and conditions for the broader em ployee population when determining the annual salary increases for the 
Executive Directors.   
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
35 Directors’ report continued 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
Application of Remuneration Policy  
 
The chart above illustrates how the total pay opportunities for the Executive Directors vary under three performance scenarios: Minimum, 
On-Target and Maximum.  It has been update d from last year’s policy report to reflec t how the approved policy will be implement ed in the 
next financial year. 
Assumptions: 
− Fixed only – fixed pay only, including base salary (at current rates), 20% pension allowance (based on current base salary) and benefits 
as disclosed in the single figure table on page 41; 
− On-target – fixed pay, plus 50% of salary a nnual bonus, plus 37.5% of salary LTIP vest ing (Wilf Walsh) / 31. 25% of salary LTIP vesting  
(Neil Page); and 
− Maximum – fixed pay, plus 100% of salary a nnual bonus, plus 150% of salary LTIP vestin g (Wilf Walsh) / 125% of salary LTIP vest ing 
(Neil Page). 
Service agreements and policy on termination 
It is the Company’s policy to employ UK Executive Directors under contracts with an indefinite term subject to termination by n otice given 
by either party, normally of 12 months or less.  Non-UK Executive Directors would be employed under contracts with similar term s to 
those of UK Executive Directors, subject to market practice an d laws of any other jurisdiction where an employee is based. 
The Company seeks to avoid any payment for failure.  The circumst ances of the termination (taking into account the individual’s 
performance) and an individual’s duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken into account in every case. 
  
300
600
900
1,200
1,500
1,800
Fixed Bonus
Fixed only
100% 59% 34%
23%
18%
27%
40%
100% 61%
24%
15%
37%
28%
35%
Target Stretch
Wilf Walsh
Fixed only Target Stretch
Neil Page
Total remuneration (£000s)
LTIP Target performance for the LTIP is assumed to be threshold.
£1,728
£982
£581
£1,065
£634
£390
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
36  
 
 
If the Company terminates employment without giving full notice to the Executive Director, under the Service Contracts the Comp any has 
the option to either: 
− pay damages calculated by reference to common law principles, incl uding an obligation on the Executive Director to mitigate los s; or  
− make a payment in lieu of notice calculated by reference to basi c salary and benefits only.  Such payments may be phased and wo uld 
be reduced or terminated if alternative employment was secured du ring the notice period.  There is also a requirement to mitiga te loss. 
The Company also retains flexibility to pay re asonable legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual that are associate d with the 
termination and to provide outplacement services. 
In addition, the Company would honour any legal entitlements, such as statutory redundancy payments, that executives may have  
on termination. 
No bonuses are payable to individuals who are no longer empl oyed or are under notice at the end of the financial year. 
Long-term incentive awards lapse on cessation of employment othe r than in certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances (including death, 
retirement with the agreement of the Commit tee, redundancy, ill-health, or because the individual’s employing company or part o f the 
business in which employment is transferred out of the Group or as otherwise determined by the Committee).  Where an individual is a 
‘good leaver’, awards would not lapse but would normally continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but onl y if, and to 
the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied.  Awards would also normally be subject to a pro-rata redu ction to take 
account of the proportion of the vesting period that has elapse d, although the Committee has discretion to disapply pro-rating in certain 
circumstances.  On a change of control awards would vest early, subject to performance conditions being achieved, and would nor mally 
be subject to a pro-rata reductio n, although the Committee has disc retion to disapply pro-rating. 
Neil Page and Wilf Walsh have contracts of an indefinite term, subject to a 12 month notice period.  Non-Executive Directors ar e entitled  
to one month’s notice. 
Recruitment remuneration 
Salaries for new hires (including internal promotions) will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Company’s intend ed pay 
positioning and the market rate for the role.  If it is considered appropriate to appoint a new Director on a below market sala ry (for 
example, to allow them to gain experience in the role), their salary may be increased to a market level over a number of years by way  
of a series of increases above the general rate of wage growth in the Group and inflation. 
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Company’s approved 
remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.  The Committee has discretion to set different targets and/or vary the weightings 
of the targets used in the annual bonus and LTIP for the first year following appointment.  In addition, the Committee may offe r additional 
cash and/or share-based elements if it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company (and therefore shareholders).  Any such 
additional cash and/or share-based payments would be: (i) based so lely on remuneration lost when leaving the former employer an d 
would reflect (as far as practicable) the delivery mechanism, ti me horizons and performance requirement attaching to that remun eration; 
and (ii) delivered under the Group’s existing incentive arrangemen ts to the extent possible, alth ough awards may also be grante d outside 
these schemes, if necessary, and as permitted under the Listing Rules. 
In the case of an internal appointment, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed t o pay out 
according to its terms of grant (adjusted as releva nt to take into account the Board appointment). 
The Committee may also agree that the Comp any will compensate executives, both intern al and external, for certain relocation ex penses 
as appropriate.  Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employm ent with  
the Company.  Legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company. 
Fees for new Non-Executive Directors would be set in line with the policy on page 38. 
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
37 Directors’ report continued 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
Outside appointments of the Chairman and Executive Directors 
Executive Directors retain remuneration from outside non-executive directorship s.  During the year Lord Harris waived his direc tors’ fees 
payable by Arsenal Holdings plc and Arsenal Football Club plc.  Wilf Walsh is a non-executive director of Gala Coral and retain ed his fees 
from this directorship (£60,000). 
Policy for Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.  They are appointed for an initial three year period, subject to bei ng re-elected 
by members annually.  
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation  Maximum 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees Helps recruit and retain high 
quality, experienced individuals.  
Reflects time commitment  
and role. 
Consist of annual basic fee plus 
additional fees payable to the 
Deputy Chairman, and the  
Chair of each of its Committees. 
Limited benefits relating to travel, 
accommodation and hospitality 
may be provided in relation  
to the performance of any  
Directors’ duties. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees  
are set by the Executive Directors 
with reference to external data  
on fee levels in similar businesses, 
having taken account of the 
responsibilities of individual 
Directors and their expected 
annual time commitment. 
The aggregate amount  
of Directors’ fees is limited  
by the Company’s Articles  
of Association. 
All Non-Executive Directors are entitled to receive one mont h’s notice under their respecti ve letters of appointment. 
Consideration of shareholder views 
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received on the Directors’ Remuneration Report each year and guidance 
from shareholder representative bodies more generally.  Shareh olders’ views are key inputs when shaping remuneration policy. 
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last year’s Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remunerati on,  
and any matters discussed with shareholders during the ye ar are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
38  
 
 
Part 3 – Annual report on remuneration 
Introduction 
This annual report on remuneration provides details of the wa y in which the Committee implemented its policy during the financi al year  
to 2 May 2015.  It also summarises how the policy contained within the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report on pages 32 to 38 will  
be applied in the financial year ending 30 April 2016. 
It has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended).  In accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advi sory vote  
at the forthcoming AGM on 10 September 2015. 
The Company’s auditors are required to repo rt to Carpetright’s shareholders on the “auditable parts” of this Annual Report on 
Remuneration (which have been highlighted as such below) and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006. 
Operation of the Remuneration Committee during year ended 2015 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sandra Turner.  Details of its membership and attendance are set out below: 
Number of meetings: 
4
Members Attendance 
Meetings eligible 
to attend 
Sandra Turner
1
  
Committee Chairman 
4 4
Andrew Page 3 4
David Clifford
2 
2 2
Alan Dickinson
3
 2 2
Baroness Noakes
4
 2 2
Notes: 
1. Chairman from 4 September 2014. 
2. From 4 September 2014.  
3. Chairman and Committee member until 4 September 2014. 
4. Committee member until 23 June 2014. 
The Non-Executive Directors who served on the Committee had no pers onal financial interest (other than as shareholders) in the matters 
decided, no potential conflicts of interest from cross-director ships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.  Bi ographical 
information on the current Committee members is shown on pages 22 and 23.  The Company Secretary (Jeremy Sampson) acts as 
secretary to the Committee. 
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman (Lord Harris until 31 October 2014 and Bob Ivell since), the Chief Executive ( Wilf Walsh), 
Group Finance Director (Neil Page), and the Director of Huma n Resources regularly attend Committee meetings.  The Committee 
considers their views when reviewing the remuneration of the Exec utive Directors and senior executives.  They are not involved in 
decisions concerning their own remuneration. 
The responsibilities of the Committee include: 
− determining and agreeing with the Board the broad remune ration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and  
senior executives; 
− setting individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman and Executive Directors; 
− recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remunera tion for those members of senior management within the scope 
of the Committee; and 
− approving the service agreements of each Executive Director, including termination arrangements. 
The Committee’s terms of reference ar e available on the Company’s corpor ate website (www.carpetright.plc.uk). 
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
39 Directors’ report continued 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint external advi sers if it considers this beneficial.  Over the course of the year, the 
Committee was advised by New Bridge Street (a trading name of Ao n Hewitt Limited, part of Aon pl c).  New Bridge Street was appo inted 
as advisers in 2010 following a competitive tender.  The Committee ’s advisers attended two of the four Committee meetings.  New Bridge 
Street, which is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Gr oup Code of Conduct for Executive Remuneration Consultants, did not 
provide other services to the Company.  Fees paid by the Company to New Bridge Street during the year amounted to £44k (2014: 
£51k).  Although other members of the Aon plc group of companies provided insurance broking and advisory services to the Compan y, 
the Committee is satisfied that the provision of such services did not create any conflict of interest.  The Committee reviews the 
effectiveness and independence of its advisers at a Committee meeting on an annual basis. 
As outlined in the Annual Statement, during the year the Remunera tion Committee needed to make a number of key decisions relati ng  
to the departure of Graham Harris, the appointment of Wilf Wals h as Chief Executive and the appointment of Bob Ivell as Chairma n.   
The Committee reviewed Lord Harris’ remunera tion as a result of changes to his respon sibilities during the year, and agreed his salary 
remained at £400,000 until the AGM in September 2014 to reflect th e substantial time commitment to facilitate a successful hand over  
to Wilf Walsh as the incoming Chief Executive, and reduced to £125,000 until he left the Board on 31 October 2014. 
On appointment of Bob Ivell as Chairman wi th effect from 1 Nove mber 2014, the Committee has determined that his fees will be 
£150,000 per annum. 
In addition, it also considered the following: 
− the level of executive and a ll employee salary increases; 
− performance against the targets for the 2014 annual bonus (and following the year end, the 2015 annual bonus); 
− the content of the Directors ’ remuneration report; and 
− the launch of an annual invitation under the SAYE scheme. 
Statement of shareholder voting at the 2014 AGM 
The table below shows the voting outcome at the 4 September 2014 AGM for the 2014 Directors’ remuneration report and approval  
of the remuneration policy: 
 
For (including 
discretionary votes) Against 
Total votes cast 
(for and against 
excluding votes 
withheld) Votes withheld
1
 
Total votes cast 
(including withheld 
votes) 
To approve the Remuneration Report 49,452,647 37,284 49,489,931 194,535 49,684,466
% votes cast 99.92% 0.08% 100% – –
To approve the Remuneration Policy 43,087,903 6,407,766 49,495,669 188,797 49,684,466
% votes cast 87.05% 12.95% 100% – –
Note: 
1. A vote withheld is not a vote in law. 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
40  
 
 
Single total figure table for the 2015 financial year (audited) 
The remuneration of the Directors for the year was as follows: 
 Notes 
Salary  
and fees 
£000 
Benefits
1 
£000 
Pension
2 
£000 
Subtotal fixed 
remuneration
£000 
Bonus
3 
£000 
Long-term 
incentives
4 
£000 
Subtotal variable 
remuneration 
£000 
Single figure for 
total remuneration
£000 
Executive Directors    
Lord Harris 5 160 10 – 170 – – – 170
Wilf Walsh 6 353 23 71 447 302 – 302 749
Neil Page 280 29 56 365 199 – 199 564
Graham Harris 7 180 15 36 231 – – – 231
Martin Harris 8 98 11 20 129 – – – 129
Total 1,071 88 183 1,342 501 – 501 1,843
Non-Executive      
Bob Ivell 9 75 – – 75 – – – 75
Sandra Turner 44 – – 44 – – – 44
David Clifford 44 – – 44 – – – 44
Andrew Page 42 – – 42 – – – 42
Baroness Noakes 21 – – 21 – – – 21
Alan Dickinson 15 – – 15 – – – 15
Total 241 – – 241 – – – 241
The remuneration of the Directors for the 2014 financial year was as follows: 
 Notes 
Salary  
and fees 
£000 
Benefits
£000 
Pension
£000 
Subtotal fixed 
remuneration
£000 
Bonus
£000 
Long-term 
incentives 
£000 
Subtotal variable 
remuneration 
£000 
Single figure for 
total remuneration
£000 
Executive Directors    
Lord Harris 332 33 – 365 – – – 365
Neil Page 280 29 56 365 – – – 365
Graham Harris 10 187 16 38 241 – – – 241
Martin Harris 280 32 56 368 – – – 368
Darren Shapland 10 191 12 38 241 – – – 241
Total 1,270 122 188 1,580 – – – 1,580
Non-Executive      
Sandra Turner 44 – – 44 – – – 44
David Clifford 44 – – 44 – – – 44
Andrew Page 33 – – 33 – – – 33
Baroness Noakes 60 – – 60 – – – 60
Alan Dickinson 44 – – 44 – – – 44
Total 225 – 225 – – – 225
Notes: 
1. The main benefits available to the Executive Directors during 2015 were a car allowance, life assurance (4 times salary) and pr ivate medical cover. 
2. Additional disclosures relating to the pension provision for the Executive Directors during 2015 are set out on page 42. 
3. This column shows the amount of bonus paid or payable in respect of the year in question.  Further information in relation to t he annual bonus for 2015 is provided on 
pages 42 and 43. 
4. This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the r elevant period.  Details of the vesting 
of the 20 September 2012 awards (included in the 2015 Single Figure) are provided on page 43.  The LTIP award granted on 20 Sep tember 2011 was based on EPS 
performance over the three years ended 26 April 2014 (included in the 2014 Single Figure); the condition was not met so no awar ds vested.  Further details of the 
LTIP’s operation during 2015 are provided on page 44. 
5. Payments were made to 31 October 2014, when Lord Harris reti red from the Board.  No post-termination payments were made. 
6. From 21 July 2014. 
7. Graham Harris’s salary and benefits include payments made since Graham stepped down from the Board on 20 May 2014.  As part of his termination arrangements 
he continued to receive phased payments for the balance of his six month notice period whilst on garden leave.  If the outstand ing long-term incentive awards vest, 
there will be a pro-rata reduction in the number of shares on a time basis. 
8. Payments were made to 4 September 2014 when Martin Harris stepped down from the Board.  No post-termination payments were made. 
9. Fees of £150,000 p.a. were agreed.  Payment of the full amount has not been made, pending adoption of new Articles of Associati on at the forthcoming AGM. 
10. Part year only. 
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
41 Directors’ report continued 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
Payments to past directors (audited) 
Darren Shapland stood down as Chief Executive and from the Board on 3 October 2013 and his employment ceased at the end of Apri l 
2014.  As disclosed last year, as part of his termination arrang ements Darren received phased payments for the balance of his 1 2 month 
notice period.  In respect of the period since 30 April 2014 Darren received payment of £143,090 representing his loss of salar y, benefits 
and pension allowance to 3 October 2014.  The maximum amount that would have been payable (£248,325) was reduced by fee income 
received by Darren from other non-executive directorships acquired since he left the Board. 
No payment following termination was ma de to Lord Harris or Martin Harris. 
In respect of Graham Harris, all payments following him stepping down from the Board are reflected in the single total figure t able above. 
Pensions (audited) 
As explained in the Directors’ remuneration policy report set out on page 33, the Company operates a defined contribution pensi on 
scheme and a legacy defined benefit scheme.  
Executive Directors are offered an allowance of 20% of their base salary to fund their own pension provision.  The individual i s able to 
choose whether this allowance is paid to the Company’s defined co ntribution Group Personal Pension Plan (‘GPPP’) or paid by way  
of a salary supplement. 
Wilf Walsh, Neil Page, Mart in Harris and Graham Harris received their allowance as a salary supplement.  Lord Harris was in rec eipt  
of a pension and did not receive a salary supplement. 
Martin Harris is a deferred member of the Carpetright plc Pensio n Plan, which is a defined benefit scheme and closed to future accrual 
from 30 April 2010.  Lord Harris receives a pension under the plan. 
Details of pensions earned by the Directors who are members of the Plan are shown below: 
 Accrued pension   
 
Pension accrued at 
26 April 2014 
£000 pa 
Pension accrued at 
2 May 2015
£000pa 
Increase in 
accrued pension 
during the year
£000 pa 
Increase in pension 
during the year net 
of inflation
1
 
£000 
Normal retirement 
age 
Transfer value 
increase in year
2
£000 
Lord Harris
3
 32.0 32.9 0.9 – Retired 0.1
Martin Harris 18.2 18.5 0.3 – 60 0.1
Notes: 
1. The cost to the Plan of the increase represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the period, calcula ted on service to 30 April 2010.  It is based 
on the increase in accrued pension net of inflation after deducting the Director’s contribution. 
2. The total change in value includes the effects of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the C ompany and the Directors, such as stock 
market movements.  It is calculated after deducting Directors’ contributions. 
3. Lord Harris has been in receipt of pension since September 2007. 
Annual incentives – 2015 structure and outcome (audited) 
In respect of the financial year ended 2015, Executive Directors were eligible to receive an annual performance bonus based on the 
achievement of the annual budgeted underlying profit and, for Wilf Walsh, the achievement of strategic and operational objectiv es. 
The financial targets for the 2015 bonus were determined based on the budget for the 2015 financial year and were agreed before Wilf 
joined.  Therefore, the Committee determined that 50% of Wilf Wa lsh’s maximum bonus entitlement should be based upon financial 
targets (set by reference to the budget), and 50% based on non- financial strategic and operational objectives.  Neil Page’s bon us was 
100% based upon financial targets set by reference to the budget. 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
42  
 
 
The strategic and operational objectives for Wilf were as follows: 
Strategic objectives 
− To develop a clear, comprehensive Brand strategy and prop osition based on customer insight and data analysis; 
− To initiate and execute a process driven marketing, digital, buying and promotional plan; 
− To review the existing store development strategy and reshape/te st a clear store format plan that is appropriate for medium/ 
long term; and 
− To deliver a five year retail space strategy. 
Operational objectives 
− To assess and add value to the existing recovery pl an for Europe and ensure its sustainability; and 
− To assess the capability of the leadership team and reshape/upgrade as necessary. 
The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors for the 2015 financial year was 100% (2014: 100%) of basic salary earned  
in the financial year.  In 2015, 40% (2014: 40%) of the financial element was payable for on-target performance. 
The Committee considered the extent to which Wilf had achieved the Strategic and Operational objectives, and agreed that they h ad  
been met in full, as set out in the table below. 
Metric 
Threshold  
(10% payout) 
Target 
(40% payout) 
Maximum 
(100% payout) 
Actual 
performance Wilf Walsh Neil Page 
 
Maximum 
percentage 
of bonus 
Actual 
percentage 
of bonus 
Maximum 
percentage
of bonus 
Actual
 percentage 
of bonus 
Underlying profit before tax (£m) 5.0 10.1 18.0 14.2 50% 35.6% 100% 71.2%
Strategic objectives  35% 35.0% 
Operational objectives  15% 15.0% 
Bonus payout  100% 85.6% 100% 71.2%
Long-term incentives (audited) 
LTIP granted 20 September 2012 (included in 2015 column in Single Figure Table above) 
The LTIP awards granted on 20 September 2 012 were based on performance to the year ended 2 May 2015. There was a single EPS 
performance condition relating to these awards: 
Underlying EPS for the financial year ended 2 May 2015 Vesting level 
Below 21.1 pence 0%
21.1 pence 25%
Between 21.1 pence and 24.0 pence 25% – 100% pro rata
24.0 pence or more 100%
Actual underlying EPS for the full year ended 2 May 2015 wa s 15.5p.  As a result, none of the awards will vest. 
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
43 Directors’ report continued 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
Grants made under the 2013 LTIP in financial year ended 2015 
The grants made under the LTIP in July 2014, which will vest in July 2017 based on performance over the three financial years b eginning 
27 April 2014, are shown in the table below:  
    Performance condition 
 Type of award Basis of grant 
Share price at 
date of grant (31 
July 2014) 
Number of 
shares over 
which award 
was granted 
Face value of 
award
1
 
Threshold 
 vesting 
Maximum 
 vesting 
Performance
 measure 
Wilf Walsh
 
Nil cost 
option 
150% of 
salary 
525.5p 128,449 £674,999 25% 100% Cumulative 
underlying 
profit before 
tax to the 
financial year 
ended 2017
Neil Page Nil cost 
option 
125% of 
salary 
525.5p 66,603 £349,999 25% 100% 
Awards will vest according to performan ce against the cumulative underlying pr ofit before tax, as set out below: 
Cumulative underlying profit before tax over the performance period Vesting level 
% of award  
that vests (on a 
straight line basis 
between points) 
Compound profit 
growth from 2015 
Less than £35.2m Nil 0% <55%pa
£35.2m Threshold 25% 55%pa
£51.2m Maximum 100% 81.8%pa
All-employee share plans 
Sharesave 
Details of options awarded to the Executive Directors under the Sharesave plan during the course of the year are as follows: 
 
Granted 
during year 
Exercise 
price pence 
First  
exercise date 
Last 
exercise date 
Wilf Walsh 5,187 347 Apr 18 Oct 18
Neil Page 2,593 347 Apr 18 Oct 18
Share Incentive Plan 
Carpetright operated a SIP under which employees could contribute up to £125 per month from pre-tax salary to purchase Carpetri ght 
shares.  The SIP was closed on 12 January 2015 as there were fe wer than 50 active participants.  Prior to leaving the business, or closure 
of the plan, Lord Harris, Martin Harris and Neil Page participated in the SIP, each contributing £125 per month. 
 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
44  
 
 
Summary of all share awards to Directors under the Long-term incentive and Sharesave plans 
Set out below is a summary of all share awards as at 2 May 2015. 
 
Date  
granted 
Balance at 
26 April 
2014 
Granted 
during year 
Vested/ 
exercise
d during 
year 
Lapsed 
during year 
Balance at 
2 May 
2015 
Share 
price at 
grant/
invitation 
(p) 
Exercise 
price (p) 
Market 
price at 
date of 
vesting 
Market 
price at 
date of 
exercise 
Amount 
realised 
on vesting 
£000 
Date from 
which 
exercisable 
Expiry 
date Scheme 
Wilf Walsh Jul 14 – 128,449 – – 128,449 525.5 nil – – – Jul 17 Jul 27 LTIP
 Apr 15 – 5,187 – – 5,187 433 347 – – – Apr 18 Oct 18 SAYE
  – 133,636 – – 133,636 –  
       
Neil  
Page 
Sep 11
1
 57,601 – – 57,601 – 486 nil – – – Sep 14 Mar 15 LTIP
 Sep 12
2 
42,200 – – – 42,200 664 nil – – – Sep 15 Mar 16 LTIP
 Jan 14
3 
69,169 – – – 69,169 506 nil – – – Jan 17 Jan 27 LTIP
 Apr 14 2,227 – – – 2,227 505 404 – – – Apr 17 Oct 17 SAYE
 Jul 14
4 
– 66,603 – – 66,603 525.5 nil – – – Jul 17 Jul 27 LTIP
 Apr 15 – 2,593 – – 2,593 433 347 – – – Apr 18 Oct 18 SAYE
  171,197 69,169 – 57,601 182,792 –  
 
 
     
Lord 
Harris 
Apr 14 3,712 – – 3,712 – 505 404 – – – Apr 19 Oct 19 SAYE
  3,712 –  3,712 – –  
       
Martin 
Harris 
Sep 11
1 
57,601 – – 57,601 – 486 nil – – – Sep 14 Mar 15 LTIP
 Sep 12
2 
42,200 – – 42,200 – 664 nil – – – Sep 15 Mar 16 LTIP
 Jan 14
3 
55,335 – – 55,335 – 506 nil – – – Jan 17 Jan 27 LTIP
  155,136 – – 155,136 – – – – – – – 
       
Graham 
Harris 
Jan 14
4,5
 97,826 – – – 97,826 506 nil – – – Jan 17 Jan 27 LTIP
 Apr 14 3,712 – 556 3,156 – 505 404 – 483 3 Apr 19 Oct 19 SAYE
  101,538 – 556 3,156 97,826 3  
Notes: 
1. The 2011 awards were measured by reference to percentage growth in underlying EPS.  The performance condition was not met and t he awards lapsed in 
September 2014. 
2. None of the 2012 awards vest if underlying EPS is less than 21.1p in the financial year ended 2015.  If underlying EPS is 21.1p then 25% of the award vests and if 
EPS is 24.0p all of the award vests.  For growth between these two points between 25% and 100% vests on a sliding scale.  The p erformance condition was not  
met and the awards will lapse in September 2015 (see page 43). 
3. None of the awards made in January 2014 will vest if underlying cumulative profit in the three financial years ended 2016 is le ss than £44m.  If cumulative underlying 
profit is £44m, 25% of the award vests and if cumulative underlying profit is £60m all the award vests.  For growth between the two points between 25% and 100% 
vests on a sliding scale.  The performance condition is unlikely to be met and it is anticipated that the awards will lapse. 
4. The performance conditions relative to the awards are described on page 44.  The awards, which are expressed as options, are su bject to an exercise price of £nil. 
5. Graham Harris is a good leaver under the rules of the scheme and if these vest there will be a pro-rata reduction in the number of shares.  The maximum number that 
could vest is 10,869 shares. 
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
45 Directors’ report continued 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
Share ownership and shareholding guidelines for Directors (audited) 
The Company has a share ownership policy that requires the Executi ve Directors to build up and ma intain a target holding equal to the 
same multiple of base salary as awards are made under the LTIP (150% for Wilf Walsh, 125% for Neil Page).  Until such a holding is 
achieved, an Executive Director is obliged to retain shares with a minimum value equal to 50% of the net of tax gain arising fr om any 
vesting or exercise under the Company’s share incentive plans.  As no LTIP awards have vested, all Directors have complied with the 
guidelines, although the holdings of Wilf Walsh and Ne il Page were below the target holding of base salary. 
The beneficial interests of those individuals who were Directors as at 2 May 2015 and their imme diate families in the ordinary shares  
of the Company are set out in the table below.  Additionally, th e Executive Directors have an indirect interest in 51,440 share s held  
in trust to satisfy awards made under the LTIP. 
 
Ordinary
 shares 
Ordinary 
 shares held  
in the SIP
1 
Total holding of 
ordinary shares 
Value of holding 
as a % of salary on 
2 May 2015
2 
Ordinary shares 
under option under 
the Sharesave Plan
3
 
Ordinary  
shares subject  
to outstanding 
unvested awards 
under the LTIP
4 
Total interest In 
ordinary shares 
Executive   
Wilf Walsh – – – – 5,187 128,449 133,636
Neil Page
5 
14,816 1,216 16,032 25% 4,820 177,972 198,549
Non-Executive   
Bob Ivell – – – – – – –
Sandra Turner – – – – – – –
David Clifford 5,000 – 5,000 – – – 5,000
Andrew Page – – – – – – –
Notes:  
1. Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified "holding period " of up to five years.  The receipt of these 
shares is not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.  The shares held in the SIP will reduce over time as the S IP has closed.  Please see page 44. 
2. Share price used is the price as at 2 May 2015: 469p. 
3. None of these options are subject to a performance condition.  Details of the Sharesave interests can be found on page 45. 
4. This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the Executive Director concerned as at 2 May 2015 (i.e. including those 
granted during the year).  Details of these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance co nditions, are set out on page 45. 
5. The salary used for determining the value of the holding is £300k p.a. 
To the best of the Director’s knowledge, the beneficial interests as at 2 May 2015 of those individuals who ceased to be Direct ors during 
the year are set out below: 
 
 
Ordinary 
 shares 
Ordinary
 shares held 
in the SIP
 
Total holding of 
ordinary shares 
Ordinary shares 
under option under 
the Sharesave Plan
1
 
Ordinary  
shares subject  
to outstanding 
unvested awards 
under the LTIP
 
Total interest In 
ordinary shares 
Director   
Lord Harris
 
15,556 – 15,556 – – 15,556
Martin Harris 2,093 – 2,093 – – 2,093
Baroness Noakes 33,225 – 33,225 – – 33,225
Alan Dickinson – – – – – –
Graham Harris
2 
556 – 556 – 97,826 97,826
Notes:  
1. All shares under option under the Sharesave Plan have subsequently either been exercised or lapsed, as shown in the table on pa ge 45. 
2. Graham Harris is a good leaver under the rules of the scheme and if these vest there will be a pro-rata reduction in the number of shares.  The maximum number that 
could vest is 10,869 shares. 
Application of the remuneration policy for the financial years ending 2015 and 2016 
Basic salary 
Executive Directors’ basic salaries have been reviewed and Wilf Walsh’s salary has been increased from 1 May 2015 by 2%, in line with a 
general increase in respect of the UK business.  The Remunerati on Committee recognised the additional responsibilities taken on by Neil 
Page, particularly taking on responsibility for the property portfolio, and agreed to increase his salary to £300,000 from 1 Ma y 2015.  The 
current salaries of the Executive Directors are as follows: 
 
Base salary as at 
26 April 2014 
Current 
 base salary 
Percentage 
change 
Wilf Walsh
 
£450,000
1
£459,000 2%
Neil Page £280,000 £300,000 7%
Note: 
1. Salary on appointment.   
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
46  
 
 
Benefits and pension 
Benefits and pension will operate in the financial year ended 201 6 as per their respective policie s set out in the Policy Repor t on pages  
32 to 38. 
Annual bonus plan performance targets 
The annual bonus plan for the financial ye ar ended 2016 will operate consistently with the policy detailed in the Policy Report on page 33. 
Performance targets for the Executive Director s in 2015/16 will be based on a combinatio n of Group underlying profit (80% of th e total 
opportunity) and strategic metrics linked to property and customer service (20% of the total opportunity).  Payment in respect of the 
achievement of strategic objectives will also be subject to an underpin based on the Group’s financial performance.  Consistent with  
our policy and the Group’s practice over a number of years, the Committee has set the percentage of bonus payable for on-target 
performance in light of the degr ee of stretch in the targets and the affordability of the payouts to the Group.  The range will be to pay 0% 
unless a threshold level of performance has been achieved, 20% of maximum at threshold and 50% of maximum for achieving target.  
Further details of the targets are currentl y commercially sensitive and the Company will not be disclosing them at the start of the year.  
However, they will be disclosed retrospect ively in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts. 
Long-term incentive awards in the financial year ended 2016 
The Committee intends to make the next awards under the LTIP duri ng the summer of 2015.  The terms of these awards have not yet 
been determined.  However, it is currently intended that these would be based upon growth in underlying earnings per share meas ured 
on a cumulative basis.  This is considered a better measure as it takes account of changes in share capital and tax, thereby cr eating better 
alignment with shareholders. 
It is anticipated that the awards for the Executive Directors will be at 150% of base salary fo r Wilf Walsh and 125% for Neil P age.   
The performance targets will be set taki ng account of quantum of the awards. 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees have been reviewed.  Andrew Page ’s base fee was increased from £39,000 to £44,000 upon being 
appointed as the Senior Independent Director.  The Chairman is no t paid an additional fee for ch airing the Nomination Committee.   
No increase has been made to the other fees.  The current fees are as follows: 
 Base fee 
Base fee for 
SID 
Chairman fee 
 (including base fee) 
Additional fee for 
Committee 
Chairman 
Current fees £39,000 £44,000 £150,000 £5,000
Other information 
Performance graph 
The graph below shows the value, at 2 Ma y 2015, of £100 in Carpetright plc shares on 2 May 2 009 compared with that of £100 invested 
in the FTSE 250 Index or the FTSE 350 General Retail Index, which the Directors believe to be the most suitable broad comparato rs.   
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends. 
02-May-15  26-Apr-14 27-Apr-13 28-Apr-12 30-Apr-11 01-May-10 02-May-09
Carpetright FTSE 250 Index FTSE 350 General Retailers
Value (£)
Source: Thomson-Reuters
50
150
100
200
250
300
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
47 Directors’ report continued 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
 
 
Statement of change in total remuneration of the Chief Executive 
Total remuneration of individuals undertaking the role of Chie f Executive in each of the pa st five years is as follows: 
Financial year ended Chief Executive
1
 
Total remuneration 
of Chief Executive
2 
£’000 
Annual variable 
element award rates 
for Chief Executive 
(as % of max. 
opportunity) 
Long-term incentive
 vesting rates for
Chief Executive
 (as % of max. 
opportunity) 
2015 Combined remuneration 842 
2015 Wilf Walsh (21 July 2014 to 30 April 2015) 749 85.6% 0%
2015 Lord Harris (1 May 2014 to 20 July 2014) 93 0% 0%
2014 Combined remuneration 490 
2014 Lord Harris (3 October 2013 to 30 April 2014) 249 0% 0%
2014 Darren Shapland (1 May 2013 to 3 October 2013) 241 0% 0%
2013 Combined remuneration 1,025 
2013 Darren Shapland (14 May 2012 to 30 April 2013) 1,007 29% 0%
2013 Lord Harris (1 May 2012 to 14 May 2012) 18 0% 0%
2012 Lord Harris 522 0% 0%
2011 Lord Harris 522 0% 0%
2010 Lord Harris 721 37% 26%
Notes: 
1. Lord Harris stood down as Chief Executive in May 2012, at which point Darren Shapland was appointed Chief Executive. Darren Sha pland stood down on 3 October 
2013, at which point Lord Harris was appointed as full-time Executive Chairman.  Wilf Walsh joined as Chief Executive on 21 Jun e 2014, at which point Lord Harris 
ceased to fulfil that role. 
2. The amounts shown in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single total 
figure table shown on page 41. 
Statement of change in pay of individuals undertaking the role of Chief Executive compared  
to other employees 
 
2015
£’000 
2014 
£’000 % change 
Chief Executive Officer   
– salary 441 421 4.7
– benefits 26 31 (13)
– bonus / payments as a result of performance 302 – –
Average per employee   
– salary 21 21 0%
– benefits 1 1 0%
– bonus / payments as a result of performance 7 6 17%
Note: the average per employee for 2014 has been amended to accurately reflect the elements of remuneration in that year. 
The table above shows the movement in the remuneration for the ro le of Chief Executive between the current and previous financi al year 
compared to the average (per full-time equivalent) for all employees.  The same methodology has been applied as for the Stateme nt of 
Change in Total Remuneration for the Chief Executive by apportioni ng remuneration between Darren Shapland and Lord Harris for 2 014 
and between Wilf Walsh and Lord Harris for 2015.  Bonus figures include commission payments. 
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The table below illustrates the change in expenditure on remunera tion paid to all the employees of the Group and distributions to 
shareholders from the financial year ending 26 April 2014 to the financial year ending 2 May 2015. 
 
2015
£million 
2014 
£million 
Percentage 
change 
Overall expenditure on pay 102.0 99.1 2.8%
Dividend plus share buyback – – 0%
These matters were selected to be shown as they represent key distributions by the Group to its stakeholders.  Further details on overall 
expenditure on pay can be found in note 4 to the financial statements on page 65. 
By order of the Board 
 
Sandra Turner 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
29 June 2015 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
48  
Other information 
This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors are required to report each year, which do not appear elsewh ere in  
this Directors’ Report.  Certain other matters required to be re ported on appear elsewhere in the Report and Accounts as detail ed below: 
− the Strategic Report appears from the Inside Front Cover to page 21; 
− the Directors’ Remuneration Report appears on pages 31 to 48; 
− reporting on the Company’s carbon footprint appears on page 21; 
− a list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, including branches outside the UK, principally affecting the profits or n et assets  
of the Group in the year appears on page 74; 
− changes in asset values are set out in the consolidated balance sheet on page 56 and in the notes to the financial statements o n pages 
58 to 88; 
− the Group’s profit before taxation and the profit after taxation and minority interests appear in the consolidated income state ment  
on page 54; 
− a detailed statement of the Group’s treasury management and funding is set out in note 23 to the financial statements on pages  
82 to 84;  
− a statement that this Annual Report and Accounts meets the requirements of Provision C.1.1 of th e UK Corporate Governance Code 
(‘the Code’) is set out on page 24; and 
− in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4, deta ils of dividend waivers appears on page 50. 
Directors’ interests 
Directors’ share interests are disclosed in th e Directors’ report on remuneration on page 46.  Except as disclosed in this repo rt,  
no Director had a material interest in any contract or arrangem ent with the Company during the year, other than through their  
respective service contracts. 
Details of transactions during the period with companies of whic h Lord Harris and/or Martin Harris is a Director and/or in whic h Lord Harris 
holds a material interest are noted below.  All of these transactions are on normal commercial terms. 
 
Lease and concession agreement  
payments made 
 
2015  
£000 
2014 
£000
Edinburgh Retail LLP 150 301
Greenock Retail Ltd 48 256
Harris Ventures Ltd 31 63
Hull Unit Trust 193 388
As at 2 May 2015, the Group owed related parties £nil (2014: £nil). 
Directors’ indemnity arrangements 
The Company has provided qualifying third-pa rty indemnities for the benefit of each Director and former Director who held offic e during the 
financial year ended 2015.  The Company has also purchased an d maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance througho ut the 
financial year ended 2015. 
Significant agreements – change of control 
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or term inate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeo ver bid, 
such as bank loan agreements and employee share plans.  None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact 
on the business of the Group as a whole, except for: 
− a term loan and revolving facilities agreem ent dated 19 March 2008, as am ended and restated most recently on 29 April 2015.   
There is a revolving credit fac ility of £45m, which provides that on a change of control all lenders’ commitments are cancelled and all 
outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, will become immediately due and payable and an uncommitted overdraft of £7.5 m.  
Details of balances at the financial ye ar end can be found in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements; and 
− under the Company’s all-employee and discretionary share schemes, a change of control of the Company would normally be a vestin g 
event, facilitating the exercise or transf er of awards, subject to any relevant performance conditions being satisfied. 
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or office r that would provide compensation for loss of office or employm ent 
resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in the Compan y’s share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans 
to vest on a takeover. 
There is no information that the Company would be required to disclose about persons with whom it has contractual or other 
arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company. 
  
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
49 Directors’ report continued 
Other information continued
 
Share capital 
Details of the Company’s issued share capital can be found in note 24 to the financial statements.  All of the Company’s issued ordinary 
shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary sh ares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are 
contained in the Company’s Articles of Association, copies of wh ich can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writin g to 
the Company Secretary.  The holders of ordinary shares are entitl ed to receive the Company’s report and accounts, to attend and speak 
at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except (i) w here the 
Company has exercised its right to suspend th eir voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their ho lder or any 
person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies A ct 
2006 or (ii) where their holder is precluded from exercising voti ng rights by the FCA’s Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeo vers  
and Mergers. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders th at might result in the restriction of transfer or voting rights in 
relation to the shares held by such shareholders. 
Shares acquired through Carpetright’s employee share schemes rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue and have no s pecial 
rights.  The Trustee of the Company’s Employ ee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’) has waived its righ ts to dividends on shares held by the E BT and 
does not exercise its right to vote in respect of such shares.  Shares held in trust on behalf of participants in the All Emplo yee Share 
Ownership Plan are voted by the Trustee as directed by the part icipants.  Details of share-based payments, including informatio n 
regarding the shares held by the EBT, can be found in notes 24 and 25 to the financial statements on pages 84 to 86. 
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 29 June 2015, the Company has been notified of the followi ng substantial shareholdings, other than those of the Directors , in the 
issued share capital of the Company: 
 
Percentage of shares held
Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 20%
Neptune Investment Management 16%
The Olayan Group 13%
FIL Limited 9%
Phoenix Asset Management Partners Limited 9%
Cascade Investments LLP 6%
Donations 
No political donations were made (2014: £nil). 
Shareholders’ views 
There is a formal investor relations programme based around the results presentations and interim management statements.  All o f the 
Non-Executive Directors are available to attend meetings should shareholders so request.  The Chairman and Executive Directors feed 
back any investor comments to the Board.  All Directors normally attend the Annual Ge neral Meeting and are available to answer any 
questions that shareholders may raise. 
All shareholders will have at least 20 workin g days’ notice of the Annual General Meetin g.  As required by the Code the Board w ill, at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting, announce the proxy votes in favour of and agai nst each resolution following a vote by a show of ha nds, 
and the votes cast will be posted on the corporate website. 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
50  
Authority to purchase own shares 
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Compan y renewed authority to purchase a maximum of 6,778,160 shares  
of one penny each.  This resolution remains valid until the date of this year’s Annual General Meeting.  As at 2 May 2015, the Directors  
had not used this authority.  The Company’s present intention is to cancel any shares acquired under such authority, unless pur chased  
to satisfy outstanding awards under employee share incentive plan s.  A resolution seeking renewa l of the authority will be prop osed at  
this year’s Annual General Meeting. 
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, th e Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.  Under that law, the Directors h ave 
prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in ac cordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS s)  
as adopted by the European Union.  The financial statements are re quired by law to give a true and fair view of the state of af fairs of the 
Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
− select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
− make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
− state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
− prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unl ess it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in 
business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting record s that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fina ncial 
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to en sure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneratio n 
Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  The y are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevent ion  
and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information on the Company’s websites.  
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and di ssemination of financial statements may differ from legislati on in  
other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors whose names and details are set out on pages 22 and 23 of this report confirms that to the best of their knowledge: 
− the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the under takings included in the consolidation ta ken as a 
whole; and 
− the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report include a fair re view of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the cons olidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face. 
This Director’s Report, including the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities, has been approved by the Board. 
Strategic report Directors’ report Shareholder information Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
51 Directors’ report continued 
Other information continued
 
Statement of the directors in respect of the annual report and financial statements 
As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareh olders to assess the Company’s performance, business model  
and strategy.  When arriving at this position the Board was assisted by a number of processes, including the following: 
− the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management with overall co-ordination by the Group Finance Director to ensur e 
consistency across sections; 
− an extensive verification exercise is undertaken to ensure factual accuracy; 
− comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Report are undertaken by the Executive Directors and other senior management; and 
− a draft is considered by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the Board. 
Going concern  
The Group is principally funded through shareholders’ funds and bank debt.  The principal bankin g facility, which includes a re volving 
credit facility for £45 million, is committe d to the end of July 2019.  The Directors have considered the future cash requireme nts of the 
Group and are satisfied that the facilities ar e sufficient to meet its liquidity needs. 
The facilities are subject to a number of fi nancial covenants, being a le verage covenant, a fixed ch arge cover covenant, and a capital 
expenditure covenant.  The fixed charge cover covenant is the most sensitive to changes in the Group’s profitability. 
The Directors have considered the expected performance of the business over at least the next 12 months and modelled this 
performance against the covenants that have been set.  In addi tion, the Directors have considered the trading performance neces sary  
to breach the banking covenants as well as mitigating factors that would be available and actionable in the event that the adve rse trading 
performance became reality. 
The Directors confirm that, after considering the matters set out above, they have a reasonable expectation that the Company an d the 
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next financial year and the foreseeable future.  For this reason 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.  Further details of the Group’s liquidity are given in 
the financial review on page 16. 
Disclosure of information to auditors 
Each of the Directors of the Company has confirmed that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of wh ich the 
auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Annual General Meeting 
The 2015 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 10 September 2015 at Ha rris House, Purfleet Bypass, Purfleet, Essex 
RM19 1TT at 12:00 p.m..  A full description of the business to be conducted at the meeting is set out in the separate Notice of Annual 
General Meeting. 
 
The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report were each appr oved by the Board and authorised for issue on 29 June 2015 
By order of the Board  
 
Jeremy Sampson 
Company Secretary and Legal Director  
29 June 2015 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
52 Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report
Financial statements
Financial statements 54
Notes to the accounts 58
Group five-year  
financial summary 89
Independent auditors’ report 90
53
www.carpetright.plc.uk
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Directors’ report Financial statements 
Consolidated income statement 
for 53 weeks ended 2 May 2015 
  Group 53 weeks to 2 Ma y 2015 Group 52 weeks to 26 April 2014 
 Notes 
Before 
exceptional 
items
£m 
Exceptional 
items
(Note 5)
£m 
Total
£m 
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£m 
Exceptional 
items 
(Note 5) 
£m 
Total
£m 
Revenue 2 469.8 – 469.8 447.7 – 447.7
Cost of sales (182.6) – (182.6) (171.8) – (171.8)
Gross profit 2 287.2 – 287.2 275.9 – 275.9
Administration expenses (273.5) (7.2) (280.7) (271.1) (10.2) (281.3)
Other operating income/(loss) 2.1 (0.4) 1.7 2.1 (1.6) 0.5
Operating profit/(loss)  2,3 15.8 (7.6) 8.2 6.9 (11.8) (4.9)
Finance costs 6 (1.6) – (1.6) (2.3) – (2.3)
Profit/(loss) before tax 14.2 (7.6) 6.6 4.6 (11.8) (7.2)
Tax 7 (3.7) 1.6 (2.1) (1.4) 5.0 3.6
Profit/(loss) for the financial period attributable 
to equity shareholders of the Company 
10.5 (6.0) 4.5 3.2 (6.8) (3.6)
   
Basic earnings/(losses) per share (pence) 9 15.5 (8.8) 6.7 4.7 (10.0) (5.3)
Diluted earnings/(losses) per share (pence) 9 6.7  (5.3)
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for 53 weeks ended 2 May 2015 
 Notes 
Group  
53 weeks to  
2 May 2015 
£m 
Group 
52 weeks to 
26 April 2014
£m 
Profit/(loss) for the financial period  4.5 (3.6)
   
Items that may not be classified to the income statement:   
Re-measurement of defined benefit plans 22 (1.4) 1.1
Tax on items that may not be reclassified to the income statement 7 0.1 (0.5)
Total items that may not be reclassified to the income statement  (1.3) 0.6
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement:   
Exchange gains/(losses)  (5.3) (1.6)
Tax on items that may be reclassified to the income statement  – –
Total items that may be reclassified to the income statement  (5.3) (1.6)
    
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period  (6.6) (1.0)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period attributable to equity shareholders  
of the Company 
 (2.1) (4.6)
 
 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
54  
Statements of changes in equity 
for 53 weeks ended 2 May 2015 
Group 
Share 
capital
£m 
Share 
premium
£m 
Treasury 
shares
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
 £m 
Translation 
reserve  
£m 
Retained 
earnings
 £m 
Total 
£m 
At 27 April 2013 0.7 16.6 (0.3) 0.1 7.0 41.2 65.3
Loss for the period – – – – – (3.6) (3.6)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – (1.6) 0.6 (1.0)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – (1.6) (3.0) (4.6)
Issue of new shares – 0.6 – – – – 0.6
Share based payments and related tax – – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 26 April 2014 0.7 17.2 (0.3) 0.1 5.4 38.0 61.1
Profit for the period – – – – – 4.5 4.5
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – (5.3) (1.3) (6.6)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – (5.3) 3.2 (2.1)
Issue of new shares – 0.2 – – – – 0.2
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust – – (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Share based payments and related tax – – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 2 May 2015 0.7 17.4 (0.4) 0.1 0.1 41.6 59.5
 
Company 
Share 
capital
£m 
Share 
premium
£m 
Treasury 
shares
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
 £m 
Translation 
reserve  
£m 
Retained 
earnings
 £m 
Total 
£m 
At 27 April 2013 0.7 16.6 (0.3) 0.1 (0.4) 25.9 42.6
Profit for the period – – – – – 0.3 0.3
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – (0.3) 0.6 0.3
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – (0.3) 0.9 0.6
Issue of new shares – 0.6 – – – – 0.6
Share based payments and related tax – – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 26 April 2014 0.7 17.2 (0.3) 0.1 (0.7) 26.6 43.6
Profit for the period – – – – – 3.6 3.6
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – 0.3 (1.3) (1.0)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the financial period – – – – 0.3 2.3 2.6
Issue of new shares – 0.2 – – – – 0.2
Purchase of own shares by employee benefit trust – – (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Share based payments and related tax – – – – – 0.4 0.4
At 2 May 2015 0.7 17.4 (0.4) 0.1 (0.4) 29.3 46.7
 
 
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
55
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Balance sheets 
as at 2 May 2015 
 Notes 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company  
2015  
£m 
Company 
2014 
£m 
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Intangible assets 10 56.1 58.6 29.4 29.7
Property, plant and equipment 11 94.6 103.6 63.4 70.1
Investment property 12 17.9 19.6 8.5 7.3
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 13 – – 15.7 16.1
Deferred tax assets 21 2.2 2.9 – –
Trade and other receivables 15 0.6 0.7 45.7 47.2
Total non-current assets 171.4 185.4 162.7 170.4
 
Current assets    
Inventories 14 34.1 33.9 28.4 27.4
Trade and other receivables 15 25.2 19.8 20.7 14.6
Cash and cash equivalents 16 7.3 6.3 5.2 4.3
Total current assets 66.6 60.0 54.3 46.3
   
Total assets  2 238.0 245.4 217.0 216.7
  
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 17 (95.6) (89.3) (84.2) (77.9)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Borrowings and overdrafts 19 (4.4) (11.1) (4.4) (8.6)
Current tax liabilities (2.3) (4.2) (2.4) (3.8)
Total current liabilities (102.4) (104.7) (91.1) (90.4)
 
Non-current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 17 (37.7) (38.6) (46.4) (48.2)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (2.3) (2.4) (1.2) (1.3)
Borrowings 19 – (3.8) – (3.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 (16.9) (14.9) (16.4) (13.8)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (15.2) (16.6) (11.2) (12.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 22 (4.0) (3.3) (4.0) (3.3)
Total non-current liabilities (76.1) (79.6) (79.2) (82.7)
Total liabilities 2 (178.5) (184.3) (170.3) (173.1)
Net assets 59.5 61.1 46.7 43.6
 
Equity   
Share capital 24 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7
Share premium  24 17.4 17.2 17.4 17.2
Treasury shares 24 (0.4) (0.3) (0.4) (0.3)
Other reserves 41.8 43.5 29.0 26.0
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 59.5 61.1 46.7 43.6
These financial statements from pages 54 to 88 were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 June 2015 and were signed on its  
behalf by: 
 
Wilf Walsh  Neil Page 
Directors 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
56  
Statements of cash flow 
for 53 weeks ended 2 May 2015 
 Notes 
Group
53 weeks to 
2 May 2015
£m 
Group 
52 weeks to  
26 April 2014  
£m 
Company
53 weeks to 
2 May 2015 
£m 
Company
52 weeks to 
26 April 2014 
£m 
Cash flows from operating activities  
Profit/(loss) before tax 6.6 (7.2) 4.9 (1.6)
Adjusted for:  
Depreciation and amortisation 2,3 13.6 13.9 11.3 11.4
Loss/(gain) on property disposals 0.4 1.6 (0.5) 1.6
Exceptional non-cash items 7.2 10.1 7.2 6.1
Share based compensation and other non-cash items 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1
Net finance costs 6 1.6 2.3 1.4 2.1
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 29.8 20.8 24.7 19.7
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (1.0) 3.5 (1.0) 2.8
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (5.7) (0.3) (4.5) (1.3)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 4.5 (7.8) 4.5 (7.7)
Provisions paid  (4.6) (4.9) (3.9) (4.8)
Cash generated by operations 23.0 11.3 19.8 8.7
Interest paid (1.6) (1.4) (1.6) (1.4)
Corporation taxes paid (4.4) (0.7) (4.4) (1.5)
Net cash generated from operating activities 17.0 9.2 13.8 5.8
  
Cash flows from investing activities  
Purchases of intangible assets (1.7) (0.2) (1.7) (0.2)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment and investment property (7.1) (10.6) (5.8) (9.1)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant, equipment & investment property 3.1 0.6 2.2 0.2
Interest received – – 0.2 0.2
Net cash generated from/(used) in investing activities (5.7) (10.2) (5.1) (8.9)
  
Cash flows from financing activities  
Issue of new shares 0.2 0.6 0.2 0.6
Purchase of  treasury shares by employee benefit trust (0.1) – (0.1) –
Movement in borrowings  29 (4.1) 0.1 (4.1) 0.1
Net cash used in financing activities (4.0) 0.7 (4.0) 0.7
  
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the period 29 7.3 (0.3) 4.7 (2.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period (4.5) (4.1) (4.0) (1.4)
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.1) 0.1 (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 16 2.9 (4.5) 0.8 (4.0)
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equi valents are reported net of overdrafts repayable on demand.  Ove rdrafts 
are excluded from the definition of cash and cash equivalents disclosed in the balance sheet. 
 
 
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
57
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements 
1.  Principal accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of th ese consolidated financial statements are set out below.  The se policies 
have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated. 
General information 
Carpetright plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together, ‘the Group’) are retailers of floor coverings and beds.  The Co mpany is listed 
on the London Stock Exchange and incorporat ed in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom.  The address of its 
registered office is Harris House, Purfleet Bypass, Purfleet, Essex, RM19 1TT. 
The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal acti vities are set out on pages 3 to 4 of the Annual Report. 
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements of the Group are drawn up to within seve n days of the accounting record date, being 30 April of each y ear.  
The financial period for 2015 represents the 53 weeks ended 2 May 2015.  The comparative financial period for 2014 was 52 weeks 
ended 26 April 2014. 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and Internat ional 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by th e European Union, together with those parts  
of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The Directors, after reviewing the Group’s operating budgets, fo recasts and financing arrangements, consider that the Group has , at the 
date of this report, sufficient financing available for the estimated requirements fo r the foreseeable future.  Accordingly, th e Directors are 
satisfied that it is appropriate for these financial st atements to be prepared on a going concern basis. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on th e historical cost basis except for pension assets and liabilities and share 
based payments which are measured at fair value.   
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its income statement  
and statement of comprehensive income.  The profit for the Company for the period was £3.6m (2014: profit of £0.3m). 
New and amended accounting standards 
The following new standards and amendments to standards, which are mandatory for the first time in the financial period beginni ng  
27 April 2014, are relevant for the Group but have not had a material impact in the current financial period: 
− IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014); 
− IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of interest in other entities’ (eff ective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014); 
− IFRS 10 and 12 (amendments) effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014; 
− IAS 27 (revised) ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’ (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014); 
− IAS 28 (revised) ‘Investment in associates’ (effective for peri ods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 for EU adopters); 
− IAS 32 (amendment) ‘Financial instruments: presentation’ (effec tive for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014); and 
− IAS 36 (amendment) ‘Impairment of assets’ recoverable amount disclosure of non financial assets (effective for periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2014).  IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ (e ffective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013).  T he  
Group has included the new disclosures required by the standard.  The application of the standard has not had a material impact . 
At 2 May 2015, the following new standards and interpretations and amendments to existing standards, which are expected to be 
relevant to the Group and have an immaterial impact on th e financial statements, were issued but not yet effective: 
− IFRS 9 (reissued) ‘Financial instruments’ (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018).  The standard sets out how  
an entity should classify and measure financial assets, as well as the de-recognition of financial instruments.  The Group will apply  
IFRS 9 when it becomes effective and is endorsed by the EU; 
− IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ (effec tive for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017); 
− IAS 1 (amendment) ‘Presentation of financial statements’ – disclosu re initiative (effective for periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2016); 
− IAS 16 (amendment) ‘Property, plant and equipment’ – pertaining to the acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation  
(effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016); 
− IAS 19 (amendment) ‘Employee benefits’ – clarification for accounting of employee and third party contributions (effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 February 2015); and 
− The ‘2012 and 2013 Improvement projects’ (effective from 1 February 2015).   
 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
58  
 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.  Subsidiaries are all entities over which 
the Company has control.  The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from it s 
involvement with the entity and has the ab ility to affect those returns through its po wer over the entity.  The acquisition of subsidiaries is 
accounted for using the acquisition method.  The consideration tr ansferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair valu es of the assets 
acquired, the liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued by the Company.  The consideration transferred includes the f air value of any 
asset or liability resulting from a continge nt consideration arrangement.  Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and con tingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.   
Acquisition costs are recognised in the income statement. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of in the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the ef fective  
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal respectively. 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains or loss es on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.   
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessa ry to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Gr oup. 
Exchange differences 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds St erling, which is the Company’s functional and presentation curr ency.  
Transactions in foreign currencies, which are those other than th e functional currency of an entity, are recorded at the openin g rate for 
the month in which the transaction occurs which is used as a reas onable approximation to the rate at the transaction date.  Mon etary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreig n currency are translated at the rates rulin g at the balance sheet date.  Resulting exchange  
gains or losses are recognised in the income statement for the period, except where they are part of a net foreign investment h edge,  
when they are recognised in equity. 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreig n operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date.  Income and expenses of foreign operations are transl ated at the average rate during the period.  Differences on tr anslation  
are recognised as a separate component in other comprehensive inco me.  On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative excha nge 
differences for that operation are recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treate d as assets and liabilities of that operation 
and are translated at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date and are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Segment reporting 
Segmental information is presented using a ‘management approach’ on the same basis as that used for internal reporting to the C hief 
Operating Decision Maker.  The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for resource allocation and assessing perform ance  
of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors. 
Revenue 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the provision of goods and services to cu stomers 
outside the Group, net of returns, sales allowances, charges for the provision of interest free credit and value added and othe r sales  
based taxes.  Revenue from goods and services is recognised at the point th e Group fulfils its commercial obligations to the cu stomer,  
the revenue and costs in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably an d collectability is reasonably assured. 
Share based payments 
The Group issues equity-settled share based payments to certain employees.  The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of options is recognised as an expense.  The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and act ual levels  
of options vesting.  The total amount to be expensed over the ve sting period is determined by reference to the fair value of th e options 
granted, excluding the impact of any service and performance cond itions that are included in the assumptions about the number o f 
options which are expected to become exercisable.  At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options 
which are expected to become exercisable.  It recognises the impa ct of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the incom e statement 
and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the vesting period. 
Treasury shares 
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (Treasury shares) are re cognised at cost and deducted from equity. No gain or loss i s 
recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or ca ncellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between  
the carrying amount and the consideration, if reissued, is recognised in share premium. 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
59
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
1.  Principal accounting policies continued 
Other operating income 
Rental income earned on investment property is recognised in other operating income, in accordance with the substance of the re levant 
rental agreements. 
Profits or losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipm ent represent the difference between the net proceeds and the ne t carrying 
value at the date of sale.  Disposals are accounted for when ther e has been an unconditional exchange of contracts except where 
payment or completion is expected to occur significantly after exchange. 
Exceptional items 
Profits/losses on property disposals and non-recurring transactions which are material by virtue of their size or incidence, su ch as major 
reorganisation costs, onerous leases and impairments, are disclosed as exceptional items. 
Tax 
Current tax liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be paid, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substan tively 
enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. 
Deferred tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes is ac counted for using the balance sheet liability meth od.  Deferred  
tax liabilities are generally recogn ised for all taxable temporary di fferences, and deferred tax assets are recognised to the e xtent that it is 
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Such assets and liabilities are not recognis ed if the temporary differen ce arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a 
business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a trans action that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounti ng profit. Deferred 
tax is calculated at the rates of tax that are expected to apply when the asse t or liability is settled, based on tax rates tha t have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and is not discounted. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a lega lly enforceable right to offset the current tax assets again st the current tax 
liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis. 
Tax is charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity ; otherwise,  
it is recognised in the income statement. 
Dividends 
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in w hich the 
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, paid. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable a ssets of the 
acquired entity.  For the purposes of impairment, goodwill is a llocated to each cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generat ing units) 
that is expected to benefit from the business combination. Goodw ill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least a nnually or 
when there is an indication of impairment.  Any impairment is re cognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequ ently 
reversed.  On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the de termination of the profit or lo ss on disposal. 
Impairment 
Assets that have an indefinite useful lif e, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested at least annua lly for 
impairment or when there is an indication of impairment.  Asse ts that are subject to amortisation and depreciation are reviewed for 
indications of impairment at each balance sheet date.  If there is an indication of impairment, the recoverable amount of eithe r the asset  
or the cash-generating unit to which it belongs is estimated.  Cash-generating units are used where an individual asset does no t generate 
cash flows which are independent of other assets.  The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is the higher of its fair va lue less costs 
to sell and its value in use.  Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-
generating unit. 
An impairment loss is recognised in the in come statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit excee ds its 
recoverable amount.  Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffer im pairment are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at 
each reporting date. 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
60  
 
1.  Principal accounting policies continued  
Other intangible assets 
Purchased brand names and other intangible assets are capitalised at cost.  Acquired software licences and software development costs 
are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. 
Amortisation of intangible assets is calculated to write off the cost of the asset, on a straight line basis, over its expected useful life.   
The expected useful lives generally applicable are: 
Brands    20 years 
Computer software  5 to 10 years 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less accumulate d depreciation and any provisions for impairment in value. 
Depreciation is provided to write down the cost of property, pl ant and equipment, on a straight line basis, to their estimated residual  
values over their estimated useful lives.  Freehold land is not depreciated.  The esti mated useful lives and residual values of assets are 
reviewed annually. 
The estimated useful lives by asset category that are generally applicable are: 
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years 
Short leasehold buildings The shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful lif e 
Fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years, except for fixed racking which is depreciated over 25 years 
Computers 5 to 7 years 
Other plant and machinery 7 to 10 years 
Borrowing costs 
Gross interest costs incurred on the financing of major projects are capitalised until the time that they are available for use .  Unless a 
specific borrowing is taken out to finance the asset, interest is capitalised using the weighted average interest rate of all n on-specific 
borrowings. Where a specific borrowing is ta ken out to finance the asset, interest is capitalised at the rate applicable to tha t borrowing. 
Investment property 
Property that is held to earn rental income and for capital appr eciation is separately disclosed as investment property.  Inves tment property 
is carried at depreciated historical cost.  Depreciation rates and useful lives of investment property are the same as those fo r property, 
plant and equipment. 
Leasing commitments 
Leases are classified as finance leases wh ere the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of owners hip to the 
Group. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Assets used by the Group which have been funded through financ e leases are capitalised in property, plant and equipment and the 
resulting lease obligations are included in payables.  The assets are depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives and th e period  
of the lease.  The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease a nd represents 
a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.  Premiums payable, 
rent free periods and contributions receivable on entering an oper ating lease are charged or credited to income on a straight l ine basis 
over the lease term. 
Investment in subsidiaries 
The Company’s investment in subsidiary undertakings is recognised at cost and is accounted for net of impairment losses.  Incom e from 
investments is recognised in the income statement to the extent that post acquisition profits are received.  Distributions of p re-acquisition 
profits reduce the cost of the investment. 
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
61
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
1.  Principal accounting policies continued 
Inventories 
Inventories are valued at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.  Net rea lisable value is based on estima ted selling 
prices less further costs to be incurred to disposal.  Provisions are made for obsolescence, mark down and shrinkage based on a ctual 
losses, ageing of inventories and sales trends. 
Rebates receivable from suppliers 
Rebates earned by the Group take the form of volume based rebate s, for attaining specific purchase targets, with individual sup pliers. 
These agreements normally cover the financial period. Agreements that cover more than one financial period are recognised in th e period 
in which the rebate is earned and are credited to the carrying value of inventory to which they relate. 
The Group also receives discounts/rebates from certain supplier s for one off, targeted marketing and promotional events. These rebates 
are recognised in the period in which the promotional activity is held. 
Trade receivables and payables 
Trade receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair va lue and subsequently adjusted to the amount receivable or pay able.   
Receivables are stated net of a provision for impairment. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, cash at bank, deposits repayable on demand and highly liquid investments.  For 
the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts, which are shown within borrow ings 
and overdrafts in current liabilities on the balance sheet. 
Bank loans and overdrafts 
Bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequen tly measured  
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate model. 
Provisions 
A provision is recognised where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an  
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.  Provisions are calculated on a discounted basis when a ppropriate.  
A provision for vacant properties and onerous leases is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a 
contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obli gations under the contract. The provision is measured at the pr esent value 
of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract. Before a provision 
is established, the Group recognises any impairment lo sses on the assets associated with that contract.  
Retirement benefit obligation 
The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution scheme s and also participates in a multi-employer pension scheme in 
respect of its employees in the Netherlands.  The assets and li abilities of all schemes are held separately from those of the G roup.  
The Group is unable to identify its share of the assets and liab ilities of the multi-employer scheme and, therefore, accounts f or this 
scheme as a defined contribution scheme. 
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit schemes is determined using the projecte d unit credit method, with act uarial 
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.  The net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents 
the present value of the defined benefit ob ligation less the fair value of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full, directly in eq uity in the period in which they occur and are presented in ot her 
comprehensive income.  Other income and expenses associated wi th the defined benefit scheme are recognised in the income 
statement.  The pension cost of defined contribution sc hemes is charged in the income statement as incurred. 
Financial instruments 
Hedge accounting 
The Group hedges net investments in foreign entities through curr ency borrowings.  The gains or losses on the retranslation of the 
borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
62  
 
Critical estimates and judgements 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affec t the 
application of policies and reported amounts.  Estimates and ju dgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical e xperience 
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results may 
differ from these estimates.  The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to t he carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are discussed below: 
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group is required to test whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.  The recoverable amo unts of cash-generating units h ave 
been determined based on value in use calculations.  The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expect ed to arise 
from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value. 
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these estimates. 
Impairment of assets 
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances in dicate that the carrying amoun t may not 
be recoverable.  When a review for impairment is conducted, th e recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is deter mined 
based on the higher of fair value, less co sts to sell, and value in use calculations prepared on the basis of management’s assu mptions and 
estimates. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expect ed to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-
generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in or der to calculate the present value. Actual outcomes could vary significantly 
from these estimates. 
Rebates 
The Group receives income from suppliers by way of both a discount, irrespective of the volume of products purchased, which are pre-
negotiated and deducted from the value of each invoice from the supplier, and volume-driven rebates.  Judgments are made in res pect  
of the latter where volume-driven rebate arrangements span the end of a reporting period. Rebates are accrued based upon manage ment 
judgment as to the extent to which turnover targets will be met which determine rebates to be earned on those deals.  
Onerous leases 
The Group carries an onerous lease provisio n which recognises the liabilities associated with lease contracts of closed stores and those 
that are projected to close.  The provision is based on a review of the lease contracts and management’s estimate of the timing s to  
exit the lease.  The Group has further reviewed any trading loss ma king stores and provided for those leases considered to be o nerous.  
These estimates are based upon available info rmation and knowledge of the property market. The ultimate costs to be incurred in this 
regard may vary from the estimates. 
Retirement benefits 
The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised in the balance sheet is dependent on the interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds.  The net financing charge is dependent on both the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds and the assu med 
investment returns on scheme assets.  Other key assumptions fo r pension obligations, including mortality rates, are based in part on 
current market conditions. 
Income tax 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available a gainst which  
the temporary differences can be utilised. 
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision 
for income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipa ted tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. W here the  
final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, su ch differences will impact the current and 
deferred income tax assets and liabilities in th e period in which such determination is made. 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
63
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
2.  Segmental analysis 
The Group’s operating segments are determined on the basis of in formation provided to the Chief Operating Decision maker – the Board 
of Directors – to review performance and make decisions. The reporting segments are: 
− UK; and 
− Rest of Europe (comprising Belgium, the Netherlands and Republic of Ireland). 
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue primarily from the retailing of floor coverings and beds.  Central costs of the 
Group are incurred principally in the UK.  As such, these costs ar e included within the UK segment.  Sales between segments are carried 
out at arm’s length. 
The segment information provided to the Board of Directors for the reportable segments for the 53 weeks ended 2 May 2015 is  
as follows: 
 53 weeks to 2 May 2015 52 weeks to 26 April 2014 
 UK
£m 
Europe
£m 
Group
£m 
UK
£m 
Europe 
£m 
Group
£m 
Gross revenue  409.1 66.6 475.7 379.5 71.9 451.4
Inter-segment revenue (5.9) – (5.9) (3.7) – (3.7)
Revenues from external customers 403.2 66.6 469.8 375.8 71.9 447.7
Gross profit 247.6 39.6 287.2 235.1 40.8 275.9
Underlying operating profit/(loss) 15.5 0.3 15.8 10.7 (3.8) 6.9
Exceptional items (4.9) (2.7) (7.6) (7.5) (4.3) (11.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 10.6 (2.4) 8.2 3.2 (8.1) (4.9)
Intercompany interest (0.1) 0.1 – (0.1) 0.1 –
Finance costs (1.5) (0.1) (1.6) (2.2) (0.1) (2.3)
Profit/(loss) before tax 9.0 (2.4) 6.6 0.9 (8.1) (7.2)
Tax (2.4) 0.3 (2.1) 1.8 1.8 3.6
Profit/(loss) for the financial period 6.6 (2.1) 4.5 2.7 (6.3) (3.6)
     
Segment assets:     
Segment assets 200.2 80.6 280.8 197.3 91.0 288.3
Inter-segment balances (25.8) (17.0) (42.8) (24.0) (18.9) (42.9)
Balance sheet total assets  174.4 63.6 238.0 173.3 72.1 245.4
Segment liabilities:     
Segment liabilities (175.6) (45.7) (221.3) (180.4) (46.8) (227.2)
Inter-segment balances 17.0 25.8 42.8 18.9 24.0 42.9
Balance sheet total liabilities (158.6) (19.9) (178.5) (161.5) (22.8) (184.3)
     
Other segmental items:     
Depreciation and amortisation 11.5 2.1 13.6 11.6 2.3 13.9
Additions to non-current assets 7.1 1.4 8.5 9.1 1.6 10.7
Carpetright plc is domiciled in the UK.  The Group’s revenue from external customers in the UK is £403.2m (2014: £375.8m) and t he  
total revenue from external customers from other countries is £66.6m (2014: £71.9m).  The total of non-current assets (other th an financial 
instruments and deferred tax assets) located in the UK is £147. 4m (2014: £151.8m) and the total of those located in other count ries is 
£64.6m (2014: £73.6m). 
Carpetright’s trade has historically shown no distinct pattern of seasonality, with trade cycles more closely following economi c indicators 
such as consumer confidence. 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
64  
 
3.  Operating profit/(loss), analysis of costs by nature 
Operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging/(crediting):  
 Notes 
Group 
2015
£m 
Group 
2014 
£m 
Rental income earned on investment property   (2.0) (1.7)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales  157.2 150.2
Operating lease rentals:  
Lease payments in respect of land and buildings  89.0 88.4
Lease payments in respect of plant and machinery  1.5 1.5
Other lease items (lease incentives and rent free credits)  (3.5) (3.3)
Sublease rental income  (1.1) (1.3)
Auditors’ remuneration:   
Audit of the Parent Company’s consolidated financial statements  0.2 0.2
Audit of the subsidiary companies’ financial statements  0.1 0.1
Non audit fees  – –
Staff costs 4 102.0 99.1
Impairment of non-current assets 5 0.2 2.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 10 1.9 1.8
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:  
Owned assets 11 11.3 11.7
Under finance leases 11 0.1 0.1
Depreciation of investment property 12 0.3 0.3
Non audit fees in the period were £30k (2014: Nil) these fe es are explained on page 29 of the Audit Committee report. 
4.  Staff costs 
The average number of persons (full-time equivalents) empl oyed by the Group (including Directors) was as follows: 
 Group 
2015 
Number 
Group  
2014  
Number 
Company 
2015 
Number 
Company 
2014 
Number 
Stores 2,603 2,630 2,172 2,175
Store support office and distribution centre 389 389 343 336
 2,992 3,019 2,515 2,511
The aggregate employment costs of employees and Directors were as follows: 
 Notes 
Group 
2015
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014 
£m 
Wages and salaries (including short-term employee benefits) 89.3 87.3 75.2 71.1
Social security costs 10.0 9.7 7.2 6.8
Post-employment benefits – defined contribution 2.3 2.3 1.3 1.1
Share based payments 25 0.4 (0.2) 0.4 (0.2)
 102.0 99.1 84.1 78.8
Wages and salaries include short-term employ ee benefits as defined in IAS 19, with th e exception of costs associated with the Group’s 
pension schemes.  Post-employment benefits include costs associat ed with the Group’s pension schemes (with the exception of net 
interest costs and the actuarial gain on the defined benefit pens ion schemes) and are included in administration expenses.  Sha re based 
payments comprise the cost of awards in respect of employee shar e schemes in accordance with IFRS 2.  These costs are explained  
in note 25.  
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
65
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
4.  Staff costs continued 
The employment costs of key management
1
 were as follows: 
 Group  
2015  
£m 
Group 
2014 
£m 
Short-term employee benefits (including salary and social security) 3.5 2.5
Termination payments – 0.3
Post employment benefits 0.3 0.3
Share based payments 0.3 (0.4)
 4.1 2.7
1. Key management comprises Group Directors and those senior managers of the Group responsible for planning, directing or contr olling Group activities. 
Following the strategic review, we have updated the definition of which members of senior manage ment are considered key managem ent 
and who are involved in the planning, directing or controlling Gr oup activities.  The prior year numbers have been amended acco rdingly  
so as to allow for meaningful comparison. 
During the period, the Executive Directors realised no gains (2014: no gains) on the vesting of long-term incentive plans.  Det ails of these 
plans, share options and other Directors’ remuneration are disc losed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 31 to 48. 
5.  Exceptional items 
 Notes 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Group 
2014 
£m 
Property profits/(losses)  (0.4) (1.6)
Onerous lease provision 20 (7.0) (6.6)
Impairment charge:   
Store assets 11 (0.2) (0.5)
Freehold properties 11,12 – (1.9)
European office restructuring  – (1.2)
Pre tax exceptional items  (7.6) (11.8)
The Group has undertaken a review of the onerous lease provisions recognised in prior periods for stores that have ceased to trade and 
made a revised assessment for the unavoidable onerous lease costs for loss-making stores, resulting in a charge of £7.0m in the period 
(2014: £6.6m charge). 
In accordance with IAS 36, assets are reviewed for impairment wh enever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying valu e may 
not be recoverable.  The Group commissioned an external valuation of freehold properties in November 2014.  These valuations, a long 
with value in use calculations, have not resulted in an impairme nt in the current period.  In the prior period there was a char ge of £2.6m  
for freehold properties in the Netherlands and a release of £0.7m in the UK was recognised.  In determining whether impairment triggers 
existed at the period end, the Directors treated each store as a separate cash generating units (CGU) and valued it at the high er of the 
value in use calculations or the market va lue of the properties and their assets. 
6.  Finance costs 
 Notes 
Group  
2015  
£m 
Group 
2014 
£m 
Interest on borrowings and overdrafts  (0.9) (1.1)
Fees amortisation  (0.4) (0.7)
Interest on obligations under finance leases  (0.1) (0.1)
Net interest on pension scheme obligations 22 (0.2) (0.2)
Other interest payable  – (0.2)
Finance costs  (1.6) (2.3)
 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
66  
 
7.  Tax 
(i) Analysis of the charge in the period 
 Notes 
Group 
2015
£m 
Group 
2014 
£m 
UK current tax  2.1 1.3
Adjustment for prior years  0.1 –
Overseas current tax  – (0.2)
Total current tax  2.2 1.1
UK deferred tax  (0.7) (3.1)
Overseas deferred tax  0.6 (1.6)
Total deferred tax 21 (0.1) (4.7)
Total tax charge/(credit) in the income statement  2.1 (3.6)
The main rate of corporation tax decrease d to 21% from 1 April 2014 and will further decrease to 20% from 1 April 2015. Deferre d tax 
balances are measured using the tax rates in effect in the period in which the deferred tax balances are expected to reverse. T his resulted 
in a tax credit of £2.7m in the prior period. There was no material impact in the current period.   
(ii) Reconciliation of profit/(loss) before tax to total tax  
 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Group 
2014
£m 
Profit/(loss) before tax 6.6 (7.2)
Tax charge/(credit) at UK corporation tax rate of 21% (2014: 23%) 1.4 (1.6)
Adjusted for the effects of: 
Overseas tax rates 0.2 (0.2)
Deferred tax impact of fall in UK tax rates  – (2.7)
Non-qualifying depreciation 0.5 0.5
Other permanent differences (0.1) 0.2
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.1 0.2
Total tax charge/(credit) in the income statement 2.1 (3.6)
The weighted average annual effective tax rate for the period is a charge of 31.3% (2014: credit of 52.0%).  The increase is du e to  
current period profitability, one off credits recognised in the pr ior period not repeated, as well as the constant level of per manently 
disallowed expenditure. 
(iii) Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity 
 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Group 
2014 
£m 
Deferred tax on actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income 0.1 (0.5)
Deferred tax on share based payments (0.1) –
Total tax recognised in equity – (0.5)
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
67
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
8.  Dividends 
The Directors decided that no final dividend will be paid (2014: No final dividend paid). This results in no dividend in the pe riod to  
2 May 2015 (2014: No dividend paid). 
9.  Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attrib utable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding those held by Equity Trust (Jersey) Limited (see note 25) which are tr eated  
as cancelled. 
In order to compute diluted earnings per share, the weighted aver age number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume 
conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.  Those share options granted to employees and Executive Directors where the 
exercise price is less than the average market price of the Comp any’s ordinary shares during the period represent potentially d ilutive 
ordinary shares. 
 53 weeks to 2 May 2015 52 weeks to 26 April 2014 
 
Earnings 
£m 
Weighted
average 
number of 
shares 
Millions 
Earnings 
per share
Pence 
Earnings  
£m 
Weighted 
average  
number of 
shares  
Millions 
Earnings 
per share 
Pence 
Basic earnings/(losses) per share 4.5 67.7 6.7 (3.6) 67.6 (5.3)
Effect of dilutive share options  – 0.4 – – 0.4 –
Diluted earnings/(losses) per share 4.5 68.1 6.7 (3.6) 68.0 (5.3)
Reconciliation of earnings per share excluding post tax profit on exceptional items 
 53 weeks to 2 May 2015 52 weeks to 26 April 2014 
 
Earnings 
£m 
Weighted
average 
number of 
shares 
Millions 
Earnings 
per share
Pence 
Earnings  
£m 
Weighted 
average  
number of 
shares  
Millions 
Earnings 
per share 
Pence 
Basic earnings/(losses) per share 4.5 67.7 6.7 (3.6) 67.6 (5.3)
Adjusted for the effect of exceptional items:   
Exceptional items 7.6 – 11.1 11.8 – 17.4
Tax thereon (1.6) – (2.3) (2.3) – (3.4)
Exceptional tax benefit from tax rate change – – – (2.7) – (4.0)
Underlying earnings/(losses) per share 10.5 67.7 15.5 3.2 67.6 4.7
The Directors have presented an additional measure of earnings pe r share based on underlying earni ngs.  This is in accordance w ith the 
practice adopted by most major retailers.  Un derlying earnings is defined as profit excluding exceptional items and related tax .   
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
68  
 
10.  Intangible assets 
Group 
Goodwill 
£m 
Computer 
software  
£m 
Brands 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:  
At 27 April 2013 53.9 24.8 0.1 78.8
Exchange differences (0.3) (0.2) – (0.5)
Additions – 0.2 – 0.2
Disposals – (0.4) – (0.4)
At 26 April 2014 53.6 24.4 0.1 78.1
Exchange differences (2.3) 0.1 – (2.2)
Additions – 1.6 – 1.6
Disposals – (5.3) – (5.3)
At 2 May 2015 51.3 20.8 0.1 72.2
  
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:  
At 27 April 2013 0.5 17.4 0.1 18.0
Exchange differences – 0.1 – 0.1
Amortisation – 1.8 – 1.8
Disposals – (0.4) – (0.4)
At 26 April 2014 0.5 18.9 0.1 19.5
Exchange differences – – – –
Amortisation – 1.9 – 1.9
Disposals – (5.3) – (5.3)
At 2 May 2015 0.5 15.5 0.1 16.1
  
Net book value:  
At 2 May 2015 50.8 5.3 – 56.1
At 26 April 2014 53.1 5.5 – 58.6
Goodwill is not amortised.  Instead it is su bject to an impairment review at each repo rting date or more frequently if there is an indication 
that it may be impaired.  Other intangibles are amortised and also tested for impairment when there is an indication that the asset may  
be impaired.  Impairments and amortisation charges are recognised in full in administration expenses in the income statement du ring  
the period in which they are identified. 
Group goodwill comprises purchased goodwill in re spect of the following business acquisitions: 
Subsidiary Acquisition date 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Carpetland BV October 2002 16.8 18.7
Ben de Graaff July 2008 4.2 4.6
Mays Holdings Ltd June 2005 4.7 4.7
Storey Carpets Ltd May 2007 15.3 15.3
Melford Commercial Properties Ltd March 2008 6.9 6.9
Sleepright UK Ltd December 2008 2.9 2.9
Total goodwill  50.8 53.1
The movement in the value of goodwill in the period is solely a result of move ment in exchange rates. 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
69
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
10.  Intangible assets continued 
Goodwill is impaired if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverabl e amount.  The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs 
to sell and the value in use.  In the abse nce of a recent market transaction, the re coverable amount of the goodwill held by th e Group is 
determined from value in use calculations.   
Management has identified two cash-generating units (CGUs) su pporting goodwill which are the UK and Europe, defined as the  
Netherlands and Belgium. The Goodwill allocated to each CGU is £29.8m to UK and £21.0m to Europe.  The value in use calculation s  
are based on five year profit projection models and plans appr oved by the Board, adjusted for non-cash items and capital expend iture. 
The key assumptions used in the cash flow model when assessing the UK and European goodwill balances are: 
− Modest like-for-like sales growth in the UK and Europe, stable gross margin percentage and anticipated cost inflation; 
− the pre-tax discount rate of 7.8% (2014: 8.0%) as applied to th e cash flows, is based on the Group’s weighted average cost of c apital 
adjusted to reflect the risks of the businesses acquired; and 
− the long-term growth rate used in the calculation of the perpetuity model which is based on the long-term forecast growth rates of the 
countries within which the Group operates. 
In Europe, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in use exceeded carrying value by £50.5m.  A fall in long-term grow th rate 
to -7.8% from 2.0%, or a rise in the discount rate to 14.0% from 7.8% would remove the remaining headroom. 
Company 
Goodwill 
£m 
Computer 
software  
£m 
Brands  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:   
At 27 April 2013 24.1 24.8 0.1 49.0
Exchange difference – (0.1) – (0.1)
Additions – 0.2 – 0.2
Disposals – (0.4) – (0.4)
At 26 April 2014 24.1 24.5 0.1 48.7
Exchange difference – – – –
Additions – 1.6 – 1.6
Disposals – (5.3) – (5.3)
At 2 May 2015 24.1 20.8 0.1 45.0
   
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:   
At 27 April 2013 – 17.5 0.1 17.6
Amortisation – 1.8 – 1.8
Disposals – (0.4) – (0.4)
At 26 April 2014 – 18.9 0.1 19.0
Amortisation – 1.9 – 1.9
Disposals – (5.3) – (5.3)
At 2 May 2015 – 15.5 0.1 15.6
   
Net book value:   
At 2 May 2015 24.1 5.3 – 29.4
At 26 April 2014 24.1 5.6 – 29.7
Company goodwill comprises purchased goodwill arising on the transfer of businesses from subsidiaries to the parent company in respect 
of Mays Carpets Ltd – £4.7m; Storey Carpets Ltd – £15.7m; Carpet world (Manchester) Ltd – £0.8m; and Sleepright UK Ltd – £2.9m. 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
70  
 
11.  Property, plant and equipment  
Group 
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£m 
Long 
leasehold land 
and buildings 
£m 
Short 
leasehold 
buildings 
£m 
Fixtures  
and fittings  
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:  
At 27 April 2013 52.5 17.4 18.9 95.2 41.7 225.7
Exchange differences (0.5) – (0.1) (0.4) (0.4) (1.4)
Additions – – 0.3 8.3 1.9 10.5
Transfer between asset classes – – – (0.2) 0.2 –
Disposals (1.0) (0.1) (0.6) (6.7) (0.4) (8.8)
At 26 April 2014 51.0 17.3 18.5 96.2 43.0 226.0
Exchange differences (2.3) (0.1) (0.2) (1.4) (3.3) (7.3)
Additions – 0.3 0.4 4.8 1.4 6.9
Transfer to investment property (3.0) – – – – (3.0)
Transfer between asset classes (0.9) 0.1 – 1.7 (1.1) (0.2)
Disposals (0.8) – (0.5) (7.9) (2.3) (11.5)
At 2 May 2015 44.0 17.6 18.2 93.4 37.7 210.9
  
Accumulated depreciation and impairment:  
At 27 April 2013 10.2 4.9 11.2 55.8 35.0 117.1
Exchange differences (0.6) – 0.1 (0.4) – (0.9)
Impairment 1.9 – – 0.1 0.4 2.4
Depreciation  0.8 0.3 0.8 7.8 2.1 11.8
Disposals (0.5) (0.1) (0.5) (6.4) (0.5) (8.0)
At 26 April 2014 11.8 5.1 11.6 56.9 37.0 122.4
Exchange differences (0.9) 0.1 (0.2) (1.3) (2.6) (4.9)
Impairment – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Depreciation  0.8 0.4 0.9 7.6 1.7 11.4
Transfer to investment property (2.4) – – – – (2.4)
Transfer between asset classes (0.3) 0.1 – 1.3 (1.3) (0.2)
Disposals (0.1) – (0.5) (7.4) (2.2) (10.2)
At 2 May 2015 8.9 5.7 11.8 57.3 32.6 116.3
  
Net book value:  
At 2 May 2015 35.1 11.9 6.4 36.1 5.1 94.6
At 26 April 2014 39.2 12.2 6.9 39.3 6.0 103.6
In accordance with IAS 36, assets are reviewed for impairment wh enever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying valu e may 
not be recoverable (see note 5).   
Assets held under finance leases have the following net book value: 
 Group 
2015
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014 
£m 
Cost 9.1 9.1 2.3 2.3
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (3.1) (2.9) (1.6) (1.6)
Net book value 6.0 6.2 0.7 0.7
The assets held under finance leases comprise buildings. 
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
71
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
11.  Property, plant and equipment continued 
Company 
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£m 
Long 
leasehold land 
and buildings 
£m 
Short 
leasehold 
buildings 
£m 
Fixtures  
and fittings  
£m 
Plant and 
machinery  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost:   
At 27 April 2013 20.0 10.0 18.9 84.3 13.9 147.1
Exchange differences – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.2)
Additions – – 0.3 8.3 0.3 8.9
Disposals – (0.1) (0.6) (6.5) (0.4) (7.6)
At 26 April 2014 20.0 9.9 18.5 86.0 13.8 148.2
Exchange differences – – (0.2) (0.3) – (0.5)
Additions – – 0.4 4.7 0.4 5.5
Transfer to investment property (1.3) – – – – (1.3)
Transfer to subsidiary (0.4) – – – – (0.4)
Disposals (0.5) – (0.5) (7.0) (1.2) (9.2)
At 2 May 2015 17.8 9.9 18.2 83.4 13.0 142.3
   
Accumulated depreciation and impairment:   
At 27 April 2013 4.1 3.3 11.4 45.8 12.1 76.7
Exchange differences – – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.2)
Impairment (0.7) – – 0.1 – (0.6)
Depreciation  0.3 0.2 0.8 7.4 0.9 9.6
Disposals – (0.1) (0.6) (6.3) (0.4) (7.4)
At 26 April 2014 3.7 3.4 11.5 46.9 12.6 78.1
Exchange differences – – (0.2) (0.3) – (0.5)
Impairment – – 0.1 0.2 – 0.3
Depreciation  0.3 0.2 0.9 7.3 0.6 9.3
Transfer to investment property – – – – – –
Transfer to subsidiary – – – – – –
Disposals (0.1) – (0.5) (6.5) (1.2) (8.3)
At 2 May 2015 3.9 3.6 11.8 47.6 12.0 78.9
   
Net book value:   
At 2 May 2015 13.9 6.3 6.4 35.8 1.0 63.4
At 26 April 2014 16.3 6.5 7.0 39.1 1.2 70.1
 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
72  
 
12.  Investment property 
Investment property is carried at depreciated historical cost. In vestment property is reviewed for impairment when there is an indication  
of impairment. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value in use calculations. The val ue in use 
calculations are based on five year profit projection models and plans approved by the Board and have not resulted in a impairm ent in  
the period. Investment property was independently valued in Novemb er 2014 and would not be materially different at the period e nd. 
Operating expenses attributable to investment properties are incurred directly by tenants under tenant-repairing leases. 
 
Group 
£m 
Company
£m 
Cost: 
At 27 April 2013 22.8 7.8
Exchange differences (0.4) –
At 26 April 2014 22.4 7.8
Exchange differences (1.5) –
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 3.0 1.3
Disposals (1.1) –
At 2 May 2015 22.8 9.1
 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 
At 27 April 2013 2.6 0.4
Exchange differences (0.1) 0.1
Impairment – –
Depreciation  0.3 –
At 26 April 2014 2.8 0.5
Exchange differences (0.1) –
Depreciation 0.3 0.1
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 2.4 –
Disposals (0.5) –
At 2 May 2015 4.9 0.6
 
Net book value: 
At 2 May 2015 17.9 8.5
At 26 April 2014 19.6 7.3
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
73
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
13.  Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive leng th.   
The Directors have taken advantage of Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in relation to subsid iary 
undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the financial statements.  A full list of all 
subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to th e next Annual Return of Carpetright plc to be filed at Companies House.  All of th e Group’s 
subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated accounts. 
 
Country of 
incorporation 
and operation 
Principal  
activity 
Percentage of 
ordinary 
shares held 
directly by 
Company 
Percentage of 
ordinary 
shares held 
indirectly by 
Company 
Carpetright of London Limited England and Wales Holding 100% 
Melford Commercial Properties Limited England and Wales Property 100% 
Carpetright (Torquay) Limited England and Wales Property 100% 
Pluto Sp. Z.o.o. Poland Property 100% 
Carpetland NV Belgium Retail  100%
Carpetland BV Netherlands Retail  100%
Fontainebleau Vastgoed BV Netherlands Property  100%
 
Company 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Cost:  
At the beginning of the period 16.1 16.1
Exchange differences (0.1) –
Impairment of investment in Pluto Sp. Z.o.o. (0.3) –
At the end of the period 15.7 16.1
The cost of investments before impairments is £16.7m. As at 2 May 2015 accumulated impairments of £1.0m has been recognised 
against the investment in Pluto Sp. Z.o.o. 
14.  Inventories 
Group and Company Inventories are held in the form of finished goods for resale. In the period, write down of stock to net real isable value 
was £0.6m (2014: Nil), this has resulted in a stock provision of £0.6m, (2014: £0.2m).  
The Group reversed £0.2m of the write down provision as it has so ld the majority of these items at or above original cost. The reversal  
has been included in cost of sales. 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
74  
 
15.  Trade and other receivables 
 Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014 
£m 
Non-current:  
Receivables from subsidiaries – – 45.1 46.5
Prepayments and accrued income 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.7
 0.6 0.7 45.7 47.2
Current:  
Trade receivables 11.1 4.8 8.1 1.7
Less: provision for impairment (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
 10.7 4.4 7.7 1.3
Other receivables 1.6 3.5 1.1 3.0
Prepayments and accrued income 12.9 11.9 11.9 10.3
 25.2 19.8 20.7 14.6
Total trade and other receivables 25.8 20.5 66.4 61.8
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair values. 
Provision for impairment 
 Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014 
£m 
At the beginning of the period (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Receivables written off against the provision in the period – – – –
At the end of the period (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
The table below shows the financial assets included in trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date: 
 Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company 
2015
£m 
Company 
2014 
£m 
Major insurance companies 1.3 2.6 0.8 2.1
Property rent receivables 0.3 0.8 0.3 0.8
Other receivables – 0.1 – 0.1
Receivables from retail credit finance 5.9 – 5.9 –
Retail customers 4.8 4.4 1.8 1.3
Trade and other receivables 12.3 7.9 8.8 4.3
Balances from retail customers principally relate to products aw aiting collection, but are considered to have little credit ris k as they are 
primarily settled by cash or major credit card and must be settl ed prior to the goods being collected from/delivered by the sto re. The 
Group bears no credit risk in respect of amounts due from retail customers under finance credit arrangements. 
The age profile of balances other than those with retail customers is set out below: 
 Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014 
£m 
Neither past due nor impaired 1.1 2.5 0.6 2.0
30 to 60 days 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
60 to 90 days – – – –
Over 90 days 0.2 0.7 0.2 0.7
Non-retail trade and other receivables 1.6 3.5 1.1 3.0
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
75
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
16.  Cash and cash equivalents 
 Notes 
Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company  
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand  7.3 6.3 5.2 4.3
Bank overdrafts 19 (4.4) (10.8) (4.4) (8.3)
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statements 2.9 (4.5) 0.8 (4.0)
17.  Trade and other payables 
 Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014   
£m 
Company  
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014
£m 
Current:   
Trade payables 55.7 49.7 49.4 42.6
Other taxes and social security 13.5 11.8 11.6 9.4
Accruals and deferred income 26.4 27.8 23.2 25.9
 95.6 89.3 84.2 77.9
Non-current:   
Accruals and deferred income 37.7 38.6 37.7 38.6
Payable to subsidiaries – – 8.7 9.6
 37.7 38.6 46.4 48.2
Total trade and other payables 133.3 127.9 130.6 126.1
Trade payables comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.  The Directors consider that the carrying am ounts 
of trade and other payables approximate to their fair values. 
18.  Obligations under finance leases 
 Minimum lease payments Present value of minimum lease payments
 Group  
2015  
£m 
Group 
2014 
£m 
Company 
2015
£m 
Company 
2014
£m 
Group 
2015
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company  
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014
£m 
Amounts payable within one yea r 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Amounts payable between one and 
five years 
1.1 1.2 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4
Amounts payable after five years 4.2 4.5 0.9 1.2 1.8 1.9 0.7 0.9
 5.6 6.0 1.9 2.2 – – – –
Less: future finance charges (3.2) (3.5) (0.6) (0.8) – – – –
Present value of obligations under 
finance leases 
2.4 2.5 1.3 1.4 2.4 2.5 1.3 1.4
Current 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1  
Non-current  2.3 2.4 1.2 1.3  
The Group leases certain properties under finance leases.  The average lease term remaining is 15 years (2014: 17 years). The m inimum 
lease payments are discounted at the rate inherent in the leases .  Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.  All leases a re on a fixed 
repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.  
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
76  
 
19.  Borrowings 
 Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014 
£m 
Company 
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014 
£m 
Current:  
Bank overdraft 4.4 10.8 4.4 8.3
Bank loans  – 0.3 – 0.3
 4.4 11.1 4.4 8.6
Non-current:  
Bank loans  – 3.8 – 3.8
 4.4 14.9 4.4 12.4
Borrowing and overdrafts are denominated in Sterling and Euros of which £4.4m (2014: £12.4m) are secured on certain Group  
freehold properties. 
The effective interest rates at the period end are as follows: 
Group 
2015 
% 
Group  
2014  
% 
Company 
2015 
% 
Company 
2014 
% 
Overdrafts 3.0 2.6 3.0 2.8
Borrowings – 2.8 – 2.8
 
The maturity profiles of borrowings are as follows: 
Group 
2015
£m 
Group  
2014 
£m 
Company 
2015
£m 
Company 
2014
£m 
Amounts payable within one yea r 4.4 11.1 4.4 8.6
Amounts payable between one and two years – 3.8 – 3.8
Amounts payable between two and five years – – – –
 4.4 14.9 4.4 12.4
The maturity analysis is grouped by wh en the debt is contracted to mature rather than by re-pricing dates. 
20.  Provisions for liabilities and charges 
 
Group 
2015  
£m 
Company 
2015  
£m 
Group and Company 
Onerous 
lease 
provisions 
£m 
Reorganisati
on provisions 
£m 
Total 
provisions 
£m 
Onerous 
lease 
provisions  
£m 
Reorganisati
on provisions 
£m 
Total 
provisions 
£m 
At the beginning of the period 13.4 1.5 14.9 13.4 0.4 13.8
Exchange differences (0.3) (0.1) (0.4) (0.3) – (0.3)
Added during the period 7.0 – 7.0 6.8 – 6.8
Utilised during the period (3.5) (1.1) (4.6) (3.5) (0.4) (3.9)
At the end of the period 16.6 0.3 16.9 16.4 – 16.4
The onerous lease provision relates to estimated future unavoida ble lease costs in respect of closed, non-trading and loss-maki ng stores. 
The provision is expected to be utilised over periods of up to 15 years. Further detail can be found in note 5. 
The residual cost of £0.3m for the reorgani sation provision recognised in the prior pe riod is expected to be utilised over the next  
12 months. 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
77
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
21.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
 Group
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014 
£m 
Company  
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014
£m 
Deferred tax assets (2.2) (2.9) – –
Deferred tax liabilities 15.2 16.6 11.2 12.3
Net deferred tax liabilities 13.0 13.7 11.2 12.3
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offs et against each other where there is a legally enforceable right to offset. 
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities recognis ed by the Group during the current and prior period is: 
Group 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
Fair value 
adjustments 
Deferred 
capital gains 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
Tax 
losses 
Share based 
payments 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations Total 
At 27 April 2013 6.8 1.5 18.6 (1.0) (3.5) (0.1) (1.0) 21.3
Charge/(credit) to the income statement (1.0) – (2.4) – (1.3) – – (4.7)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income – – – – – – 0.5 0.5
Transferred to current tax – – (3.4) – – – – (3.4)
At 26 April 2014  5.8 1.5 12.8 (1.0) (4.8) (0.1) (0.5) 13.7
Exchange difference (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) 0.4 – – (0.2)
Charge/(credit) to the income statement (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) 0.1 0.4 (0.1) – (0.1)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income – – – – – 0.1 (0.1) –
Transferred to current tax – – (0.4) – – – – (0.4)
At 2 May 2015 5.2 1.3 12.2 (1.0) (4.0) (0.1) (0.6) 13.0
 
Company 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
Fair value 
adjustments 
Deferred
capital gains 
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
Tax 
losses 
Share based 
payments 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations Total 
At 27 April 2013 3.8 – 17.4 (1.2) (0.7) (0.1) (1.0) 18.2
Charge/(credit) to the income statement (1.0) – (2.3) 0.2 0.1 – – (3.0)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income – – – – – – 0.5 0.5
Transferred to current tax – – (3.4) – – – – (3.4)
At 26 April 2014 2.8 – 11.7 (1.0) (0.6) (0.1) (0.5) 12.3
Charge/(credit) to the income statement (0.5) – (0.1) – – (0.1) – (0.7)
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income – – – – – 0.1 (0.1) –
Transferred to current tax – – (0.4) – – – – (0.4)
At 2 May 2015 2.3 – 11.2 (1.0) (0.6) (0.1) (0.6) 11.2
At the reporting date, the Group had unused tax losses of £14.1m (2014: £16.3m) which can be carr ied forward indefinitely and a re 
available for offset against future profits.  A deferred tax asset of £4.0m (2014: £4.8m) has been recognised in respect of the se losses. 
Deferred tax assets of £2.6m (2014: £2.5m) were available for offset against deferred tax liab ilities of £17.8m (2014: £19.1m), hence the 
Group’s deferred tax liabilities as at 2 May 2015 are £15.2m (2014: £16.6m). 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
78  
 
22.  Retirement benefit obligations 
The Group operates a variety of pension schemes, principally in the UK, the Netherlands and Belgium.  They comprise defined ben efit 
schemes where benefits are based on employees’ length of servi ce and average final salary, and defined contribution schemes whe re  
the employer company pays a set contribution to the scheme.  Th e UK defined benefit schemes refe rred to in note 22 (i) (a) and the first 
two defined contribution schemes referred to in note 22 (ii) are accounted for by the Company. 
(i) Defined benefit schemes 
(a) UK defined benefit schemes 
The Company operated a funded defined benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay for its employee s  
and has assumed the liability for the scheme pr eviously operated by Storey Carpets Ltd (Storeys).  The Company scheme was close d  
to defined benefit service accrual on 30 April 2010 and has been closed to new members since 31 March 2006.  The scheme previou sly 
operated by Storeys is also closed to new members and has no act ive members.  The assets of the schemes are held separately fro m 
those of the Company.  The assets of the Co mpany scheme are invested in a Managed Fund operated by a fund management company.  
Contributions are determined by a qualified actuary using the proj ected unit credit method.  The most recent actuarial review w as at  
6 April 2014 when the actuarial value of the assets represented 89% of the benefits accrued to members after allowing for expec ted future 
increases in earnings.  A deficit reduction plan has been agreed with the Trustees under which £0.6m was paid in the period (20 14: £0.6m). 
The assets of the Storeys scheme are held in independently managed funds.  The most recent actuarial review of the Storeys scheme 
was at 1 March 2014 when the actuarial value of the assets represented 88% of the benefits accrued to members.  A deficit reduc tion 
plan has been agreed with the Trustees under wh ich £0.3m was paid in the period (2014: £0.3m). 
Risks 
The Group schemes are exposed to actuarial risks and investment ri sks.  Some of the risks can be reduced by adjusting the fundi ng 
strategy with the help of the Trustees, for example investment matching risk.  Other risks cannot so easily be removed, for exa mple 
longevity risk. The Trustees of the plan re gularly review such risks and mitigating co ntrols and a risk register is approved an nually to 
mitigate such risks. 
Employer contributions of £0.9m are expected to be paid in to these pension schemes during the financial period 2016. 
The assets and liabilities of the schemes we re valued on an IAS 19 basis at 2 May 2015 by a qualified actuary.  The numbers set out 
below are the aggregate of the two schemes. 
1) The table below outlines amounts included in the financial st atements arising from the Group’s and Company’s obligations in respect  
of the defined benefit scheme: 
  2015
£m 
2014 
£m 
Present value of pension schemes’ obligations (30.8) (26.3)
Fair value of pension schemes’ assets 26.8 23.0
Total recognised in the balance sheet (4.0) (3.3)
 
 Notes 
2015
£m 
2014 
£m 
Net interest cost on pension schemes 6 0.2 0.2
Total recognised in the income statement  0.2 0.2
  
 2015
£m 
2014 
£m 
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan assets 2.7 0.8
Change in assumptions underlying present value of liabilities (4.1) 0.3
Total recognised in the other comprehensive income statement (1.4) 1.1
 
 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
79
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
22.  Retirement benefit obligations continued 
2) Reconciliation of movement in net pension deficit: 
 Defined benefit obligations Fair value of assets 
Net defined 
benefit obligations 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
2015
£m 
2014  
£m 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
At 26 April 2014 (26.3) (26.8) 23.0 21.7 (3.3) (5.1)
Interest income/(expense) (1.1) (1.1) 0.9 0.9 (0.2) (0.2)
    
Re-measurements:   
Actuarial gains and losses from:   
Demographic (0.7) – – – (0.7) –
Financial assumptions (3.2) 0.7 – – (3.2) 0.7
Experience adjustments (0.2) 0.1 – – (0.2) 0.1
Return on plan assets excluding interest – – 2.7 0.3 2.7 0.3
   
Contributions:   
Employers – – 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9
   
Payments from plan:   
Benefits paid 0.7 0.8 (0.7) (0.8) – –
 
  
As at 2 May 2015 (30.8) (26.3) 26.8 23.0 (4.0) (3.3)
3) Fair value of scheme assets: 
 2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.2
Equities 12.4 11.4
Government bonds 7.4 2.8
Property 0.1 0.3
Investment funds 6.7 8.3
Total 26.8 23.0
 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
80  
 
4) Key assumptions used: 
  2015
% 
2014 
% 
RPI inflation  3.2 3.4
Discount rate  3.4 4.2
CPI inflation  2.4 2.6
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the 
timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.  The assumptions used for future life expectancy of members of the 
scheme are derived from industry dates and standard tables.  Specifically, the S2 NXA table on a year of birth usage with CMI_20 13 future 
improvements factors and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% (2014: S1NXA table  on a year of birth usage with medium coho rt 
future improvement factors with a minimum annual rate of future improvement of 1% pa). This results in the following life expec tancies: 
− male aged 65 now has life expectancy of 23 years, previously 22 years; and 
− female aged 65 now has life expectancy of 25 years, previously 24 years. 
The most significant assumptions are the discount rate, retail an d consumer price index and mortality rates, of which the most sensitive 
assumption is the discount rate.  The impact of an increase or decrease in the assumptions by 0.1% on the Group’s pension schem e 
obligations is shown below: 
   2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Increase/(decrease) by 0.1% Discount rate  0.6 0.5
Increase/(decrease) by 0.1% RPI inflation or CPI inflation  0.4 0.3
Increase/(decrease) by 1 year Life expectancy  1.1 1.1
(b) Multi-employer scheme 
The Group’s Dutch subsidiary participates in a multi-employer r un industry pension scheme which has arrangements similar to tho se of a 
defined benefit scheme.  It is not possible to identify the Grou p’s share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schem e, and therefore, 
in accordance with IAS 19, the Group has taken the exemption for multi-employer pension schemes not to disclose pension scheme 
assets and liabilities. Accordingly, although this scheme is a de fined benefit scheme it is treated as a defined contribution s cheme, 
recognising the contributions payable in each period in the income statement.  Under the terms of the scheme the scheme deficit is 
recovered through increased contributions from participating members.  At the period end, the Group was unable to obtain a valu ation of 
the industry scheme’s full surplus or deficit.  The Group was also unable to obtain details concerning the future funding requi rements, and 
it’s participation level relative to the other participants.  Co ntributions charged to the income statement amounted to £1.0m ( 2014: £1.1m) 
and expected contribution to this scheme for the financial period 2016 is £1.0m. 
(ii) Defined contribution schemes 
The Company launched a Group Personal Pension Plan in April 2006 .  Contributions made by employees are matched by the Company 
to an upper limit.  The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company and are invested by Scottish Life.  
Contributions for the period amounted to £1.3m (2014: £1.1m). 
In addition, the Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for subsidiary companies in Belgium and the Netherlands.  The 
Group makes contributions into the schemes, the assets of which are held separately from those of the Group and are invested by local 
insurance companies.  The contributions by the Group into indivi dual company schemes for the period were a net charge of £0.1m  
(2014: £0.1m) and there were no contributions to industry collective schemes (2014: £0.1m). 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
81
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
23.  Financial instruments 
(i) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
Risk management 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise borrowings and overdrafts, cash and cash equivalents. These financial inst ruments 
are used to manage funding and liquidity requirements. Other fi nancial instruments which arise directly from the Group’s operat ions 
include trade receivables and payables. 
Exposure to credit, liquidity, foreign currency exchange and inte rest rate risks arise in the normal course of the Group’s busi ness 
operations and each of these risks is managed in accordance with the Group’s treasury risk mana gement strategy, which is also 
discussed in the Business Review in the section Current liquidity. 
(a) Credit risk 
The Group does not have significant concentrations of credit risk as exposure is spread over a number of counterparties and cus tomers. 
The Group is exposed to a small amount of credit risk that is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables, the ma jority of which 
relates to retail customer products held ready for collection (s ee note 15). Retail customers ar e required to settle outstandin g balances  
in cash or using a major credit card prior to goods being collected from/delivered by the store. 
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterpart ies are reputable banks. The maximum amount of credit risk is 
represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets. 
(b) Liquidity risk 
The Group finances its operations from a mix of retained profit s and bank borrowings achieved through term loans, revolving  
credit agreements and overdraft facilities. Daily cash balances are forecast and surplus cash is placed on treasury deposit wit h  
the Group’s bankers. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments ,  
including interest: 
Group 
Less than
1 year
£m 
Between
1 and 2 years
£m 
Between 
2 and 5 years 
£m 
Over 
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 2 May 2015      
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – – – – –
Finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.8 4.2 5.6
Trade and other payables 84.5 – – – 84.5
 84.8 0.3 0.8 4.2 90.1
At 26 April 2014   
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.5 6.3 – – 6.8
Finance leases 0.3 0.3 0.9 4.5 6.0
Trade and other payables 79.3 – – – 79.3
 80.1 6.6 0.9 4.5 92.1
Company   
At 2 May 2015   
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – – – – –
Finance leases 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.9 1.9
Trade and other payables 85.7 – – – 85.7
 85.9 0.2 0.6 0.9 87.6
At 26 April 2014   
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.5 3.8 – – 4.3
Finance leases 0.2 0.2 0.6 1.2 2.2
Trade and other payables 81.5 – – – 81.5
 82.2 4.0 0.6 1.2 88.0
 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
82  
 
The Group has committed facilities to July 2019 comprising a £45. 0m revolving credit facility.  The Group also has uncommitted overdraft 
facilities of £7.5m which is rene wable annually in June, €7.4m in the rest of Europe. The undrawn amounts on the committed faci lities 
were £45.0m (2014: £43.5m). The undrawn amounts on the uncomm itted facilities were £3.1m and €7.4m (2014: £1.7m and €4.4m). 
There are a number of covenants which commit the Group to maintaining certain rates of leverage and fixed charge cover.  The Gr oup 
has and is expected to remain in compliance with these covenants, further details on this can be found on page 16 of the Strate gic report.   
(c) Foreign exchange risk 
Outside the UK, the Group operates in the Republic of Ireland, th e Netherlands, Belgium and had an investment property in Poland.  
Revenues and expenses of these operations are denominated in Euro s or Zlotys.  The Group’s investment in Poland is not sufficie ntly 
material to require the risk to be hedged.  The Group mitigates currency risk in respect of the net investment in European oper ations 
by designating Euro denominated borrowings as hedging instruments of Euro denominated investments in foreign operations. 
If the closing Sterling Euro rate had been 0.01 points lower in the period, the exchange differen ce reported in the statement o f 
comprehensive income would have been £0.2m lower (2014: £0.6m lower).  At 2 May 2015, if Sterling had weakened/strengthened  
by 10% against the Euro, profit after tax for the period would have been £0.3m higher/lower as a result of the translation of t he Euro 
denominated businesses. 
Financial assets and liabilities and fo reign operations are translated at the following rates of exchange: 
 Euro
2015 
Euro 
2014 
Zloty
2015 
Zloty
2014 
Average rate 1.28 1.18 5.38 5.00
Closing rate 1.36 1.21 5.51 5.10
(d) Interest rate risk 
The Group has various borrowings bearing interest at a margin over LIBOR or EURIBOR rates.   
In accordance with IFRS 7, the Group has und ertaken sensitivity analysis on its financ ial instruments which are affected by cha nges in 
interest rates.  This analysis has been prepared on the basis of a constant amount of net debt and a constant ratio of fixed to floating 
interest rates as at 2 May 2015 and 26 April 2014 respectively.  Consequently, analysis relates to the situation at those dates and is not 
representative of the periods then ended.   
Based on the Group’s net debt position at the period end, a 1% change in interest rates would affect the Group’s profit before tax by 
approximately £0.1m (2014: £0.1m). 
The interest rate profile of the financial asse ts and liabilities of the Group is as follows: 
 2015 2014 
 
Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest 
rate
% 
Floating  
rate 
£m 
Fixed 
rate 
£m 
Interest
 free
£m 
Total
£m 
Weighted 
average 
effective 
interest rate
% 
Floating
rate
£m 
Fixed 
rate 
 £m 
Interest 
free
£m 
Total
£m 
Sterling – 1.9 – 2.6 4.5 – 4.1 – 2.6 6.7
Euro – 4.7 – 3.6 8.3 – 1.9 – 3.8 5.7
Zloty – 0.7 – – 0.7 – 0.3 – – 0.3
Total financial 
assets 
– 7.3 – 6.2 13.5 – 6.3 – 6.4 12.7
Sterling 0.9 (4.4) (2.2) (76.1) (82.7) 1.2 (11.9) (2.3) (69.9) (84.1)
Euro 0.1 – (0.1) (8.4) (8.5) 0.7 (3.0) (0.2) (9.4) (12.6)
Total financial 
liabilities 
 (4.4) (2.3) (84.5) (91.2) (14.9) (2.5) (79.3) (96.7)
Capital management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard it s ability to continue as a going concern and retain financial flexibility in 
order to continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefi ts for other stakeholders.  The Group considers capital to be e quity and 
net debt.  Net debt is disclosed in note 29. 
The Group manages its capital by: continued focus on free cash fl ow generation; setting the level of capital expenditure and di vidend in 
the context of the current period and forecast free cash flow; and monitoring the level of the Group’s financial and leasehold debt in the 
context of Group performance. 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
83
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
23.  Financial instruments continued 
(ii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 
Financial assets and liabilities are classified in accordance with IAS 39.  Financial instruments have not been reclassified or derecognised  
in the period.  There are no financial assets which have been pl edged or held as collateral.  None of the Group’s loans is impa ired.   
In addition, the Group does not have any financial assets or lia bilities measured at fair value through the income statement.  There  
are no available-for-sale financial assets. 
The carrying values of all other financial assets and liabilities are deemed to reflect fair value. 
 Group Company 
    
2015
Fair value
 £m 
2014 
Fair value  
£m 
2015 
Fair value 
 £m 
2014
Fair value
£m 
At cost:   
Cash and cash equivalents 7.3 6.3 5.2 4.3
Loans and receivables at amortised cost:   
Trade and other receivables 6.2 6.4 48.1 49.2
Total financial assets 13.5 12.7 53.3 53.5
   
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:   
Borrowings and overdrafts (4.4) (14.9) (4.4) (12.4)
Finance lease obligations (2.3) (2.5) (1.3) (1.4)
Financial liabilities at cost:   
Trade and other payables (84.5) (79.3) (85.7) (81.5)
Total financial liabilities (91.2) (96.7) (91.4) (95.3)
   
Net financial liabilities (77.7) (84.0) (38.1) (41.8)
(iii) Hedge accounting 
Net investment hedges 
Euro-denominated facilities are designated as hedging instrument s of Euro-denominated net assets of the Group’s foreign operati ons  
in order to protect the Group from currency risk in respect of the Group’s Euro-denominated fo reign operations.  Borrowing balances are 
carried at amortised cost which approximates fair value since bo rrowings bear interest at the pr evailing floating rate.  The Gr oup repaid its 
borrowing in full during the period. The carrying va lue of borrowings in the prior period was €0.7m. 
24.  Share capital  
Group and Company 
Number 
of allotted, 
called up and 
fully paid 
ordinary 
shares 
Millions 
Share capital
£m 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Treasury 
shares 
£m 
Total
£m 
At 27 April 2013 67.5 0.7 16.6 (0.3) 17.0
Issue of new shares 0.2 – 0.6 – 0.6
At 26 April 2014 67.7 0.7 17.2 (0.3) 17.6
Issue of new shares 0.1 – 0.2 – 0.2
Purchase of own shares – employee benefit trust – – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 2 May 2015 67.8 0.7 17.4 (0.4) 17.7
The Group’s LTIP was established to grant contingent rights to sh ares.  Such grants are made on recommendation by the Group’s 
Remuneration Committee.  Shares are purchased by a Trust and held until they are used to satisfy the LTIP awards.  As required by IAS 
32, grants of such shares are classified as Treasury shares and accordingly are deducted from total equity attributable to equi ty holders of 
the parent.  During the period, the Trust pu rchased 23,571 ordinary shares (2014: nil sh ares purchased).  At the period end, th e Trust held 
51,440 (2014: 27,869) ordinary shares of 1p each with a market value of £0.2m (2014: £0.2m). 
The Group also operates a share option scheme under which shares are issued to satisfy share options upon exercise. 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
84  
 
25.  Share based payments 
Included within administration expenses is a charge of £0.4m (2 014: credit of £0.2m) in respect of equity-settled share based p ayments. 
The Group’s employee share schemes are described below and additional detail is disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 43 to 46 Scheme participants are either Directors of the Co mpany or employees of the Group.  The costs associated with th e 
schemes are accounted for in the Company’s accounts. 
(i) LTIP 
Under this scheme, participants may receiv e annual awards in the form of contingent entitlements to Company shares.  These 
entitlements are equity-settled through the purchase of existing shares by the administering Trust.  The shares vest three year s after award 
if participants remain with the Group during the vesting period and the Group meets targeted levels of performance.  The perfor mance 
conditions are fully described in the Directors’ remuneration report in the section titled Long-term incentives. 
During the period, contingent entitlements to 432,953 shares were granted (2014: 387,307).  The amount recognised in the income 
statement in respect of all LTIP awards is a charge of £0.3m (201 4: credit of £0.4m).  The fair values of the awards, where the re is no 
market condition, are valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.  The Group’s LTIP Trust is administered by the Equity Trust 
(Jersey) Limited and it waives its right to dividends on the shares held. 
Reconciliation of movements in the periods ended 2 May 
 LTIP July 2014 LTIP Jan 2014 LTIP 2012 LTIP 2011 
 Share  
awards 
’000s 
Fair
value
 £m 
Share 
awards
’000s 
Fair
value
 £m 
Share
 awards
’000s 
Fair 
value 
£m 
Share 
awards
’000s 
Fair
value
£m 
Outstanding at 27 April 2013 – – – – 314.3 2.0 405.0 1.8
Granted – – 387.3 2.0 – – – –
Forfeited – – – – (141.6) (0.9) (193.7) (0.9)
Outstanding at 26 April 2014 – – 387.3 2.0 172.7 1.1 211.3 0.9
Granted 432.9 2.3 – – – – – –
Forfeited (34.3) (0.2) (84.8) (0.9) (141.6) (0.4) – –
Expired/lapsed – – – – – – (211.3) (0.9)
Outstanding at 2 May 2015 398.6 2.1 302.5 1.1 31.1 0.7 – –
   
Exercisable at 2 May 2015 – – – – – – – –
Exercisable at 26 April 2014 – – – – – – – –
The valuation assumptions used in the application of the Black-Sc holes models applied to the relevant schemes above are as foll ows: 
Valuation assumptions 
LTIP July 2014 
award 
LTIP  Jan 
2014 award 
LTIP 2012 
award 
LTIP 2011 
award 
Fair value per share (pence) 524 504 641 459
Share price at grant (pence) 526 505 664 486
Exercise price (pence) 1.0 0.0 1.0 1.0
Expected volatility (%)
1
 33.4 35.1 35.9 39.7
Vesting period (years) 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
Dividend yield (%) 0.0 0.0 1.1 1.8
Risk free interest rate (%) 1.5 1.0 0.4 0.8
1. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the three year period preceding the date of grant.  The risk free interest rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK 
government bonds at the date of grant of the respective awards over a term consistent with the vesting period. 
(ii) Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”) 
The Group operates three and five year SAYE schemes.  Employee s and Executive Directors are invited to subscribe for options ov er 
shares in the Company at a 20% discount to market price. The op tions are ordinarily exercisable within six months from the thir d or fifth 
anniversary of the grant date.  The entitlement to share options is equity-settled.  Funds for the purchase of Company shares are built up 
through the contribution of a maximum of £500 (2014: £250) per month from salary.  Share options were valued using a Black-Scho les 
option-pricing model.  The cost charged to the income st atement in respect of this scheme is £0.1m (2014: £0.2m). 
 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
85
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
25.  Share based payments continued 
Reconciliation of movements in the periods ended 2 May 2015 
 SAYE  
2015 
SAYE 
2014 
SAYE  
2013 
SAYE  
2012 
SAYE  
2011 
SAYE  
2010 
SAYE  
2009 
 3 yr 5 yr  3 yr  5 yr 3 yr 5 yr 3 yr 5 yr 3 yr  5 yr 5 yr 5 yr 
 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Number of 
options 
’000s 
Outstanding at  
27 April 2013 
– – – – 99.7 17.0 214.8 36.1 35.1 13.0 4.3 225.3
Granted – – 267.7 80.3––––– – ––
Forfeited – – – – (39.6) (6.4) (35.5) – – (5.6) (0.2) (4.8)
Vested – – – – – – (1.4) – – – – (183.8)
Outstanding at  
26 April 2014 
– – 267.7 80.3 60.1 10.6 177.9 36.1 35.1 7.4 4.1 36.7
Granted 757.8 158.8 – – – – – – – – – –
Forfeited – – (139.5) (55.5) (26.1) (2.0) (43.0) (27.8) (35.1) (1.3) (0.4) (2.2)
Vested – – – (0.1) – – (26.7) – – – – (34.5)
Outstanding at  
2 May 2015 
757.8 158.8 128.2 24.7 34.0 8.6 108.2 8.3 – 6.1 3.7 –
     
Exercisable at  
2 May 2015  
– – – – – – 108.2 – – – 3.7 –
Exercisable at  
26 April 2014 
– – – – – – – – 35.1 – – 36.7
The valuation assumptions used in the application of the Black-Scholes model applied to the relevant schemes above are as follo ws: 
Valuation assumptions 
SAYE  
2015 
SAYE  
2014 
SAYE  
2013 
SAYE  
2012 
SAYE  
2011 
SAYE  
2010 
3yr 5 yr  3 yr  5 yr 3 yr 5 yr 3 yr 5 yr 3 yr  5 yr 3 yr 5 yr 
Fair value per share (pence) 148 184 165 201 248 339 179 231 264 298 333 331
Share price at grant (pence) 446 446 505 505 679 679 529 529 792 792 941 941
Exercise price (pence) 347 347 404 404 544 544 423 423 634 634 753 753
Expected volatility (%)
1
 31.5 34.8 33.7 34.8 34.7 39.1 40.0 44.1 41.6 39.9 47.4 38.7
Vesting period (years) 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1 3.1 5.1
Dividend yield (%) – – – – – – 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 3.1 3.1
Risk free interest rate (%) 0.7 1.0 0.3 0.8 2.9 4.9 2.9 2.9 1.6 2.4 3.1 3.1
Possibility of ceasing 
employment before  
vesting (%) 
40 50 40 50 40 50 40 50 40 50 40 50
1. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the three or five year period respectively preceding the date of grant.  The risk free interest rate is the yield on 
zero-coupon UK government bonds at the date of grant of the resp ective awards over a term consistent with the vesting period. 
(iii) All Employee Share Ownership Plan (“AESOP”) 
Carpetright operated an Employee Share Ownership Plan under which employees could contribute up to £125 per month from pre-tax 
salary to purchase Carpetright shares.  The scheme was closed on 12 January 2015 as there were fewer than 50 active participant s.   
The Group does not incur a share based payment charge in respect of this scheme since the Company shares are acquired at market 
value and are not subject to an accumulation period. 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
86  
 
26.  Capital and other financial commitments 
Capital commitments at 2 May 2015 cont racted for but not yet incurred are: 
 Group
2015
 £m 
Group 
2014 
£m 
Company
2015
£m 
Company
2014
£m 
Property plant and equipment  0.4 – 0.4 –
27.  Operating lease commitments 
At 2 May 2015, the future minimum lease payments in respect of land and buildings and other assets under operating leases are: 
 2015 2014 
Group 
Land and
buildings
£m 
Other 
£m 
Land and
buildings
 £m 
Other 
£m 
Operating leases payable:   
Amounts payable within one year 85.7 1.2 88.2 1.1
Amounts payable between one and five years 302.6 3.1 312.1 4.0
Amounts payable after five years 290.8 0.1 354.4 0.5
 679.1 4.4 754.7 5.6
 
 2015 2014 
Company 
Land and
buildings
£m 
Other 
£m 
Land and
buildings
 £m 
Other 
£m 
Operating leases payable:   
Amounts payable within one year 79.2 1.1 79.7 1.1
Amounts payable between one and five years 290.5 2.8 296.2 3.4
Amounts payable after five years 290.1 0.1 352.4 0.5
 659.8 4.0 728.3 5.0
Operating lease payments are negotiated for an average of 5.1 ye ars (2014: 6.1 years).  The Group enters into sublease agreemen ts in 
respect of some of its operating leases for stores.  At the re porting date, the Group had contracted with tenants for future mi nimum 
operating sublease receipts amounting to £10.2m (2014: £4.5m). 
28.  Contingent liabilities 
The Group has no material contingent liabilities at 2 May 2015. 
The Company’s contingent liabilities derive from guaran tees for subsidiaries, which are disclosed in note 30. 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
87
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Notes to the financial statements continued 
29.  Movement in net cash/(debt)  
 Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company  
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014
£m 
Current assets:    
Cash and cash equivalents 7.3 6.3 5.2 4.3
 7.3 6.3 5.2 4.3
Current liabilities:   
Bank overdrafts (4.4) (10.8) (4.4) (8.3)
Bank borrowings  – (0.3) – (0.2)
Obligations under finance leases (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
 (4.5) (11.2) (4.5) (8.6)
Non-current liabilities:   
Borrowings  – (3.8) – (3.8)
Obligations under finance leases (2.3) (2.4) (1.2) (1.3)
 (2.3) (6.2) (1.2) (5.1)
Total net cash/(debt) 0.5 (11.1) (0.5) (9.4)
Reconciliation of movements in the periods ended 2 May 2015 
  Group 
2015 
£m 
Group  
2014  
£m 
Company  
2015 
£m 
Company 
2014
£m 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  7.4 (0.3) 4.8 (2.4)
Net (increase)/decrease in borrowings 4.1 0.1 4.1 0.1
Other non cash movements 0.1 (0.7) – (0.5)
 11.6 (0.9) 8.9 (3.0)
30.  Related parties 
Group 
Related party transactions with the Directors are disclosed in the Directors’ report on page 49. 
Share based payment transactions which include transactions with key management are disclosed in notes 4 and 25. 
Contributions to pension schemes are disclosed in note 22.  Cost s incurred by the Group to administer pension schemes amounted  
to £0.2m in 2015 (2014: £0.2m). 
Company 
The following table provides the total amount of transactions an d year end balances with related parties for the relevant finan cial year. 
Further details of related party transactions can be found in th e Directors’ report on page 49. 
 
Sales of goods 
£m 
Provision 
of services 
£m 
Total goods 
£m 
Amounts due 
from related 
parties  
£m 
Amounts due 
to related 
parties 
£m 
Subsidiary undertakings   
2015 2.6 0.5 3.1 45.1 8.7
2014 2.2 – 2.2 46.5 9.6
The Company guarantees bank and other borrowings of subsidiary undertakings. At the year end there were no drawn borrowings  
(2014: £2.5m). 
 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
88  
Group five-year financial summary 
 2015
£m 
2014
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011
£m 
Summarised income statements:     
Revenue 469.8 447.7 457.6 471.5 486.8
Gross profit 287.2 275.9 278.3 276.0 298.0
Operating profit/(loss) 8.2 (4.9) (3.4) 18.0 10.9
Underlying operating profit 15.8 6.9 11.4 8.0 21.2
Net finance costs (1.6) (2.3) (1.7) (4.0) (4.3)
Underlying profit before tax 14.2 4.6 9.7 4.0 16.9
Exceptional items (7.6) (11.8) (14.8) 9.5 (10.3)
Profit/(loss) before tax 6.6 (7.2) (5.1) 13.5 6.6
Tax (2.1) 3.6 (1.5) (2.5) (2.0)
Profit/(loss) for the financial period 4.5 (3.6) (6.6) 11.0 4.6
Extracts from balance sheets:   
Non-current assets 171.4 185.4 193.0 205.2 243.3
Net assets 59.5 61.1 65.3 70.7 67.0
Operating cash flows 23.0 11.3 17.4 29.1 32.1
Net cash/(debt) 0.5 (11.1) (10.2) (19.1) (65.7)
Ratios and statistics:   
Number of stores at period end 597 614 620 632 679
Total space (sq ft – gross) ’000 5,444 5,630 5,719 5,840 6,072
Gross margin (%) 61.1% 61.6% 60.8% 58.5% 61.2%
Underlying operating margin (%) 3.4% 1.5% 2.5% 1.7% 4.4%
Operating margin (%) 1.0% (1.0%) (0.7%) 3.8% 2.2%
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 15.5p 4.7p 9.6p 4.5p 18.0p
Basic earnings/(losses) per share (pence) 6.7p (5.3p) (9.8p) 16.4p 6.8p
Dividends per share (pence) – – – – 8.0p
 
 
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
89
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Carpetright plc  
Report on the financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion: 
− Carpetright plc’s Group financial statements and Company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair view of 
the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 2 May 2015 and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s and the Compan y’s 
cash flows for the 53 week period (the “period”) then ended; 
− the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”)  
as adopted by the European Union; 
− the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and  
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and 
− the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
What we have audited 
Carpetright plc’s financial statements comprise: 
− the Group and Company Balance sheets as at 2 May 2015; 
− the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated stat ement of comprehensive income for the period then ended; 
− the Group and Company Statements of cash flow for the period then ended; 
− the Group and Company Statements of changes in equity for the period then ended; and 
− the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory informa tion. 
The financial reporting framework that has be en applied in the preparation of the fina ncial statements is applicable law and IF RSs as 
adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financ ial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.  
Certain disclosures required by the financ ial reporting framework have been presente d elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accoun ts  
(the “Annual Report”), rather than in the notes to the financia l statements. These are cross-refe renced from the financial stat ements  
and are identified as audited. 
Our audit approach 
Overview 
 − Overall group materiality: £2.0m which repres ents approximately 0.5% of Group revenues.
 − We performed an audit of the complete financial in formation of two of the reporting units (the UK 
and the Republic of Ireland), which accounted for 87% of the Group revenues and, for the 
Netherlands, we performed specified procedures. These specified procedures in respect of 
revenues accounted for an additional 9% of the Group revenues. 
 − Valuation of goodwill in Europe (the Netherlands and Belgium);
− Impairment of freehold and long-leasehold properties; 
− Impairment of store assets and onerous leases; 
− Supplier rebates; and 
− Valuation of inventory. 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Stan dards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing th e risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that in volved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherent ly uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the r isk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represe nted  
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.  
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and eff ort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have al so set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific are as in order to 
provide an opinion on the financial statemen ts as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read 
in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.   
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
90  
 
 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Valuation of goodwill in Europe (the Netherlands and 
Belgium) 
Refer to Note 1 (Accounting po licies and Critical accounting 
estimates and judgements) and Note 10 (Intangible assets). 
Goodwill is valued at £50.8m at the period-end. No goodwill 
impairment charge has been recorded against this balance  
in the current year.  
We focused on the risk that the goodwill balance may be 
overstated and that an impairment charge may be required. 
The lowest level at which manage ment monitor goodwill is the  
UK and the Rest of Europe (“Europe”), defined as the Netherlands 
and Belgium. Therefore these have been identified as the cash-
generating units (“CGU’s”). The Group’s goodwill in the UK is 
£29.8m and in Europe it is £21.0m at the period-end. 
We focused on valuation of goodwill in Europe in particular 
because of the history of losses in this segment and because  
of the judgement required in impairment assessment. 
Management’s review process for the UK goodwill has  
not identified any potential impairment. 
The key assumptions made by the Directors in the annual 
impairment review included: 
− the growth and operating margin within the five year plan as 
applied to each CGU; 
− the group discount rate (pre-tax 7.8%); and 
− the long-term sales and operating profit growth in line with  
the floorings markets in the UK and in Europe. 
 We tested the value-in-use models, including comparing the 
forecasts used in them to the latest 5-year plan approved by  
the Board, and testing the underlying calculations. No material 
exceptions were noted.  
We challenged the Directors’ ke y assumptions, in particular: 
− the sales growth and margin improvement plans by comparing  
the assumptions to recent results for the Group; 
− the long-term growth rate by comparing the assumptions to the 
retail sector as a whole and forecasts for the wider economy; and 
− the discount rate used by assessing the cost of capital for the 
business. The discount rate used in the Directors’ impairment 
models of 7.8 (pre-tax discount rate) is below the range that we 
independently estimated based on market data and analysis of 
comparable companies.  
We performed sensitivity analyses, for the assumptions specified 
above to identify the extent to which these needed to change to  
result in a material impairment charge. 
Based on our knowledge of the business and of the retail industry 
amongst other factors, we considered that the likelihood for such 
changes in the key assumptions to be relatively low and that  
the disclosure made in the financial statements regarding the 
assumptions and the sensitivities drew appropriate attention  
to the more significant areas of judgement. 
Impairment of freehold and long-leasehold stores  
(Europe and UK)  
Refer to Note 1 (Accounting po licies and Critical accounting 
estimates and judgements) and Note 11 (Property, plant  
and equipment). 
The Group owns freehold and long-leasehold stores in the UK 
and in Europe. We focused on the risk that the carrying value  
of the properties, including the fixed assets attributable to these 
stores, may be overstated and that an impairment charge may  
be required. 
In determining whether impairment triggers existed at the period 
end, the Directors treated each store as a separate CGU and 
valued it at the higher of the value in use calculations or the 
market value of the properties and their assets. 
The value-in-use calculations are based on a five year perpetuity 
model using the growth assumptions within the five year plan as 
applied to each store, with the resulting cash flows discounted  
at the group discount rate (pre-tax 7.8%).  
The fair values are taken from th ird party valuations carried out  
by an independent valuer in No vember 2014; these valuations  
are based on market value assuming a 10 year sale and 
leaseback arrangement. 
This review resulted in no impairment charge/release in the 
current year. 
We focused on this area because of the size of the underlying 
assets and because of the significant judgement required in 
determining the value in use of ea ch store, particularly regarding 
the sales and operating margins gr owth rates, and discount rates.
 We tested the Directors’ assessment of impairment triggers and 
were satisfied that it appropriately took into account both internal  
and external impairment indicators, including the trading performance 
of each CGU and market conditions.  
We assessed the third party valuat ions based on our understanding 
of the UK and European commercial property market and found the 
methodology to be appropriate for fair value and the valuation to be 
reasonable at the year end.  
We tested the value-in-use models, including comparing the forecasts 
used in them to the latest 5-year plan approved by the Board, and 
tested the underlying calculations. No material exceptions were noted. 
We challenged the Directors’ ke y assumptions, in particular: 
− the sales growth and margin improvement plans by comparing  
the assumptions to recent results for the Group; 
− the long-term growth rate by comparing the assumptions to the 
retail sector as a whole and forecasts of the wider economy; and 
− the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group. 
The discount rate used in the Directors’ impairment models of 7.8% 
(pre-tax discount rate) is below the range that we independently 
estimated based on market data and analysis of comparable 
companies.  
We performed sensitivity analysis and noted that in order for a  
material impairment charge to arise, the key assumptions specified 
above would need to change significantly. Based on our knowledge 
of the business and of the retail industry amongst other factors,  
we considered that the likelihood for such changes in the key 
assumptions to be relatively low.  
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
91
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Carpetright plc continued 
 
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Impairment of store assets and onerous leases 
Refer to Note 1 (Accounting po licies and Critical accounting 
estimates and judgements), Note 11 (Property, plant and 
equipment) and Note 20 (Provisions for liabilities and charges). 
The Group operates a number of short leasehold stores.  
The assets relating to these stores mainly comprise leasehold 
improvements and fixtures and fittings. These are considered  
for impairment annually by re viewing loss making stores.  
For all stores where the loss in the year exceeded a specified 
threshold, the store assets were fully impaired. 
Furthermore, consideration was given to leases where the 
stores have been closed or are loss-making to the extent that 
they cannot cover their unavoidable property costs and are 
therefore classified as onerous contracts. An analysis is 
performed on a store-by-store basis of the excess of the Net 
Present Value (“NPV”) of forecast unavoidable property costs 
(rents, rates and service charges) over the forecast EBITDAR 
(earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, amortisation, 
rents, rates and service charges) over the shortest of the life of 
the lease or a four-year period. The four- year period is based  
on historical experience in exit ing poor performing locations.  
The NPV is calculated using the growth assumptions within  
the five year plan as applied to each store, with the resulting 
cash flows discounted at the risk free rate. 
This analysis is then assessed using a threshold applied in  
the store impairment review on the logic that the stores are 
marginally loss making and the performance improvement  
plans are in the place. Stores with negative NPV lower than  
the threshold are not provided for.   
This analysis is then assessed for other factors such as potential 
property deals or closure of nearby stores which should 
positively impact the poorer performing store. 
A provision of £7.0m was recorded at the yea r-end for the 
onerous leases. 
 We tested the Directors’ assessment of impairment triggers for 
the store assets. We challenged the key assumptions – namely that 
stores making a loss below a certain threshold are excluded from the 
model as management’s view is that, as an improvement plan is in 
place and given the level of loss at these stores they are not 
permanently impaired. 
The potential impairment if all stores were included is not material  
and, therefore, there is minimal judgement in the impairment calculation 
resulting from this assumption. 
With respect to the provision for onerous contracts, we checked that 
stores assessed for onerous contracts are those that were identified, 
and impaired, following the store impairment review.  
We tested the NPV models, including comparing the forecasts included 
to the latest 5-year plan approv ed by the Board, and testing the 
underlying calculations. No material exceptions were noted.  
The provision also takes into acco unt management’s best estimate  
as to the timeframe required to exit each loss-making store which  
is clearly judgemental. The provisio n takes into account other factors, 
such as potential property transactions. We assessed these 
judgements, including agreeing to the underlying third party draft 
contracts where appropriate. We considered the judgments taken  
by management to be reasonable based on the evidence provided. 
Supplier rebates 
Refer to Note 1 (Accounting policies).  
The Group receives income from su ppliers in the form of volume 
related rebates.  
Volume related rebates are on e-off deals negotiated at the  
time of order; the rebate negotiated is recorded and checked  
off against the debit note once raised which is deducted against 
the next payment to each supplier. 
At the period end there were no r ebate accruals recognised  
as reductions against accounts payable.  
We focused on this area, because the process of maintaining 
records and calculating rebate income requires significant 
manual input. The scope for human error means there is  
an increased risk of incorrect recognition. 
 On a sample basis that covered a ll types of rebates from a range 
of different suppliers, we agreed the rebate income to the supplier 
confirmations of rebates. In particular we checked whether the rebate 
income had been calculated correctly and recognised in the correct 
period, based on the supporting documents. This testing did not 
identify any material exceptions.  
We tested management’s process for ensuring the existence and 
accuracy of the year end accrued income for supplier rebates. We 
checked, on a sample basis, that rebates were retrospective, related  
to the purchases made within the ye ar and were invoiced in full.  
We also considered whether there were any rebates revoked by the 
supplier or reversed after the year end and tested agreements with the 
largest suppliers. We did not identify any material amounts that were 
not recorded in the correct period. 
Having agreed supplier rebates percentages to the contracts and 
confirmations of rebates from suppliers, we compared movements in 
the value of rebate income by supplier to trends in revenue and gross 
margin and the movement in rebate percentages based on the work 
performed on supporting documentation above. We did not identify  
any unusual trends in the rebate income recognised in the year. 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
92  
Area of focus  How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Valuation of inventory 
Refer to Note 1 (Accounting policies) and Note 14 (Inventories). 
Based on the Group’s accounting policy, inventories are valued  
at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.  
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling prices less  
further costs to be incurred to dispose of the inventory.  
We focused on inventory due to: 
− the magnitude of manual adjustments recorded at the period  
end mainly for price discounts and volume rebates; and 
− the level of judgement involved in the calculation of inventory  
loss and obsolescence provisions. 
 We tested the Directors’ calculations of inventory provisions and 
adjustments, challenged the appropriateness of management’s 
judgements and assumptions.  
In particular, we focused on the following key areas: 
− we agreed price discounts and volume rebate rates to the 
relevant supplier agreements and recalculated the inventory cost 
adjustment. No material misstatements were noted as a result. 
− we compared the book value of inventory at the period end to 
the actual selling prices post period end to identify if inventory 
items had been sold at less than cost. No material 
overstatement of inventory was noted as a result of our work. 
− we assessed any other significant manual adjustment to check 
that inventory is valued appropriately. This testing did not identify 
any material exceptions. 
− we tested the aging of inventory and the shrinkage percentage 
used by management and recalculated the provision based on 
the Group policy. No material exceptions were noted. 
How we tailored the audit scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enou gh work to be able to give an opinion on the financial state ments  
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of th e Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which 
the Group operates.  
The Group is structured across two segments, being the UK and Euro pe, with the majority of trading occurring in the UK segment.  
The Europe segment comprises three reporting units, being Republic of Ireland, Netherlands and Belgium. 
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit we iden tified the UK segment and the Republic of Ireland reporting unit s as 
requiring an audit of their complete financial information, wh ich was performed by the Group audit team. Specified audit procedures  
to address the risk of fraud in revenue recognition, the risk of management override of controls and the risks of material miss tatement  
in valuation of inventory and ca sh balances were performed for the Netherlands reporting unit by another PwC network firm opera ting 
under our instruction. The Group consolidation, financial statemen t disclosure and a number of complex items were audited by th e group 
engagement team at head office. These include testing the onerou s lease provision and impairment testing of goodwill, freehold and long 
leasehold properties and store assets.  
In this respect, we determined the level of involvement we need ed to have in the audit work at the Netherlands reporting unit t o be able to 
conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial stat ements as 
a whole. The procedures described accounted for 96% of the Group revenues. 
Materiality 
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of mate riality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality . These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determin e the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of ou r audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.  
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materi ality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
Overall group materiality £2.0m (2014: £2.0m).
How we determined it Approximately 0.5% of Group revenues.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we have used revenues as a benchmark given the high level of fixed co sts 
in the business and because a small fluctuation in revenu e can result in a significant fluctuation of profit 
before tax. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.1m (2014: £0 .1m) 
as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
  
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
93
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Financial statements continued 
Independent auditors’ report to the members  
of Carpetright plc continued 
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement, set out on page 52, in relation to going concern. W e have 
nothing to report having performed our review. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Dir ectors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements u sing the 
going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to 
remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. 
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be pred icted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s a nd the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial period for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
− information in the Annual Report is:  
− materially inconsistent with the informatio n in the audited financial statements; or 
− apparently materially incorrect based on, or material ly inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group  
and the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or 
− otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from  
this responsibility. 
− the statement given by the Directors on page 51, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to  
be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess  
the Group’s and Company’s performance, business mode l and strategy is materially inconsistent with  
our knowledge of the Group and the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; and 
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from  
this responsibility. 
− the section of the Annual Report on page 28, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the  
Audit Committee. 
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from  
this responsibility. 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
− we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
− adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
− the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Re muneration Report to be audite d are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneratio n specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.  
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s comp liance 
with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.  
 
  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
94  
 
 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsi bilities set out on page 51, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the fina ncial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (U K & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and on ly for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chap ter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibi lity for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it ma y come save where expressly agre ed by 
our prior consent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclo sures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonabl e assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or erro r. This includes an assessmen t of:  
− whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s an d the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently appli ed 
and adequately disclosed;  
− the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and 
− the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these area s by assessing the Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide  
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substant ive 
procedures or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial informat ion in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsiste nt with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
 
Julian Jenkins (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London  
29 June 2015 
 
Financial statements
www.carpetright.plc.uk
95
Shareholder information Directors’ report Strategic report Shareholder information 
Calendar 
2015  
Annual General Meeting 10 September
First-half trading update 27 October
First-half ends 31 October
Interim results announcement 15 December
 
2016  
Q3 interim management statement 26 January
Second-half trading update 26 April
Year ends 30 April
 
Advisers 
 
Financial advisers 
Deutsche Bank AG 
1 Great Winchester Street 
London 
EC2N 2DB 
Solicitors 
Travers Smith LLP 
10 Snow Hill 
London 
EC1A 2AL 
Stockbrokers 
Deutsche Bank AG 
1 Great Winchester Street 
London 
EC2N 2DB 
Peel Hunt 
111 Old Broad Street 
London 
EC2N 1PH 
Independent auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and  
Statutory Auditors 
1 Embankment Place 
London 
WC2N 6RH 
Bankers 
National Westminster Bank plc 
Tooting Branch 
30 Tooting High Street 
London 
SW17 0RG 
Registrars 
Computershare Investor Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol 
BS99 6ZY 
Company secretary and 
registered office 
Jeremy Sampson 
Carpetright plc 
Harris House 
Purfleet Bypass 
Purfleet 
Essex 
RM19 1TT 
Telephone: 01708 802000 
Registered in England & Wales with 
number 2294875 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
96 This Report is printed on Image Indigo 
uncoated paper.
It is produced at a mill that is certified with 
ISO 14001 and EU Ecolabel environmental 
standards. The paper is also Elemental 
Chlorine Free and FSC
®
 Certified.
Printed at Principal Colour Ltd, ISO 14001 
and FSC
®
 certified.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc 
www.blacksunplc.com Harris House
Purfleet Bypass
Purfleet, Essex RM19 1TT
T elephone +44 (0)1708 802000
www.carpetright.co.uk
www.carpetright.plc.uk
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2015
