 CARR’S GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrsgroup.com
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
2015
AGRICULTURE | FOOD | ENGINEERING
DIVERSITY STRENGTHENS PERFORMANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
THE
GROUP
STRATEGIC REPORT
1 Highlights
2 Group at a Glance
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Group Strategy
7 Divisional Highlights
8 Strategy in Action
10 Chief Executive’s Review
15 Risk Management
18 Financial Review
20 Key Performance Indicators
21 The Board
22 Corporate Responsibility
CONTENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
25 Corporate Governance Report
28 Audit Committee Report
30 Remuneration Committee Report
36 Nominations Committee Report
37 Directors’ Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
40 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members  
 of Carr’s Group plc
44 Consolidated Income Statement
45 Consolidated and Company Statements 
 of Comprehensive Income 
46 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
47 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
48 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
49 Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows
50 Principal Accounting Policies
55 Notes to the Financial Statements
92 Five Year Statement
94 Directory of Operations
96 Registered Office and Advisers
CARR’S GROUP PLC IS FOCUSSED ON THE 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF AGRICULTURE, 
FOOD AND ENGINEERING.
Carr’s Group plc is an international 
business operating across 
Agriculture, Food and Engineering, 
supplying over 35 countries around 
the world.
The Agriculture division comprises 
an international feed block 
supplement business with 
manufacturing locations in the 
USA, UK and Europe. In the UK 
the division also sells animal feed, 
fertiliser, animal health products, oil, 
farm machinery and rural supplies 
from its 30 Country Stores.
The Food division produces flour 
from three strategically located mills 
in the UK to the bread, biscuit and 
retail markets.
The Engineering division designs, 
manufactures and supplies 
specialist precision parts, 
equipment, robotics and remote 
handling products from three 
sites in the UK and one site in 
Germany. These highly specialised 
products and services are supplied 
predominately into the nuclear and 
oil and gas markets.  
The Group is listed on the London 
Stock Exchange.
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk 01
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
View this report online
www.carrsgroup.com
FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
2015
HIGHLIGHTS
FURTHER INVESTMENT IN
OUR RETAIL NETWORK
CREATION OF ENGINEERING 
DESIGN DEPARTMENT
EARNINGS PER SHARE**
* restated for IAS 19 Revised
** restated for the effect of the 10:1 share split in January 2015
8.8% UP FROM 2014 
3.7p
DIVIDEND PER SHARE**
3.7p
3.4p
3.2p
2.9p
2.6p
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
4.7% UP FROM 2014
13.4p
5.5% UP FROM 2014
£17.5m
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
4.1% DOWN FROM 2014 
£411.6m
REVENUE
12.8p
13.4p
12.4p
9.8p
7.7p
2014
2015
2013*
2012
2011
£16.6m
£17.5m
£15.4m
£13.1m
£10.0m
2014
2015
2013*
2012
2011
£429.0m
£468.1m
£404.1m
£373.3m
£411.6m
2014
2013
2012
2011
2015
AGRICULTURE DIVISION ACQUISITIONS 02
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP AT A GLANCE:
STRENGTH THROUGH DIVERSITY
AGRICULTURE
OVERVIEW AND MARKETS
FOOD
OVERVIEW AND MARKETS
ENGINEERING
OVERVIEW AND MARKETS
The Agriculture division develops and supplies 
a range of branded innovative animal nutrition 
products into the livestock industries as well  
as servicing the UK farming and rural 
communities through a network of retail stores 
and fuel businesses.
Carr’s develops and manufactures branded 
molasses-based feed supplements, in the  
form of high and low moisture feed blocks, 
which enrich the diet of all types of farm 
animals. 
Operational Locations
The division’s products are manufactured in 
the USA, Germany and the UK, which are sold 
through a vast distributor network across  
the UK, Europe, New Zealand and North 
America. 
Customer Base
Leading livestock farmers across the globe  
in the dairy, beef, sheep, pig and equine sectors.
The Food division supplies bakeries, food 
manufacturers and multiples across the  
UK, using the latest milling technologies  
and sourcing the best wheat either from  
the UK or overseas.
Carr’s works with its customers to meet their 
changing requirements in a constantly changing 
marketplace; developing commercial strategies 
in response to increasingly volatile commodity 
markets.
Operational Locations
The division operates from two strategically 
located dockside sites in the UK, on the coast 
at Silloth in Cumbria and at the state-of-the-art 
site at Kirkcaldy in Fife, as well as a third mill at 
Maldon in Essex.
Customer Base
Food manufacturers and retailers, which use 
bulk and bagged flour as well as ethnic and 
artisanal flour products.
The Engineering division designs and 
manufactures bespoke equipment for use in the 
nuclear, oil and gas, and petrochemical industries. 
Products include manipulators, robotics, 
specialist fabrication and precision machining.
Carr’s is focussed on the design and manufacture 
of pressure vessels and steel fabrications together 
with specialist remote handling technology, 
robotics and radiation protection equipment for 
use in environments inaccessible to humans.
 
Operational Locations
The division is based in a number of key locations 
across the UK and in Germany, distributing to 
clients around the world including Europe, North 
and South America, Russia, Australia, Japan and 
South Africa.
Customer Base
Key players across the worldwide nuclear, 
research, oil and gas, and petrochemical 
industries.
Carr’s is an international group focussed on developing innovative solutions for our global customers. The Group’s 
distribution network spans over 35 countries worldwide, and the geographic and divisional diversity lies at the 
centre of our strategy. The Group consists of three divisions operating in markets that offer growth prospects, 
delivering products and services to the global agri-food and energy sectors. Our diverse geographic and divisional 
exposure provides strength in an increasingly volatile global economic environment.
REVENUE
£297.7m
OPERATING PROFIT
£11.2m
REVENUE
£80.3m
OPERATING PROFIT
£3. 1m
EMPLOYEES TOTAL: 605 EMPLOYEES TOTAL: 169
REVENUE
£33.5m
OPERATING PROFIT
£3.3m
EMPLOYEES TOTAL: 302
435 170 139 30 258 44 03
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JAPAN
SOUTH AFRICA
MAURITIUS
ARGENTINA
NEW ZEALAND
AUSTRALIA
CANADA
SOUTH KOREA
TURKEY
CYPRUS
KAZAKHSTAN
QATAR
UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES
KUWAIT
ICELAND
RUSSIA
CHINA
TAIWAN
INDONESIA
GERMANY
USA
UK
 
FRANCE
BELGIUM
SWITZERLAND
NETHERLANDS
CZECH 
REPUBLIC
POLAND
SWEDEN
NORWAY
AUSTRIA
UK
GERMANY
 
IRELAND 
SPAIN
PORTUGAL
FRANCE
SWITZERLAND
NETHERLANDS
CZECH 
REPUBLIC
SLOVAKIA
POLAND
ESTONIA
FINLAND 
SWEDEN
NORWAY
BELGIUM
ITALY
DENMARK 
AUSTRIA
UK
GERMANY
ROMANIA
SERBIA
HUNGARY
UKRAINE
LITHUANIA
LATVIA
GREECE
INTERNATIONAL
DISTRIBUTION
Our Engineering and Agriculture  
divisions distribute to customers  
all over the world.
UK
LOCATIONS
AGRICULTURE
EUROPEAN DISTRIBUTION
  HEAD OFFICE
  AGRICULTURE
  FOOD
  ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING
EUROPEAN DISTRIBUTION 04
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC DELIVERY 
I am pleased to report that the Group has 
delivered another record year of profit before 
tax. This is particularly encouraging given the 
challenging market backdrop across all three 
of our divisions. Achieving this performance 
is testament to the management team and 
employees of the Group and the Board would like 
to thank everyone involved for their dedication 
and continuing to strive for excellence.
CHRIS HOLMES
CHAIRMAN
“The Group’s diversity, both geographic and 
operational, has driven performance, with another 
year of record profit.”
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
Revenue for the year fell by 4.1% to £411.6 
million (2014: £429.0 million). Profit before 
tax was up 5.5% to £17.5 million (2014: 
£16.6 million). This comprised an 8.8% 
increase in Agriculture profit before tax to 
£10.4 million (2014: £9.6 million), a 6.3% 
increase in Food profit before tax to £2.4 
million (2014: £2.3 million), and a 16.7% 
reduction in Engineering profit before 
tax to £3.1 million (2014: £3.7 million). 
Basic earnings per share were up by 4.7% to 
13.4 pence per share (2014 restated: 12.8 
pence), with fully diluted earnings per share 
of 12.9 pence (2014 restated: 12.3 pence) 
and adjusted earnings per share, excluding 
non-recurring items and amortisation of 
intangibles of 13.6 pence (2014 restated: 
13.1 pence). Net debt decreased slightly to 
£24.4 million (2014: 24.6 million). 05
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In addition, on 10 September 2015 it was 
announced that Robert Heygate had decided 
to stand down from the Board after 25 years’ 
service, with effect from April 2016. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank Bob, for 
his contribution, dedication, enthusiasm, and 
support during his time with Carr’s. 
OUTLOOK
In the year ahead we expect the headwinds 
seen across all three divisions to continue.  
However, we remain confident that the 
Group’s diversity and resilient business model 
positions us well to make further progress 
in 2016. We will continue to build on our 
success and invest for the future across the 
Group, both in the UK and internationally. 
We expect our innovative approach, in 
particular the development of new products, 
to continue to differentiate us from the 
competition and we will remain alert to 
suitable complementary acquisitions. This, 
alongside plans to develop existing businesses 
organically, ensures the Group is well placed 
in the medium term.
CHRIS HOLMES
Chairman
11 November 2015
CHANGE OF NAME
At a General Meeting on 8 April 2015 the 
shareholders approved the change of Company 
name from Carr’s Milling Industries PLC to 
Carr’s Group plc with the change effective on 
9 April 2015.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
As a result of the change of name to Carr’s 
Group plc the Board have reviewed the 
Articles of Association and have asked the 
Company’s solicitor to amend the Articles in 
line with minor regulatory changes and best 
practice. The resolution to adopt the new 
Articles will be proposed at the AGM on 
5 January 2016, and a copy of the Articles 
will be enclosed with the notice of the AGM.
SHARESAVE SCHEME
The Carr’s Milling Industries Sharesave 
Scheme 2006 expires in 2016 so no further 
options may be granted to employees under 
the scheme. Therefore a replacement, Carr’s 
Group Sharesave Scheme 2016, incorporating 
the old scheme and updates necessary for 
changes in legislation, has been drafted and 
a resolution to adopt the replacement scheme 
will be proposed at the AGM on 5 January 
2016. A copy of the main terms of the 
replacement scheme will be enclosed with 
the notice of the AGM. 
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing a 8.8% increase in 
the final dividend to 1.85 pence per ordinary 
share, which together with the two interim 
dividends, each of 0.925 pence per ordinary 
share paid on 15 May and 9 October 2015, 
make a total of 3.7 pence per share for the 
year (2014 restated: 3.4p), representing 
an increase of 8.8%. The final dividend, if 
approved by the Shareholders, will be paid 
on 15 January 2016 to Shareholders on the 
register at close of business on 18 December 
2015, and the shares will go ex-dividend on 
17 December 2015. 
THE BOARD 
During the year, John Worby was appointed as 
a Non-Executive Director of the Board, taking 
over as Senior Independent Director and Audit 
Committee Chairman from Alistair Wannop and 
Robert Heygate respectively. John’s experience 
in FTSE 250 companies Fidessa plc, Genus 
plc, Cranswick plc and Uniq plc, coupled with 
his financial and sector experience, enhances 
the Board’s expertise. Since the year-end the 
Board has been further strengthened with 
the appointment of Non-Executive Director 
Ian Wood, who has extensive experience in 
the engineering and energy sectors, working 
currently for Centrica plc.
In Agriculture, the business continued to build 
on the momentum established in previous 
years, with our retail operations expanding 
into new territories through both acquisitions 
and organic growth. Our geographic presence 
and relevance of our product offering will be 
key to supporting farming customers, given 
the tough market climate they face over the 
forthcoming year.
Our international feedblock business has 
performed well, with a key strength of the 
business being our geographic reach. In 
the UK, lower farm incomes, coupled with 
excellent quality forage, resulted in reduced 
demand. However, in the USA we have seen 
a significant uplift in demand on the back 
of the rebuilding of beef herds together with 
favourable weather conditions. We continue 
to invest heavily in the R&D of these products 
both in the UK and internationally to drive 
future growth.
The Food division has delivered further growth 
despite changes in the consumer market 
having an adverse impact on our customers, 
which is expected to continue into the current 
financial year. Our continuing excellent 
customer service across all three mills ensures 
we are well placed to face these challenges 
and ensure the needs of our customers are 
surpassed.
It has been a tough year for our Engineering 
division, with a combination of the depressed 
oil price and the impact of a complicated 
factory move affecting our precision 
engineering business, Chirton Engineering. 
Additionally, reduced activity in the nuclear 
sector in Japan and economic sanctions with 
Russia impacted Wälischmiller. However, we 
have continued to invest across the division 
in order to build for the future and to benefit 
from the expected increase in demand from 
the UK nuclear sector. 
GOVERNANCE
The Board is mindful of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and takes its responsibilities 
very seriously. It continues to strive to comply 
with all areas of the Code and a full report on 
Corporate Governance can be found on pages 
25 to 27. All Directors will be standing for 
election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
on 5 January 2016.
SHARE SPLIT
The Company’s shares split 10:1 on 14 
January 2015 following shareholder approval. 
This reduced the nominal value of the 
ordinary shares to 2.5 pence each, and was 
undertaken to primarily improve the liquidity 
of the Company’s shares. 06
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
To be recognised as a truly international business  
at the forefront of technology and innovation
Seen and recognised as 
leaders in innovation 
Acquisition strategy for 
growth and joint ventures with 
strategic purpose 
Investment in assets to 
ensure long term competitive 
advantage 
Investing in people that  
will shape the business in 
ten years’ time 
TECHNOLOGY                                                                                                                   INVESTMENT
AGRICULTURE
FOOD ENGINEERING
 ADDED VALUE
PEOPLE
ACQUISITIONS
GROUP
STRATEGY
VISION 07
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BUSINESS
STRATEGIES
DIVISIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
AGRICULTURE FOOD ENGINEERING
TRADING OVERVIEW
•	 Investment at Wälischmiller
•	 Strong performance at Carrs MSM
•	 New specialist design business 
at Bendalls 
•	 BP contract delivery on time
•	 Investment at Chirton
DIVISIONAL PLANS
•	 	 Product research, innovation and 
development
•	 Investment in new products
•	 Exploit growing market sectors
•	 Acquisitions
DELIVERY
•	 	 Wälischmiller – 
Telbot 
Demo 2000
•	 New contract wins
INVESTMENT
£1.7m
including state of the art machinery 
and creation of a specialist design 
department
TRADING OVERVIEW
•	 Retail sales growth
•	 Feed blocks growth
•	 	 Investments – 
Silver Springs (USA) 
Retail store upgrades
•	 Acquisition of Reid & Robertson Ltd
•	 Acquisition of WM. Nicholls & 
Company (Crickhowell) Ltd
DIVISIONAL PLANS
•	 Brand growth
•	 Lead in dairy nutrition
•	 Investment in targeted research
•	 New markets
•	 Strengthen UK position
•	 Acquisitions 
DELIVERY
•	 Research
•	 New plants
•	 New products
•	 New markets
•	 Retail development and expansion
•	 Acquisitions
INVESTMENT
£5.6m
including new branches at Rothbury and 
Selkirk and acquisitions of WM. Nicholls & Co. 
(Crickhowell) Ltd and Reid & Robertson Ltd
TRADING OVERVIEW
•	 Maintaining financial step change
•	 Market dynamics
•	 Volume growth
•	 	 Continued improvement in operational 
efficiencies
•	 Investment in food safety
DIVISIONAL PLANS
•	 Maintain benefits of new mill
•	 Capitalise on market changes
•	 Service excellence
•	 Logistics optimisation
•	 Exploit new areas of market growth
DELIVERY
•	 Step change in financial performance
•	 Baking category and brand
•	 New contracts
INVESTMENT
£1.3m
including state of the art machinery 08
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
The business has four key strategic pillars to drive success and long 
term sustainable value for shareholders in the form of increased 
earnings and dividends.
STRATEGY IN ACTION
KEY ELEMENTS OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL
TECHNOLOGY
Developing new innovative 
products and services will ensure 
long-term sales growth and 
increased market share.
Focussing on innovation and excellent customer 
service has allowed us to lead in key markets.
The Engineering division has built a position 
as quality leader in the nuclear field through 
superior innovative products, reliability and a 
customer orientation. It will continue to lead by 
focussing on its innovation pipeline not only in 
the nuclear market but also in oil and gas.
Bendalls created an equipment design team 
that utilises the latest 3D and analytical 
software. Bendalls has also enhanced its 
project management capability to ensure 
that any commercial risks of the new design 
business are diligently managed. The design 
team will capture a greater breadth of the 
value chain enabling the business to pursue 
broader opportunities. The design capability, 
coupled with the extensive manufacturing 
expertise in Bendalls and Chirton, creates 
client value propositions which will be 
leveraged in nuclear, sub-sea, and oil & gas.
The Demo 2000 project with partners Shell 
& Statoil has concluded with a successful 
site acceptance test. This project was for 
the creation of a robot capable of entering 
an explosive environment for inspection and 
cleaning of gas tanks. The robot, based on 
the Telbot
®
, removes human involvement in 
the inspection and cleaning process. This 
results in significantly less downtime, and, 
importantly, enhanced safety and wellbeing 
of the employees. This robot is the first of its 
kind worldwide.
BENDALLS WÄLISCHMILLER ENGINEERING
INVESTMENT
Carr’s is an international business 
with key production facilities in 
the UK, Germany and the USA. 
To drive operational excellence we invest 
strategically and for the long term across our 
divisions ensuring we operate in attractive 
growing markets across the globe. 
Our aim is to develop market leadership in all 
territories in which we are active. 
In the UK this means a regional strength across 
the North of England and Scotland in our 
flour milling and agricultural retail businesses. 
Globally this has meant expanding the markets 
into which we sell our remote handling 
equipment and feedblocks.
The investment to develop the feed block 
production facility in Silver Springs, Nevada 
is almost complete, with full commissioning 
expected in November. This facility will 
be able to manufacture the branded feed 
block Smartlic
®
 to the highest standard and 
service the needs of customers throughout 
the western states.
The retail division has continued its strategy 
of investment in its Country Store network 
with significant expenditure at Appleby, 
the relocation of Selkirk and the opening 
of Rothbury. The Selkirk Country Store 
showcases a new look of Country Store with 
a particular emphasis on the country dweller 
and equine market, whilst still providing 
a full range of products for the farmer 
customer.
USA UK 09
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ACQUISITIONS
PEOPLE
During the year Carr’s has created an 
apprentice exchange programme, which will 
commence in the winter of 2015 and will 
operate in the Carrs Engineering division. 
The programme will allow selected apprentices 
to visit and work at Wälischmiller, Bendalls, 
and Chirton, gaining insight into the different 
areas within these multifaceted businesses.
This initiative has been developed and led 
by Claudia Reich, the Managing Director of 
Wälischmiller, located in Germany. It will 
provide a great opportunity for the apprentices 
to broaden their knowledge of our Engineering 
division and its operational capability whilst 
building confidence and cultural diversity. 
This is an exciting investment in our future 
talent pipeline, and one which will improve the 
capability and integration of our Engineering 
division.
FUTURE PIPELINE
Carr’s has been particularly successful at 
identification, acquisition, and integration of 
owner managed businesses, which enhance 
the existing Agriculture division. The Group 
will continue with this focus in the short and 
medium term.
2015 
•	 Green (Agriculture) Co based in Morpeth, 
expanding the retail customer base (after 
year end);
•	 Reid 	 & 	 Robertson 	 Ltd 	 in 	 Balloch, 	 A yr 	 and 	 Oban;
•	 WM.	Nicholls	&	Company	(Crickhowell)	
Ltd based in Crickhowell, Wales, 
complementing the acquisition of B E 
Williams Ltd in 2014, and consolidating 
our feed business in South Wales.
The Group has continued to strengthen its UK Agriculture business 
with three value added acquisitions.
Reid & Robertson Ltd
Based in Balloch, Ayr and Oban, Reid 
& Robertson significantly extends the 
geographic reach of the retail business, 
providing a strong presence in Western 
Scotland. Reid & Robertson is an agriculture 
supplier with over 100 years’ history, 
specialising in animal health preparations.
The synergies between the experience and 
expertise of the Reid & Robertson business, 
and the broader product offering of our 
existing retail network, will deliver improved 
financial performance this year. 10
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
During the year we have continued to build 
on our vision to be recognised as a truly 
international business at the forefront of 
innovation and technology across Agriculture, 
Food and Engineering. 
Our strategy remains centred around four key 
pillars:
•  investing in our people, who are vital to the 
long term success of the business;
• investing in our asset base, to ensure we 
retain our competitive advantage;
• driving product innovation across each of our 
divisions;
• delivering growth through acquisitions and 
organic expansion.
These strategic pillars are at the heart of each 
of our divisions and their implementation has 
ensured we have once again delivered another 
record year of profit growth for the Group.
Our investment in the business has continued 
to be a priority. Major projects commenced and 
completed in the year include:
•  $2.3m redevelopment of a feed block facility 
at Silver Springs, Nevada, USA;
•  £0.2m on redevelopment of the Country Store 
network; 
– Rothbury 
– Selkirk 
– Appleby
TIM DAVIES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
•  £0.3m on land acquired at Morpeth adjacent 
to our existing machinery Country Store;
•  £1.0m Acquisition of WM Nicholls & 
Company (Crickhowell) Ltd completed in 
October 2014;
•  £0.9m Acquisition of Reid and Robertson Ltd 
completed in June 2015;
•  £0.3m Acquisition of Green (Agriculture) Co 
completed September 2015;
•  £0.7m new factory for Chirton completed in 
March 2015;
•  £0.3m on new equipment to further enhance 
food safety for Carr’s Flour Mills.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX BY SECTOR
AGRICULTURE 
£10.4m
FOOD 
£2.4m
ENGINEERING 
£3. 1m
8.8% UP
FROM 2014
6.3% UP
FROM 2014
16.7% DOWN
FROM 2014
“The Group has delivered another record 
performance, driven by operational and geographic 
diversity, despite headwinds in all divisions” 11
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The geographic spread and operational 
diversity of our businesses within the 
Agriculture division led to another record year. 
FEED BLOCKS
Feed block sales in the USA have been 
exceptional this year with sales volumes, 
excluding joint ventures, 19.9% higher. 
Record production levels have been driven by 
favourable market and weather conditions. 
The drought in the South East, Mid-West 
and North West States continues to recede, 
resulting in beef herds being rebuilt across 
our key territories. The investment at the plant 
in Silver Springs, Nevada, has been on-going 
and remains on track to begin production of 
our branded product, Smartlic
®
, in November 
2015. This plant expands our geographic reach 
in the USA by supplying low moisture feed 
blocks to the West Coast dairy and beef market.
There has been positive initial reaction to the 
launch in the summer of our innovative new 
product Piglyx
®
, which is an environmental 
enrichment product reducing stress levels in 
pigs, enabling the farmers to increase their 
returns. In the summer, Horslyx
®
 a product for 
the equine leisure market, was exported to the 
USA for the first time, and resultant revenues 
are expected in the current financial year. 
We have continued with our strategy of 
research and development to ensure we deliver 
sustainable growth. A research project into our 
unique feedblock, Megastart
®
, completed this 
year, has demonstrated significant benefits 
to livestock, which has led to a substantial 
increase in sales of Megastart
®
 during the year. 
Crystalyx
®
 has seen a decline in UK sales this 
year as a result of high quality forage harvested 
Profit before tax for the year increased by 8.8% 
to £10.4 million (2014: £9.6 million) on revenue 
down by 5.5% to £297.7 million (2014: £314.9 
million) due to falling commodity prices. Profit 
before tax for the year, including contributions from 
associate and joint ventures, increased by 5.5% to 
£12.7 million (2014: £12.1 million)
AGRICULTURE
8.8% UP FROM 2014 
£10.4m
PROFIT
£10.4m
£9.6m
£8.8m
2015
2014
2013 12
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW 
CONTINUED
local community. With organic growth and 
acquisitions, we now have 30 Country Stores in 
our network with a further 5 livestock market 
locations.
Our integrated oil distribution business has also 
surpassed expectations this year with increased 
sales of 4.4%, despite the benign weather and 
increased competition. This is due to investment 
in our fleet, increased presence across our 
regions, and our emphasis on customer service.
The acquisition of WM. Nicholls & Company 
(Crickhowell) Ltd in October 2014 together with 
the previous year’s acquisition of B E Williams 
Ltd further developed our strategy for our feed 
business in South Wales. 
We have combined these businesses into a 
central administration location in Brecon, whilst 
maintaining a presence in Sennybridge in the 
short term. The UK feed market is currently 
suffering from pricing pressure due to falling 
farm incomes, and the impact of increased 
manufacturing activity in our geographic 
markets has intensified competition. Despite 
this, our feed business performed well with total 
feed volumes up 4.1% year on year.
While we remain cognisant of the uncertainty 
facing the UK agriculture sector, we believe 
that our strong regional presence, technical 
expertise, and diverse product offering provides 
a solid platform to service our customers’ needs 
through the next financial year and beyond.
during 2014, and declining farm incomes. We 
continue our commitment to our international 
growth strategy with Crystalyx
®
, and have 
employed personnel in Brazil to develop this 
potential market. On-farm trials of Crystalyx
®
 are 
due to commence in Brazil by the end of 2015.
RETAIL
The strategy for growing our retail business 
delivered results exceeding expectations, 
with sales 8.6% higher year on year, a third 
consecutive record year. Like for like sales, 
excluding the impact of additional stores also 
increased by 5.3%. Our presence in strategic 
locations, coupled with the diverse retail 
offering, further strengthened our business. 
With a new Country Store at Rothbury, and 
redeveloped facilities in Appleby, Wigton, and 
Selkirk, we continue our commitment to, and 
investment in, servicing both the agricultural 
and rural communities. In addition to organic 
growth, in June 2015 we undertook the 
strategic acquisition of Reid and Robertson 
Ltd, an agricultural merchant business  
specialising in veterinary medicines, based 
at Balloch, Ayr, and Oban in Scotland. This 
expands our geographic reach in Scotland, 
and provides access to a new customer base 
for our existing product offering. Since the 
year-end we have acquired Green (Agriculture) 
Co., an agricultural merchant business based 
in Morpeth, near our existing machinery 
Country Store. This acquisition strengthens 
the Country Store network in Northumberland 
and enhances the services offered to the 
AminoMax
®
AminoMax
®
, the patented animal bypass 
protein product for dairy cows, manufactured 
at Watertown, New York State, USA, and 
Lancaster, UK recorded flat worldwide sales 
this year, predominantly as a result of the fall 
in farm incomes due to the declining farm-
gate milk price. The falling soya and canola 
commodity prices, and continuing pressures 
on farm incomes, are expected to have an 
adverse impact on AminoMax
®
 sales in the 
forthcoming year. However, we are continuing 
with research and development to extend this 
innovative product range.
Market Conditions
Farmer confidence has been adversely affected 
this year and it is anticipated this will continue 
in the medium term, as a direct result of the 
significant decline in the farm-gate milk price, 
both in the UK and internationally. Many of 
our farming customers are starting to modify 
their spending in reaction to the ongoing 
uncertainty in the UK agriculture market, and 
are postponing sizable capital investments 
until they have further market visibility. Once 
again, UK farmers benefited from a mild 
winter and benign spring, resulting in lower 
costs of production, which provided some 
respite from market conditions. We continue to 
support our farming customers in choosing the 
appropriate strategy to enable them to navigate 
a path through these difficult markets. 13
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
commercial benefits derived from increased 
customer confidence in our ability to produce 
quality flour, milled to the highest standards of 
product integrity.
The wheat harvest in summer 2014 was relatively 
normal at just over 16 million tonnes, however 
there were inconsistencies in quality. Our 
versatility with regard to wheat sourcing and mill 
processing meant that we were well positioned to 
respond to the changing market dynamics. The 
2015 harvest has been large and consistent in 
quality and the position of our three mills enables 
us to benefit from this exceptional harvest. 
We have enjoyed strong growth in the Food 
division this year with sales volumes 4.6% 
higher than last year. Through the year our 
reputation for customer service, quality and 
technical expertise has resulted in important 
new business wins. The growth in the division’s 
sales volumes follows last year’s step change 
in operating performance, which was driven by 
the commissioning of our state of the art mill 
at Kirkcaldy. We have continued our investment 
programme with the installation of cutting edge 
equipment at our other mills, which ensures we 
remain ahead of our customers’ ever-increasing 
demands, particularly in the need for food 
safety. The ongoing investment supports the 
Changes in the retail landscape and consumers’ 
shopping habits are impacting the whole food 
supply chain, including the bakery sector. 
In the current financial year, ending August 
2016, it is anticipated that these headwinds 
will persist. This challenging backdrop will in 
part be off-set by our investment in technology, 
high standards of customer service, and our 
on-going commitment to operational efficiencies 
throughout our three mills which, over the 
medium term, leaves us well placed to handle 
these changing markets. 
Profit before tax for the year increased 6.3% from 
£2.3 million to £2.4 million in this financial year 
on revenue down by 7.8% to £80.3 million (2014: 
£87.1 million) driven by falling commodity prices
FOOD
6.3% UP FROM 2014 
£2.4m
PROFIT
£2.4m
£2.3m
£0.6m
2015
2014
2013 14
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
2015
2014
2013
macro-economic pressure resulting from the 
funding and political issues faced in Russia 
and Japan, which is expected to continue 
through 2016. There are signs of increased 
activity in the UK nuclear market, with delivery 
of two power manipulators to Dounreay, 
Scotland expected by the end of 2015, and 
the successful completion of a remote handling 
project for Sellafield, with further orders through 
to 2017 being received after the year-end.
Bendalls, one of our two manufacturing 
businesses, is also benefiting from the increased 
activity in the UK nuclear market with multiple 
new framework agreements being awarded by 
Sellafield, operational through 2016-2019. We 
invested in the organic growth of the business 
through the creation of a new design department 
in 2015, which has been awarded its first 
contract from Sellafield for the design of a skip 
conveyor system. The BP Shah Deniz project, 
for the manufacture of 33 pressure vessels 
for the gas pipeline in Azerbaijan, has been 
successfully delivered in accordance with the 
agreed timeline, with one vessel to be delivered 
in spring 2016, as previously announced.
Chirton has had a difficult trading year due to 
the decline in the oil price and the impact of 
a complicated move to new factory premises 
in March 2015. The delay in moving to the 
new factory caused a greater level of disruption 
than expected, and issues commissioning new 
equipment resulted in extra costs and more 
lost production time than planned. This has 
adversely affected results in the short term. 
The low oil price has had a direct impact on 
Chirton’s oil exploration customers, and as a 
result management have taken the decision 
to accelerate Chirton’s entry into the nuclear 
2015 has been a year in which we have 
invested in the future growth of our 
Engineering division. Our Engineering business 
operates in high value markets and within 
two distinct areas, manufacturing and remote 
handling. During the year there has been 
increased collaboration throughout the division 
with joint bids being submitted and parts 
being manufactured internally for the remote 
handling businesses. 
Our remote handling businesses have met 
expectations in this difficult market, and 
performed well this year. In particular, Carrs 
MSM has had an excellent year, and this 
is expected to continue with Life of Plant 
contract and other significant contracts to the 
nuclear sector being delivered in the current 
financial year. 
Wälischmiller had a successful site acceptance 
test for the Demo 2000 Telbot
®
 project in 
Norway. This project removes the need for 
human inspection of oil and gas tanks and 
improving safety reducing the time needed to 
shut down the plant by up to 700 man hours 
per tank. In addition, operating within a UK 
led engineering consortium, Wälischmiller 
has also been awarded a contract for the 
design and supply of robotic remote handling 
equipment for ITER with potential sales due 
for delivery between 2017 and 2020. ITER is 
the international collaboration for the creation 
of an experimental fusion reactor based in 
France. 
Wälischmiller has also invested in state of 
the art machinery, development of a new 
showroom, and a marketing programme in 
the USA. This will help offset the continuing 
market. To facilitate this, it is working closely 
with our other Engineering businesses, taking 
advantage of the sector expertise, to ensure 
that cross selling opportunities are maximised. 
During the year, Chirton commenced selling 
engineered parts for our remote handling 
operations, and this is set to continue through 
the next financial year.
TIM DAVIES
Chief Executive Officer
11 November 2015
Profit before tax for the year fell by 16.7% to 
£3.1 million (2014: £3.7 million) on revenue up by 
24.8% to £33.5 million (2014: £26.9 million)
ENGINEERING
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW 
CONTINUED
16.7% DOWN FROM 2014 
£3. 1m
PROFIT
£3.1m
£3.7m
£4.2m 15
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
RISK
MANAGEMENT
OUR RISK APPETITE AND APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT
Our success as a Group depends on the ability to identify and maximise the opportunities generated by our 
businesses and the markets in which we operate. In doing so, we continue to develop an embedded approach to 
risk management which puts risk and opportunity assessment at the heart of our strategy.
KEY RISKS
DESCRIPTION OF THE RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK
Safety
The safety of our employees, contractors and suppliers and 
the communities in which we operate is paramount. We must 
operate within local laws, regulations, rules, and ordinances 
relating to health, safety, and the environment, including 
emissions. 
We have Health and Safety policies that apply to all facilities, with dedicated 
staff to ensure they are embedded within our culture and regularly measured 
and assessed. This includes an annual compliance programme, which reports 
monthly to the Executive Directors, highlighting any issues that require action, 
including training needs. Regular training in this area is also provided to key 
personnel in the Group’s locations.
Business Continuity
The operation of manufacturing plants involves many risks that 
could cause a temporary or permanent stoppage in production 
and could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
The Group has Business Continuity arrangements in place to enable continuity 
of supply, as quickly as practicable, of product to customers in the event of a 
natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure. A programme of insurance 
is also in place to protect against the cost of major business interruptions.
People
Performance, knowledge, and skills of employees are central to 
the success of the Group. We must attract, integrate, and retain 
the talent required to fulfil our strategic growth ambitions. 
Inability to retain key knowledge, and adequately plan for 
succession could have a negative impact on the Group’s 
performance.
The Group has remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and reward 
employees with the ability and experience to execute the Group’s strategy.
Management development programmes are in place, alongside detailed 
succession planning across the Group. Succession plans for senior roles are 
reviewed by the Nominations Committee annually.
The Group adopts a risk profile aligned to our 
vision to be recognised as a truly international 
business at the forefront of technology and 
innovation. Our available capital and resources 
are applied to underpin our four strategic pillars: 
people, investment, innovation, and growth 
through acquisition and organically.
Our approach to risk management is designed 
to provide reasonable assurance that our assets 
are safeguarded. The risks facing the business 
are assessed and, where possible, mitigated. All 
relevant information is reported to and reviewed 
by the Board.
ORGANISATION AND PROCESS
The Board assumes overall responsibility for 
the management of risk and for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems.
The Board has established a clear organisational 
structure with well-defined accountabilities for 
the principal risks the Group faces in the short, 
medium, and long term, across all divisions. 
This is overseen by the Executive Directors, 
who have an active responsibility for focusing 
on the principal areas of risk to the Group. 
The Board reviews these risk areas, including 
consideration of environmental, social, and 
governance matters, and retains responsibility 
for determining the nature and extent of the 
risks that the Group is prepared to undertake. 
The Group operates a risk management 
framework whereby for each of our principal 
risks we detail our assessment of the risk, the 
controls we have in place, who is responsible 
for managing the risk, as well as any 
further mitigating actions required. Further 
development work on the risk management 
framework and system is planned for 2015/16. 
This will further strengthen risk management 
and will lead to an overall increase in the 
amount of time the Board allocates to the 
discussion of risk.
BOARD’S ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH 
THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORKS
The Board, advised by the Audit Committee, 
review the effectiveness of the company’s risk 
management and internal control systems at 
least annually. Details of the activities of the 
Audit Committee in relation to this can be found 
in the Audit Committee Report on pages 28 to 
29. There is a more regular discussion of risks 
affecting the business as and when required at 
each Board meeting. 
PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS
Our business is subject to a variety of risks and 
uncertainties. On the following pages we have 
identified the risks we regard as most relevant to 
our Group and performance at this time. These 
may change as the Group develops over the 
year. We have commented on mitigating actions 
that we believe help us manage these risks. 
However, we may not be successful in deploying 
some or all of these mitigating actions. If 
the circumstances in these risks occur or are 
not successfully mitigated, our cash flow, 
operating results, financial position, business 
and reputation could be materially adversely 
affected. 16
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
DESCRIPTION OF THE RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK
Commodity Costs
Margins may be affected by fluctuations in crop prices due to factors 
such as harvest and weather conditions, crop disease, crop yields, 
alternative crops, and by-product values.
In some cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales contracts, or due 
to competitive markets, we may not be able to pass on to customers 
the full amount of raw material price increases or higher energy, 
freight or other operating costs.
The Group has a number of strategies in place to manage this risk. 
These include:
• 	 strategic 	 long 	 term 	 relationships 	 with 	 suppliers;
• 	 multiple-source 	 suppliers 	 for 	 key 	 ingredients;
• 		 raw 	 material 	 and 	 forward 	 energy 	 purchasing 	 policies 	 to 	 provide 	 security	
of supply and cost;
• 		 the 	 use 	 of 	 derivatives 	 where 	 most 	 beneficial 	 to 	 hedge 	 exposure 	 to	
movements in future prices of commodities; and
• 		 close 	 monitoring 	 of 	 contract 	 execution 	 to 	 ensure 	 supply 	 is 	 within	
agreed terms.
Product Innovation Risk
Our commercial success depends, in part, on innovation and then 
obtaining and maintaining trademark and patent protection on 
certain products and technology.
Failure to innovate could have an adverse effect on our business. We 
must also successfully defend trademarks and patents against third-
party challenges or infringements.
The Group invests heavily in research and development to innovate 
across its businesses. For new innovations, there is an organised and 
secure process for identifying and recording innovations, trade secrets, 
and potentially patentable ideas.
The Group has an in-house Legal Counsel to monitor and oversee 
this risk, supported by expert intellectual property lawyers in multiple 
jurisdictions.
Strategic Partners
The Group has a number of strategic partners, particularly in the 
Agriculture division, who are involved either as joint venture partners 
or significant minority shareholders. A successful working relationship 
with these partners in paramount to those businesses’ success.
Close working relationships are maintained with all the Group’s strategic 
partners. This includes regular meetings, both formally and informally, 
and close involvement in the setting and monitoring of strategy for those 
businesses. In addition, arrangements are appropriately documented in 
contracts and legal agreements.
Treasury
We are exposed to a variety of financial risks in relation to treasury.
The Group must ensure that it has an adequate level of facilities to 
provide sufficient funding to operate its businesses and to develop 
growth opportunities.
Changes to the value of currencies can fluctuate widely and could 
have a significant impact on a division’s results. Furthermore, 
because the Group has international businesses it is subject to 
exchange risks in the translation of the underlying net assets and 
earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
 
The level of facilities are regularly reviewed by the Group Finance 
Director, and these are also regularly reported to and discussed by the 
Board.
The Group operates a treasury policy of hedging all significant 
transactional currency exposures. Additionally, translational hedging 
instruments are used to limit the potential impact of fluctuating 
currencies on reported earnings from foreign subsidiaries.
For interest rate risk on floating rate debt, we maintain a mix of fixed 
rate debt, primarily finance lease, and floating rate debt. These levels are 
monitored and assessed against forecast changes in interest rates and 
forward guidance from interest rate setting authorities.
Non-compliance with Legislation and Regulation
The Group operates in diverse markets and therefore is exposed to 
a range of constantly changing legislation and regulation. We must 
comply with, and understand, all regulation and legislation, and be 
able to make correct interpretations for our diverse Group. Any breach 
could have a financial impact and damage our reputation.
The Group is committed to complying with the laws and regulations of 
the countries in which we operate.
In-house Legal Counsel provides immediate legal knowledge and 
understanding to the Board and management, and this is supplemented 
by external legal advisers assisting with monitoring external changes in 
legislation and advising accordingly.
We have a tax risk framework, including a tax strategy and code of 
conduct, which sets out our approach to managing global tax risks.
The Group also maintains policies in areas such as antitrust, money 
laundering and bribery laws. A whistleblowing policy and procedure is 
also in place.
RISK
MANAGEMENT 
CONTINUED 17
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DESCRIPTION OF THE RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK
Acquisitions
The Group is acquisitive and is therefore exposed to the possibility 
of acquiring a company based on inaccurate information, unrealistic 
synergies and financial benefits, and inappropriate deal structure. 
Failure to effectively integrate acquired businesses could also 
undermine any expected synergies.
A thorough and careful due diligence process is undertaken, utilising 
relevant skilled internal personnel, as well as external expertise when 
required. Individual businesses and Group resources are used to analyse 
potential synergies and financial benefits. Consideration is given to 
the composition and skills of the management team of the acquired 
company and support and relevant training is provided by Group 
personnel to ensure a successful integration. The deal structure is 
reviewed on a case by case basis. 
Post-acquisition reviews are also undertaken to identify any areas for 
improvement in future transactions.
Customer Demand
Changes in customer demand, be that retail or commercial 
customers, caused by economic factors could result in a fall in 
demand for the Group’s product offering, resulting in a significant 
loss of revenue. 
The Group operates in diverse worldwide markets, which provide 
resilience for the Group against difficulties faced by any one market 
or economy. The businesses are managed flexibly to react to changing 
demands in their own sector.
Reliance on Key Customers
Some businesses within the Group have a significant proportion 
of their revenue generated from a small number of key customers. 
A loss of a number of these customers could adversely affect the 
performance of a division and in turn the Group. 
The businesses have established good long term relationships with key 
customers to ensure that demands and expectations are met. The Group 
is constantly investing in its businesses to ensure that they are able to 
satisfy customer needs and are market leaders. 
The Group is continually working on identifying new markets, products, 
and opportunities to expand the customer base of all its businesses. 
Political Instability 
Disruption to business activity as a result of political instability in one 
of our key markets, particularly in our Engineering business, could 
impact sales into that market. 
The wide geographic spread of the Group’s operations and customer 
base diminishes the impact of any one market on the results of the 
Group as a whole.
Reliance on Key Ingredients
Our feed block business relies on a key ingredient of molasses. 
Should there be volatility in the molasses market or should a crop 
disaster result in little to no global harvest it could adversely affect 
the Group’s performance.
Our feed block businesses acquire molasses from a variety of sources 
worldwide and therefore there is no over reliance on any one producer. 
The molasses market is international and therefore it is unlikely that 
molasses could not be sourced from an alternative location should any 
one harvest be adversely impacted by a natural disaster. In addition, 
research is underway to establish alternative ingredients to molasses.
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme
The Group operates one active defined benefit pension scheme. The 
funding of the scheme could be adversely affected by a number of 
factors including: investment returns, interest rate fluctuations, and 
members’ longevity. Changes in all or some of these inputs could 
increase the cost to the Group of funding this scheme in the future.
The scheme closed to new members in 2001. The Group has made 
significant contributions to the deficit over a number of years and the 
Group and the Trustees monitor the performance regularly and take 
investment and actuarial advice when required. In addition, the Group is 
currently consulting with affected employees and the Trustees to cease 
future accrual in the scheme from 31 December 2015. 18
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
NEIL AUSTIN
GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
“The key features of the year have been the record 
profit before tax for the Group, for another successive 
year, and continued capital investment across all 
three divisions.”
FINANCIAL
REVIEW
CURRENT AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE
REVENUE
Reported revenues were £411.6m, down 4.1% 
behind last year (2014: £429.0m). 
Revenues have fallen primarily as a result of 
lower raw material prices, which because of 
the nature of some of our contracts can directly 
affect sales values. 
OPERATING PROFIT
Group operating profit of £16.4m is up 6.1% 
on last year (2014: £15.4m). As a percentage 
of revenues, Group operating margin is 4.0% 
compared to 3.6% in 2014. 
Operating profits per division and as a 
percentage of divisional revenues are as follows:
SHARE OF ASSOCIATE AND JVS
The Group’s share of the post-tax result in 
its associate and joint ventures was £2.3m, 
compared to £2.5m in 2014. The result 
reflected a slight decrease in its associate’s 
profitability, together with a slight decrease 
in the European feed block and USA feed 
supplement joint ventures driven by the market 
issues in the dairy sector.
FINANCE COSTS
Net finance costs of £1.2m (2014: £1.4m) 
were lower than the previous year. This reflected 
lower average borrowings during the year as 
a result of lower working capital and debt 
repayments. Interest cover was 15.4 times 
compared to 13.2 times in 2014.
Operating Profit
2015
£m
2015
%
2014
£m
2014
%
Agriculture
Food
Engineering
11.2
3.1
3.3
3.8
3.9
9.7
10.4
3.1
3.8
3.3
3.5
14.2 19
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Profit before tax at £17.5m was 5.5% higher 
than in the previous year (2014: £16.6m).
TAXATION
The Group’s effective tax charge on profit from 
activities after net finance costs and excluding 
profits from associate and joint ventures was 
24.9% (2014: 26.0%). A reconciliation of the 
actual total tax charge to the standard rate of 
corporation tax in the UK of 20.58% is given 
in note 6 to the financial statements.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The profit attributable to the equity holders of 
the Company amounted to £12.0m (2014: 
£11.4m), and basic earnings per share was 
13.4p (2014 restated: 12.8p), an increase 
of 4.7%.
Adjusted earnings per share of 13.6p  
(2014 restated: 13.1p), is calculated by 
dividing the profit attributable to equity holders 
for the period, before non-recurring items 
and amortisation of intangible assets, by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue 
during the period. 
ACQUISITIONS
On 20 October 2014 the Group acquired the 
entire issued share capital of WM. Nicholls & 
Company (Crickhowell) Limited, an agricultural 
merchant, for a net cash consideration of  
£1.0 million.
On 12 June 2015, the entire issued share 
capital of Reid and Robertson Limited, also 
an agricultural merchant, was acquired by the 
Group. The cash consideration was £0.9 million.
Both of these acquisitions combined generated 
goodwill of £1.1 million.
CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT
Our net debt has decreased slightly over the 
year, due to cash generated from operating 
activities exceeding cash spend on acquisitions 
and capital expenditure.
A free cash flow of £7.6 million was generated 
in the year, representing a decrease of 31.2% 
on the previous year. 
During the year loans in our Agriculture division 
were consolidated with RBS and an additional 
£2.0m revolving credit facility provided for 
ongoing acquisition activity.
Headroom against existing facilities was 
£19.0m at the year end. Other than the Group’s 
overdraft, which is renewable annually, the 
majority of the Group’s existing facilities are due 
for renewal in June 2019. An additional £5.0 
million of facilities was agreed after the year.
PENSIONS
The Group operates its current pension 
arrangements on a defined benefit and defined 
contribution basis. The defined benefit section 
is closed to new members and has 40 active 
members, 80 deferred members and 227 
current pensioners. The scheme received 
£2.3 million during the year in additional 
contributions from the Group in accordance with 
the 2011 actuarial valuation as agreed between 
the Company and the Trustees. 
The triennial actuarial valuation as at  
31 December 2014 was undertaken in the year 
and the results showed that the agreed recovery 
plan was on target and, all else being equal, 
recovery payments would not be required after 
31 December 2015.
The valuation on an IAS 19 accounting basis 
showed a surplus before the related deferred 
tax liability in the scheme at 29 August 2015 
of £1.8m (2014: £2.1m). Actuarial losses 
of £2.8m (2014: gains of £3.2m) have been 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
The Group and the Trustees continue to work 
together to introduce ways of de-risking the 
defined benefit scheme to provide less volatility 
in the scheme’s assets and liabilities in the 
future. Several initiatives were introduced during 
the year.
NEIL AUSTIN
Group Finance Director
11 November 2015
Cash flow and net debt
£’000
Operating profit
Depreciation and profit on disposal
Amortisation
EBITDA (excluding associate and joint ventures)
Increase in inventories
Decrease in receivables
Decrease in payables
Other
Net operating cash flow
Net interest
Taxation
Cash flow from operations
Maintenance capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds
Free cash flow
Expansionary capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds
Acquisitions
Dividends
Loans and finance leases received/paid
Other
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents
Opening cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
Opening net debt
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents
Net decrease in borrowings
Closing net debt
16,375
5,053
208
21,636
(967)
320
(3,237)
(2,625)
15,127
(1,186)
(3,965)
9,976
(2,350)
7,626
(3,158)
(1,749)
(3,110)
(2,352)
1,993
(750)
17,025
16,275
24,609
750
(946)
24,413 20
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
2015 £7.6m
2014 £11.1m
2013 - £1.8m
KEY PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS
We monitor our performance against the strategy by means of key performance indicators (‘KPIs’):
* restated for IAS 19 Revised
2015 2015 2015 2015 4.0% 13.3% (4.4)% 17.9%
2014 2014 2014 2014 3.7% 11.7% (8.9)% 18.8%
2013* 2013* 2013* 2013 2.9% 10.4% 14.6% 19.7%
(4.4)%
Comments 
Revenues are monitored by the Board, although because of 
the nature of our businesses it is not, by itself, an indicator 
of performance. Our volume driven businesses are all subject 
to significant raw material price variations, the majority of 
which are passed through to selling prices. Hence falling raw 
material prices are expected to lead to falling revenues.  
Definition 
Year on year increase/
(decrease) in sales 
revenue excluding the 
impact of acquisitions 
and disposals.
UNDERLYING SALES GROWTH/DECLINE
13.3%
Comments 
Gross margin is a reflection on how successfully we have 
managed raw material price volatility in our markets, together 
with how successful we have been in pricing in other areas 
of our business in competitive markets. Our gross margin 
grew to 13.3% in the current year, which highlights how we 
continue to manage input price volatility.
Definition 
Gross profit as a 
percentage of sales 
revenue.
GROSS MARGIN
4.0%
Comments 
The adjusted Group operating margin reflects the gross 
margin achieved, which is described above, but also indicates 
the efficiency of our operations from both an administrative 
and distribution perspective. The growth in margin to 4.0% 
relates to both of these aspects.
Definition 
Operating profit before 
non-recurring items 
and amortisation, as a 
percentage of revenue.
ADJUSTED GROUP OPERATING MARGIN
£7.6m
Comments 
This KPI indicates how much cash is available for the 
Group to utilise for expansionary capital investment, paying 
dividends, or financing/repaying borrowings. The reduction 
in the year is predominantly due to working capital changes 
across the business.
Definition 
Cash generated from 
operating activities, 
less maintenance 
capital expenditure.
FREE CASH FLOW
17.9%
Comments
Return on net assets reduced slightly by 0.9% this year. 
The Group’s asset base continues to increase reflecting the 
investment made in facilities and infrastructure, for the long 
term.
Definition
Profit before tax, 
non-recurring items 
and amortisation as 
a percentage of net 
assets.
RETURN ON NET ASSETS
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19
Financial Review  
Pages 18 to 19 21
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
THE
BOARD
1 TIM DAVIES 
Chief Executive Officer
Tim joined Carr’s in March 2013 as Chief Executive. Tim was formerly 
the Group Managing Director at Openfield. Prior to this, he progressed 
from Sales Director to Managing Director of Grainfarmers plc in 2005. 
He subsequently led the successful merger of Grainfarmers plc and 
Centaur Grain Ltd in 2008, forming Openfield, the largest farmer-owned 
grain marketing business in the UK. Tim continued in his role as Group 
Managing Director until 2013. He has been a Director of the Agricultural 
Industries Confederation since 2003.
2
 NEIL AUSTIN
Group Finance Director
Neil joined Carr’s in January 2013 and became Group Finance Director 
in April 2013. Neil was formerly a Director at PwC, having joined as 
a graduate in their Newcastle office in 1997. He was appointed as a 
Director of the Newcastle office in 2007 with lead responsibility for part 
of the Assurance practice, and has experience with FTSE 350 companies 
and multi-nationals.
3
 CHRIS HOLMES
Board Chairman
Nominations Committee Chairman
Chris joined Carr’s in 1991 as the Managing Director of the Agriculture 
business, having previously worked for J Bibby & Sons. Chris was 
appointed Chief Executive in 1994, and remained in that role until he was 
appointed Chairman in 2013. He commenced as Chairman of Carlisle 
Youth Zone in 2013 and is a Non-Executive Director of Break 90 Limited. 
4
 ROBERT HEYGATE
Non-Executive Director
Robert joined Carr’s as a Non-Executive Director in 1991. He is the 
joint Managing Director of Heygate & Sons Ltd, the UK’s largest 
independent flour milling company, which is also engaged in animal feed 
compounding and other agricultural activities.
5
 ALISTAIR WANNOP
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Alistair was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2005. Alistair has been 
the Chairman of both the County NFU and the MAFF northern regional 
advisory panel. He has served as a Director of The English Farming and 
Food Partnership, Rural Regeneration Cumbria, and Cumbria Vision. 
Alistair is a fellow of the Royal Agricultural Society of England.
6
 JOHN WORBY
Senior Independent Director
Audit Committee Chairman
John was appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2015. John is 
currently a Non-Executive Director of Fidessa plc and Senior Independent 
Director of Connect Group plc. John was previously the Finance Director of 
Genus and a Non-Executive Director of Cranswick plc. John is a chartered 
accountant and a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
7
 IAN WOOD
Non-Executive Director
Ian was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. He is the Commercial 
Director, International Business Development in Centrica (previously British 
Gas) and has held a number of positions with the Company, covering 
various aspects of the business including engineering, customer services, 
industrial and commercial marketing, and energy trading within the UK, 
Continental Europe and North America.
8
 KATIE SINCLAIR
Company Secretary
Katie was appointed Counsel and Assistant Company Secretary in 2010. 
She became Company Secretary in January 2013, whilst maintaining 
her role as Counsel. Katie is a solicitor and has worked with FTSE and 
NASDAQ companies, and has a breadth of experience in corporate, 
commercial and employment matters. She is an Associate of the Chartered 
Institute of Secretaries.
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 22
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Group maintains its emphasis on ensuring it operates with ethical 
responsibility and remains committed to all aspects of corporate social 
responsibility.
PEOPLE
People are fundamental to every business and 
our employees are critical to the successful 
delivery of our strategic objectives; one of the 
four key pillars being “investing in people, 
who are vital to the long term success of the 
business”.
Our values of trust, respect, and integrity run 
throughout all our businesses. Our high levels 
of teamwork and co-operation are a major 
contributing factor to our success. We remain 
committed to employee engagement throughout 
the Group, and employees are kept up-to-date 
with the Group’s performance and development 
through regular briefing notes. 
We have continued to assess the development 
needs and opportunities across the business, 
to support our short, medium and longer term 
objectives.
This year our senior team have assessed 
leadership development throughout the Group 
and in November 2016 the first leadership 
programme commences, with participants 
from across all three divisions. This is an 
exciting addition to our training programme.  
Management and supervisory development 
has been taking place throughout the year 
with specific focus on areas such as sales and 
customer service.
Identifying talent and people development will 
remain key priorities for us going forward. 
We remain committed to providing a working 
environment that:
•	 is 	 consistent 	 and 	 fair;
•	 is 	 free 	 from 	 discrimination;
•	 aids 	 development 	 and 	 skills;
•	 supports 	 employee 	 engagement.
Sharesave
The Group operates a sharesave scheme, in 
which currently all UK based employees are 
entitled to participate. The Group recognises 
that the scheme is a well-established method of 
employee engagement, facilitating ownership in 
the Group. 
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to an active equal 
opportunities policy promoting an environment 
free from discrimination, harassment and 
victimisation, where everyone will receive 
equal treatment regardless of gender, colour, 
ethnic or national origin, disability, age, 
marital status, sexual orientation or religion. 
All decisions relating to employment practices 
will be objective, free from bias and based 
solely upon work criteria and individual merit.  
The Group is responsive to the needs of its 
employees, customers and the community 
at large. We are an organisation which uses 
everyone’s talents and abilities and where 
diversity is valued.
Employees with disabilities
It is our policy that people with disabilities 
should have full and fair consideration for 
all vacancies. We remain committed to 
maintaining the current open, fair and non-
discriminatory recruitment process operated 
throughout the Group, and seek to have full 
engagement with any employee who becomes 
disabled during their employment.
The Group employs, 1,101 people. The split is 
as follows:
  
 846 Men
 255 Women
Senior Managers and Executives, male and 
female:
  
 13 Men
 4 Women
23%
77%
76%
24%
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
ONGOING COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 23
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HEALTH & SAFETY
The Group is committed to the maintenance 
of high standards of health and safety for all 
its employees, visitors, customers, suppliers 
and others who may be affected by its 
business activities. There is also recognition 
of the need to continually improve safety 
performance.
Health and safety is reviewed regularly at 
Board level and is a standing Board meeting 
agenda item. This enables review of accident 
statistics, auditing activity and other 
initiatives as well as ensuring the Board are 
alerted to key risk management and legislative 
changes. The Board also endorses an ongoing 
programme of safety improvements.
This year an Executive Health and Safety 
Committee was formed, comprising the Cheif 
Executive Officer, Group Finance Director and 
Group Risk Manager, which meets monthly in 
advance of the monthly Board meetings. This 
formalises the previous meeting arrangements 
in order to make them more in line with the 
recommendations of the Institute of Directors 
and HSE. 
The Group has repeated the extremely 
successful IOSH accredited Managing Safety 
training course for UK staff. In addition to 
the Group training plan, each Division also 
runs their own annual training programmes 
focusing in depth on the business needs. 
The Group has also focussed upon the 
management of road risk, with a Company 
car driver training initiative and the issue of a 
Company car drivers’ handbook.
The Group Risk Manager continuously monitors 
safety performance across all Group businesses, 
to ensure there is a high standard of health and 
safety management, with an annual audit plan 
undertaken across the Group. 
Despite this proactive approach to safety 
management, the overall number of accidents 
across the UK Group companies was 51, a 
slight increase on the 48 recorded in 2014. 
However it should be recognised these figures 
include recently acquired businesses and 
an increase in employee numbers, without 
which the figure for 2015 would have reduced 
to 45. The number of RIDDOR reportable 
injuries has reduced down to 6, from 7 in 
2014, and the number of days lost resulting 
from RIDDOR reportable injuries decreased 
29% from 166 in 2014 to 118 this year.
The Board is committed to improving 
standards of health and safety and remains 
confident that the procedures adopted across 
the Group, coupled with the culture of the 
employees, will achieve this.
SUSTAINABILITY 
The Group remain committed to reducing 
carbon emissions, and increasing sustainable 
energy consumption. During the year the 
in-house data and monitoring system was 
expanded to encompass all UK and overseas 
subsidiary companies. Additional data collection 
and monitoring is now operational for all 
elements of environmental performance:
•	 Energy	and	carbon	generation
•	 W ater 	utilisation
•	 W aste 	generation	and	recycling	
•	 T ransport 	fuels
The new data and monitoring system was 
launched in the spring of 2015 and sets 
benchmark targets for improvements to all 
Group operations.
Our Engineering division is leading the way 
for the Group with several sites utilising green 
renewable grid supplied electricity. In addition, 
the new Chirton Engineering factory site, opened 
early in 2015, is the first site operation across 
the Group to be completely green, utilising 
green electricity and bio-mass heating.
During 2015 the Group undertook a full Energy 
Audit in accordance with the mandatory Energy 
Savings Opportunity Scheme. The full Audit 
Report detailing potential further energy/carbon 
reduction opportunities is due to be completed 
and presented to the Directors in early 
November 2015.
Carbon Generation Report
The Group does not generate any additional 
greenhouse gases other than C02 from the 
utilisation of grid supplied electricity and 
natural gas.
The energy intensive operations of the Food 
division and UK feedblock business continue 
to be in receipt of Climate Change Discount 
Agreements in exchange for target carbon 
reductions.
Due to changes in the qualifying status for 
entry into the CRC Scheme the Group were 
able to withdraw from the second phase of the 
scheme.
Detailed below is the C02 generation for all of 
the Group’s subsidiary companies comparing 
actual volume against previous year. It should 
be noted that this does not include transport 
C02 generated for the period 2014/15, this is 
detailed separately below. 
Division CO 2 Tonnes 2013/14 CO 2 Tonnes 2014/15
Food 15,666 14,256
UK Agriculture 4,349 4,277
USA Agriculture 6,986 7,052
Engineering 797 821
Sub Total 27,798 26,406
Total Transport —* 5,038
Total 27,798 31,444
* Transport data was not collected for 2013/2014
GROUP CARBON C0 2 GENERATION 2013/14 v 2014/15 24
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY 
CONTINUED
During the year the Group created a Cumbria 
Community Foundation Fund, which has been 
established with an initial sum of £35,000. 
This Fund enables charitable groups to 
support rural communities, disadvantaged 
individuals, and young people, throughout 
Cumbria.
The Fund supports activities that promote life 
skills with the intention of raising aspirations, 
enabling people to fulfil their potential. 
It also aims to provide support to farming 
communities and improve knowledge of 
countryside matters.
We maintain our relationship with Carlisle 
Youth Zone, which serves the social, 
recreational and emotional needs of young 
people in the Carlisle area.
We strive to ensure that our community work 
reflects our broader responsibilities as a Group 
operational throughout the UK, Germany and 
USA.
Electricity and Gas Utilisation
Annual UK Group Electricity Consumption for 2014/15   32,345,551 Kwh 
Group Overseas Electricity Consumption for 2014/15   7,667,445 Kwh
Annual UK Group Gas Consumption for 2014/15    9,215,234 Kwh
Group Overseas Gas Consumption for 2014/15    6,356.002 Kwh
Total Other Fossil Fuel Consumption for 2014/15   1,844,355 Kwh
Transport Fuels
During 2014/15 the Carr’s Group utilised 
1,880,166 litres of Diesel Fuel for Own Fleet 
Vehicles and Company Cars throughout its UK 
operations.
The C02 generated from this fuel consumption 
during 2014/15 is 5,038 tonnes.
CARR’S GROUP PLC TOTAL ENERGY BY DIVISION
C02 conversion factors, as approved by the 
Department of Energy. Fuel and energy use 
are based on direct measurement verified 
through purchase invoices for the vast 
majority of our sites. In certain instances, an 
exceptionally small number of invoices were 
not available, therefore it has been necessary 
to estimate energy and fuel usage.
Environmental Compliance 
Across the Group there have been no breaches 
of environmental legislation. The large 
manufacturing sites continue to operate 
within the emission levels set by the UK 
Environment Agency and current permit 
conditions, and constant monitoring is 
undertaken.
Waste recycling data has been collected over 
the year enabling the Group to set targets for 
reduction in waste and increased recycling, 
where possible, across the Group for this 
current year.
We maintain our promotion of the culture of 
environmental and sustainability awareness 
and encourage all employees to reduce waste 
and improve energy efficiency.
COMMUNITY
Interacting with and supporting the 
communities in which we operate continues 
to be important to the Group. Support takes 
many forms from donations and sponsorship 
to volunteering and mentoring.
Our employees take part in a variety of 
community interactions as well as the Group’s 
involvement in a variety of charities and 
sponsorships.  
The Group and the BBSRC (Biotechnology 
and Bioscience Research Council) continue 
to jointly fund the four year PhD scholar at 
Lancaster University. The PhD student is 
researching wheat root systems so as to be 
able to identify wheat varieties which are 
suited to drought conditions.
  Food
  USA Agriculture
  Total Transport
  UK Agriculture
  Engineering
Total C0
2
 generated by the Group
Combining the C02 generated through 
operations and fuel consumption the total 
Group C02 Generation for the year is 31,444 
tonnes. On a like for like basis this resulted in 
an annual decrease of C02 emissions of 5%.
Intensity Matrix
Due to the diverse nature of the operations 
of the Group it was decided that people were 
the best measure for the intensity matrix. The 
2014/15 intensity matrix is 29 C02 tonnes 
per employee being 31,444 C02 tonnes/1,101 
employees.
The C02 emissions data is reported in 
metric tonnes. The C02 emissions data has 
been calculated on the basis of measured 
energy and fuel use multiplied by relevant 
22% USA
Agriculture
45% Food
16% Total
Transport
3% Engineering
14% UK Agriculture 25
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CHRIS HOLMES
CHAIRMAN
“Achieving the highest standards of corporate 
governance remains exceptionally important to  
the Board.”
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
I value the openness, mutual respect and trust 
of the Board. It is through this, coupled with the 
expertise, range of perspectives and probative 
questioning, that the Board is able to assess 
future opportunities, anticipate risks and build a 
sustainable business.
Carr’s approach to governance is outlined in 
the following report, which describes how it 
integrates the main principles of the 2012 UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
The corporate governance of the Company is 
continuously being reviewed as the Company 
develops, to ensure that the stakeholders’ 
interests are always aligned with the Company.
CHRIS HOLMES
Chairman
11 November 2015
Statement by the Directors on compliance with 
the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code 2012.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE
The UK Corporate Governance Code dated 
September 2012 (‘the Code’) issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council is applicable to 
listed companies, and sets out standards of  
good practice in relation to issues such as:
•	 Board 	 composition 	 and 	 effectiveness;
•	 the 	 role 	 of 	 Board 	 committees;
•	 risk 	 management;
•	 remuneration;
•	 relationships 	 with 	 shareholders.
John Worby, who commenced on 1 April 2015 
and is both the Audit Committee Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director. John Worby is a 
former Finance Director and therefore complies 
with the Code’s requirements regarding having 
relevant financial experience. After the period 
end the Company appointed a new independent 
Non-Executive Director, Ian Wood, who 
commenced on 1 October 2015. 
THE BOARD
The Directors have a collective duty to promote 
the long term success of the Company for its 
shareholders. In determining long-term strategy 
and objectives of the Group, the Board is mindful 
of its duties and responsibilities to shareholders 
as well as employees and other stakeholders. 
The Board reviews management and financial 
performance and monitors strategic delivery and 
achievement of business objectives, resulting in 
promoting the vision of the Group.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association. In addition, 
the Directors have responsibilities and duties 
under legislation, in particular the Companies 
Act 2006.
During the year ended 29 August 2015, the 
Board comprised of two Executive Directors, a 
Chairman, and three Non-Executive Directors 
(John Worby from 1 April 2015). There is 
a Company Secretary to the Board. The 
biographies of the Board including the newly 
appointed Non-Executive Director Ian Wood can 
be found on page 21.
The Board met 11 times during the year. 
In addition to the regular scheduled meetings 
throughout the year, unscheduled supplementary 
meetings may also take place as and when 
necessary, although during this financial year 
there was no reason to hold an unscheduled 
meeting. Directors who are unable to attend a 
We are required to state how we have applied the 
principles contained in the Code and disclose 
whether we have complied with the provisions 
of the Code during the year. The Board consider 
that the Company has, during the year ended 
29 August 2015, complied with the requirements 
of the Code other than with the following:
•	 	 B.1.1. Chris Holmes was the Chief Executive 
Officer and proceeded immediately to 
Chairman and therefore does not meet 
the independence criteria for a Chairman. 
However, the Group believed that the 
substantial in-depth knowledge of Chris 
Holmes was invaluable to the business and 
it was therefore in the best interests of the 
shareholders for him to have a continuing 
role with the Group. Clear division of 
responsibilities with the Chief Executive ensure 
there is no conflict, as set out on page 26.
•	 B.1.1. The Board considers Robert Heygate as 
independent, notwithstanding his longstanding 
position on the Board and his substantial 
shareholding. Robert Heygate has a wealth of 
knowledge in the flour milling industry which 
the Board values, and despite being a Non-
Executive Director for 24 years, he has always 
continued to question with the impartiality 
expected of a Non-Executive Director. In 
addition, his shareholding aligns his interests 
with the other shareholders. Robert Heygate on 
10 September 2015 confirmed his intention 
to stand down from the Board in April 2016. 
•	 B.2.1, 	 B.2.2, 	 B.2.4. 	 A 	 Nominations	
Committee was created within the financial 
year to 29 August 2015, and its terms of 
reference are available on the Company’s 
website www.carrsgroup.com. 
The Company is aware of its ongoing corporate 
governance obligations and appointed a new 
independent Non-Executive Director,   26
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
particular meeting receive relevant briefing papers 
and are given the opportunity to discuss any 
issues with the Chairman, the Chief Executive 
or the Group Finance Director. During this year 
Robert Heygate and Alistair Wannop were unable 
to attend one Board meeting each, there were no 
other Director absences during the year.
To enable the Directors of the Board to carry 
out their responsibilities all Directors have full 
and timely access to all relevant information. 
The Board has a schedule of matters for its 
discussion, which is reviewed against best 
practice. A summary is shown below and a full 
schedule is available on the Company’s website. 
The Board is responsible for:
•	 the 	 Group’ s 	 strategy;
•	 acquisitions 	 and 	 divestment 	 policy;
•	 corporate 	 governance, 	 risk 	 and 	 environment	
policy and management;
•	 approval 	 of 	 budgets;
•	 general 	 treasury 	 policy;
•	 major 	 capital 	 expenditure 	 projects;
•	 dividend 	 policy;
•	 monitoring 	 the 	 Group’ s 	 profit 	 and 	 cash 	 flow 	
performance.
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit, 
Remuneration, and Nomination Committees to 
carry out certain tasks as defined in their written 
terms of reference approved by the Board; these 
are also available on the Company website. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code stipulates that 
there should be a clear division of responsibility 
between the running of the Board and Executive 
responsibilities for running the Company.
The Chairman was responsible for:
•	 setting 	 the 	 Board 	 agenda;
•	 the 	 leadership 	 of 	 the 	 Board 	 and 	 ensuring 	 its	
effectiveness on all aspects of its role;
•	 	 providing 	 strategic 	 insight 	 from 	 his 	 long	
business experience in the industry and with 
the Company; 
•	 providing 	 a 	 sounding 	 board 	 for 	 the 	 Chief	
Executive on key business decisions and 
challenging proposals where appropriate.
The Chief Executive was responsible for:
•	 	 the 	 day-to-day 	 management 	 of 	 the 	 Group’ s	
business;
•	 leading 	 the 	 business 	 and 	 the 	 rest 	 of 	 the	
management team in accordance with the 
strategy agreed by the Board; 
•	 	 leading 	 the 	 development 	 of 	 the 	 Group’ s	
strategy with input from the rest of the Board; 
•	 leading 	 the 	 management 	 team 	 in 	 the	
implementation of the Group’s strategy; 
•	 	 bringing 	 matters 	 of 	 particular 	 significance 	
to the Chairman for discussion and 
consideration by the Board if appropriate.
Elections
The Company’s Articles of Association provide 
that one third of the Directors retire by rotation 
each year at the AGM, however, in line with 
it best practice the Company requires all the 
Directors to retire annually. 
Attendance & Agenda
In advance of all Board meetings the Directors 
are supplied with detailed and comprehensive 
papers covering the Group’s strategy and 
operations. Members of the executive 
management team can attend and make 
presentations as appropriate at meetings of the 
Board. The Company Secretary is responsible 
to the Board for the timeliness and quality of 
information.
Details of the number of meetings of, and 
members’ attendance at, the Board, Audit 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
during the period are set out in the table below.
Support 
Directors can obtain independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense in performance 
of their duties as Directors. None of the Directors 
obtained independent professional advice in the 
period under review. All Directors have access 
to the advice and the services of the Company 
Secretary. In addition to these formal roles, the 
Non-Executive Directors have access to senior 
management of the business either by telephone 
or via involvement at informal meetings.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s 
Articles of Association require the Board to 
consider any potential conflicts of interest. The 
Board has a policy and procedures for managing 
and, where appropriate, authorising actual 
or potential conflicts of interest. Under those 
procedures, Directors are required to declare 
all directorships or other appointments to 
organisations that are not part of the Group and 
which could result in actual or potential conflicts 
of interest, as well as other situations which 
could result in a potential conflict of interest. 
The Board is required to review Directors’ actual 
or potential conflicts of interest at least annually. 
Directors are required to disclose proposed new 
appointments to the Chairman before taking 
them on, to ensure that any potential conflicts 
of interest can be identified and addressed 
appropriately. Any potential conflicts of interest 
in relation to proposed Directors are considered 
by the Board prior to their appointment. In 
this financial year there have been no declared 
conflicts of interest.
The Board’s time can be grouped in to six 
key areas as outlined below. A portion of their 
time is also spent on administrative matters.
Strategy Setting strategic targets. 
Reviewing potential 
acquisitions.
Research and technology.
Risk Group’s risk and internal 
control framework.
Governance Legal updates and new 
disclosure requirements.
Internal Board review.
Succession planning.
Finance Oversight of the financial 
performance of the Group 
and of the preparation and 
management of the financial 
statements.
Dividend policy.
Pensions strategy.
Stakeholder 
engagement
AGM and other shareholder 
feedback.
Investor calls, meetings and 
roadshows.
Safety Health & Safety monthly 
updates and management.
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
No. of meetings
Chris Holmes
Robert Heygate
Alistair Wannop
John Worby**
Neil Austin
Tim Davies
11
11
10
10
4
11
11
3
3
2
3
2
3
3
3
3
3
3
0
2*
1*
2
2
2
2
0
1*
1*
* part of the meetings by invitation
** attended all meetings since his appointment
Meetings Attendance
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE REPORT 
CONTINUED 27
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BOARD EVALUATION 
The Board conducted an internal evaluation, 
building on the external evaluation in 2013, 
which found that the Board was operating 
effectively. Improvements have been 
implemented throughout the year, with new 
action points set out for the forthcoming year. 
The Board will undertake an externally facilitated 
evaluation in the financial year ending 2016.
The Chairman appraised the individual 
performance of the Directors and the Non-
Executives met and appraised the performance 
of the Chairman.
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s key function is to review 
the effectiveness of the Company’s financial 
reporting and performance of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee comprised of four Non-
Executive Directors, John Worby (Chairman), 
Chris Holmes, Robert Heygate and Alistair 
Wannop. Since the year-end Ian Wood has 
joined the Audit Committee. The Board 
considers that the Committee meets the main 
requirements of the Code for a company of 
Carr’s size. The work, responsibilities and 
governance of the Audit Committee are set 
out on pages 28 to 29. The Chair of the Audit 
Committee will be available at the AGM to 
answer any shareholder questions on the 
Committee and its activities.
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee 
comprised of Alistair Wannop (Chairman), 
Chris Holmes, Robert Heygate, and John 
Worby. Since the year-end Ian Wood has 
joined the Remuneration Committee. The 
work, responsibilities and governance of the 
Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 
30 to 35. The Chair of the Committee will be 
available at the AGM to answer any shareholder 
questions on the Committee and its activities.
Nomination Committee
During the year the Nomination Committee 
comprised of Chris Holmes (Chairman), 
Alistair Wannop, Robert Heygate, and John 
Worby. Since the year-end Ian Wood has 
joined the Nomination Committee. The 
work, responsibilities and governance of the 
Nomination Committee are set out on page 36. 
The Chair of the Committee will be available at 
the AGM to answer any shareholder questions 
on the Committee and its activities.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board recognises and values the 
importance of good communications with all 
shareholders. The Group maintains dialogue 
with institutional shareholders and analysts, 
and hosts presentations on the preliminary and 
interim results. Shareholders have access to the 
Company’s website at www.carrsgroup.com.
We engage with our shareholders through our 
regular communications. Significant matters 
relating to trading or development of the 
business are disseminated to the market by 
way of Stock Exchange announcements. We 
announce our financial results on a six monthly 
basis with all shareholders receiving a summary 
full year statement, a half year statement, and 
we produce trading updates during the year. All 
reports and updates are made available on our 
website.
The AGM provides all shareholders with 
the opportunity to develop further their 
understanding of the Company. It is the 
principal forum for all the Directors to engage in 
dialogue with private investors. All shareholders 
are given the opportunity to raise questions on 
any matter at the meeting. The Group aims 
to send notices of AGMs to shareholders at 
least 20 working days before the meeting, as 
required by the Code, and it is the Company’s 
practice to indicate the proxy voting results on 
all resolutions at the meetings. Following the 
AGM the voting results for each resolution are 
published and are available on the Company’s 
website.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE
The Directors have also reviewed the financial 
statements and taken as a whole consider 
them to be fair, balanced and understandable, 
and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a 
going concern basis, having satisfied themselves 
from a review of internal budgets and forecasts 
and current bank facilities that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future.
SHARE SPLIT
At the AGM on 13 January 2015 the 
Shareholders voted approving the split of the 
Company’s shares 10 for 1, and the subdivision 
of the shares took place on 14 January 2015.
CHANGE OF NAME
At a General Meeting on 8 April 2015 the 
Shareholders voted approving the change of 
Company name from Carr’s Milling Industries 
PLC to Carr’s Group plc, with the change 
effective on 9 April 2015.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board of Directors has overall 
responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of internal control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness, including: financial, 
operational and compliance controls and 
risk management, which safeguard the 
shareholders’ investment and the Group’s 
assets. Such a system can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss, as it is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board of Directors is not aware of any 
significant losses caused by breaches of internal 
control in the year.
The Group operates within a clearly defined 
organisational structure with established 
responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines 
to the Board. The organisational structure 
has been designed in order to plan, execute, 
monitor and control the Group’s objectives 
effectively and to ensure that internal control 
becomes embedded in the operations. The 
Board confirms that the key on-going processes 
and features of the Group’s internal risk based 
control system, which accord with the Turnbull 
guidance, have been fully operative throughout 
the year and up to the date of the Annual Report 
being approved. These include: a process to 
identify and evaluate business risk; a strong 
control environment; an information and 
communication process; a monitoring system 
and a regular Board review for effectiveness. 
The Group Finance Director is responsible for 
overseeing the Group’s internal controls. 
The Group’s internal controls systems cover 
controls over the financial reporting process, 
including monthly reporting from subsidiaries, 
its associate and joint ventures. This reporting is 
subject to detailed review by the Chief Executive 
and the Group Finance Director and detailed 
validation by the Group finance team, and 
forms the basis for information presented to and 
reviewed by the Board. All monthly reporting is 
prepared in line with Group accounting policies, 
which are reviewed annually and are also 
subject to review by the external auditors.
The management of the Group’s businesses 
identified the key business risks within their 
operations, considered the financial implications 
and assessed the effectiveness of the control 
processes in place to mitigate these risks. The 
Board reviewed a summary of the findings 
and this, along with direct involvement in 
the strategies of the businesses, investment 
appraisal and budgeting process, enabled the 
Board to report on the effectiveness of internal 
control. A summary of the risk management 
framework and key risks to the business are set 
out on pages 15 to 17.
By order of the Board
KATIE SINCLAIR
Company Secretary
Carlisle
CA3 9BA
11 November 2015 28
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
AUDIT
COMMITTEE REPORT
JOHN WORBY
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
INTRODUCTION
On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased 
to present my first report to shareholders 
following my appointment as Chairman of the 
Committee. The purpose of this report is to 
highlight the areas that the Committee has 
reviewed during the year and how we have 
discharged our responsibilities effectively during 
the year.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The key responsibility of the Committee 
is to provide effective governance over the 
appropriateness of the Company’s financial 
reporting. 
Under its terms of reference, the Committee is 
required, amongst other things, to:
•	 monitor 	 the 	 integrity 	 of 	 the 	 financial 	
statements of the Company including the 
appropriateness of the accounting policies 
adopted and whether the Annual Report is 
fair, balanced and understandable; 
•	 review , 	 understand 	 and 	 evaluate 	 the	
Company’s internal financial risk, and other 
internal controls and risk management 
systems; 
•	 oversee 	 the 	 relationship 	 with 	 the 	 external	
auditors, making recommendations to the 
Board in relation to their appointment, 
remuneration and terms of engagement; 
•	 monitor 	 and 	 review 	 the 	 effectiveness 	 of 	 the	
external audit including the external auditors’ 
independence, objectivity and effectiveness 
and to approve the policy on the engagement 
of the external auditors to supply non-audit 
services;
•	 keep 	 under 	 review 	 the 	 requirement 	 for 	 and	
extent of internal audit activities in the 
Company.
•	 Implementation 	 of 	 IFRS 	 10 	 and 	 11, 	 and	
considerations of whether the adoption of 
these new accounting standards required 
any changes in our accounting treatment of 
investments. No such changes were required; 
•	 The 	 assumptions 	 adopted 	 for 	 the 	 accounting	
valuation of our defined benefit pension 
scheme. The Committee concluded that the 
assumptions used were appropriate;
•	 Potential impairment of goodwill for historic 
acquisitions, especially in relation to Chirton 
given the current state of the oil market. The 
Committee reviewed the assumptions used 
and the impact of sensitivities and agreed that 
no provision for impairment was required;
•	 Provisioning 	 policies 	 in 	 relation 	 to 	 accounts	
receivable particularly in the Agriculture 
division. The Committee determined that the 
judgements made were appropriate to justify 
the provisions held at 29 August 2015;
•	 Revenue 	 recognition 	 in 	 the 	 Engineering	
division. The Committee focussed on the 
recognition of revenue and profit or losses 
on long term contracts and agreed with 
management’s judgements.
The Committee, further to the Board’s request, 
has reviewed the Annual Report and financial 
statements with the intention of providing 
advice to the Board on whether, as required by 
the Code, ‘the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
company’s performance, business model and 
strategy’.
The terms of reference can be found on the 
Company’s website www.carrsgroup.com. 
MEETINGS
The Audit Committee met three times during 
the year, and has an agenda linked to the Group 
financial calendar. It invites the Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller and external auditors to attend its 
meetings. The Committee met with the external 
auditors at the conclusion of the audit without 
the Executive Directors being present.
The Committee has met once since the end of 
the financial year.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR
Set out below is a summary of the key areas 
considered by the Committee during the year 
and up to the date of this report.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed 
reports and information provided by both 
the Group Finance Director and the external 
auditors in respect of the half year and annual 
financial report.
An important responsibility of the Audit 
Committee is to review and agree significant 
estimates and judgements made by 
management. To satisfy this responsibility, the 
Committee reviewed a written formal update 
from the Group Finance Director on such issues 
as well as reports from the external auditors. 
The Committee carefully considered the content 
of these reports in evaluating the significant 
issues and area of judgement across the Group.
The key areas of judgement in the year were as 
follows: 29
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
To make this assessment, the Committee 
reviewed a report prepared by the Group 
Finance Director outlining the key matters 
worthy of consideration. We also considered 
the KPIs included in the Strategic Report 
(see page 20) and concluded that, whilst 
they were appropriate for our shareholders’ 
understanding of the performance, position 
and future prospects of the business, there 
could be inclusion of additional non-financial 
KPIs. These will continue to be developed over 
the forthcoming financial year. In addition, the 
committee also considered and was satisfied 
that all the key events and issues which have 
been reported to the Board in the CEO’s monthly 
report during the year, both good and bad, have 
been adequately referenced or reflected within 
the Annual Report.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
During the year the Committee reviewed the 
Group’s internal control and risk management 
systems. 
The Committee also reviewed current risk 
management activities and management’s plans 
to further enhance risk management within the 
Group as further explained on pages 15 to 17 of 
the Annual Report.
In the light of this work, the Committee reported 
to the Board that it had reviewed and was 
satisfied with the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal control and risk management systems.
EXTERNAL AUDIT
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
recommendations for the appointment, 
reappointment or removal of external auditors 
and for approval of their remuneration. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) and its 
predecessor firms have been the Auditor for 
Carr’s Group plc since the Company first listed 
on the London Stock Exchange in 1972. 
The Audit Committee assesses annually the 
qualification, expertise and independence of 
the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit 
process.
Subject to the ongoing satisfactory performance 
of the external auditors, the Committee expects 
to carry out a tendering process for the 2019 
year end following the conclusion of the five year 
term of the current audit partner.
Following approval by shareholders to re-appoint 
PwC at last year’s AGM, the Audit Committee 
reviewed and approved the terms of engagement 
and remuneration of the external auditors.
AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS
The effectiveness of the external audit 
process is dependent on appropriate audit risk 
identification at the start of the audit cycle. PwC 
present their detailed audit plan to us each year 
identifying their assessment of these key risks.
Our assessment of the effectiveness and quality 
of the audit process and addressing these key 
risks is formed by, amongst other things, the 
reporting from the auditors and also seeking 
feedback from management on the audit 
process.
The Committee remain satisfied with PwC’s 
performance and is of the view that there is 
nothing of concern that would impact the 
effectiveness of the external audit process.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE
The Group meets its obligations for maintaining 
an appropriate relationship with the external 
auditors through the Audit Committee, whose 
terms of reference include an obligation to 
consider and keep under review the degree 
of work undertaken by the external auditor 
other than the statutory audit, to ensure such 
objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
In accordance with the Auditing Practices Board 
Ethical Standards, PwC has to implement rules 
and requirements which include that none of 
their employees working on our audit can hold 
any shares in Carr’s. PwC is also required to 
tell us about any significant facts and matters 
that may reasonably be thought to bear on their 
independence or on the objectivity of the lead 
partner and the audit team. The lead partner in 
the audit team must change every five years.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved 
the non-audit services policy, the objective of 
which is to ensure that the provision of such 
services does not impair, or is not perceived to 
impair, the external auditors’ independence or 
objectivity. The policy imposes guidance on the 
areas of work that the external auditors may 
be asked to undertake and those assignments 
where the external auditors should not be 
involved. There is a further category of services 
for which a case-by-case decision is necessary. 
In order to ensure that the policy is effective and 
the level of non-audit fees is kept under review, 
major work to be awarded to the audit firm must 
be agreed in advance by the Audit Committee 
Chairman. For the 2015 financial year end, the 
non-audit to audit services ratio was 0.41. Note 
3 on page 57 provides further detail on non-
audit service fees.
Taking into account our findings in relation 
to the effectiveness of the audit process and 
in relation to the independence of PwC, the 
Committee is satisfied that PwC continues to 
be independent, and free from any conflicting 
interest with the Group. As a result, the 
Committee has recommended to the Board 
that PwC be proposed for reappointment at the 
forthcoming AGM in January 2016.
INTERNAL AUDIT
Consideration was given to whether there should 
be a formal internal audit function within the 
Group. The Committee agreed that in view of 
the current size of the Group and the absence 
of any significant control issues having arisen, 
no such internal audit function was required. 
The Committee has however recommended that 
this be reviewed in the year ahead given the 
increasing spread of the Group’s activities.
The Committee also reviewed the Committee’s 
terms of reference and its effectiveness.
As Chairman of the Committee, I will be 
available at the AGM to respond to any 
shareholder questions that might be raised on 
the Committee’s activities.
JOHN WORBY
Chairman of the Audit Committee
11 November 2015 30
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE REPORT
ALISTAIR WANNOP
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
“As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am 
pleased to present the Remuneration Committee’s 
annual report on Directors’ remuneration for the  
year to 29 August 2015.”
INTRODUCTION
This report sets out the Group’s remuneration 
policy and details of remuneration paid to 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors during 
the year. 
ROLE
The main role of the Remuneration Committee is 
to determine the remuneration for the Executive 
Directors, in agreement with the Board. The 
Committee is responsible for all aspects of the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration, including 
bonus and long term incentives, and makes 
recommendations regarding awarding long term 
incentives to senior management. It reviews 
the long term incentives to ensure they are 
aligned with the development of the Group and 
the business needs. The policy that has been 
adopted was created by taking into account the 
need to create shareholder value and therefore 
putting in place the appropriate incentives for 
the Executive Directors.
The Committee considered the following during 
the year:
• 	 	total 	 remuneration 	 and 	 review 	 of 	 base 	 pay 	 for	
the Directors;
• 	 	annual 	 earnings 	 of 	 the 	 Directors, 	 including	
the outcome of annual bonus plans;
• 	 	the 	 L TIP 	 for 	 the 	 Executive 	 Directors 	 and	
senior management; and
• 	 	the 	 requirement 	 for 	 a 	 minimum 	 shareholding	
requirement.
The Remuneration Committee currently 
comprises Alistair Wannop (Chairman), Chris 
Holmes, Robert Heygate, John Worby and 
Ian Wood. Neil Austin and Tim Davies attend 
meetings of the Committee by invitation and in 
an advisory capacity. No Director attends any 
part of a meeting at which his own remuneration 
align the rewards of the Executive Directors 
with the progress of the Group, whilst giving 
consideration to salary levels in similar size 
quoted companies in similar industry sectors.
The remuneration package is split into two parts:
• 	 	A 	 non-performance 	 related 	 element	
represented by basic salary (including 
benefits); and
• 	 	A 	 significant 	 performance 	 related 	 element	
in the form of an annual profit related bonus 
and a Long Term Incentive Plan.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS
Our Group strategy and business objectives are 
the primary consideration when we are selecting 
performance measures for incentive plans. 
Targets within incentive plans that are related to 
internal financial measures, such as profit, are 
typically determined based on our budgets. The 
threshold and maximum levels of performance 
are set to reflect minimum acceptable levels 
at threshold and very stretching but achievable 
levels at maximum.
At the end of each performance period we 
review performance against the targets, using 
judgement to account for items such as 
foreign exchange rate movements, changes in 
accounting treatment, and significant one-off 
transactions. The application of judgement is 
important to ensure that final assessments of 
performance are fair and appropriate.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee 
reviews the bonus and incentive plan results 
before any payments are made to Executive 
Directors or any shares vest and has full 
discretion to adjust the final payment or vesting 
downwards if they believe the circumstances 
warrant it.
is discussed. The Chairman and the Executive 
Directors determine the remuneration of the 
other Non-Executive Directors. The remuneration 
of the Chairman is determined by the Board. 
The Committee has access to advice from the 
Company Secretary and to detailed analysis 
of executive remuneration in comparable 
companies. The Chair of the Committee, will be 
available at the AGM to answer any shareholder 
questions on the Committee and its activities.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to:
• 	 	determine 	 the 	 total 	 remuneration 	 packages,	
authorise terms and conditions, and contracts 
for the Board;
• 	 	approve 	 the 	 design 	 and 	 determine 	 the 	 targets	
for performance related pay schemes of the 
Executive Directors; and
• 	 	review 	 the 	 design 	 of 	 any 	 share 	 incentive 	 plans	
for approval by the Board and shareholders.
REMUNERATION POLICY
In this forward looking section we describe 
our remuneration policy for the Board. This 
includes considerations when determining policy, 
a description of the elements of the reward 
package, and an indication of the potential future 
value of this package for each Executive Director.
There have been no changes to the policy 
during 2014/15, and no changes are currently 
planned. However we will review the policy 
each year to ensure it continues to support the 
Group’s strategy. 
CONSIDERATIONS WHEN DETERMINING 
REMUNERATION POLICY 
The Group’s policy is that the overall 
remuneration package offered should be 
sufficiently competitive to attract, retain 
and motivate high quality executives and to  31
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELEMENT
PURPOSE  
AND LINK  
TO STRATEGY POLICY AND APPROACH OPPORTUNITY
CHANGE 
OF POLICY 
VERSUS 
2014?
Base salary To attract and retain the 
best talent.
Salaries are reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months commencing  
1 September. The decision is influenced by:
• 	 level 	 of 	 skill, 	 experience 	 and 	 scope 	 of 	 responsibilities 	 of 	 individual;
• 	 business 	 performance, 	 economic 	 climate 	 and 	 market 	 conditions;
• 	 increases 	 elsewhere 	 in 	 the 	 Group; 	 and
• 	 external 	 comparator 	 groups 	 (used 	 for 	 reference 	 purposes 	 only).
Base salary 
increases are 
applied in 
line with the 
outcome of 
the annual 
review.
No.
Pension To remain competitive in 
the market place.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate in a defined contribution 
pension arrangement.
Company contributions are 15% of base salary.
15% of base 
salary.
No.
Benefits To aid retention and 
remain competitive in 
the market place.
These include permanent health insurance, private medical insurance 
and life assurance. Relocation benefits may also be provided in the case 
of recruitment of a new Executive Director.
Market rate 
determines 
value.
No.
Annual 
cash bonus
Designed to reward 
delivery of key strategic 
priorities during the year.
Bonus levels and appropriateness of performance measures and 
weighting are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to support 
our strategy. Performance is measured against stretching profit related 
targets, and is usually paid in November each year for performance 
in the previous financial year. The bonuses payable are capped at a 
maximum of 100% of base salary.
Maximum of 
100% of base 
salary.
No.
Save As 
You Earn 
(SAYE)
To encourage employee 
involvement and 
encourage greater 
shareholder alignment.
A SAYE scheme is available to eligible staff, including Executive 
Directors. Currently there is a 3 year and a 5 year scheme in operation.
N/A No.
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
To motivate and 
incentivise delivery of 
sustained performance 
over the longer term, 
and to support and 
encourage greater 
shareholder alignment.
Award levels and vesting are reviewed annually to ensure they continue 
to support the Group’s strategy. Awards are capped at the equivalent of 
100% of base salary at the date of award.
Three awards have been made, one maturing in 2015, one in 2016 and 
one in 2017. For the 2015 maturing award, the amount vesting will 
be based on average growth of adjusted EPS over the three year period 
2013 – 2015. A minimum average annual growth of 7% is required 
to vest 25% of the award with a sliding scale arrangement up to 10% 
average annual growth to vest 100% of the award. For the 2016 and 
2017 maturing awards, which are also based on three year performance 
periods, a minimum average annual growth in adjusted EPS of 3% is 
required to vest 25%, with a sliding scale up to 100% vesting at an 
annual average growth of 10%.
Maximum of 
100% of base 
salary.
No.
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE 32
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 
REMUNERATION
Our policy is for the Executive Directors to 
review the remuneration of Non-Executive 
Directors annually following consultation with 
the Chairman. Remuneration reflects:
•	 	 the	 time	commitment	and 	responsibility	of	
their roles;
•	 market 	 rate; 	 and
•	 	 	 that	 they	do	not	 participate	in	any	bonus,	
pension or share based scheme.
Non-Executive Directors are engaged on one 
year fixed-term letters of appointment that set 
out their duties and responsibilities.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES
The Committee believes that it is important 
for a significant investment to be made 
by each Executive Director in the shares 
of the Company to provide alignment with 
shareholder interests. Executive Directors are 
required to build up a minimum shareholding, 
equivalent to 200% of base salary over a five 
year period. This guideline was introduced 
within the year and therefore the five year 
period began at that time.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
The remuneration package for a new Executive 
Director would be set in accordance with the 
terms of the Company’s approved remuneration 
policy in force at the time of appointment.
Buy-out awards
In addition, the Committee may offer additional 
cash and/or share-based elements (on a one-
time basis or ongoing) when it considers these 
to be in the best interests of the Group (and 
therefore shareholders). Any such payments 
would be limited to a reasonable estimate of 
value of remuneration lost when leaving the 
former employer and would reflect the delivery 
mechanism (i.e. cash and/or share-based), time 
horizons and whether performance requirements 
are attached to that remuneration. 
Maximum level of variable pay
The maximum initial level of long-term 
incentives which may be awarded to a new 
Executive Director will be limited to the 
maximum Long Term Incentive Plan limit of 
100% of base salary. Therefore the maximum 
initial level of overall variable pay that may be 
offered will be 200% of base salary (i.e. 100% 
annual bonus plus 100% Long Term Incentive 
Plan). These limits are in addition to the value 
of any buy-out arrangements which are governed 
by the policy above.
In the case of an internal appointment, any 
variable pay element awarded in respect of the 
prior role would be allowed to pay out according 
to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into 
account the appointment. In addition, any 
other previously awarded entitlements would 
continue, and be disclosed in the next Annual 
Report on remuneration.
Base salary and relocation expenses
The Committee has the flexibility to set the salary 
of a new appointment at a discount to the market 
level initially, with a series of planned increases 
implemented over the following few years to bring 
the salary to the appropriate market position, 
subject to individual performance in the role.
For external and internal appointments, the 
Committee may agree that the Group will meet 
certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
Appointment of Non-Executive Directors
For the appointment of a new Chairman or 
Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement 
would be set in accordance with the approved 
remuneration policy in force at that time. 
ESTIMATES OF TOTAL FUTURE POTENTIAL REMUNERATION FROM 2016 PAY PACKAGES
The tables below provide estimates of the potential future remuneration of each Executive 
Director based on the remuneration opportunity granted in the 2016 financial year. Potential 
outcomes based on different scenarios are provided for each Executive Director.
The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below.
Fixed Consists of base salary, pension and other benefits.
Base salaries are as at 1 September 2015.
Benefits are valued using the figures in the total remuneration for the 2015 
financial year table, adjusted for any benefits that will not be provided  
during 2016.
Pensions are valued by applying the appropriate percentage to the base salary.
Base 
£’000
Benefits 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
264
195
1
1
40
29
305
225
On target Based on what a Director would receive if performance was in line with plan 
and the threshold level was achieved under the LTIP .
Maximum Assumes that the full stretch target for the LTIP are achieved, and maximum 
performance is obtained under the annual bonus scheme.
Tim Davies, Chief Executive Officer
Neil Austin, Group Finance Director 
  LTIP    Annual bonus     Salary and benefits
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Fixed On target Maximum
800
600
400
200
0
Fixed On target Maximum
Total:
£833,000
Total:
£615,000
Total:
£635,000
66
Total:
£469,000
49
Total:
£305,000
Total:
£225,000
305
264
264
305 305
264
225
195
225 225
195
195
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
CONTINUED 33
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF 
APPOINTMENT
The Group’s current policy is not to enter into 
employment contracts with any element of 
notice period in excess of one year. Dates of 
service contracts and first appointment to the 
Board for all Directors are given opposite.
For early termination, the Remuneration 
Committee will consider circumstances, 
including any duty to mitigate, and determine 
any compensation payments accordingly.
Copies of Executive Directors’ service contracts 
and Non-Executive Directors’ letters of 
appointment are available for inspection at 
the Company’s registered office during normal 
hours of business and will be available at the 
Company’s AGM.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Remuneration Committee
In this section we give details of the composition 
of the Remuneration Committee and activities 
undertaken during the 2015 financial year. 
2015 AGM
The 2014 remuneration report received a 
99.91% vote in favour, with 0.09% against. 
The approval of the remuneration policy 
received a 89.78% vote in favour, with 
10.22% against.
Shareholder Contact
No shareholders have contacted the 
Remuneration Committee during the year to 
share views regarding remuneration.
Date of service contract/
letter of appointment
Date first appointed
to the Board
Executive Directors
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
18 October 2012
1 January 2013
1 March 2013
1 May 2013
Non-Executive Directors
Chris Holmes
Alistair Wannop
Robert Heygate
John Worby
Ian Wood
1 September 2015
1 September 2015
1 September 2015
1 April 2015
1 October 2015
7 January 1992
1 September 2005
1 May 1991
1 April 2015
1 October 2015
         Salary/Fees          Benefits       Bonus       LTIP    Pension      Total
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Executive Directors
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
261
193
256
189
35*
1
9
1
261
193
256
189
315
233
—
—
39
29
38
28
911
649
559
407
Non-Executive Directors
Chris Holmes
Alistair Wannop
Robert Heygate
John Worby
1
77
36
36
15
75
36
36
—
 —
 —
 —
 —
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
77
36
36
15
75
36
36
—
1 Represents a 5 month period – pro rata would be £36,000
* Benefits in 2015 include certain relocation costs agreed at the time of appointment.
2015 Remuneration (Audited Information)
In this section we summarise the pay packages 
awarded to our Executive Directors for 
performance in the 2015 financial year versus 
2014. The table below shows all remuneration 
that was earned by each individual during the 
year and includes a single total remuneration 
figure for the year. The value of the annual 
bonus was earned in the year but will be paid 
out as cash in the following financial year.
The Remuneration Committee reviews all 
incentive awards prior to payment and has full 
discretion to reduce awards if it believes this 
is appropriate. The Committee did not exercise 
any discretion in determining the annual bonus 
payout for this year.
The performance period for the 2013 LTIP 
awards has completed, and the awards will vest 
at 100%. The awards do not vest however until 
the expiry of the three year period, which is May 
2016, therefore the share price used to value 
the awards in the table above has been taken 
as the average price in the final quarter of the 
2014/15 financial year. 34
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
2015 ANNUAL BONUS PAYOUT
The annual bonus is payable based on adjusted 
profit before tax (‘PBT’) performance of 
different parts of the Group, and an element 
payable based on total Group performance. 
If the Group target is achieved, regardless of 
individual divisional performance, then the 
maximum bonus is payable. Adjusted PBT is 
calculated as reported PBT after adding back or 
deducting any one-off items outside of normal 
trading that were not anticipated at the time 
the performance targets were set, such as 
acquisition related costs.
The targets are split between the different 
aspects of the Group as follows:
Agriculture
Food
Engineering
Group
20%
20%
20%
40%
In the 2015 financial year the adjusted PBT 
target for the Group was set at £17.62m for 
maximum payout. An adjusted PBT in excess 
of this was achieved, therefore the maximum 
bonus was awarded.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS DURING 
THE YEAR
The 2015 long-term awards were in line with 
the remuneration policy as disclosed in our 
2014 remuneration report. The performance 
conditions are based on annual average growth 
in adjusted EPS over a three year period.
Average annual growth %
3
10
% vesting
25
100
Nothing is payable below 3%, and a sliding scale 
operates between this and the maximum available.
ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
The Executive Directors are also eligible to 
participate in the UK all-employee plans.
The CMI Sharesave Scheme 2006 is a HM 
Revenue & Customs (‘HMRC’) approved scheme 
open to all staff permanently employed in a 
UK Group company as of the eligibility date. 
Options under the plan are granted at a 20% 
discount to market value. Executive Directors’ 
participation is included in the option table later 
in this report.
FIVE YEAR HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE
 
 Carr’s Group plc       FTSE All-Share Price Index
Source: Thomson Datastream
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
31/08/10
30/11/10
28/02/11
31/05/11
31/08/11
30/11/11
29/02/12
31/05/12
31/08/12
30/11/12
28/02/13
31/05/13
31/08/13
30/11/13
28/02/14
31/05/14
31/08/14
30/11/14
28/02/15
31/05/15
31/08/15
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE REPORT 
CONTINUED 35
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN THE SHARES OF THE 
COMPANY (AUDITED INFORMATION)
A summary of interests in shares and scheme 
interests of the Directors who served during the 
year is given opposite.
PERFORMANCE SHARES (AUDITED INFORMATION)
The maximum number of outstanding shares 
that have been awarded to Directors under the 
LTIP are currently as follows:
CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REMUNERATION
In the table opposite we show the percentage 
change in the Chief Executive’s remuneration 
between 2014 and 2015 financial years 
compared to the other employees.
RELATIVE SPEND ON PAY
The table shows the relative importance of 
spend on pay compared to distributions to 
shareholders.
ASSESSING PAY AND PERFORMANCE
In the table opposite we summarise the Chief 
Executive’s single remuneration figure over 
the past 5 years, as well as how variable pay 
plans have paid out in relation to the maximum 
opportunity.
Total number of 
interests in shares Unvested LTIP
SAYE (unvested 
without performance 
conditions)
Executive Directors
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
20,000
20,000
315,620
233,560
2,958
4,933
Non-Executive Directors
Chris Holmes
Alistair Wannop
Bob Heygate
John Worby
1,252,500
22,610
372,250
25,000
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
2012/13 award 2013/14 award 2014/15 award
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
190,110
140,680
152,260
112,670
163,360
120,890
Tim Davies Other employees
Base pay
Benefits
Annual bonus
2.0%
289.0%
2.0%
2.0%
0%
2.0%
2015
£’000
2014
£’000 % change
Employee costs
Dividends paid to shareholders
39,148
3,110
35,755
2,912
9.5%
6.8%
2011
Chris 
Holmes
£’000
2012
Chris 
Holmes
£’000
2013
Tim
Davies
£’000
2014
Tim
Davies
£’000
2015
Tim
Davies
£’000
Single figure of total remuneration
Annual variable element (actual award
  versus maximum opportunity)
Long-term incentive (vesting versus
  maximum opportunity)
845
100%
N/A
573
100%
N/A
283
1
100%
N/A
559
100%
N/A
596
100%
100%
1 Represents a 6 month period – pro rata would be £566,000
By order of the Board
ALISTAIR WANNOP 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
11 November 2015 36
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE REPORT
INTRODUCTION
This year the Board created a Nomination 
Committee. During the year the Committee 
focused on Board succession plans, and the 
outcomes are set out in this report.
Looking ahead, this year we plan to focus in 
particular on succession planning for critical 
roles in senior management to ensure that our 
talent pipeline is appropriately resourced and 
supported.
COMPOSITION AND CONSTITUTION
The Nomination Committee comprises the 
Chairman of the Company and all the Non-
Executive Directors.  
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee meets at least once a year, it 
reviews the structure, size and composition of 
the Board and considers the optimal level of 
independence and diversity of skills, knowledge, 
experience and gender required for the Board 
to operate effectively. It is responsible for 
considering and making recommendations to 
the Board on new appointments of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors. It also gives due 
consideration to succession planning throughout 
the Group, taking into account the challenge 
and opportunities facing the Group and the 
skills and expertise needed within the Board 
and senior management in the future.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE
The Committee met on two occasions in the 
year to consider the following matters:
•	 the 	 structure, 	 size, 	 composition 	 and 	 diversity	
of both the Board and its Committees;
•	 	 the 	 Committee’ s 	 T erms 	 of 	 Reference 	 to	
ensure they reflect the Committee’s remit.
BOARD SUCCESSION PLANNING
John Worby joined the Board on 1 April 2015, 
and Ian Wood joined the Board on 1 October 
2015. Both appointments were made after 
conclusion of a process which included using 
independent external search consultants.  
Biographical details are set out on page 21.
RE-ELECTION
At the AGM on 5 January 2016, John and 
Ian will stand for election for the first time. 
Executive Directors and all other Non-Executive 
Directors will stand for re-election in accordance 
with best practice under the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2012.
The Board has set out in the Notice of AGM 
its reasons for supporting the re-election of 
the Directors at the forthcoming AGM. Their 
biographical details on page 21 demonstrate the 
range of experience and skills which each brings 
to the benefit of the Group.
The Chair of the Nomination Committee will 
attend the AGM to respond to any Shareholder 
questions that might be raised on the 
Committee’s activities.
On behalf of the Board
 
CHRIS HOLMES
Chair of the Nomination Committee
11 November 2015
CHRIS HOLMES
CHAIR OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 37
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT
THE DIRECTORS SUBMIT THEIR REPORT AND 
THE AUDITED ACCOUNTS OF THE COMPANY FOR 
THE YEAR ENDED 29 AUGUST 2015.
The Company is a public limited company 
incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales 
whose shares are listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The address of its registered 
office is Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
A review of the results can be found on pages 
18 to 19.
2015 2014*
First Interim dividend per
  share paid on 15 May 2015
Second Interim dividend per
  share paid on 9 October 2015
Final dividend per share 
  proposed
0.925p
0.925p
1.85p
0.85p
0.85p
1.70p
*restated due to 10:1 share split on 14 January 2015.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final 
dividend will be paid on 15 January 2016 
to members on the register at the close of 
business on 18 December 2015. Shares will 
be ex-dividend on 17 December 2015.
The Group profit from continuing activities 
before taxation was £17.5 million (2014: £16.6 
million). After taxation charge of £3.8 million 
(2014: £3.7 million), the profit for the year is 
£13.7 million (2014: £12.9 million). 
PENSIONS
Estimates of the amount and timing of future 
funding obligations for the Group’s pension plans 
are based on various assumptions including, 
among other things, the actual and projected 
market performance of the pension plan assets, 
future long-term corporate bond yields, longevity 
of members and statutory requirements. The 
Group continued to make monthly payments to 
reduce the Group’s pension fund deficit, totalling 
Group contributed £43,920 (2014: £41,000) 
in the UK for charitable purposes. Further 
details have been included with the Corporate 
Responsibility statement on page 24. There 
were no political donations during the year 
(2014: £Nil).
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
The market value of the Group’s investment 
properties at 29 August 2015 exceeded their net 
book amount by approximately 429,000. The 
previous valuation in July 2011 for the majority 
of the investment properties was undertaken by 
independent, professionally qualified valuers. 
The Directors have reviewed the valuations and 
are satisfied there are no significant changes to 
the assumptions and the valuations.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has a single class of share capital 
which is divided into Ordinary Shares of £0.025 
each. The movement in the share capital during 
the year is detailed in note 25 to the financial 
statements.
In January 2015 the Company’s shareholders 
approved the split of the Company’s shares 
10:1, which reduced the nominal value of the 
ordinary shares to 2.5 pence each.
At the last AGM the Directors received authority 
from the shareholders to:
Allot Shares – this gives Directors the authority 
to allot authorised but unissued shares and 
maintains the flexibility in respect of the 
Company’s financing arrangements. The nominal 
value of ordinary shares which the Directors 
may allot in the period up to the next AGM to be 
held on 5 January 2016, is limited to £737,865 
which is equal to 33% of the nominal value of 
the issued share capital on 12 November 2014. 
£2.3 million in the year, which are scheduled to 
end on 31 December 2015.
The Group continually reviews this risk and 
takes action to mitigate where possible. In 
addition, while the Group is consulted by the 
Trustees on the investment strategies of its 
pension plans, the Group has no direct control 
over these matters as the Trustees are directly 
responsible for the strategy.
Details of the Group’s pension plans are in note 
24 in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEES
The Company is committed to its employees 
and further details on the Company’s policies 
and commitment can be found in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report on pages 22 to 24.
ENVIRONMENT
The Company’s report on sustainability including 
carbon footprint and energy usage is on pages  
23 and 24.
ACQUISITIONS
On 20 October 2014 Carrs Billington 
Agriculture (Sales) Ltd acquired the entire 
issued share capital of WM. Nicholls & Company 
(Crickhowell) Ltd, an agricultural merchant 
based in Crickhowell, Wales. For the cash 
consideration payable see note 27 on page 85.
On 12 June 2015, Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales) Ltd acquired the entire issued share 
capital of Reid & Robertson Ltd, an agricultural 
merchant based in Balloch, Ayr and Oban, 
Scotland. For the cash consideration payable 
see note 27 on page 85.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS
During the period ended 29 August 2015 the  38
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The directors do not have any present intention of 
exercising this authority other than in connection 
with the issue of ordinary shares in respect of 
the Company’s share option plans. This authority 
will expire at the end of the AGM to be held on 5 
January 2016.
Disapplication of rights of pre-emption – this 
disapplies rights of pre-emption on the allotment 
of shares by the Company and the sale by the 
Company of treasury shares. The authority will 
allow the Directors to allot equity securities for 
cash pursuant to the authority to allot shares 
mentioned above, and to sell treasury shares for 
cash, on a pro rata basis to existing shareholders 
(but subject to any exclusion or arrangements 
as the Directors consider necessary or expedient 
in relation to fractional entitlements, any legal, 
regulatory or practical problems or costs under 
the laws or regulations of any overseas territory or 
the requirements of any regulatory body or stock 
exchange) and otherwise on a pro rata basis up 
to an aggregate nominal amount of £111,798, 
representing 5% of the Company’s issued share 
capital as at 12 November 2014. This authority 
will expire at the end of the AGM to be held on 5 
January 2016.
To buy own shares – this authority allows the 
Company to buy its own shares in the market, 
as permitted under the Articles of Association 
of the Company, up to a limit of 10% of the 
Company’s issued share capital. The price to 
be paid for any share must not be less than 
0.25p, being the nominal value of a share, and 
must not exceed 105% of the average middle 
market quotations for the ordinary shares of the 
Company as derived from the London Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business 
days immediately preceding the day on which 
the ordinary shares are purchased. The Directors 
have no immediate plans to exercise the powers 
of the Company to purchase its own shares 
and undertaken that the authority would only 
be exercised if the Directors were satisfied 
that a purchase would result in an increase in 
expected earnings per share and was in the best 
interests of the Company at the time.  
This authority will expire at the end of the AGM 
to be held on 5 January 2016. The Directors 
would consider holding any of its own shares 
that it purchases pursuant to this authority as 
treasury shares.
The interests of the Directors, as defined by the 
Companies Act 2006, in the ordinary shares of 
the Company, other than in respect of options to 
acquire ordinary shares (which are detailed  
in the analysis of options included in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages  
30 to 35), are as follows:
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to 
the provisions of the Articles of Association and 
to any special rights or restrictions as to voting 
attached to any class of shares in the Company 
(of which they are none), the holders of the 
Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote in a 
poll for every Ordinary Share held. No member 
shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting 
or class meeting in respect of any shares held if 
any call or other sum then payable in respect of 
that share remains unpaid. Currently all issued 
shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising 
voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be 
considered at the AGM to be held on 5 January 
2016 are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, 
declare a dividend to be paid to the members, 
but no dividend shall exceed the amount 
recommended by the Board. The Board may 
pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate 
dividend, whenever the financial position of the 
Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies 
its payment. All dividends shall be apportioned 
and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid 
up on the shares.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
The Company has been informed of the 
following interests at 11 November 2015 in the 
89,820,680 ordinary shares of the Company, as 
required by the Companies Act 2006:
Interest of the Directors
At 29 August 2015
Ordinary 
Shares
At 30 August 2014
Ordinary 
Shares
Tim Davies
Neil Austin
Chris Holmes
Robert Heygate
Alistair Wannop
John Worby
20,000
20,000
1,252,500
372,250
22,610
25,000
10,000*
10,000*
1,252,500*
372,250*
22,610*
 0
*restated due to 10:1 share split on 14 January 2015.
All the above interests are beneficial. There have been no other changes to the above interests 
in the period from 29 August 2015 to 11 November 2015.
Major Shareholders
Number of shares
% of issued share 
capital
Heygate & Sons Limited*
T W G Charlton
Goldman Sachs Securities (Nominees) Ltd (ILSEG)
Rathbone Nominees Limited
HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited
12,652,870
5,100,000
4,335,940
3,644,950
2,968,940
14.1
5.68
4.83
4.06
3.31
* Robert Heygate is a director of Heygate & Sons Ltd. 
DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT 
CONTINUED 39
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CHANGE OF CONTROL
There are no agreements that the Company 
considers significant and to which the 
Company is party that would take effect, alter 
or terminate upon change of control of the 
Company following a takeover bid, other than 
the following:
•	 	 The 	 Company 	 is 	 party 	 to 	 a 	 number 	 of	
banking agreements which upon a change of 
control of the Company are terminable by the 
bank immediately.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and the Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
RESPONSIBILITY FOR PREPARING FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial period. 
Under that law the Directors have elected 
to prepare the Group and parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the Financial Statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group 
for that period. In preparing those Financial 
Statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select 	 suitable 	 accounting 	 policies 	 and 	 then	
apply them consistently;
•	 make 	 judgements 	 and 	 accounting 	 estimates	
that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 state 	 whether 	 applicable 	 IFRSs 	 as 	 adopted	
by the European Union have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements;
• 	 	 prepare 	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 on 	 the 	 going	
concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the Company will continue in 
business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and of the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the Financial Statements 
and Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Company 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of Financial Statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF 
INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
The Directors who were members of the Board 
at the time of approving the Directors’ Report 
are listed on page 21. Having made enquiries 
of fellow Directors each of these Directors, at 
the date of this report, confirms that:
•	 	 he 	 is 	 aware 	 there 	 is 	 no 	 relevant 	 audit	
information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware; and 
•	 	 he 	 has 	 taken 	 all 	 the 	 steps 	 that 	 he 	 ought	
to have taken as a Director in order to 
make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed on page 21 confirm that, to 
the best of their knowledge:
•	 the 	 Group 	 Financial 	 Statements, 	 which 	 have	
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit of the Group; 
•	 the 	 Chief 	 Executive’ s 	 Review 	 includes 	 a 	 fair	
review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the 
Group; and
•	 the 	 Risk 	 Management 	 review 	 provides	
a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that the Company faces.
By Order of the Board
KATIE SINCLAIR
Company Secretary
11 November 2015 40
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARR’S GROUP PLC
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
•	 Carr’s Group plc’s Group financial statements 
and Company financial statements (the 
“financial statements”) give a true and fair 
view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 29 August 2015 and 
of the Group’s profit and the Group’s and the 
Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
•	 the 	 Group 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been	
properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European 
Union;
•	 the 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been	
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006; and
Overview
 
 
 
• 		 Overall 	 Group 	 materiality: 	 £875,000 	 which 	 represents 	 5% 	 of 	 profit 	 before 	 tax.
 
• 		 Audit 	 of 	 complete 	 financial 	 information 	 of 	 two 	 financially 	 significant 	 reporting 	 units 	 and 	 three	
significant risk reporting units.
• 	 Specified 	 audit 	 procedures 	 over 	 four 	 other 	 reporting 	 units.
• 	 Reporting 	 units 	 located 	 in 	 UK, 	 USA 	 and 	 Germany 	 visited.
 
 
• 	 Fraud 	 risk 	 in 	 revenue 	 recognition.
• 	 Defined 	 benefit 	 pension 	 scheme 	 surplus.
• 	 Receivable 	 provisioning.
Materiality
Audit scope
Area of 
focus
•	 the 	 financial 	 statements 	 have 	 been 	 prepared	
in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the 
Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual 
Report”), comprise:
•	 the 	 Consolidated 	 and 	 Company 	 Balance	
Sheets as at 29 August 2015;
•	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Income 	 Statement 	 and	
Consolidated and Company Statements of 
Comprehensive Income for the year then 
ended;
•	 the 	 Consolidated 	 Statement 	 of 	 Changes 	 in	
Equity for the year then ended;
•	 the 	 Company 	 Statement 	 of 	 Changes 	 in 	 Equity	
for the year then ended;
•	 the 	 Consolidated 	 and 	 Company 	 Statements 	 of	
Cash Flows for the year then ended;
•	 the 	 Principal 	 Accounting 	 Policies; 	 and
•	 the 	 Notes 	 to 	 the 	 Financial 	 Statements, 	 which	
include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented 
elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in 
the notes to the financial statements. These are 
cross-referenced from the financial statements 
and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the financial 
statements is applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union and, as regards 
the Company financial statements, as applied 
in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining 
materiality and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement in the financial statements. In 
particular, we looked at where the Directors 
made subjective judgements, for example in 
respect of significant accounting estimates that 
involved making assumptions and considering 
future events that are inherently uncertain. As 
in all of our audits we also addressed the risk 
of management override of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence 
of bias by the directors that represented a risk of 
material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had 
the greatest effect on our audit, including 
the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. 
We have also set out how we tailored our audit 
to address these specific areas in order to 
provide an opinion on the financial statements 
as a whole, and any comments we make on the 
results of our procedures should be read in this 
context. This is not a complete list of all risks 
identified by our audit. 
OUR AUDIT APPROACH 41
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS
Fraud risk in revenue recognition
Refer also to the significant judgements, key assumptions 
and estimates within the principal accounting policies.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in 
revenue recognition. We have determined this to apply 
specifically to the occurrence of revenue in all divisions 
because of the pressure management may feel to achieve 
the planned results. Within the Agriculture and Food 
division this is specifically in relation to whether a sale 
has occurred and within the Engineering division this is in 
relation to the judgements involved in long term contract 
accounting.
Our testing of revenue transactions focused on demonstrating a service had been 
provided or a sale had occurred.
For the Agriculture and Food divisions this involved testing the operating 
effectiveness of controls around dispatches and invoicing as well as substantively 
testing that revenue agreed to accounts receivable and cash received. Where 
revenue did not directly agree to accounts receivable/cash further work was 
performed to understand and substantively test those transactions. From the work 
we performed no material exceptions were noted.
For the Engineering division we focused on the judgements required to account for 
long term contracts. This involved reading extracts of the related contracts in order 
to understand the nature of services provided. We also evaluated management’s 
assessment of the stage of completion of significant contracts through performing 
a look back test to assess management’s previous estimations as well as on a 
sample basis agreeing the inputs into the calculation of the revenue to supporting 
documentation and reperforming the calculation.
From the work we performed no material exceptions were noted.
Defined benefit pension scheme surplus
Refer also to the significant judgements, key assumptions 
and estimates within the principal accounting policies and 
note 24.
The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme with post-
retirement assets of £62.1 million and post-retirement 
liabilities of £60.4 million, which are significant in the 
context of the overall balance sheet of the Group.
The valuation of the pension scheme liabilities requires 
significant levels of judgement and technical expertise in 
choosing appropriate assumptions. Unfavourable changes 
in a number of the key assumptions (including salary 
increases, inflation, discount rates, and mortality) can have 
a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
In addition, the recognition of the post-retirement plan 
surplus position for accounting purposes is dependent on 
the rights of the employer to recover any surplus.
Utilising our pension specialists we focused on the valuations of pension plan 
liabilities and the pension assets as follows:
• 		 W e 	 compared 	 the 	 assumptions 	 around 	 salary 	 increases 	 and 	 mortality 	 rates 	 to	
national and industry averages and guidance.
• 		 W e 	 compared 	 the 	 discount 	 and 	 inflation 	 rates 	 used 	 in 	 the 	 valuation 	 of 	 the	
pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks.
• 		 W e 	 obtained 	 third 	 party 	 confirmations 	 on 	 ownership 	 and 	 valuation 	 of 	 pension	
assets.
• 		 W e 	 tested 	 the 	 census 	 data 	 back 	 to 	 the 	 latest 	 triennial 	 valuation 	 provided 	 by 	 the	
administrator.
• 		 W e 	 checked 	 that 	 the 	 Company 	 is 	 entitled 	 to 	 any 	 surplus 	 by 	 examining 	 the 	 T rust	
Deed and Rules documentation.
We found that the assumptions underlying the pension scheme surplus were 
consistent with external data and internally developed benchmarks. We found no 
material exceptions from our other testing.
Receivable provisioning
Refer also to the significant judgements, key assumptions 
and estimates within the principal accounting policies and 
note 18.
The Group has material amounts of trade receivables that 
are past due and not impaired. The key associated risk 
was the recoverability of these past due trade receivables. 
Management’s related provisions are subjective and are 
influenced by assumptions concerning customer credit 
risk.
We focused in particular on the Agriculture division given 
the significance of this division’s receivables balances to 
the Group balance sheet and the slower historic collection 
pattern in this division.
With focus on the Agriculture division we understood management’s receivables 
provisioning policy and tested the accuracy of the ageing of the receivables 
balances in order to recalculate management’s receivables provision. We then 
analysed the receivables provision focusing on any anomalies in the provisioning 
methodology and followed up any anomalies, such as unusual payment terms, 
through investigation with management and review of customer payment history.
We tested the operating effectiveness of controls around approval of credit limits 
for customers and monthly detailed review of the receivables ledger. We examined 
large individual aged receivable balances, understanding the rationale for 
management’s provisioning decisions by reference to payment patterns during the 
year as well as other information available.
We also assessed the level of cash collected by the business after the year end on 
past due receivable balances to consider any additional provisioning requirements.
From the work we performed we did not identify any further material balances 
requiring a provision and no material exceptions were noted. 42
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Overall Group 
materiality
£875,000 (2014: £830,000).
How we 
determined it
5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for 
benchmark 
applied
We believe that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the 
shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally 
accepted auditing benchmark.
Reporting unit 
materiality
For each reporting unit in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that 
was less than our overall Group materiality. The range of materiality allocated 
across reporting units was between £111,000 and £800,000. 
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that 
we performed enough work to be able to give an 
opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
taking into account the geographic structure of 
the Group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the Group operates.
 
The Group is structured in three business 
divisions, Agriculture, Food and Engineering. The 
Group financial statements are a consolidation 
of 16 reporting units, comprising the Group’s 
operating businesses within these business 
divisions. The Group operates mainly in the UK 
but has a global presence particularly in the USA 
and Germany.
Within the Agriculture division significant 
operations include subsidiaries Carrs Billington 
Agriculture (Sales) Limited and Carrs 
Agriculture Limited as well as an associate Carrs 
Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited all 
located within the UK. Within Food the largest 
operation is Carr’s Flour Mills Limited again 
located in the UK. Finally within the Engineering 
division Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH, 
located in Germany, is the largest operation.
The Group also has centralised functions 
such as a treasury function and a payroll 
function which includes the pension scheme 
administration, all performed by the Company.
We identified five reporting units, being those 
named above within the Agriculture and Food 
divisions alongside the Company, which in 
our view required an audit of their complete 
financial information. Two of these reporting 
units were deemed financially significant and 
the other three were selected for particular risk 
characteristics, which included coverage of the 
risks relating to pension assumptions and fraud 
in revenue recognition, and of the profit from 
the associate. 
Specific audit procedures on certain balances 
and transactions were performed on four further 
reporting units, including those based in the 
USA and Germany, in order to gain coverage of 
individually material financial statement line 
items.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited six of 
the nine reporting units located in both the UK 
and in Germany. For another two he attended 
the clearance meeting, one of which was via 
conference call in respect of the associate 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) 
Limited which was audited by another firm 
operating under our instruction. The final 
reporting unit based in the US was visited by a 
senior member of the audit team.
statements were signed. As part of our audit we 
have concluded that the Directors’ use of the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements is appropriate. 
However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, these statements 
are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion:
•	 the 	 information 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Strategic 	 Report	
and the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements; and
These nine reporting units accounted for 88% 
of Group revenue and 63% of Group profit 
before tax.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by 
our application of materiality. We set certain 
quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, 
helped us to determine the scope of our audit 
and the nature, timing and extent of our 
audit procedures on the individual financial 
statement line items and disclosures and in 
evaluating the effect of misstatements, both 
individually and on the financial statements 
as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we 
determined materiality for the financial 
statements as a whole as follows:
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we 
would report to them misstatements identified 
during our audit above £44,000 (2014: 
£42,000) as well as misstatements below that 
amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for 
qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the Directors’ statement, set out on 
page 27, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the 
Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to 
prepare the financial statements using the going 
concern basis of accounting. The going concern 
basis presumes that the Group and Company 
have adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the Directors intend them to do so, 
for at least one year from the date the financial 
•	 the 	 information 	 given 	 in 	 the 	 Corporate	
Governance Statement set out on pages 25 
to 27 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital 
structures is consistent with the financial 
statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARR’S GROUP PLC 
CONTINUED 43
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 Information 	 in 	 the 	 Annual 	 Report 	 is:
 − materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 −  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 − otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions to 
report.
•	 the statement given by the Directors on page 27, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the ‘Code’), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and Company’s performance, business model and strategy is 
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to 
report.
•	 	 the 	 section 	 of 	 the 	 Annual 	 Report 	 on 	 pages 	 28 	 to 	 29, 	 as 	 required 	 by 	 provision 	 C.3.8 	 of 	 the 	 Code, 	 describing 	 the 	 work 	 of	
the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions to 
report.
Adequacy of accounting records and information 
and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 we 	 have 	 not 	 received 	 all 	 the 	 information 	 and	
explanations we require for our audit; or
•	 adequate 	 accounting 	 records 	 have 	 not 	 been	
kept by the Company, or returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
•	 the 	 Company 	 financial 	 statements 	 and 	 the	
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 
2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion, certain 
disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to 
report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion, a Corporate 
Governance Statement has not been prepared 
by the Company. We have no exceptions to 
report arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to ten provisions of the Code. 
We have nothing to report having performed our 
review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 39, the 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and 
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands 
it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
•	 whether 	 the 	 accounting 	 policies 	 are	
appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
•	 the 	 reasonableness 	 of 	 significant 	 accounting	
estimates made by the Directors; and
•	 the 	 overall 	 presentation 	 of 	 the 	 financial	
statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas 
by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in 
the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, to 
the extent we consider necessary to provide a 
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtain audit evidence through testing the 
effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures 
or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing the audit. If we become aware 
of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for 
our report.
BILL MACLEOD (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne
11 November 2015 44
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  2015 2014
 Notes £’000 £’000
Continuing operations  
Revenue 2 411,565 428,956
Cost of sales  (356,708) (378,670)
Gross profit  54,857 50,286
Distribution costs  (21,313) (19,438)
Administrative expenses  (17,169) (15,421)
Group operating profit 3 16,375 15,427
Finance income 5 197 264
Finance costs 5 (1,412) (1,624)
Share of post-tax profit in associate  1,500 1,579
Share of post-tax profit in joint ventures  807 907
Profit before taxation 2 17,467 16,553
Taxation 6 (3,774) (3,660)
Profit for the year  13,693 12,893
Profit attributable to:
Equity shareholders  11,989 11,372
Non-controlling interests  1,704 1,521
  13,693 12,893 
Earnings per ordinary share (pence) 
Basic 8 13.4 12.8 
Diluted 8 12.9 12.3
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 AUGUST 2015 45
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Group Company
   2015 2014 2015 2014
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the year  13,693 12,893 2,870 2,021
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently 
  to profit or loss:
Foreign exchange translation gains/(losses) arising  
 on translation of overseas subsidiaries  20 (950) — —
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently 
  to profit or loss:
Actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement benefit obligation:
 – Group 24 (2,848) 3,209 (2,848) 3,209
 – Share of associate  70 (619) — —
Taxation credit/(charge) on actuarial (losses)/gains  
  on retirement benefit obligation:
 – Group 16 570 (642) 570 (642)
 – Share of associate  (14) 124 — —
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year, 
  net of tax  (2,202) 1,122 (2,278) 2,567
Total comprehensive income for the year  11,491 14,015 592 4,588
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Equity shareholders  9,787 12,494 592 4,588
Non-controlling interests  1,704 1,521 — —
   11,491 14,015 592 4,588
CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 AUGUST 2015 46
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Group Company
   2015 2014 2015 2014
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 9 10,849 9,798 — —
Other intangible assets 9 448 499 — —
Property, plant and equipment 10 58,385 56,626 — —
Investment property 11 636 656 — —
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 12,15 — — 12,205 12,755
Investment in associate 12,13 8,439 6,883 245 245
Interest in joint ventures 12,14 5,012 4,836 272 272
Other investments 12 79 77 — —
Financial assets 
– Non-current receivables 18 50 501 — 500
Retirement benefit asset 24 1,767 2,056 1,767 2,056
Deferred tax assets 16 861 1,507 3 3
   86,526 83,439 14,492 15,831
Current assets
Inventories  17 35,031 33,315 — —
Trade and other receivables  18 64,454 63,623 36,845 33,812
Current tax assets 19 839 47 1,564 1,192
Financial assets
– Derivative financial instruments 23 50 — 30 —
– Cash and cash equivalents  20 16,488 17,268 8,973 8,822
   116,862 114,253 47,412 43,826
Total assets   203,388 197,692 61,904 59,657
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
– Borrowings 22 (15,157) (19,688) (690) (1,553)
– Derivative financial instruments 23 (72) (15) — —
Trade and other payables 21 (54,496) (54,236) (1,915) (1,302)
Current tax liabilities  (472) (1,631) — —
    (70,197) (75,570) (2,605) (2,855)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings 22 (25,744) (22,189) (16,414) (12,047)
Deferred tax liabilities 16 (4,184) (4,111) (353) (412)
Other non-current liabilities 21 (4,300) (5,995) — —
   (34,228) (32,295) (16,767) (12,459)
Total liabilities  (104,425) (107,865) (19,372) (15,314)
Net assets   98,963 89,827 42,532 44,343
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital  25 2,244 2,235 2,244 2,235
Share premium   8,615 8,453 8,615 8,453
Equity compensation reserve  1,138 640 1,239 699
Foreign exchange reserve  (515) (535) — —
Other reserve   862 875 — —
Retained earnings   74,706 67,996 30,434 32,956
Total shareholders’ equity  87,050 79,664 42,532 44,343
Non-controlling interests  11,913 10,163 — —
Total equity   98,963 89,827 42,532 44,343
The financial statements set out on pages 44 to 91 were approved by the Board on 11 November 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Tim J Davies Neil Austin
CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY BALANCE SHEETS
AS AT 29 AUGUST 2015 47
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    Equity Foreign   Total Non-
  Share Share Compensation Exchange Other  Retained Shareholders’ controlling  Total
  Capital Premium Reserve  Reserve Reserve Earnings Equity Interests Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 September 2013  2,223 8,183 326 415 888 57,396 69,431 8,610 78,041
Profit for the year — — — — — 11,372 11,372 1,521 12,893
Other comprehensive 
 (expense)/income — — — (950) — 2,072 1,122 — 1,122
Total comprehensive         
  (expense)/income — — — (950) — 13,444 12,494 1,521 14,015
Dividends paid — — — — — (2,912) (2,912) — (2,912)
Equity settled share-  
 based payment  
 transactions, net of tax — — 314 — — 55 369 32 401
Allotment of shares 12 270 — — — — 282 — 282
Transfer — — — — (13) 13 — — —
At 30 August 2014  2,235 8,453 640 (535) 875 67,996 79,664 10,163 89,827
At 31 August 2014  2,235 8,453 640 (535) 875 67,996 79,664 10,163 89,827 
Profit for the year — — — — — 11,989 11,989 1,704 13,693
Other comprehensive       
 income/(expense) — — — 20 — (2,222) (2,202) — (2,202)
Total comprehensive 
  income/(expense) — — — 20 — 9,767 9,787 1,704 11,491
Dividends paid — — — — — (3,110) (3,110) — (3,110)
Equity settled share-  
 based payment  
 transactions, net of tax — — 498 — — 40 538 46 584
Allotment of shares 9 162 — — — — 171 — 171
Transfer — — — — (13) 13 — — —
At 29 August 2015 2,244 8,615 1,138 (515) 862 74,706 87,050 11,913 98,963
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative accounting impact, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share schemes 
over the vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the consolidated income statement. During the year 
£40,000 (2014: £55,000) was transferred from the equity compensation reserve to retained earnings in respect of options exercised in the year.
The Group has opted to use previous revaluations of property made under UK GAAP as deemed cost. On adoption of IFRS the revaluation reserve  
was reclassified to other reserves.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 AUGUST 2015 48
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    Equity Foreign   
  Share Share Compensation Exchange Retained Total
  Capital Premium Reserve  Reserve Earnings Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 September 2013 2,223 8,183 373 (221) 31,481 42,039
Profit for the year — — — — 2,021 2,021
Other comprehensive income — — — — 2,567 2,567
Total comprehensive income — — — — 4,588 4,588
Dividends paid — — — — (2,912) (2,912)
Equity settled share-based payment 
 transactions, net of tax — — 326 — 20 346
Allotment of shares 12 270 — — — 282
Transfer — — — 221 (221) —
At 30 August 2014 2,235 8,453 699 — 32,956 44,343
At 31 August 2014 2,235 8,453 699 — 32,956 44,343
Profit for the year — — — — 2,870 2,870
Other comprehensive expense — — — — (2,278) (2,278)
Total comprehensive income — — — — 592 592
Dividends paid — — — — (3,110) (3,110)
Equity settled share-based payment      
 transactions, net of tax — — 540 — (4) 536
Allotment of shares 9 162 — — — 171
At 29 August 2015 2,244 8,615 1,239 — 30,434 42,532
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative accounting impact, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share schemes over 
the vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement where it relates to employees of 
the Company and to investment in subsidiaries where it relates to employees of the subsidiaries. During the year £4,000 (2014: £20,000) was 
transferred from the equity compensation reserve to retained earnings and £45,000 (2014: £58,000) was transferred from the equity compensation 
reserve to investment in subsidiaries in respect of options exercised in the year.
 
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 AUGUST 2015 49
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Group Company
   2015 2014 2015 2014
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 28 15,127 17,125 (2,915) (3,677)
Interest received  194 275 884 834
Interest paid  (1,380) (1,668) (359) (534)
Tax (paid)/recovered  (3,965) (3,226) (92) 466
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities  9,976 12,506 (2,482) (2,911)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) 27 (1,749) (3,649) — —
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — 4,200 3,510
Net payment of loans to subsidiaries  — — (2,602) (5,401)
Return/(cost) of investment in joint venture  488 (965) — —
Loan repaid by/(paid to) joint ventures  129 (159) — (223)
Loan repaid by associate  500 225 500 225
Other loans  220 (270) — —
Purchase of intangible assets  (15) (57) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   462 738 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (5,970) (7,201) — —
Disposal of investment  — 32 — 29
Redemption of preference shares in joint venture  150 150 — —
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities  (5,785) (11,156) 2,098 (1,860)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital  25 171 283 171 283
Net payment of loans from subsidiaries  — — — (289)
Net proceeds from issue of new bank loans  9,061 2,731 4,854 2,731
Finance lease principal repayments  (2,395) (2,325) — —
Repayment of loan from related party  (500) (225) — —
Repayment of borrowings  (4,880) (7,077) (1,383) (5,971)
(Decrease)/increase in other borrowings  (3,638) 2,256 — —
Dividends paid to shareholders 7 (3,110) (2,912) (3,110) (2,912)
Receipt of grant income  500 450 — —
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities  (4,791) (6,819) 532 (6,158)
Effects of exchange rate changes  (150) (181) 3 (71)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (750) (5,650) 151 (11,000)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 20 17,025 22,675 8,822 19,822
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  20 16,275 17,025 8,973 8,822
CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 AUGUST 2015 50
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern 
basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretation 
Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations endorsed by the European Union 
(EU) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and  
domiciled in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded  
on the London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office  
is Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities 
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts 
of revenues and expenses during the reporting year. Although these 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, 
event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ materially from the 
estimates.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently, other than where new 
policies have been adopted.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historic 
cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and 
financial liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) at fair 
value through profit or loss.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements comprise Carr’s Group plc 
and all its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the results 
of its associate and joint ventures. The financial information of the 
subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures is prepared as of the same 
reporting date and consolidated using consistent accounting policies. 
Group inter-company balances and transactions, including any unrealised 
profits arising from Group inter-company transactions, are eliminated 
in full. Profits and losses on transactions with the associate and joint 
ventures are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the current and 
prior financial year were included in the financial statements from the 
effective date of control. The separable net assets, both tangible and 
intangible, of the acquired subsidiary undertakings were incorporated into 
the financial statements on the basis of the fair value as at the effective 
date of the Group acquiring control.
IFRS 10 introduces a new definition of control which could affect 
whether an entity is consolidated into the Group accounts. An investor 
controls an investee when it is exposed, or has right, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the investee. Control requires power over 
the investee, exposure, or rights, to variable returns and the ability to use 
power to affect returns.
Subsidiaries are entities that meet the new definition of control.  
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which the 
Group ceases to control them. 
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence 
but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 
50% of the voting rights. Joint ventures are entities over which the Group 
has joint control, established by contractual agreement. Investments 
in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity 
method. The Group’s share of its associate and joint ventures’ post-tax 
profits or losses are recognised in the income statement, and its share 
of movement in reserves is recognised in reserves. The cumulative 
movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. 
The Group’s investment in associate and joint ventures includes any 
goodwill arising on acquisition. If the Group’s share of losses in an 
associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment in the 
associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, 
unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the 
associate or joint venture. 
All subsidiaries are accounted for by applying the purchase method.  
The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of 
the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities 
incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group. The 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree 
are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of 
the extent of any non-controlling interest. The excess of the cost of the 
business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised 
as goodwill.
Acquisition related costs are expensed to the consolidated income 
statement in the year they are incurred.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling 
interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUST
IFRS 10 requires that the Group consolidate a structured entity where 
the substance of the relationship between the parties indicates that 
the Group controls the entity. The employee share trust sponsored by 
the Group falls within this category of structured entity and has been 
accounted for as if it were, in substance, a subsidiary.
CURRENCY TRANSLATION
The financial statements for the Group’s subsidiaries, associate and joint 
ventures are prepared using their functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
an entity operates. The presentation currency of the Group is Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Exchange 
differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation, at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using 
the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements 
are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the year. 
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative 
effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, the exchange rate on 
the transaction date is used. Exchange differences arising are recognised 
as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On disposal of a foreign 
operation any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity 
are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue from the sale of goods or services is measured at the fair 
value of the consideration, net of rebates and excluding value added 
tax. Revenue from the sale of goods or services is recognised when the 
Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of 
the goods to the buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured 
reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated 
with the transaction will flow to the Group. Inter segmental transactions 
are on an arm’s length basis.  51
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In respect of construction contracts, revenue is calculated on the basis  
of the stage of completion and the total sales value of each contract.
The stage of completion is determined as the proportion that contract 
costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the total estimated total 
contract costs. No profit is recognised until a contract is at least 30% 
complete. Amounts invoiced for work completed are deducted from the 
selling price, while amounts invoiced in excess of work completed are 
recognised as current liabilities.
Where it is probable that contract costs will exceed total contract revenue 
the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense in the 
consolidated income statement.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s 
Group Pension Scheme and Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme. 
The Group also offers various defined contribution schemes to its 
employees.
The assets of the above named schemes are held separately from those 
of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
consolidated income statement in the year to which they relate.
The asset/(obligation) recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the 
year end in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the 
fair value of scheme assets. Independent actuaries calculate the defined 
benefit asset/(obligation) annually using the projected unit credit method. 
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates  
of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency 
in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity 
approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The service costs, including pension scheme administrative costs are 
included in operating profit in the consolidated income statement.
A charge is made within operating profit which represents a net interest 
amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning 
of the year to the net defined benefit asset/(obligation) at the beginning 
of the year. The net interest amount also takes into account changes to 
the net asset/(obligation) during the year. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income. The pension schemes’ deficits 
or surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, are 
recognised in full on the consolidated balance sheet.
IFRIC 14 confirms that where a company has an unconditional right 
to a refund of surplus from a defined benefit pension plan during the 
lifetime of that plan or when it winds it up, and where there is expected 
to be surplus assets, there is no limit on the asset the Company can 
show on its balance sheet. At 29 August 2015 and 30 August 2014 
the consolidated balance sheet recognises the full surplus on the Carr’s 
Group defined benefit pension scheme.
The Group’s share of the deficit in the Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme is recognised through its investment in associate.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of the grant. The fair value determined at the grant date 
of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares 
that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a valuation model. The expected life 
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best 
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate of the number 
of options that are expected to vest. Changes to the fair value recognised 
as a result of this are charged or credited to the consolidated income 
statement with a corresponding adjustment to the equity compensation 
reserve.
INTEREST
Interest is recognised in the consolidated income statement on an 
accruals basis using the effective interest method. 
BORROWING COSTS
General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are 
assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for 
their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until 
such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use  
or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement in the year in which they are incurred.
OPERATING SEGMENTS
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of 
internal financial information about components of the Group that are 
regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) to 
allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. The 
CODM has been identified as the Executive Directors.
The CODM considers the business from a product/services perspective. 
Operating segments have been identified as Agriculture, Food and 
Engineering.
NON-RECURRING ITEMS
Non-recurring items that are material by size and/or by nature are 
presented within their relevant income statement category. Items that 
management consider fall into this category are disclosed within a note 
to the financial statements. The separate disclosure of non-recurring 
items helps provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business 
performance. Events which may give rise to non-recurring items include, 
but are not limited to, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, 
derivative gains or losses in respect of capital expenditure, gains or losses 
on the disposal of properties, gains or losses on the disposal of material 
investments, the restructuring of businesses, the integration of new 
businesses, acquisition related costs and asset impairments.
GOODWILL
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the 
excess of the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in the 
net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the non-controlling interest 
in the acquiree. 52
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is allocated to each of the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that 
is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit 
or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest 
level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes. Goodwill is monitored at the operating segment 
level.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently 
if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment. 
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, 
which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of 
disposal. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and 
is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 31 August 
1998 has not been reinstated and would not form part of the gain or 
loss on the disposal of a business.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation commences when 
assets are available for use. The expected useful lives, over which the 
assets are amortised, are generally as follows:
Customer relationships 1 – 5 years
Brands 15 – 20 years
Know-how 5 years
Patents and trademarks contractual life
Software 3 – 10 years
Customer relationships and brands are amortised in line with the profit 
and income streams they are respectively expected to generate over their 
expected useful life.
Know-how, patents, trademarks and software are amortised on a 
straight-line basis.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired 
intangible assets comprises the purchase price and any directly 
attributable costs of preparing the assets for use.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS
All research costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as 
incurred. Development costs are recognised as an asset only to the extent 
that specific recognition criteria, as set out in IAS38 ‘Intangible assets’, 
relevant to the proposed application are met and the amount recognised is 
recoverable through future economic benefits.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises 
purchase price and directly attributable costs. 
Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not 
depreciated. For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is 
calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values of 
the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if 
appropriate, at each financial year-end.
Assets not fully constructed at the balance sheet date are classified  
as assets in the course of construction. When construction is complete 
these assets are reclassified to the appropriate heading within property, 
plant and equipment. Depreciation commences when the asset is ready 
for use.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged 
to the consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major 
renovations and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
consolidated income statement.
INVESTMENT PROPERTY
Investment properties are properties held for long-term rental yields. 
Investment properties are carried in the balance sheet at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all 
other investment property, depreciation is calculated on a straight-
line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their 
estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings  up to 50 years
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged 
to the consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major 
renovations and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
consolidated income statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
Non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment where there are 
any events or changes in circumstances that would indicate potential 
impairment. In addition, at each reporting date, the Group assesses 
whether there is any indication that goodwill may be impaired. Where 
an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of 
recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use and is deemed for an individual asset. If the asset does 
not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. Discount rates 
reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used 
for the value in use calculation.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition. Where appropriate, cost is 
calculated on a specific identification basis. Otherwise inventories are 
valued using the first-in first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all 
estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution.
Provision has been made, where necessary, for slow moving, obsolete 
and defective inventories.
Contract work in progress is measured at the selling price of the work 
performed at the balance sheet date. The selling price is measured by 
reference to the stage of completion at the balance sheet date and total 
expected income from the contract work.  53
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Progress payments received are deducted from the value of work in 
progress except to the extent that payments on account exceed the 
value of work in progress on any contract where the excess is included 
in trade and other payables.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated 
statement of cash flows comprise cash at bank and in hand, money 
market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank 
overdrafts are presented in borrowings within current liabilities in the 
consolidated balance sheet.
GRANTS
Grants received on capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income 
and taken to the consolidated income statement in equal annual 
instalments over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. 
Revenue grants and contributions are taken to the consolidated income 
statement in the year to which they apply.
LEASES
Leases are classified as finance leases at inception where substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group. 
Assets classified as finance leases are capitalised on the consolidated 
balance sheet and are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of 
the asset and the term of the lease. The interest element of the rental 
obligations is charged to the consolidated income statement over the 
period of the lease using the actuarial method.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the consolidated 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Leasehold land is normally classified as an operating lease. Payments 
made to acquire leasehold land are included in prepayments at cost 
and are amortised over the life of the lease. Any incentives to enter into 
operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the 
lease term on a straight-line basis.
TAX
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents an estimate of the amounts payable to 
tax authorities in respect of the Group’s taxable profits.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. 
Deferred tax arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not 
recognised. Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments 
in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group 
is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the  
tax relates to items recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, in which 
case the tax is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity through the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
DIVIDENDS
Final equity dividends to the shareholders of the Company are 
recognised in the year that they are approved by the shareholders. 
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the year that they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised in the period in which they  
are received.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
consolidated balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables 
is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not 
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the 
receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability 
that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and 
default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that 
the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of 
estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest 
rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of a 
provision for impairment, and the amount of the loss is recognised in 
the consolidated income statement. The provision is utilised when a 
trade receivable is uncollectible.
Investments
Investments are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.  
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active 
market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured by other 
means are held at cost. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to 
the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in 
the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair 
value net of direct issue costs and are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost. Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or 
redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an effective 
interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument 
to the extent that they are not settled in the year in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs. 54
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts, options and 
currency swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuating foreign exchange 
rates. These instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are 
subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date. 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its international assets and it has 
designated foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against net 
investment in foreign operations. The portion of the gain or loss on an 
instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that 
is determined as an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity. 
The gain or loss on any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised 
immediately in the consolidated income statement.
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
From 31 August 2014 the following became effective and were adopted 
by the Group:
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’
IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’
Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance
IAS 27 (revised 2011) ‘Separate financial statements’
IAS 28 (revised 2011) ‘Associates and joint ventures’
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 on consolidation 
  for investment entities
Amendments to IAS 32 on Financial instruments asset and 
  liability offsetting
Amendments to IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ on recoverable 
  amount disclosures
Amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and 
  measurement’ on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting
IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’
The adoption of these standards and interpretations has had no impact 
on the Group’s profit for the year or equity.
NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT 
YET EFFECTIVE AND NOT EARLY ADOPTED
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’
Amendments to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ and 
  IAS 28 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’
Amendment to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 on investment entities applying 
  the consolidation exemption 
Amendment to IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ on acquisition 
  of an interest in a joint operation 
IFRS 14 ‘Regulatory deferral accounts’
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’
Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ 
  on the disclosure initiative
Amendment to IAS 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and 
  IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’ on depreciation and amortisation
Amendment to IAS 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and 
  IAS 41 ‘Agriculture’ regarding bearer plants
Amendment to IAS 19 regarding defined benefit plans
Amendments to IAS 27, ‘Separate financial statements’ 
  on the equity method
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012, 2013 and 2014
It is considered that the above standards and amendments will not have 
a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group. 
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS, KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND ESTIMATES
Application of certain Group accounting policies requires management to 
make judgements, assumptions and estimates concerning the future  
as detailed below.
Valuation of pension obligations
The valuation of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is 
determined each year following advice from a qualifying independent 
actuary and can fluctuate based on a number of external factors. Such 
factors include the major assumptions as shown in the table in note 24 
and actual returns on scheme assets compared to those predicted in the 
previous scheme valuation.
Valuation of share-based payments
The fair value of share-based payments is determined using valuation 
models and is charged to the consolidated income statement over the 
vesting period.
The valuation models require certain assumptions to be made as shown 
in the tables in note 26. Estimations of vesting and satisfaction of 
performance criteria are required to determine fair value.
Impairment of goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill must be assessed for impairment annually, 
or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be 
impaired. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which goodwill is allocated. Value in use is dependent 
on estimations of future cash flows from the cash generating unit and the 
use of an appropriate discount rate to discount those cash flows to their 
present value.
No impairment has been identified in the year (note 9).
Revenue recognition on construction contracts
Under long term contracts, the Group recognises revenue and profits 
based on the percentage completion method. This requires management 
to make an assessment of the overall profitability and the stage of 
completion of the entire contract in order to determine the level of 
revenue and profit to recognise.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables
The financial statements include a provision for impairment of trade 
receivables (note 18) that is based on management’s estimation of 
recoverability. There is a risk that the provision will not match the trade 
receivables that ultimately prove to be irrecoverable.
Valuation of derivative financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments (note 23) is determined 
using market factors at the year end over which management have no 
control. Such factors include the estimation of future currency exchange 
rates. In addition the fair value of such instruments is affected by the 
global economic environment and financial institution pricing structures. 
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
CONTINUED 55
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, from presenting its own income statement.  
The profit after tax for the year dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £2,870,000 (2014: £2,021,000).
2 Segmental information        
The chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) has been identified as the Executive Directors. Management has identified the operating  
segments based on internal financial information reviewed by the CODM. The CODM considers the business from a product/services perspective. 
Operating segments have been identified as Agriculture, Food and Engineering. Operating segments have not been aggregated for the purpose  
of determining reportable segments. 
Agriculture aims to provide for all farming requirements. It derives its revenue from the sale of animal feed and feed blocks together with retail sales 
of farm equipment, fuels and farm consumables.
Food derives its revenues from the milling of wheat into flour. Customers range from the larger companies, bread and biscuit manufacturers  
and supermarkets, to smaller owner managed bakeries. 
Engineering derives its revenues from the design and manufacture of remote handling equipment for use in research and nuclear industries.  
In addition the UK business is involved in precision machining and the design and manufacture of pressure vessels for the oil, petrochemical  
and gas industry. 
        
Performance is assessed using profit before taxation. For internal purposes profit before taxation is measured in a manner consistent with that  
in the financial statements, with the exception of material non-recurring items, which are excluded.      
  
Inter-segmental transactions are all undertaken on an arm’s length basis.
Adjustments to segmental information and amounts classified as ‘other’ represents non-reportable segments and consolidation adjustments.
As segment liabilities are not reviewed by the CODM they are not required to be disclosed under IFRS 8.      
  
The Group has operations in the UK and overseas. In accordance with IFRS 8, entity wide disclosures based on the geography of operations  
is also presented. The geographical analysis of revenue is presented by revenue origin.       
 
The segmental information for the year ended 29 August 2015 is as follows:
 Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Other Group 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total segment revenue 297,811 80,280 33,588 47 411,726
Inter segment revenue (115) — (46) — (161)
Revenue from external customers 297,696 80,280 33,542 47 411,565
EBITDA
1 
13,557 4,995 4,201 (1,117) 21,636
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (2,259) (1,860) (815) (125) (5,059)
Depreciation of investment property — (4) — (16) (20)
Profit/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment 50  12 (24) (12) 26
Amortisation of intangible assets (100) (15) (93) — (208)
Operating profit/(loss) 11,248 3,128 3,269 (1,270) 16,375
Finance income 49 1 2 145 197
Finance costs (865) (695) (180) 328 (1,412)
 10,432 2,434 3,091 (797)
2
 15,160
Share of post-tax profit of associate 1,500 — — — 1,500
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 807  — — — 807
Profit/(loss) before taxation 12,739 2,434 3,091 (797) 17,467
1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (and before profit/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment)
2 Includes Head Office net expense of £(663,000) and retirement benefit charge of £(120,000) 56
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
2 Segmental information (continued)
Assets
  Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Other Group 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment gross assets  106,193 42,977 33,964 20,254 203,388 
The segmental information for the year ended 30 August 2014 is as follows: 
 Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Other Group 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total segment revenue 315,019 87,107 26,939 47 429,112
Inter segment revenue (94) (1) (61) — (156)
Revenue from external customers 314,925 87,106 26,878 47 428,956
EBITDA
1
 12,563 4,955 4,618 (1,719) 20,417
  
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (2,215) (1,856) (690) (121) (4,882)
Depreciation of investment property — (4) — (15) (19)
Profit/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment 102 (6) 8 — 104
Amortisation of intangible assets (56) (17) (120) — (193)
Operating profit/(loss) 10,394 3,072 3,816 (1,855) 15,427
Finance income 88 2 3 171 264
Finance costs (897) (784) (107) 164 (1,624)
 9,585 2,290 3,712 (1,520)
3
 14,067
Share of post-tax profit of associate 1,579 — — —  1,579
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 907 — — — 907
Profit/(loss) before taxation 12,071 2,290 3,712 (1,520) 16,553
3 Includes Head Office net expense of £(753,000) and retirement benefit charge of £(687,000)
 
Assets
  Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Other Group 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment gross assets  101,203 44,485 31,822 20,182 197,692
Entity wide disclosures
Revenues from external customers are derived from the sale of products by individual business segment. The breakdown of revenue by business 
segment is provided above.
Revenues from external customers: 
   2015 2014
    £’000 £’000
UK    368,007 391,581 
Europe   13,759 14,137
USA   29,799 23,238
     411,565 428,956  57
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 Segmental information (continued)
Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets:
  2015   2014
 UK Europe USA Total UK Europe USA Total 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Goodwill 10,520 313 16 10,849 9,470 313 15 9,798
Other intangible assets 173 245 30 448 107 351 41 499 
Property, plant and equipment 48,256 6,009 4,120 58,385 47,620 6,580 2,426 56,626
Investment property 636 — — 636 656 — — 656 
Investment in associate 8,439 —  — 8,439 6,883 — — 6,883
Interest in joint ventures 1,748 2,097  1,167 5,012 1,738 1,953 1,145 4,836 
Other investments 61 —  18 79 61 — 16 77
Non-current receivables 50 — — 50 501 — — 501 
Retirement benefit asset 1,767 — — 1,767 2,056 — — 2,056
 71,650 8,664 5,351 85,665 69,092 9,197 3,643 81,932
Major customers
There are no revenues from transactions with individual customers which amount to ten percent or more of Group revenue.
3 Group operating profit
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Group operating profit is stated after (crediting)/charging:
Amortisation of grants (120) (54)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (26) (104)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5,059 4,882
Depreciation of owned investment property 20 19
Amortisation of intangible assets  208 193
Foreign exchange losses/(gains) 50 (52)
Derivative financial instruments losses 7 9
Operating lease charges 1,077 897
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services (Company £15,300; 2014: £15,000) 75 74
The auditing of accounts of subsidiaries of the Company pursuant to legislation (including overseas) 136 131
Total audit services 211 205
Taxation compliance services 33 30
Other taxation advisory services 35 45
Other non-audit services 19 69
Total non-audit services 87 144
Included within Group operating profit is the following in respect of investment property leased to,  
 and occupied by, external parties:
Rental income (54) (54)
Operating expenses 64 58
 10 4 58
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
4 Staff costs
 2015 2014
Group £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 33,010 29,674 
Social security costs 3,536 3,292
Other pension costs 2,018 2,388
Share based payments 584 401
 39,148 35,755
Included within other pension costs is £120,000 (2014: £687,000) in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, during the year was made up as follows:
 2015 2014
Group Number Number
Sales, office and management 566 542
Manufacture and distribution 491 423
 1,057 965
Key management are considered to be the Directors of the Group.
Full details of the Directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and share options are given in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 30 to 35.
5 Finance income and finance costs 
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest   187 246
Other interest    10 18
Total finance income    197 264
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank overdrafts   (190) (219)
Interest payable on bank loans and other borrowings   (763) (901)
Interest payable on finance leases   (389) (428)
Other interest   (70) (76)
Total finance costs   (1,412) (1,624) 59
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6 Taxation
(a) Analysis of the charge in the year
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 
 Current year    1,736 1,480
 Adjustment in respect of prior years    114 238
Foreign tax   
 Current year    621 1,722
 Adjustment in respect of prior years    (33) 98
Group current tax    2,438 3,538
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of timing differences 
 Current year   1,293 362 
 Adjustment in respect of prior years    43 (240)
Group deferred tax (note 16)   1,336 122
Tax on profit from ordinary activities    3,774 3,660
(b) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax assessed for the year is higher (2014: lower) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.58% (2014: 22.17%). The differences are  
explained below:
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation    17,467 16,553
Tax at 20.58% (2014: 22.17%)   3,595 3,670
Effects of:
 Tax effect of share of profit in associate and joint ventures   (475) (551)
 Tax effect of expenses that are not allowable in determining taxable profit   154 75
 Tax effect of non-taxable income   (92) —
 Effects of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries    478 420
 Effects of changes in tax rates   (16) (57)
 Adjustment in respect of prior years    124 96
 Other    6 7
Total tax charge for the year    3,774 3,660
(c) Factors affecting future tax charges
The main rate of UK corporation tax was reduced from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. This was substantively enacted prior to the year end. UK 
deferred tax balances at 29 August 2015 have been calculated using a tax rate of 20%. 60
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
  2015 2014
    Earnings  Earnings
   Earnings per share Earnings per share
   £’000 pence £’000 pence
2
Earnings per share  – basic    11,989 13.4 11,372 12.8
 
Amortisation and non-recurring items:   
Amortisation of intangible assets    208 0.2 193 0.2
Taxation relief on amortisation   (52) (0.1) (50) (0.1)
Acquisition related costs
1
   58 0.1 123 0.2
Earnings per share – adjusted   12,203 13.6 11,638 13.1
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. The potentially dilutive ordinary shares, where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary 
shares during the year, are disclosed in note 26.
  2015   2014
  Weighted   Weighted
  average Earnings  average Earnings
 Earnings number per share Earnings number per share
 £’000 of shares pence £’000 of shares
2
 pence
2
Earnings per share 11,989 89,574,461 13.4 11,372 88,995,250 12.8
 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
 Share option scheme — 332,332 (0.1) — 537,350 (0.1)
 Share save scheme — 1,288,785 (0.2) — 1,756,950 (0.3)
 Long term incentive plan — 1,476,960 (0.2) — 964,760 (0.1)
Diluted earnings per share 11,989 92,672,538 12.9 11,372 92,254,310 12.3
Diluted adjusted earnings 
  per share 12,203 92,672,538 13.2 11,638 92,254,310 12.6
1 Disallowable for tax purposes
2 Restated for the effect of the 10:1 share split in January 2015
   2015 2014
Equity   £’000 £’000
Second interim paid for the year ended 30 August 2014 of 0.85p per 2.5p share (2013 restated: 0.775p)  760 689
Final dividend for the year ended 30 August 2014 of 1.7p per 2.5p share (2013 restated: 1.65p)   1,520 1,467
First interim paid for the year ended 29 August 2015 of 0.925p per 2.5p share (2014 restated: 0.85p)   830 756
   3,110 2,912
Since the year end a second interim dividend of £830,281, being 0.925p per share, has been paid. The financial statements do not reflect this  
dividend payable.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 29 August 2015 to be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is £1,661,683, being 
1.85p per share, making a total for the year of 3.7p (2014 restated: 3.4p). The financial statements do not reflect this proposed final dividend as payable.
8 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings per share are calculated by reference to a weighted average of 89,574,461 shares (2014 restated: 88,995,250) in issue during the year.
Non-recurring items and amortisation that are charged or credited to profit do not relate to the profitability of the Group on an ongoing basis. 
Therefore an adjusted earnings per share is presented as follows:
7 Dividends 61
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  Customer   Patents and 
 Goodwill relationships Brands Know-how trademarks Software Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 September 2013 5,540 3,158 612 240 153 577 10,280
Exchange differences (2) — (18) — (11) (41) (72)
Subsidiaries acquired 4,585 51 — — — — 4,636
Additions  — — — — 3 54 57
At 30 August 2014  10,123 3,209 594 240 145 590 14,901
Exchange differences 1 — (16) — 13 (40) (42)
Subsidiaries acquired 1,050 162 — — — — 1,212
Additions  — — — — 5 10 15
At 29 August 2015  11,174 3,371 578 240 163 560 16,086
Accumulated amortisation 
  and impairment
At 1 September 2013 325 3,158 310 240 107 310 4,450
Exchange differences — — (6) — (7) (26) (39)
Charge for the year — 51 33 — 5 104 193
At 30 August 2014  325 3,209 337 240 105 388 4,604
Exchange differences — — (6) — 9 (26) (23)
Charge for the year — 81 30 — 19 78 208
At 29 August 2015 325 3,290 361 240 133 440 4,789    
Net book amount
At 31 August 2013 5,215 — 302 — 46 267 5,830
At 30 August 2014 9,798 — 257 — 40 202 10,297
At 29 August 2015 10,849 81 217 — 30 120 11,297 
During the year goodwill of £1,050,000 arose on acquisitions (note 27).
During the prior year goodwill totalling £4,585,000 arose on the acquisitions of Chirton Engineering Limited and B.E. Williams Limited. Goodwill 
represented the excess of the consideration paid over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities acquired.
 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the combination. 
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets 62
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
   29 August 30 August
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited   195 195
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited – Johnstone Wallace Oils profit centre   781 781
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited – Borders profit centre   264 264
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited – Wooler profit centre   369 369
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited – Safe at Work profit centre   568 568 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited – Laycocks profit centre   125 125
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited – Williams profit centre   359 359
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited – Nicholls profit centre   267 —
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited – Reid and Robertson profit centre   783 —
Carrs Agriculture Limited – Scotmin profit centre   2,068 2,068
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc. – Silver Springs profit centre   15 14
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH   313 313
Carrs Engineering Limited – Bendalls Engineering profit centre   516 516
Carrs Engineering Limited – Chirton profit centre   4,226 4,226
   10,849 9,798 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment by estimating future cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated and discounting these cash flows 
to their present value. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is 
monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is monitored at operating segment level. The key assumptions in this calculation are in respect 
of discount rates used and the change in cash flows. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating units.
Cash flows are estimated using the most recent budget information for the year to August 2016, which has been approved by the Board and 
forecast information for the four years to August 2020 based on medium term business plans and an assumption for long term growth of between 
1-3% excluding inflation. The pre-tax discount rate used to discount the forecast cash flows for all cash generating units is 7.73% - 12.76% 
(2014: 5.97% - 11.41%).  
The Directors consider the assumptions adopted in calculating the cash flows to be consistent with historical performance and to be reasonable given 
current market conditions.
Significant headroom exists in each of the cash generating units and, based on the stress testing performed, reasonable possible changes in the 
assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of the cash generating units to equal or to exceed their recoverable amount. Given the current 
state of the oil market the Directors placed particular attention to the impairment review on the carrying value of goodwill relating to the Chirton 
profit centre. The Directors reviewed the assumptions used and the impact of sensitivities and agreed that no provision for impairment was required.
Amortisation and impairment charges are recognised within administrative expenses.
 There is no goodwill or intangible assets in the Company (2014: none).
9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to the following cash generating units:  63
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 Property, plant and equipment
     Assets in the
   Land and Plant and course of
   buildings equipment construction Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 September 2013   32,138 67,680 506 100,324
Exchange differences   (402) (501) (12) (915)
Subsidiaries acquired   — 1,963 — 1,963
Additions   3,656 3,252 1,134 8,042
Disposals    (85) (1,253) — (1,338)
Reclassifications    154 871 (1,025) —
At 30 August 2014   35,461 72,012 603 108,076
Exchange differences   (198) 300 (2) 100
Subsidiaries acquired   14 178 — 192
Additions   710 4,410 2,143 7,263
Disposals    (51) (1,419) — (1,470)
Reclassifications    133 175 (308) —
At 29 August 2015   36,069 75,656 2,436 114,161
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 September 2013   6,408 40,848 — 47,256
Exchange differences    (56) (312) — (368)
Subsidiaries acquired   — 822 — 822
Charge for the year    730 4,152 — 4,882
Disposals    (85) (1,057) — (1,142)
Reclassifications   (16) 16 — —
At 30 August 2014   6,981 44,469 — 51,450
Exchange differences    42 301 — 343
Subsidiaries acquired   14 60 — 74
Charge for the year    817 4,242 — 5,059
Disposals    (14) (1,136) — (1,150)
At 29 August 2015   7,840 47,936 — 55,776
Net book amount
At 31 August 2013   25,730 26,832 506 53,068
At 30 August 2014   28,480 27,543 603 56,626
At 29 August 2015   28,229 27,720 2,436 58,385
Freehold land amounting to £3,569,135 (2014: £3,322,460) has not been depreciated.
The net book amount of plant and equipment includes £12,261,842 (2014: £12,722,306) in respect of assets held under finance leases. This consists  
of cost of £16,603,001 (2014: £16,260,825) less accumulated depreciation of £4,341,159 (2014: £3,538,519).
The Group’s bankers hold legal charges over certain properties. 64
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
10 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Depreciation is recognised within the Consolidated Income Statement as shown below:
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales   4,373 4,246
Distribution costs   76 92
Administrative expenses   610 544
   5,059 4,882
The Company has no property, plant and equipment (2014: none).
11 Investment property
    Total
Group    £’000
Cost
At 1 September 2013, 31 August 2014 and 29 August 2015    922
Accumulated depreciation
At 31 August 2013    247
Charge for the year    19
At 30 August 2014    266
Charge for the year    20
At 29 August 2015    286
Net book amount
At 31 August 2013    675
At 30 August 2014    656
At 29 August 2015    636
Included within investment property are properties occupied by life tenants. The net book amount of these properties at 29 August 2015 is  
£145,000 (2014: £150,000).
The fair value of investment properties at 29 August 2015 is £1,065,000 (2014: £1,065,000). Investment properties were valued by independent 
professionally qualified valuers in 2011. The Directors have reviewed the valuations and are satisfied there are no significant changes to the  
assumptions and the valuations. The Directors have therefore not sought updated professional valuations at 29 August 2015. 
There is no investment property in the Company (2014: none). 65
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    Joint Other
   Associate ventures investments Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 September 2013   7,024 3,299 81 10,404
Exchange difference   — (143) (1) (144)
Subsidiaries acquired   — — 10 10
Additions   — 965 — 965
Disposals   — — (4) (4)
Redemption of preference shares   — (150) — (150)
Reclassification   (1,225) — — (1,225)
Share of post-tax profit   1,579 907 — 2,486
Share of losses recognised directly in equity  (495) (42) — (537)
At 30 August 2014   6,883 4,836 86 11,805
Exchange difference   — (71) 2 (69)
Return of capital invested   — (488) — (488)
Redemption of preference shares   — (150) — (150)
Share of post-tax profit   1,500 807 — 2,307
Share of gains recognised directly in equity  56 78 — 134
At 29 August 2015   8,439 5,012 88 13,539
Accumulated provision for impairment    
At 1 September 2013, 30 August 2014 and 29 August 2015  — — 9 9
Net book amount
At 31 August 2013    7,024 3,299 72 10,395
At 30 August 2014   6,883 4,836 77 11,796
At 29 August 2015    8,439 5,012 79 13,530
During the prior year £1,225,000 was reclassified to receivables. At the prior year end £1,000,000 of this receivable was outstanding. £500,000 was 
included within current receivables and £500,000 was included within non-current receivables. At 29 August 2015 £500,000 of this receivable is 
outstanding and is included within current receivables.
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for which 
fair value cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost less accumulated impairment. 
12 Investments 66
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
12 Investments (continued)
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited 49 England  UK Manufacture of animal feed
The Group does not have the ability to control the financial and operating policies of Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited. The Group  
has a 49% shareholding and a 43% representation on the Board of Directors of this associate.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
At the year end the associate had capital commitments of £187,000 (2014: £nil). No contingent liabilities exist within the associate.
The aggregate amounts relating to the associate, of which the Group recognises 49% in the net investment in associate, are:
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Total assets    34,199 33,244
Total liabilities   (16,977) (19,197) 
Revenues    105,162 113,984
Profit after tax   3,061 3,223
   Shares in  Joint 
   subsidiaries Associate ventures Total
Company   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 September 2013    18,028 1,470 272 19,770 
Share based payment expense 
 in respect of employees of 
 subsidiary undertakings   114 — — 114
Reclassification   — (1,225) — (1,225)
At 30 August 2014    18,142 245 272 18,659
Recapitalisation   74 — — 74
Share based payment expense 
 in respect of employees of 
 subsidiary undertakings   222 — — 222
At 29 August 2015    18,438 245 272 18,955
Accumulated provision for impairment
At 1 September 2013   5,381 — — 5,381
Disposals   6 — — 6
At 30 August 2014    5,387 — — 5,387
Impairment in the year   846 — — 846
At 29 August 2015   6,233 — — 6,233
Net book amount
At 31 August 2013   12,647 1,470 272 14,389
At 30 August 2014   12,755 245 272 13,272
At 29 August 2015   12,205 245 272 12,722
During the prior year £1,225,000 was reclassified to receivables. At the prior year end £1,000,000 of this receivable was outstanding. £500,000 was 
included within current receivables and £500,000 was included within non-current receivables. At 29 August 2015 £500,000 of this receivable is 
outstanding and is included within current receivables.
13 Investment in associate
The associated undertaking at 29 August 2015 is:
Group and Company 67
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14 Interest in joint ventures
The joint ventures at 29 August 2015 are:
Group
 Interest held   
 Equity Non-equity Country of Country of 
Name % % incorporation operation Activity
Crystalyx Products GmbH 50 — Germany  Germany Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
Bibby Agriculture Limited 26 26 England UK Sale of agricultural products
Afgritech Limited 50 — England  UK Holding company
Afgritech LLC 50 — USA USA Producers of ingredients 
     of animal feed
Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC 50 — USA USA Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
ACC Feed Supplement LLC 50 — USA USA Manufacture of animal
     feed blocks
Silloth Storage Company Limited 50 — England UK Storage of cane derived 
     livestock feed supplement
Crystalyx Products GmbH has a 31 December accounting year end.
Silloth Storage Company Limited has a 30 June accounting year end.
Interests in the joint ventures listed above are held directly by the holding Company with the following exceptions: Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) 
Limited holds 50% of the ordinary share capital and 50% of the preference share capital in Bibby Agriculture Limited. Carrs Agriculture Limited 
holds 50% of the ordinary share capital in Silloth Storage Company Limited. Animal Feed Supplement, Inc. holds the interest in Gold-Bar Feed 
Supplements LLC and ACC Feed Supplement LLC. Afgritech Limited has 100% control of Afgritech LLC. The preference shares in Bibby Agriculture 
Limited are redeemable with three months notice, carry no dividend entitlement except at the Directors’ discretion, and no voting rights.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
At the year end Afgritech LLC had capital commitments of £nil (2014: £580,000). The prior year capital commitment was in respect of replacement 
silos. No contingent liabilities exist within the joint ventures.
The aggregate amounts included in the financial statements relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures are:
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Non-current assets   5,737 5,222
Current assets   5,643 5,102
Current liabilities   (5,930) (5,594)
Non-current liabilities   (775) (381)
Income   24,607 27,212
Expenses   (23,618) (26,072)
Net finance (cost)/income   (12) 14
 
Goodwill of £17,000 arose on the investment in Silloth Storage Company Limited. This is included in the carrying amount of the Group’s interest  
in joint ventures and is not shown as a separate asset.
 
Included within interest in joint ventures is an amount of £320,000 (2014: £470,000) which relates to the Group’s interest in the preference share 
capital of Bibby Agriculture Limited. 68
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Agriculture Limited   100  England  UK Manufacture of  
     animal feed/mineral blocks and
     ingredients of animal feed
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited  51  England UK Agricultural retailers  
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc.   100  USA USA Manufacture of 
     animal feed blocks   
Horslyx LLC   100   USA USA Distributor of
     animal feed blocks 
Carr’s Flour Mills Limited   100   England UK Flour milling  
Carrs Engineering Limited   100  England UK Engineering  
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH  100 Germany Germany Engineering
B.R.B. Trust Limited   100  England UK Financial services  
Carrs Properties Limited   100  England UK Property holding
15 Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Dormant subsidiaries are listed on page 96.
Investments in the subsidiaries listed above are held directly by the Company with the following exceptions: Carrs Engineering Limited holds 100% of 
the ordinary share capital in Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH and Carrs Agriculture Limited holds 100% of the investment in Horslyx LLC.
16 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets  Liabilities Net
 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax  
 depreciation  — — (2,996) (2,932) (2,996) (2,932)
Employee benefits  — —  (353) (412) (353) (412)
Other 861 1,507 (835) (767) 26 740
Tax assets/(liabilities)  861 1,507 (4,184) (4,111) (3,323) (2,604) 
Movement in deferred tax during the year
 At     At
 31 August Exchange In respect of Recognised Recognised 29 August
 2014 differences acquisitions in income in equity 2015
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Other  1,507 118 (32) (732) — 861
 1,507 118 (32) (732) — 861
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation (2,932) (10) (39) (15) — (2,996)
Employee benefits (412) — — (511) 570 (353) 
Other (767) 10 — (78) — (835)
 (4,111) — (39) (604) 570 (4,184)
Net liabilities (2,604) 118 (71) (1,336) 570 (3,323)
Other deferred tax assets and liabilities includes deferred tax on short term timing differences, rolled over capital gains, trading losses, capital losses, 
business combinations and overseas deferred tax. 69
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 Deferred tax assets and liabilities (continued)
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
 Assets  Liabilities Net
 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax  
 depreciation  3 3 — — 3 3
Employee benefits  — —  (353) (412) (353) (412)
Tax assets/(liabilities)  3 3 (353) (412) (350) (409)
Movement in deferred tax during the year
 At     At
 1 September Exchange In respect of Recognised Recognised 30 August
 2013 differences acquisitions in income in equity 2014
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Employee benefits  654 — — (654) — —
Other  1,390 (91) (10) 218 — 1,507
 2,044 (91) (10) (436) — 1,507
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation (2,964) 8 (198) 222 — (2,932)
Employee benefits — — — 230 (642) (412)
Other (801) 12 160 (138) — (767)
 (3,765) 20 (38) 314 (642) (4,111)
Net liabilities (1,721) (71) (48) (122) (642) (2,604)
 
   At   At
   31 August Recognised Recognised 29 August
   2014 in income in equity 2015
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Accelerated tax depreciation   3 — — 3
Liabilities:
Employee benefits   (412) (511) 570 (353)
Net liabilities   (409) (511) 570 (350)
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
   At   At
   1 September Recognised Recognised 30 August
   2013 in income in equity 2014
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Accelerated tax depreciation   1 2 — 3
Employee benefits     654 (654) — —
   655 (652) — 3
Liabilities:
Employee benefits   — 230 (642) (412)
   — 230 (642) (412)
Net liabilities   655 (422) (642) (409)
Tax of £133,000 (2014: £133,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Group balance sheet.
Tax of £43,000 (2014: £43,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Company balance sheet. 70
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
17 Inventories 
   2015 2014
Group   £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables   10,060 10,968 
Work in progress   2,382 1,633
Finished goods and goods for resale    22,589 20,714
   35,031 33,315
Inventories are stated after a provision for impairment of £414,000 (2014: £396,000). The amount recognised as an expense in the year in respect  
of the write down of inventories is £66,000 (2014: £52,000). The amount recognised as a credit in the year in respect of reversals of write downs  
of inventories is £9,000 (2014: £nil).
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales is £354,656,000 (2014: £376,529,000).
The Company has no inventories (2014: none).
Construction contracts disclosures
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade receivables 53,428 57,830  — —
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (2,070) (3,065) — —
Trade receivables – net 51,358 54,765 — —
Amounts recoverable on contracts  3,985 806 — —
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 33)  — — 32,740 29,983
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 33) 4,343 4,200 3,651 3,417
Loans receivable — 270 — —
Other taxes and social security receivable 1,141 838 — —
Other receivables  1,379 736 234 210
Prepayments and accrued income  2,248 2,008 220 202
  64,454 63,623 36,845 33,812
Non-current:
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 33) — 500 — 500
Other receivables 50 1 — —
  50 501 — 500
The movement in the provision for impaired trade receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and 
unused provision released back to the consolidated income statement. The provision is utilised when there is no expectation of recovering 
additional cash.
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date   2,691   3,862 
Contract advances received   (1,679) (3,239)
Work in progress on construction contracts   1,012   623 
    
Revenue from construction contracts   23,678    19,858  
18 Trade and other receivables 71
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18 Trade and other receivables (continued)
During the year a credit of £307,000 (2014: £17,000) has been recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated income 
statement in respect of the movement in provision for impairment of trade receivables.
No impairment of other receivables has been recognised in the current or preceding year.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by Group undertakings carry interest at Bank of England base rate + 2.50%, 4.50% or 4.88%. 
Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on demand.
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The carrying value of trade receivables are denominated 
in the following currencies:
Sterling 47,443 50,812  — —
US Dollar 630 413 — —
Euro  2,937 3,540 — —
New Zealand Dollar 348 — — —
   51,358 54,765 — —
19 Current tax assets
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Corporation tax recoverable  839 47 1,256 639
Group taxation relief  — — 308 553
  839 47 1,564 1,192
 2015 2014
    Past due but   Past due but
  Gross Impairment not impaired Gross Impairment not impaired
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The ageing of trade 
 receivables is as  
 follows:       
 
Not past due 35,236 (123) N/A 40,529 (359) N/A
Past due 0 – 30 days 6,800 (82) 6,718 7,187 (221) 6,966
Past due 31 – 60 days 3,724 (110) 3,614 1,921 (109) 1,812
Past due 61 – 90 days 2,667 (104) 2,563 2,367 (321) 2,046
Past due 91 – 120 days 1,282 (83) 1,199 1,702 (246) 1,456
Past 121 days 3,719 (1,568) 2,151 4,124 (1,809) 2,315
   53,428 (2,070) 16,245 57,830 (3,065) 14,595
The Company has no trade receivables (2014: none).
   
The credit quality of customers is assessed at subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other 
relevant factors. Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.     
  
It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are provided 
for where appropriate.     
  
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end is the carrying value, net of provision for impairment, of each receivable. The Group and  
Company do not hold any significant collateral as security (2014: none). 72
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
20 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 
 Group Company
  2015  2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet  16,488 17,268 8,973 8,822
Bank overdrafts (note 22) (213) (243) — —
Cash and cash equivalents per the statement of cash flows  16,275 17,025 8,973 8,822
21 Trade and other payables
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade payables  20,655 20,808 — —
Payments on account  1,279 3,027 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 33) — — 27 29
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 33) 18,045 16,072 1 2
Other taxes and social security payable  1,162 1,175 683 447
Deferred employee incentive plan 2,324 2,217 — —
Other payables  5,836 6,978 241 203
Accruals and deferred income  5,195 3,959 963 621
   54,496 54,236 1,915 1,302
Non-current:
Deferred employee incentive plan — 1,973 — —
Contingent consideration 2,394 2,394 — —
Accruals and deferred income  1,906 1,628 — —
   4,300 5,995 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings and other related parties are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
The contingent consideration of £2,394,000 on the acquisition of Chirton Engineering Limited in year ended 2014 remains potentially payable subject
to certain earnings criteria being met. As at 29 August 2015 this criteria was not met and therefore none of this contingent consideration is payable
within one year of the balance sheet date. The earliest that any consideration may fall due would be subsequent to year end 2016.
Included within accruals and deferred income is the following in respect of government grants:
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the year  1,628 1,180 — —
Subsidiaries acquired — 52 — —
Received in the year 500 450 — —
Amortisation in the year (120) (54) — —
At the end of the year  2,008 1,628 — —
Included within:
 Current liabilities 102 — — —
 Non-current liabilities 1,906 1,628 — —
  2,008 1,628 — — 73
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22 Borrowings 
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The net borrowings are:
Borrowings as above  40,901 41,877 17,104 13,600
Cash and cash equivalents (16,488) (17,268) (8,973) (8,822)
Net borrowings  24,413 24,609 8,131 4,778
Bank loans and other borrowings includes an amount of £9,984,000 (2014: £13,622,000) which is secured on trade receivables. The Company, 
together with certain subsidiaries, act as guarantors on the bank loans. In addition, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Clydesdale Bank PLC have 
legal charges over certain properties. Finance lease obligations are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Interest bearing loans from Group undertakings carry interest at Bank of England base rate + 2.50%. Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on 
demand.
Other loans are non-interest bearing. The bank loans are repayable by instalments and the overdraft is repayable on demand.
Bank loans includes a drawn down revolving credit facility of £15.0 million (2014: £10.0 million) which is repayable in June 2019. At the year  
end the Group had £2.0 million of undrawn revolving credit facilities (2014: £5.0 million). Since the period end the Group has increased its revolving 
credit facilities by £2.5 million.
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Bank overdrafts  213 243 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 12,270 16,711 517 1,380
Loans from Group undertakings (note 33) — — 173 173
Other loans from related parties (note 33) 500 500 — —
Finance leases 2,174 2,234 — —
   15,157 19,688 690 1,553
Non-current:
Bank loans  18,444 13,427 16,414 12,047
Other loans from related parties (note 33)  — 500 — —
Finance leases  7,300 8,262 — —
   25,744 22,189 16,414 12,047
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year  15,157 19,688 690 1,553
In the second year  3,229 4,349 517 546
In the third to fifth years inclusive  22,467 16,382 15,897 11,501
Over five years 48 1,458 — —
  40,901 41,877 17,104 13,600
Group and Company borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of arrangement fees of £132,000 (2014: £19,000) of which £33,000  
(2014: £4,000) is deducted from current liabilities and £99,000 (2014: £15,000) is deducted from non-current liabilities. 74
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments  
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing its risk. These policies have 
remained unchanged throughout the year.
Financial Instruments by currency
 
 2015 2014
     US  NZ  US  
    Sterling Dollar Euro Dollar  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Total
Group    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Other investments   61 18 — — 79 61 16 — 77
Non-current receivables   50 — — — 50 501 — — 501
Current trade and other receivables   53,596 4,177 2,944 348 61,065 53,272 3,958 3,547 60,777
Current derivatives   — 14 36 — 50 — — — —
Cash and cash equivalents   11,758 3,080 1,222 428 16,488 13,136 2,996 1,136 17,268
     65,465 7,289 4,202 776 77,732 66,970 6,970 4,683 78,623
Liabilities          
Current borrowings   13,987 213 957 — 15,157 19,445 243 — 19,688
Current derivatives   — 72 — — 72 — 8 7 15
Current trade and other payables   46,006 3,847 3,481 — 53,334 45,094 3,047 4,920 53,061
Non-current borrowings   25,744 — — — 25,744 22,189 — — 22,189
Other non-current liabilities   4,300 — — — 4,300 4,022 1,973 — 5,995
     90,037 4,132 4,438 — 98,607 90,750 5,271 4,927 100,948
 2015 2014
  US    US    
 Sterling Dollar Euro  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Total
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Non-current receivables — — — — 500 — — 500
Current trade and other receivables 30,697 4,824 1,104 36,625 28,922 4,451 237 33,610
Current derivatives — 14 16 30 — — — —
Cash and cash equivalents 8,173 687 113 8,973 8,368 399 55 8,822
  38,870 5,525 1,233 45,628 37,790 4,850 292 42,932
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 690 — — 690 1,553 — — 1,553
Current trade and other payables 1,232 — — 1,232 855 — — 855
Non-current borrowings 16,414 — — 16,414 12,047 — — 12,047
  18,336 — — 18,336 14,455 — — 14,455
Other taxes and social security receivable and prepayments are excluded from trade and other receivables in the tables above as they are not financial 
instruments. For this same reason other taxes and social security payable is excluded from trade and other payables.
The Group and Company have right of offset on certain bank accounts.
Sensitivity analysis         
The impact of a weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies at the balance sheet date is shown in the table below.  
The Directors consider that a 10% (2014: 5%) weakening or strengthening in Sterling against the Euro and a 10% (2014: 10%) weakening or 
strengthening in Sterling against other currencies represents reasonable possible changes.
   2015   2014
  10%  10%  5%/10%  5%/10%
  weakening strengthening weakening  strengthening
  £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 480 (353) 389 (333)
Impact on total equity 2,521 (1,993) 1,502 (1,275)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other variables 
have been held constant.       75
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate risk   
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and bank borrowings. The Group borrows in the desired currencies at fixed 
and floating rates of interest.
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2015 interest rate 2014
Group  % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 4.65 213 5.08 243
Bank loans and other borrowings 2.16 30,714 2.13 30,138
Other loans — 500 — 1,000
Finance lease liabilities 2.21 9,474 2.10 10,496
   40,901  41,877
Fixed rate  9,474  10,496
Floating rate  30,927  30,381
Non-interest bearing  500  1,000
   40,901  41,877
The Group’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
Bank overdrafts US prime rate + 1.0% margin; US prime rate + 1.6% margin 
Bank loans and other borrowings Libor + 1.8%; Libor + 2.0%; Bank of England base rate + 1.25% margin
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2015 interest rate 2014
Company % £’000 % £’000
Bank loans 2.39 16,931 2.40 13,427
Loans from Group undertakings — 173 3.00 173
Floating rate  17,104  13,600
The Company’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
     
Bank loans  Libor + 1.8% 76
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Sensitivity analysis      
The impact of a decrease or increase in interest rates during the year is shown in the table below. The Directors consider that a 1% movement in 
interest rates represents reasonable possible changes.
 2015 2014
  1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 383 (383) 312 (312)
Impact on total equity 383 (383) 312 (312)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other variables 
have been held constant.     
Liquidity risk    
The Group’s policy throughout the year has been to maintain a mix of short and medium term borrowings. Short-term flexibility is achieved  
by overdraft facilities. In addition it is the Group’s policy to maintain committed undrawn facilities in order to provide flexibility in the management  
of the Group’s liquidity.     
The tables below analyse the Group and Company’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on 
the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted 
cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date. 
 2015  2014
   Within One to Two to Over  Within One to Two to Over
   one two five five  one two five five
  Total year years years years Total year years years years
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000  £’000
Bank overdrafts 213 213 — — — 243 243 — — —
Bank loans and other  
  borrowings 32,445 12,768 1,793 17,884 — 31,530 17,068 2,227 12,235 —
Other loans 500 500 — — — 1,000 500 500 — —
Finance lease liabilities 10,338 2,482 2,131 5,666 59 11,590 2,602 2,196 5,312 1,480
Derivatives 72 72 — — — 15 15 — — —
Trade and other 
  payables 53,334 53,334 — — — 53,061 53,061 — — —
Other non-current 
  liabilities 4,300 120 2,514 1,666 — 5,995 — 4,367 1,628 —
   101,202 69,489 6,438 25,216 59 103,434 73,489 9,290 19,175 1,480
 2015  2014
  Within One to Two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 Total year years years Total year years years
Company £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank loans 18,533 952 939 16,642 13,427 1,380 546 11,501
Loans from Group undertakings 173 173 — — 173 173 — —
Trade and other payables 1,232 1,232 — — 855 855 — —
 19,938 2,357 939 16,642 14,455 2,408 546 11,501
Trade and other payables in the tables above exclude other taxes and social security which do not meet the definition of financial liabilities  
under IFRS 7. 77
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  Repayment profile
  2015 2014 2015 2014
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amount payable: 
Within one year 2,482 2,602 2,174 2,234
In the second year 2,131 2,196 1,900 1,923
In the third to fifth years inclusive 5,666 5,312 5,352 4,881
Over five years 59 1,480 48 1,458
  10,338 11,590 9,474 10,496
Less: future finance charges (864) (1,094)
 
Present value of lease obligations 9,474 10,496
The Company has no finance lease obligations (2014: none). 
Borrowing facilities        
The Group has various undrawn facilities. The undrawn facilities available at 29 August 2015, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been
met, were as follows:
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Future minimum lease payments of finance leases
   2015 2014
   Floating rate Floating rate
   £’000 £’000
Expiring in one year or less   17,007 12,449
Expiring within two and five years inclusive   2,000 5,000
   19,007 17,449
The Company’s overdraft is within a Group facility and it is therefore not possible to determine the Company’s undrawn facilities at the balance sheet 
date.
Capital risk management        
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.    
    
 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.      
 The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity. Net debt is calculated  
as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings) as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash equivalents.  
Total equity is as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.     
At 29 August 2015 the Group had net debt of £24.4 million (2014: £24.6 million) and gearing of 24.7% (2014: 27.4%).
The Group monitors cash balances and net debt on a daily basis to ensure adequate headroom exists on banking facilities and that it is compliant 
with banking covenants. 
Fair value hierarchy
IFRS 13 requires financial instruments that are measured at fair value to be classified according to the valuation technique used:
Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2 – inputs, other than Level 1 inputs, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived  
 from prices) 
Level 3 – unobservable inputs
All derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs. There were no transfers between levels in the above hierarchy  
in either the current or prior year.
The Group holds shares in several private limited companies. These have been classified as unquoted investments for which fair value cannot be 
reliably measured and are held at cost less accumulated impairment. Had fair value been applied this financial asset would have been Level 3.   78
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
23 Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The fair value of Group and Company financial assets and liabilities are not materially different to book value.
Derivative financial instruments        
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Group hedges foreign denominated borrowings against its investment in foreign subsidiaries. A foreign exchange pre-tax gain of £373,000 (2014: 
pre-tax loss of £174,000) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of US dollar denominated borrowings to sterling. A foreign exchange 
pre-tax loss of £35,000 (2014: £2,000) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of Euro denominated borrowings to sterling.
Currency derivatives          
The Group and Company use forward foreign currency contracts and options to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair 
value of outstanding forward foreign currency contracts and options are as below:
 2015 2014
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of the year (15) 515 (6) 2,120
Losses during the year (17) 6,887 (9) (1,605)
At end of the year (32) 7,402 (15) 515
Included within: 
 Current assets 40 5,193 — —
 Current liabilities (72) 2,209 (15) 515
  (32) 7,402 (15) 515
 2015 2014
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of the year — — — —
Gains during the year 10 394 — —
At end of the year (current assets) 10 394 — —
The Company has no currency swaps (2014: none).
Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent forward foreign currency contracts, options and currency swaps at the balance  
sheet date. 
All forward foreign currency contracts, options and currency swaps have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses  
on currency related derivatives are included within administrative expenses.
 2015 2014
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of the year — — — —
Gains during the year 30 5,066 — —
At end of the year (current assets) 30 5,066 — —
The Group uses currency swaps to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of outstanding currency swaps are as below: 79
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 Retirement benefit obligation
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s Group Pension Scheme and Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme.
Carr’s Group
The Company sponsors the Carr’s Group Pension Scheme and offers a defined contribution and a defined benefit section. The assets of the scheme 
are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
The pension expense for the defined contribution section of the scheme for the year was £751,000 (2014: £635,000). Contributions totalling  
£47,000 (2014: £41,000) were payable to the fund at the year end and are included in other payables.
The defined benefit section of the scheme is closed to new members. The pension contribution made by the Group over the year to the defined 
benefit section was £2,679,000 (2014: £2,806,000). Contributions to the scheme for the year ending August 2016 are expected to be 
£1,128,000.
In addition, the Group offers a Group Personal Pension plan to certain employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Limited. The pension expense for this scheme 
for the year was £208,000 (2014: £229,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit section of the Carr’s Group Pension Scheme. The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme 
was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 31 December 2011 and updated on an approximate basis to 29 August 2015 by a qualified 
independent actuary. The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2014 is not yet finalised.
Major assumptions:     
   2015 2014
   % %
Inflation (RPI)   3.00 3.00
Inflation (CPI)   2.10 2.10
Salary increases   2.55 2.55
Rate of discount   3.80 4.00
Pension in payment increases: 
  RPI or 5.0% per annum if less   2.90 2.90
  RPI or 5.0% per annum if less, minimum 3.0% per annum   3.50 3.50
 
The mortality tables used in the valuation as at 29 August 2015 are 100% of S2PMA (males) and S2PFA (females) with allowance for mortality 
improvements using CMI_2013 with a 1.25%pa underpin. The mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65 as at  
29 August 2015:
   At At
   29 August 30 August
   2015 2014
Males currently age 45   24.2 years 24.1 years
Females currently age 45   26.6 years 26.5 years
Males currently age 65   22.5 years 22.4 years
Females currently age 65   24.7 years 24.6 years
 
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Service cost – including current service costs, past service costs and settlements   31 430
Service cost – administrative cost   230 170
Net interest on the net defined benefit asset   (141) 87
Total expense   120 687
  80
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
24 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
The expense is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales    55 306 
Administrative expenses    65 381
Total expense   120 687
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset to be shown in the Statement of Comprehensive Income:  
   2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations   (60,352) (61,948)
Fair value of scheme assets    62,119 64,004
Surplus in funded scheme   1,767 2,056
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligation:
   2015 2014 
   £’000 £’000
Net measurement – financial   (1,700) (3,147)
Net measurement – demographic   — 1,667
Net measurement – experience   (699) 335
Return on assets, excluding interest income   (449) 4,354
Total remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset   (2,848) 3,209
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet:  
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 61,948 59,509
Service cost 301 430
Interest cost 2,346 2,696
Contributions by scheme participants 190 266
Net measurement losses – financial 1,700 3,147
Net measurement gains – demographic — (1,667)
Net measurement losses/(gains) – experience 699 (335)
Benefits paid (6,562) (2,098)
Past service cost (270) —
Benefit obligation at the end of the year 60,352 61,948
Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the fair value of scheme assets:
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Fair value of scheme assets at the beginning of the year 64,004 56,237
Interest income on scheme assets 2,487 2,609
Return on assets, excluding interest income (449) 4,354
Contributions by employers 2,679 2,806
Contributions by scheme participants 190 266
Benefits paid (6,562) (2,098)
Scheme administrative cost (230) (170)
Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the year 62,119 64,004
  81
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
Analysis of the scheme assets and actual return:
  Fair value of assets
    2015 2014
    £’000 £’000
Equity instruments    28,476 32,524
Debt instruments    27,177 26,276
Property    5,637 5,038
Other assets    829 166 
 
    62,119 64,004
Actual return on scheme assets    2,038 6,963 
Sensitivity analysis
A sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities: 
     Impact on
     scheme 
    Change in liabilities
    assumption 29 August 2015
Discount rate    Increase by 0.25% Decrease by £2.2 million
Rate of inflation    Increase by 0.25% Increase by £1.7 million
Assumed life expectancy at age 65    Increase by 1 year Increase by £1.9 million
Extrapolation or combination of the sensitivity analysis beyond the ranges shown may not be appropriate.
Characteristics of the Scheme and the risks associated with the Scheme
a)  Information about the characteristics of the Scheme
i.  The Scheme provides pensions in retirement and death benefits to members. Pension benefits are linked to member’s final salary at retirement  
and their length of service.
ii.  The Plan is a registered scheme under UK legislation and is contracted out of the State Second Pension.
 The plan is subject to the scheme funding requirements outlined in UK legislation. The scheme funding valuation of the Scheme as at 
31 December 2011 revealed a deficit of £9.9 million. In the recovery plan dated August 2012 the Employer agreed to pay contributions 
of £195,000 per month with the view to eliminating the shortfall by 31 December 2015.
 In line with previous years there is no additional liability recognised on the balance sheet as a result of the recovery plan dated August 2012.
iii.  The Scheme was established under trust and is governed by the Scheme’s trust deed and rules dated June 2008. The Trustees are responsible 
for the operation and the governance of the Scheme, including making decisions regarding the Scheme’s funding and investment strategy in 
conjunction with the Employer.
b) Information about risks of the Scheme to the Employer
In general, the risk to the Employer is that the assumptions underlying the disclosures, or the the calculation of contribution requirements are not borne 
out in practice and the cost to the Employer is higher than expected. This could result in higher contributions required from the Employer and a higher 
deficit disclosed. This may also impact the Employer’s ability to grant discretionary benefits or other enhancements to members.
i. The return on the Scheme’s assets being lower than assumed, resulting in an unaffordable increase in the required Employer contribution rate.
ii. Falls in asset values (particularly equities) not being matched by similar falls in the value of liabilities.
iii.  Unanticipated future changes in mortality patterns leading to an increase in the Scheme’s liabilities. Future mortality rates cannot be predicted 
with certainty. This is especially so bearing in mind that the youngest Scheme members could be expected to still be alive in 50 years or more 
and it is not possible to reliably predict what medical advances may or may not have occurred by this time. The average duration of the Scheme’s 
liabilities is approximately 16 years.
iv.  The potential exercise (by members or others) of options against the Scheme for example taking early retirement or exchanging a portion of  
pension for a cash lump sum. 82
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
24 Retirement benefit obligation (continued)
Carrs Billington Agriculture
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited, one of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings, is a participating employer of the Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme, another funded defined benefit scheme. On 30 November 2007, following consultation with the active members, the Company and 
Trustees agreed to close the scheme to future service accrual. The most recent actuarial assessment of the scheme was at 31 December 2012.
 The pension contribution made by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited over the year to the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme  
was £nil (2014: £nil).
 It is not possible to identify the underlying share of the pension scheme assets and liabilities that relate to the Group. At inception in June 2000 
approximately 50% of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme related to the Group and under IFRS approximately 50% of the assets and  
liabilities are included in the Group’s financial statements through the investment in associate, which is the sponsoring employer of the scheme.
Details and disclosures in respect of the scheme are provided in the financial statements of Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited which  
are publicly available.
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited offers a Group Personal Pension Plan to its employees and the pension expense for this plan in the year  
was £451,000 (2014: £414,000). 
 During the year contributions were also payable to a defined contribution pension scheme for certain employees of Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) 
Limited. The pension expense for this scheme for the year was £32,000 (2014: £23,000).
25 Share capital
  2015 2015 2014 2014
Group and Company Shares £’000 Shares
1
 £’000
Authorised:
 Ordinary shares of 2.5p each 140,000,000 3,500 140,000,000 3,500
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 2.5p each:   
 At start of the year 89,401,900 2,235 88,902,300 2,223
 Allotment of shares 358,190 9 499,600 12
At end of the year 89,760,090 2,244 89,401,900 2,235
1 Restated for the effect of the 10:1 share split in January 2015
The consideration received on the allotment of shares during the year was £171,000 (2014: £283,000).
For details of share based payment schemes see note 26.
Since the year end there was a further allotment of 60,590 shares with a nominal value of £1,515 due to the exercise of share options. 83
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26 Share-based payments 
Group
The Group operates three active share based payment schemes at 29 August 2015.
Under the long term incentive plan shares will be awarded to eligible individuals subject to an earnings per share (EPS) target measured against 
average annual increases over a three year period. For the awards granted in May 2013 an average annual growth of EPS must exceed 7.0% for  
25% of the awards to vest, 50% vest at 8.1% and 100% vest at 10.2%, with a straight line calculation between 25%, 50% and 100% of the award. 
For the awards granted in November 2013 and November 2014 an average annual growth of EPS must exceed 3.0% for 25% of the awards to vest 
and 100% vest at 10.0%, with a straight line calculation between 25% and 100% of the award.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts  
for both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The approved share options were granted to certain senior employees and Directors. Options are exercisable between three and ten years from the  
date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 2008 exceeding that of  
the RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
       Approved   
    Share Save Share Save Share Save Executive Share
 Long Term Long Term Long Term Scheme Scheme Scheme Option
 Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan (3-Year Plan (5-Year Plan (5-Year Plan  Scheme
 November 2014 November 2013 May 2013 2014) 2014) 2011) 2006
Grant date 10/11/14 11/11/13 1/5/13 9/6/14 9/6/14 10/5/11 24/2/06
Share price at grant date 
  (weighted average)
2
 £1.600 £1.683 £1.315 £1.870 £1.870 £0.720 £0.476
Exercise price 
  (weighted average)
2
 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £1.520 £1.520 £0.572 £0.476
Number of employees 8 8 5 192 63 71 5
Shares under option
2
 512,200 475,380 489,380 504,040 323,960 734,760 210,000
Vesting period (years) 3 3 3 3 5 5 3
Model used for valuation Market value
1
 Market value
1
 Market value
1
 Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial
Expected volatility — — — 30.0% 26.9% 24.00% 22.44%
Option life (years) 10 10 10 3.5 5.5 5.5 10
Expected life (years) 6.5 6.5 6.5 3.25 5.25 5.25 6.5
Risk-free rate — — — 1.51% 2.07% 2.450% 4.224%
Expected dividends 
  expressed as a 
  dividend yield 2.81% 3.02% 2.42% 1.93% 1.93% 3.90% 3.36%
Expectations of vesting 100% 100% 100% 95% 95% 95% 100%
Expectations of meeting 
  performance criteria 50% 50% 100% N/A N/A N/A 100%
Fair value per option
2
 £1.504 £1.597 £1.237 £0.490 £0.529 £0.156 £0.099
1 discounted for dividends forgone over the three year vesting period
2 restated for the effect of the 10:1 share split in January 2015
The expected volatility has been calculated using historical daily data over a term commensurate with the expected life of each option.  
The expected life is the midpoint of the exercise period. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds  
with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the award being valued. 84
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
26 Share-based payments (continued)
Number of options
        Approved
        Executive
     Share Save Share Save Share Save Share
  Long Term Long Term Long Term Scheme Scheme Scheme Option
  Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan (3-Year Plan (5-Year Plan (5-Year Plan Scheme
  November 2014 November 2013 May 2013 2014) 2014) 2011) 2006
  Number
3
 Number
3
 Number
3
 Number
3
 Number
3
 Number
3
 Number
3
  ‘000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000
Outstanding:       
At 1 September 2013 —  —    489   —    —     778   740 
Granted in the year —  475   —    544   324     —    —  
Exercised in the year —  —    —    —    —    —   (30)
Forfeited in the year —  —    —    —    —       —    —  
At 30 August 2014  — 475 489 544 324 778 710
Granted in the year 512 — — — — — —
Exercised in the year — — — — — — (350)
Forfeited in the year — — — (40) — (43) (150)
At 29 August 2015 512  475 489 504 324 735 210
Exercisable:       
At 30 August 2014 —   —    —    —    —    —    710 
At 29 August 2015 — — — — — — 210
Weighted average:        
Remaining contractual life (years) 9.00  8.00 7.00 2.25 4.25 1.25 0.50
Remaining expected life (years) 5.50    4.50 3.50 2.00 4.00 1.00 —
3 Restated for the effect of the 10:1 share split in January 2015
The total expense recognised for the year arising from share based payments are as follows:
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2014 128 —
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2013 127 127 
Long Term Incentive Plan May 2013 202 202
Share Save Scheme (3-Year Plan 2014) 77 21
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2014) 33 8
Share Save Scheme (3-Year Plan 2011) — 20
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2011) 17 23
 584 401 85
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2014   84 —
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2013   83 83 
Long Term Incentive May Plan 2013   137 137
Share Save Scheme (3-Year Plan 2014)    11 3 
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2014)   1 —
Share Save Scheme (3-Year Plan 2011)   — 5
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2011)   1 1
     317 229
Share based payments awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings and recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings in the  
Company are as follows:
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2014 45 —
Long Term Incentive Plan November 2013 88 44
Long Term Incentive Plan May 2013 195 130
Share Save Scheme (3-Year Plan 2014) 83 18
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2014) 39 8
Share Save Scheme (3-Year Plan 2011) — 1
Share Save Scheme (5-Year Plan 2011) 87 74
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006  21 64
Total carrying amount of investments   558 339
27 Acquisitions
WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) Limited
On 20 October 2014 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) 
Limited. As a condition of this acquisition the assets and liabilities not required by the Group were sold back to the vendor. The net cash 
consideration for this entire transaction was £1,030,000.
The principal activity of WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) Limited is that of an agricultural merchant.
The primary reason for the business combination was the expansion of the existing agriculture business.
Reid and Robertson Limited
On 12 June 2015 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Reid and Robertson Limited for cash 
consideration of £869,000.
The principal activity of Reid and Robertson Limited is that of an agricultural merchant.
The primary reason for the business combination was the expansion of the existing agriculture business.
Chirton Engineering Limited
In the prior year Carrs Engineering Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Chirton Engineering Limited for cash consideration of £5,300,000. 
£2,394,000 of this was contingent consideration and is payable subject to certain growth criteria being met subsequent to the acquisition.
The principal activity of Chirton Engineering Limited is that of precision engineering.
The primary reason for the business combination was that the acquired business complimented the existing engineering business enabling  
a wider set of skills to be offered to customers.
B.E. Williams Limited
In the prior year Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of B.E. Williams Limited for cash consideration 
of £1,096,000.
The principal activity of B.E. Williams Limited is that of the supply and haulage of agricultural feed.
The primary reason for the business combination was that the acquired business complimented the existing agriculture business.
26 Share-based payments (continued)
Company
The movement in the number of outstanding options under the share schemes for the company is not shown as it is immaterial and disclosure  
would be excessively lengthy.
The total expense recognised for the year arising from share based payments are as follows: 86
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
27 Acquisitions (continued)
All of the above purchases have been accounted for as acquisitions. Given the size of the acquisitions no separate disclosure has been presented on 
the face of the consolidated income statement as the impact would not be material.  
Aggregate disclosures  
The total goodwill arising from acquisitions in the year amounts to £1,050,000 (2014: £4,585,000). Goodwill, in both the current and prior year, 
represents the excess of the consideration paid over the Group’s interests in the net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities acquired.
  
The following aggregated amounts have been recognised within the consolidated income statement in respect of acquisitions made in the year:
 2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Revenue    3,589 2,312
Profit before taxation    85 129
There were no other recognised gains and losses other than the profit shown above.
Acquisition related costs amounted to £58,000 (2014: £123,000), which have been recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated 
income statement.
The aggregate assets and liabilities recognised in the acquisition accounting are set out below:
 2015 2014
   Fair value Fair value
   £’000 £’000
Intangible assets   162   51
Property, plant and equipment   118 1,141 
Investment   —  10
Inventories   549  677
Receivables   1,493  1,390 
Assets held for resale   116  439 
Cash at bank   150 222 
Payables   (1,431) (1,468)
Finance Leases   (37) (555)
Grants   — (52) 
Taxation      
– Current   (200) 4 
– Deferred   (71) (48)
Net assets acquired   849  1,811 
Goodwill   1,050 4,585  
   1,899 6,396  
Satisfied by:     
Cash consideration   1,899  4,002
Contingent consideration   — 2,394  
Total consideration   1,899  6,396
Intangible assets represents the fair value of customer relationships of WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) Limited and Reid and Robertson 
Limited. The fair value exercise on the acquisition of Chirton Engineering Limited in the prior year resulted in no significant intangible assets being 
identified other than the value of employees, which is not permitted to be recognised on the balance sheet. 
Assets held for resale were sold before the year end. 87
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27 Acquisitions (continued)
Pro forma full year information
IFRS3 (revised) requires disclosure of information as to the impact on the financial statements if the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the 
accounting year.
The unaudited pro forma summary below presents the Group as if the acquisitions had been acquired on 31 August 2014 (2014: 1 September 2013).
The pro forma amounts include the results of the acquisitions and the interest expense on the increase in net debt as a result of the acquisitions.  
The pro forma amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The pro forma information is provided for comparative purposes 
only and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results.
 2015 2014
   £’000 £’000
Revenue    415,295 435,441
Profit before taxation    18,019 16,600
28 Cash generated from/(used in) operations 
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the year 13,693 12,893 2,870 2,021
Adjustments for:
Tax   3,774 3,660 232 (127)
Tax credit in respect of R & D (623) (102) — —
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — (4,200) (3,516)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5,059 4,882 — —
Depreciation of investment property 20 19 — —
Intangible asset amortisation  208 193 — —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (26) (104) — —
Impairment of investment — — 846 6
Amortisation of grants (120) (54) — —
Net fair value loss on share based payments  584 401 317 229
Net foreign exchange differences  53 160 (341) 246
Net fair value losses/(gains) on derivative financial instruments  
 in operating profit 7 9 (30) —
Finance costs:
 Interest income (197) (264) (887) (822)
 Interest expense and borrowing costs  1,445 1,679 435 531
Share of profit from associate and joint ventures  (2,307) (2,486) — —
Pension contributions – deficit reduction  (2,340) (2,340) (2,340) (2,340)
   – ongoing (339) (466) (339) (466)
IAS19 income statement charge (note 24) 120 687 120 687
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of acquisitions):
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (967) 807 — —
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 320 4,880 (162) 101
(Decrease)/increase in payables (3,237) (7,329) 564 (227)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 15,127 17,125 (2,915) (3,677) 88
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
29 Analysis of net debt
  At  Other  At
  31 August  non-cash Exchange 29 August
  2014 Cash flow changes movements 2015
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   17,268 (630) — (150) 16,488
Bank overdrafts  (243) 30 — — (213)
  17,025 (600) — (150) 16,275
Loans and other borrowings:    
 – current  (17,211) 6,327 (1,886) — (12,770)
 – non-current   (13,927) (6,370) 1,853 — (18,444)
 
Finance leases: 
 – current  (2,234) 2,395 (2,335) — (2,174)
 – non-current  (8,262) — 962 — (7,300)
Net debt   (24,609) 1,752 (1,406) (150) (24,413)
 Other non-cash changes relate to finance leases, including finance leases acquired with subsidiaries, and transfers between categories of borrowings. 
It also includes the release of deferred borrowing costs to the consolidated income statement. 
  At  Other  At
  31 August  non-cash Exchange 29 August
  2014 Cash flow changes movements 2015
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   8,822 148 — 3 8,973
Loans and other borrowings: 
 – current  (1,553) 1,529 (666) — (690)
 – non-current  (12,047) (5,000) 633 — (16,414)
Net debt  (4,778) (3,323) (33) 3 (8,131)
Other non-cash changes relate to the release of deferred borrowing costs to the consolidated income statement and transfers between categories  
of borrowings.
30 Capital Commitments
 2015 2014
Group £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment that has been contracted 
 for but has not been provided for in the accounts    22  —
The Company has no capital commitments (2014: none).
31 Other Financial Commitments 
Group
At 29 August 2015 the Group had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2015 2014
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  695 520
Within two and five years inclusive  1,104 1,024
 1,799 1,544
The Company has no commitments under non-cancellable operating leases (2014: none). 89
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
32 Financial guarantees
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Clydesdale Bank PLC in respect of the Group loans, 
overdraft, asset finance and guarantee facilities with that bank, which at 29 August 2015 amounted to £8,152,000 (2014: £10,609,000). 
 
Certain subsidiary undertakings utilise guarantee facilities with financial institutions which include their own bankers. These financial institutions in 
the normal course of business enter into certain specific guarantees with some of the subsidiaries’ customers. All these guarantees allow the financial 
institutions to have recourse to the subsidiaries if a guarantee is enforced. The total outstanding of such guarantees at 29 August 2015 was  
£1,453,000 (2014: £1,267,000).
The Company has provided specific guarantees to certain customers of a subsidiary. These are in place to guarantee the completion of the contract in 
any event. At 29 August 2015 the contracts under guarantee that have still to be completed and delivered have a total contract value of £9,521,000 
(2014: £8,430,000).
The Company has provided a guarantee over the lease of a premises occupied by a subsidiary. The guarantee is in respect of prompt and full 
payment of rents due throughout the term of the lease. As at 29 August 2015 the cumulative rent payable over the remaining term of the lease is 
£1,494,000 (2014: £nil).
 The Company has entered into a guarantee with the Trustees of the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme in respect of the punctual payment 
of obligations due to the pension scheme by the participating employers of the scheme. The Company’s total liability shall not exceed £1,500,000 
(2014: £1,500,000).
 The Group and Company does not expect any of the above guarantees to be called in.
33 Related parties 
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures and with its Directors. The balances and transactions 
shown below were all undertaken on an arm’s length basis in the normal course of business.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration Committee Report.
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by businesses controlled by key management 
 personnel (in a trading capacity):  
Trade receivables 109 84 — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  204 329 — — 90
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONTINUED
33 Related parties (continued)
Transactions with subsidiaries
  Company
    2015 2014
    £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings:
Loans     32,602 29,869
Other receivables   138 114
    32,740 29,983
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings:
Loans     (173) (173)
Other payables    (27) (29)
    (200) (202)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Management charges receivable   2,520 2,351
Dividends received    4,200 3,516
Interest receivable    744 652
Interest payable    — (2)
Transactions with associate
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by associate:
Non-current receivables — 500 — 500
Trade and other receivables  623 619 555 522
  623 1,119 555 1,022
Amounts owed to associate:
Trade and other payables (18,036) (16,067) (1) (2)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  967 1,148 — —
Rental income  19 19 — —
Management charges receivable 91 107 44 58
Management charges payable (189) (149) (8) —
Purchases (92,235) (98,526) — — 91
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
 
Revenue 147 114 — —
Management charges receivable 110 146 — —
Purchases (1,093) (274) — —
Transactions with other related parties
Other loans of £nil (2014: £500,000) included within non-current borrowings and £500,000 (2014: £500,000) included within current borrowings  
is in respect of a loan from Edward Billington and Son Limited to Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. This loan is interest free and unsecured. 
Edward Billington and Son Limited has a 49% shareholding in Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited.
34 Post balance sheet event
On 4 September 2015, after the year end, the Group completed the acquisition of the business and related assets of Green (Agriculture) Co, an  
agricultural merchant.
The net cash consideration paid was £0.3 million.
The primary reason for the business combination was the expansion of the existing agriculture business.
The provisional fair value of assets acquired are set out below:
     Provisional
     Fair value 
     £’000
Property, plant and equipment    23
Inventories    112
Receivables    55
Assets acquired    190
Goodwill    80
Satisfied by cash consideration    270
33 Related parties (continued) 
Transactions with joint ventures
 Group Company
  2015 2014 2015 2014
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by joint ventures:
Trade and other receivables 3,611 3,497 3,096 2,895
Amounts owed to joint ventures:
Trade and other payables (9) (5) — —
Included within Group trade and other receivables is £3,584,000 (2014: £3,459,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures. 
Included within Company trade and other receivables is £3,095,000 (2014: £2,888,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures. 92
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FIVE YEAR STATEMENT
    (Restated)
1
Continuing operations  2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Revenue and Results  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue   373,318 404,058 468,083 428,956 411,565
Group operating profit   9,156 12,071 13,337 15,427 16,375
Analysed as:
Operating profit before non-recurring items
  and amortisation  10,387 12,517 13,353 15,743 16,641
Non-recurring items and amortisation  (1,231) (446) (16) (316) (266)
Group operating profit    9,156 12,071 13,337 15,427 16,375
Profit on the disposal of property and investment — 282 — — —
Finance income  410 673 513 264 197
Finance costs  (1,332) (1,348) (1,318) (1,624) (1,412)
Share of post-tax profit in associate 
 and joint ventures  1,776 1,381 2,819 2,486 2,307
Profit before taxation   10,010 13,059 15,351 16,553 17,467
Taxation  (1,973) (2,954) (3,036) (3,660) (3,774)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 8,037 10,105 12,315 12,893 13,693
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 16,598 (202) — — —
Profit for the year  24,635 9,903 12,315 12,893 13,693
Ratios (continuing operations)
Operating margin (excluding non-recurring items
  and amortisation)  2.8% 3.1% 2.9% 3.7% 4.0%
Return on net assets (excluding non-recurring  
  items and amortisation)   17.9% 19.9% 19.7% 18.8% 17.9%
Earnings per share  – basic
2
  7.7p 9.8p 12.4p 12.8p 13.4p
 – adjusted
2
  8.8p 10.2p 12.4p 13.1p 13.6p
Dividends per ordinary share
2
  2.6p 2.9p 3.2p 3.4p 3.7p
1 Restated for IAS 19 revised
2 Restated for the effect of the 10:1 share split in January 2015 93
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Net assets employed  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill    4,558 5,199 5,215 9,798 10,849
Other intangible assets    1,029 728 615 499 448
Property, plant and equipment    31,519 37,158 53,068 56,626 58,385
Investment property   764 1,005 675 656 636
Investments    6,832 8,081 10,395 11,796 13,530
Financial assets
– Non-current receivables    2 2 1 501 50
Retirement benefit asset  — — — 2,056 1,767
Deferred tax assets    2,519 2,480 2,044 1,507 861
   47,223 54,653 72,013 83,439 86,526
Current assets
Inventories    22,793 27,128 33,445 33,315 35,031
Trade and other receivables    56,988 59,651 66,434 63,623 64,454
Current tax assets    9 — 178 47 839
Financial assets
– Derivative financial instruments  — — 2 — 50
– Cash and cash equivalents   33,282 23,294 22,884 17,268 16,488
  113,072 110,073 122,943 114,253 116,862
Total assets    160,295 164,726 194,956 197,692 203,388
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings  (26,436) (14,176) (15,545) (19,688) (15,157)
– Derivative financial instruments  — (309) (8) (15) (72)
Trade and other payables  (53,469) (56,108) (58,282) (54,236) (54,496)
Current tax liabilities  (1,688) (1,552) (1,639) (1,631) (472)
  (81,593) (72,145) (75,474) (75,570) (70,197)
 
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Borrowings  (2,274) (11,573) (29,448) (22,189) (25,744)
Retirement benefit obligation   (5,960) (5,351) (3,272) — —
Deferred tax liabilities  (4,007) (3,733) (3,765) (4,111) (4,184)
Other non-current liabilities  (3,617) (4,064) (4,956) (5,995) (4,300)
  (15,858) (24,721) (41,441) (32,295) (34,228)
Total liabilities  (97,451) (96,866) (116,915) (107,865) (104,425)
Net assets   62,844 67,860 78,041 89,827 98,963 94
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Carr’s Group plc 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, 
Cumbria CA3 9BA 
Tel: 01228 554600  
Fax: 01228 554601 
Website: www.carrsgroup.com
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
East Highway 212,  
PO Box 188, Belle Fourche,  
South Dakota 57717 USA 
Tel: 001 605 892 3421  
Fax: 001 605 892 3473
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
PO Box 105, 101 Roanoke 
Avenue, Poteau,  
Oklahoma 74953 USA 
Tel: 001 918 647 8133  
Fax: 001 918 647 7318
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
PO Box 569, 1700 US 50 East,
Silver Springs, Nevada 89429 
Tel: 001 775 577 2002  
Fax: 001 775 577 4625
Caltech 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 32592  
Fax: 016973 32339
Scotmin
13 Whitfield Drive, Heathfield  
Ind Est, Ayr KA8 9RX 
Tel: 01292 280 909  
Fax: 01292 280 919
Aminomax 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle  
Tel: 01228 554 600  
Fax: 01228 554 601
Horslyx LLC
810 Waterman Drive, Watertown  
New York 13601, USA 
Tel: 001 315 785 3625
Fax: 001 315 785 3627 
Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC*
783 Eagle Boulevard, Shelbyville,
TN 37160, USA
Tel: 001 877 618 6455
Fax: 001 877 618 6489 
Crystalyx Products GmbH* 
Am Stau 199-203, 26122, 
Oldenburg, Germany 
Tel: 00 49 441 2188 92142  
Fax: 00 49 441 2188 92177
ACC Feed Supplement LLC* 
5101 Harbor Drive,
Sioux City, Iowa 51111 
Tel: 001 712 255 6927  
Fax: 001 712 252 4845
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Parkhill Road, Kingstown Ind Est, 
Carlisle CA3 0EX 
Tel: 01228 529 021  
Fax: 01228 554 397 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Lansil Way, Lancaster LA1 3QY
Tel: 01524 597 200  
Fax: 01524 597 229
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
High Mill, Langwathby, 
Penrith CA10 1NB
Tel: 01768 889 800  
Fax: 01768 889 887
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Operations)** 
Cold Meece, Stone ST15 0QW
Tel: 01785 760 535  
Fax: 01785 760 888
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Annan 
Annan Business Park, Annan, 
Dumfriesshire DG12 6TZ
Tel: 01461 202 772  
Fax: 01461 202 712 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Appleby
Crosscroft Industrial Estate, 
Appleby, Cumbria CA16 6HX
Tel: 01768 352 999
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Askrigg
Uredale Mill, Askrigg, Leyburn, 
North Yorkshire DL8 7HZ
Tel: 01969 650 229
Fax: 01969 650 770
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Barnard Castle 
Montalbo Road, Barnard Castle, 
Co Durham DL12 8ED 
Tel: 01833 637 537  
Fax: 01833 638 010
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Bakewell
Unit 4-6, Kingfisher Building,
Buxton Road, Bakewell,
Derbyshire DE45 1GZ
Tel: 01629 814 126
Fax: 01629 814 804
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Berwick upon Tweed 
29 Northumberland Road,
Berwick upon Tweed,
Northumberland TD15 2AS 
Tel: 01289 307 245  
Fax: 01289 305 727
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Brecon
Warren Road Stores, Warren Road, 
Brecon, Powys, LD3 8FF
Tel: 01874 623470
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Brock 
Brockholes Way, Claughton 
Trading Estate, Lancaster Old 
Road, Claughton on Brock,  
Preston PR3 0PZ 
Tel: 01995 643 200  
Fax: 01995 643 220
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Carlisle 
Montgomery Way, Rosehill Estate, 
Carlisle CA1 2UY 
Tel: 01228 520 212  
Fax: 01228 817 800
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Cockermouth 
Unit 5, Lakeland Agricultural 
Centre, Cockermouth CA13 0QQ 
Tel: 01900 824 105  
Fax: 01900 826 860
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Gisburn 
Pendle Mill, Mill Lane, Gisburn, 
Clitheroe, Lancashire BB7 4LN 
Tel: 01200 445 491
Fax: 01200 445 305
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Hawes 
Burtersett Road, Hawes,  
North Yorkshire DL8 3NP 
Tel: 01969 667 334  
Fax: 01969 667 335 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Hexham 
Tyne Mills Industrial Estate, 
Hexham, Northumberland  
NE46 1XL 
Tel: 01434 605 371  
Fax: 01434 608 938 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Jedburgh 
Mounthooly, Crailing,
Jedburgh, TD8 6TJ 
Tel: 01835 850 250  
Fax: 01835 850 748
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Kendal 
Unit 1, J36, Rural Auction  
Centre, Crooklands, Kendal, 
Cumbria LA7 7FP
Tel: 01539 566 035
Fax: 01539 566 042
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Leek 
Macclesfield Road, Leek, 
Staffordshire ST13 8NR 
Tel: 01538 383 277
Fax: 01538 385 731
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Malton 
31 Horsemarket, Malton,
North Yorkshire YO17 7NB
Tel: 01653 600 328
Fax: 01653 690 338
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Milnathort 
Stirling Road, Milnathort,  
Kinross KY13 9UZ   
Tel: 01577 862 381  
Fax: 01577 863 057
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Morpeth 
20c Coopies Lane  
Industrial Estate, Morpeth, 
Northumberland NE61 6JN 
Tel: 01670 503 930  
Fax: 01670 504 404
 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Morpeth (Greens)
Old Station Buildings, Coopies 
Lane, Morpeth, Northumberland, 
NE61 2SL
Tel: 01670 518474/84
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Penrith
Haweswater Road, Penrith 
Industrial Estate, Penrith,
Cumbria CA11 9EH
Tel: 01768 862 160
Fax: 01768 899 345 
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Perth 
17/18 Arran Place, Arran Road, 
Perth PH1 3RN 
Tel: 01738 643 022
Fax:  01738 442 122
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Rothbury
The Store, Coquet View,  
Rothbury, Morpeth, 
Northumberland, NE64 7RZ
Tel: 01669 621150
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Selkirk
The Former Baxter’s Unit, 
Dunsdale Haugh,
Selkirk, Selkirkshire, TD7 5EF
Tel: 01750 720 734
DIRECTORY OF OPERATIONS 95
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Settle 
Unit 6, The Sidings Industrial 
Estate, Settle, North Yorkshire 
BD24 9RP 
Tel: 01729 825 812  
Fax: 01729 825 812
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Skipton 
Skipton Auction Mart,  
Gargrave Road, Skipton,  
North Yorkshire BD23 1UD
Tel: 01756 792 166
Fax: 01756 701 008 
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Spennymoor
Southend Works, Byers Green,
Spennymoor, Co. Durham,
DL16 7NL
Tel: 01388 662 266
Fax: 01388 603 743
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Stirling
Stirling Agricultural Centre,
Stirling FK9 4RN
Tel: 01786 474 826
Fax: 01786 472 933
Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales), Wigton
Hopes Auction Co Ltd., 
Skye Road, Wigton, 
Cumbria, CA7 9NS
Tel: 016973 45874
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Wooler
Bridge End, South Road,
Wooler, Northumberland,
NE71 6QE
Tel: 01668 281 567
Fax: 01668 283 453
Reid & Robertson, a division of 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales)
Ballagan, Stirling Road, 
Balloch, G83 8LY
Tel: 01389 752800
Workware
Kingstown Broadway,
Kingstown Industrial Estate,
Carlisle CA3 0HA
Tel: 01228 591 091
Fax: 01228 590 026
Wallace Oils, Carlisle
Kingstown Broadway,
Kingstown Industrial Estate,
Carlisle CA3 0HA
Tel: 01228 534 342
Fax: 01228 590 820
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Castle Douglas
Abercromby Industrial Park,
Castle Douglas, Dumfriesshire,
DG7 1BA
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Dumfries
Dargavel Stores, Lockerbie Road,
Dumfries, Dumfriesshire DG1 3PG
Tel: 01387 750 747
Fax: 01387 750 747
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Stranraer
Droughduil, Dunragit,
Stranraer DG9 8QA
Tel: 01581 400 356
Fax: 01581 400 356
Afgritech LLC*
810 Waterman Drive, Watertown,
New York 13601, USA
Tel: 001 315 785 3625
Fax: 001 315 785 3627
Bibby Agriculture*
Priory House, Priory Street,
Carmarthen SA31 1NE
Tel: 01267 232 041
Fax: 01267 232 374
Bibby Agriculture*
1A Network House,
Badgers Way,
Oxon Business Park,
Shrewsbury, Shropshire,
SY3 5AB
Tel: 01743 237 890
Fax: 01743 351 552
Bendalls
Brunthill Road,
Kingstown Industrial Estate,
Carlisle CA3 0EH
Tel: 01228 526 246
Fax: 01228 525 634
R Hind
Kingstown Broadway,
Kingstown Industrial Estate,
Carlisle CA3 0HA
Tel: 01228 523 647
Fax: 01228 512 712
Carrs MSM
Unit 1 Spitfire Way, Hunts Rise,
South Marston Park, Swindon,
Wiltshire SN3 4TX
Tel: 01793 824 891
Fax: 01793 824 894
Chirton Engineering
Unit 4A, High Flatworth,  
Tyne Tunnel Trading Estate,
North Shields, Tyne & Wear,  
NE29 7SW
Tel: 0191 296 2020
Wälischmiller Engineering
GmbH
Schießstattweg 16, 88677
Markdorf, Germany
Tel: 0049 7544 95140
Fax: 0049 7544 951499
Carr’s Flour, Silloth
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton,
Cumbria CA7 4AJ
Tel: 01697 333 700
Fax: 01697 332 543
Carr’s Flour, Maldon
Station Road, Maldon,
Essex CM9 4LQ
Tel: 01621 852 696
Fax: 01621 854 525
Carr’s Flour, Scotland
East Bridge, Kirkcaldy,
Fife KY1 2SR
Tel: 01592 267 191
Fax: 01592 641 805
Silloth Storage Company*
Station Road, Silloth,
Wigton, Cumbria, CA7 4JQ
* joint venture company
** associate company 96
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS
DORMANT SUBSIDIARIES
Registered and Located
England & Wales
England & Wales
Scotland
England & Wales
England & Wales
Scotland
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
Ireland
England & Wales
Scotland
Scotland
England & Wales
England & Wales
Scotland
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
Scotland
Scotland
England & Wales
Scotland
England & Wales
England & Wales
Company Name
A C Burn Limited
B. E. Williams Limited
Bowie & Aram Limited 
Caltech Biotechnology Limited
Carrs Animal Feed Supplements Limited
Carrs Blends Limited
Carrs Feeds Limited
Carrs Fertilisers Limited 
Carrs Foodtech Limited 
Carr’s International Industries Limited
Carr’s Milling Industries Limited
Carrs Milling Limited
Carrs Natural Feeds Limited 
Chirton Engineering Limited
Forsyths of (Wooler) Limited 
George Shackleton & Sons Limited
Greens Flour Mills Limited 
J M Raine Limited 
Johnstone Fuels and Lubricants Limited
Northern Feeds Solutions Limited
R Hind Limited
Reid and Robertson Limited 
Robert Hutchison Limited 
Robertsons (Bakers) Limited 
Safe at Work Limited
Scotmin Nutrition Limited 
Scotphos Limited
Walischmiller Solutions Limited 
Wallace Oils Holdings Limited 
Wallace Oils Limited
WM. Nicholls & Company (Crickhowell) Limited
Financial Adviser and Broker
Investec Bank (UK) Limited
2 Gresham Street,
London,
EC2V 7QP
Financial and Corporate PR Advisers
Powerscourt
1 Tudor Street,
London,
EC4Y 0AH
Solicitors
Hill Dickinson LLP
1 St Paul’s Square,
Liverpool,
L3 9SJ
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry,
34 Beckenham Road,
Beckenham,
Kent,
BR3 4TU
Registered Office
Carr’s Group plc
Old Croft, Stanwix,
Carlisle,
CA3 9BA
Registered No. 98221
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Central Square South,
Orchard Street,
Newcastle upon Tyne,
NE1 3AZ
Bankers
Clydesdale Bank PLC
82 English Street,
Carlisle,
CA3 8HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC
37 Lowther Street,
Carlisle,
CA3 8EL
1
 100% owned by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited which is a 51% subsidiary of Carr’s Group plc.
 Ownership
 100%
 51%
1
 100%
 100%
 100%
 100%
 51%
1
 100%
 100%
 100%
 100%
 100%
 100%
 100%
 51%
1
 100%
 100%
 51%
1
 51%
1
 100%
 100%
 51%
1
 100%
 96%
 51%
1
 100%
 100%
 100%
 51%
1
 51%
1
 51%
1 STRATEGIC REPORT
THE
GROUP
STRATEGIC REPORT
1 Highlights
2 Group at a Glance
4 Chairman’s Statement
6 Group Strategy
7 Divisional Highlights
8 Strategy in Action
10 Chief Executive’s Review
15 Risk Management
18 Financial Review
20 Key Performance Indicators
21 The Board
22 Corporate Responsibility
CONTENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
25 Corporate Governance Report
28 Audit Committee Report
30 Remuneration Committee Report
36 Nominations Committee Report
37 Directors’ Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
40 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members  
 of Carr’s Group plc
44 Consolidated Income Statement
45 Consolidated and Company Statements 
 of Comprehensive Income 
46 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
47 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
48 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
49 Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows
50 Principal Accounting Policies
55 Notes to the Financial Statements
92 Five Year Statement
94 Directory of Operations
96 Registered Office and Advisers
CARR’S GROUP PLC IS FOCUSSED ON THE 
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF AGRICULTURE, 
FOOD AND ENGINEERING.
Carr’s Group plc is an international 
business operating across 
Agriculture, Food and Engineering, 
supplying over 35 countries around 
the world.
The Agriculture division comprises 
an international feed block 
supplement business with 
manufacturing locations in the 
USA, UK and Europe. In the UK 
the division also sells animal feed, 
fertiliser, animal health products, oil, 
farm machinery and rural supplies 
from its 30 Country Stores.
The Food division produces flour 
from three strategically located mills 
in the UK to the bread, biscuit and 
retail markets.
The Engineering division designs, 
manufactures and supplies 
specialist precision parts, 
equipment, robotics and remote 
handling products from three 
sites in the UK and one site in 
Germany. These highly specialised 
products and services are supplied 
predominately into the nuclear and 
oil and gas markets.  
The Group is listed on the London 
Stock Exchange.
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk CARR’S GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrsgroup.com
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
2015
AGRICULTURE | FOOD | ENGINEERING
DIVERSITY STRENGTHENS PERFORMANCE
