 CENTAUR MEDIA PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
WE CREATE
THAT INSPIRES AND ENABLES  
PEOPLE TO EXCEL AT  
WHAT THEY DO  3
CENTAUR MEDIA: INSPIRES AND ENABLES
CENTAUR MEDIA:
INSPIRES  
AND ENABLES
Expert content and insight, engaging events,  
smart digital technology
Centaur Media is a UK-based multi-platform content  
group that inspires and enables people to excel at what  
they do, setting the standard for market insight,  
interaction and impact.
Centaur Media creates expert insight and content, 
engaging events and smart digital technology.
We provide information, intelligence, events and 
marketing solutions - from our digital media and  
iconic print brands to our award-winning events and 
cutting-edge data products.
We create products and services that make content 
valuable, combining the deepest knowledge with the  
best user experience in whatever format and at  
whatever frequency best suits our customers.
We understand our customers and their needs.  
We enable and inspire the very best performance  
in our core markets.
Collaboration is at the heart of everything we do: our 
content creators, data experts, event organisers and 
digital specialists work together to connect our  
customers with the best information and experiences.
Centaur Media is a content business with a relentless 
focus on the customer, continually redefining what 
content means in the 21st century and seeking new  
ways of communicating to our customers.
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
04 Reporting Period
04 Highlights
04 Outlook
05 Financial Highlights
PART 1 - PERFORMANCE REPORT
06 Chairman’s Statement
07 Chief Executive’s Review
10 Strategic Report
10   Strategy
11   Business Model
12   Key Performance Indicators
13   Risk Management
16   Operating Review
26   Financial Review
34   Corporate Responsibility
PART 2 - GOVERNANCE
36 Board of Directors
38 Executive Committee
40 Directors’ Report
44 Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
50 Audit Committee Report
56 Nomination Committee Report
58 Remuneration Committee Report
77 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
PART 3 – INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
78 Independent Auditors’ Report
PART 4 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
89 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
90 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
91 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
92 Company Statement of Financial Position
93 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
94 Company Cash Flow Statement
95 Notes to the Financial Statements
OTHER INFORMATION
141 Five Year Record
142  Directors, Advisors and Other Corporate 
Information REASONS TO INVEST IN CENTAUR MEDIA INTRODUCTION
4 5
1 
Underlying growth rates exclude the impact of the disposal of Perfect Information (H1 2014 revenue contribution of £2.6m), Aidex (H2 2014 
revenue contribution of £0.8m) and discontinued events (H1 2014 revenue contribution of £1.3m). Excluding the impact of discontinued events, 
underlying revenues grew by 2%.
2 
The reported operating loss and loss before tax in 2015 include a charge of £11.9m (2014: £nil) relating to the non-cash impairment of goodwill  
in the Professional segment.
3
Adjusted results exclude adjusting items as detailed in note 1 to the Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
   Year ended  Year ended 18 months ended
 31 December 31 December  31 December Reported Underlying
 2015 2014 2014   growth growth
1
 Audited Unaudited Audited
        
          
Revenue (£m) 70.5 72.8 105.6 (3%) 4%
Operating (loss) / profit (£m)
2 
 (4.7) 3.0 1.1 (256%)
Adjusted operating profit (£m)
3  
 10.5 10.2 11.7 3% 1 4%
Adjusted operating profit margin
3
 14.9% 14.0% 11.1% 
Adjusted profit before tax (£m)
3
  9.8 9.2 10.1
(Loss) / profit before tax (£m) (5.6) 14.2 11.3
Fully diluted EPS (pence) (4.6) 9.1 7.2
Adjusted fully diluted EPS (pence)
3
   5.3  5.0 5.5 6%
Dividend per share (pence) 3.0 3.0 3.85
Adjusted operating cash flow (£m)
3
 3.3 12.5 12.9
Cash conversion  31% 123% 110%
REPORTING PERIOD
This annual report covers the statutory reporting period which is the year to 31 December 2015 (‘the reporting 
period’).  Due to the change in year end from 30 June to 31 December during 2014, resulting in an 18-month  
reporting period for 2014, we have considered it beneficial to include additional information in respect of the 
calendar year ended 31 December 2014 (which is unaudited) to enhance comparison with the 2015 reporting  
period.  References to underlying or reported growth refer to comparative 12 month periods throughout.  
HIGHLIGHTS
OUTLOOK
Underlying revenues
1
  increased 4% at £70.5m Quality of mix continuing to improve:  
digital revenues +20%
Adjusted operating profits
3
  up 14% on  
an underlying basis at £10.5m
Adjusted operating margins increase to  
14.9% (2014: 14.0%)  
Final dividend of 1.5p (2014: 1.3p) in line  
with guidance
Adjusted fully diluted EPS increases by  
6% to 5.3p (2014: 5.0p)
Encouraging start to 2016
Non cash impairment charge of £11.9m  
(2014: £nil) resulting in reported loss before  
tax of £5.6m (2014: PBT £11.3m)
5% revenue growth and modest improvement  
over 15% adjusted operating margin targeted  
for current year
Net debt at £17.9m (2014: £14.7m) with leverage  
(net debt/adjusted EBITDA) of 1.3 times
Leverage (net debt / adjusted EBITDA) targeted at  
less than 1 times by end 2016
Cash conversion rates returning to +100% in 2016 6 7
PERFORMANCE REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Overview
Centaur made steady progress against its strategic 
priorities during the year.  2015 was the second year of 
our programme to re-energise and to build a platform 
that can support stronger growth in the future.  We are 
focused on improving our brands and products for both 
audiences and customers through innovation, platform 
improvements and specific product changes. 
We have improved the overall quality of our revenue streams 
and earnings, with total digital and live events revenues 
now accounting for almost 80% of Group revenues and with 
adjusted operating profit margins up to 15%. 
Across the Group we are gradually transitioning away 
from less visible transactional revenues dependent 
on scale – such as advertising – to those that can 
deliver significantly more value to our customers.  Our 
investment and focus on the customer is critical if we 
want to improve the quality of our paid-for content.  We 
must create content that adds value to their business and 
that they are willing to pay for.  However whilst advertising 
revenues still contribute just under one third of the 
Group’s total revenues, we have successfully reshaped our 
relationship with our audiences and clients to be more 
digitally-focused, and digital advertising now accounts for 
almost 60% of total advertising revenues. 
In my 2014 review, I set out the vision for Centaur Media 
as a multi-platform content group.  The four strategic 
priorities which were set out at that time remain central 
to everything we do. 
  To be the most 
knowledgeable, connected 
and authoritative 
experts in our markets, 
totally focussed on our 
customers’ needs
  To generate sustainable 
growth in profits and cash 
flow with high-quality 
revenue streams and an 
efficient and scalable 
operating model
  To create products and 
services that are both 
innovative and market-
leading, backed by  
strong digital and  
events expertise
  To be a united team of 
entrepreneurial, multi-
skilled professionals
2015 saw many achievements.  We re-launched 9 
magazines, 12 of our websites and 2 other annual events 
and launched 6 new annual events and one bi-annual 
event as well as 3 new subscription products.  Improving 
the engagement with our digital audiences is a critical 
ingredient to re-energise our well-established brands and 
we are delighted to report that we have seen numerous 
examples of improved digital engagement. 
The Home Interest portfolio has performed exceptionally 
well, with underlying revenue growth of 9%, 
demonstrating the importance of a market-led strategy.  
I am also encouraged to see that the Financial Services 
portfolio, which reported a 12% underlying decline in 
revenues in 2014, saw underlying revenues grow by 3% in 
2015. 
The Marketing portfolio grew underlying revenues by 
4%, which was lower than the 7% growth achieved in 
2014, but we are confident that the rate of growth will 
improve in 2016.  Across the Professional portfolio, total 
underlying revenues grew by 1%, helped by a particularly 
strong performance from the Legal portfolio. This was 
offset by declining HR revenues and modest underlying 
growth from across the Engineering and Travel portfolios. 
Reflecting a more moderate growth outlook across the 
Professional segment, including HR and Engineering, 
and specifically reflecting weaker print and advertising 
trends, the Group has recognised a non-cash impairment 
of £11.9m against goodwill in the Professional segment 
(2014: £nil).
During the year we have invested in building our own in-
house conference team.  We can see good opportunity in 
this area across all of our portfolios and it is important to 
us to manage this opportunity ourselves.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder
This is my first review as Chairman of Centaur Media, 
having been appointed in May 2015.  In the intervening 
time, I have come to understand a great deal about the 
inherent strengths and attractiveness of the Group, 
together with an appreciation of some of the challenges 
that we face in rapidly changing markets.
The world of B2B media is highly competitive, and 
the creation of sustainably differentiated offerings 
to customers across multiple platforms is far from 
straightforward.  Ultimately, success hinges upon an in-
depth understanding of customer requirements and how 
these are evolving, coupled with sufficient organisational 
agility to deliver the desired mix of insightful products 
and services.  It is this market-led approach, built 
upon understanding and meeting customer needs, that 
characterises the Centaur strategy.
Under the leadership of Andria Vidler and her 
team, Centaur has embarked upon a programme of 
transformation. A disparate collection of independent 
brands is being melded into a focused set of vertical 
market portfolios, where customer understanding and 
relationship can be leveraged. A print heritage is gradually 
being replaced by a truly multi-platform approach, with 
a clear focus on paid-for digital content and live events. 
Innovation is a crucial ingredient in the mix.
The Centaur transformation is not easy; it brings with it a 
degree of organisational complexity and the requirement 
to foster new behaviours and ways of doing business 
within the Group. It is also not yet complete; whilst the 
core elements are in place, much remains to be done. And 
the transformation is taking place against a backdrop of a 
continuing decline in print advertising spend, particularly 
in relation to recruitment advertising. But I am confident 
that the chosen strategic direction is sound and that 
Andria and her executive team have the talent, ambition 
and commitment to deliver it. A platform is being 
created at Centaur that should provide the foundations 
for superior growth, both organically and through 
selective acquisition, in revenues, profits and ultimately, 
shareholder value.
Results and Dividend
In 2015, Centaur’s underlying revenues grew by 4% to 
£70.5m.  Adjusted operating profit grew by 3% to £10.5m, 
and adjusted diluted earnings per share rose by 6% to 5.3 
pence.
In light of this performance, the Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 1.5 pence per share, to give a total 
dividend for the year of 3.0 pence per share.  This 
compares to 3.85p per share for the 18 months ended 31 
December 2014. 
2015 has been a year of good progress across many fronts 
at Centaur.  This reflects the commitment and dedication 
of colleagues at all levels in the Group, and I would like to 
extend my thanks to all for their hard work.
Governance
Centaur remains fully committed to the highest standards 
of corporate governance, and the Board takes very 
seriously its duties to operate with integrity, transparency 
and clear accountability.  It also pays close attention to 
understanding and managing risk.  Detail of what this 
means in practice, for the Board and its Committees, is 
contained within the governance section of the Annual 
Report.
During the year, I succeeded Patrick Taylor as Chairman 
of Centaur.  On behalf of the Board, I am keen to extend 
my thanks to Patrick for his leadership and his very 
considerable contribution over many years.
Our Senior Independent Director, Chris Satterthwaite, 
has informed the Board of his intention to step down 
during 2016 after 9 years as a Non-Executive Director of 
the Group.  He will only do so once a new Non-Executive 
Director has been appointed, and we have now started 
a process to identify and appoint a suitable candidate.  
Chris’s commitment and contribution to Centaur has been 
outstanding, and he will be much missed when he leaves 
later this year. 
Ronald Sandler
Chairman
16 March 2016 8 9
PERFORMANCE REPORT
Current Trading and Outlook
We have made an encouraging start to 2016, and I am 
targeting revenue growth of at least 5% for the year.  The 
Marketing portfolio has started the year well, and in 
February the Business Travel Show, one of the Group’s 
larger events, reported revenues up 30%.
Cash collection continues to improve and we remain 
confident that cash conversion rates will return to 
normalised levels in 2016, with leverage (net debt/
adjusted EBITDA) tracking below one times by the end of 
the year.
The Board remains encouraged by the continuing shift in 
the Group’s revenues in favour of digital paid-for content 
and live events, which are both higher quality and higher 
margin.  This trend has been assisted by investment in 
infrastructure and people over the last two years.  We will 
undertake some further investment in the current year 
to substantially complete this process.  As a result, the 
adjusted operating margin in 2016 is expected to show 
only modest improvement over the 15% recorded in 2015.
However, we are aiming for an acceleration in our growth 
and margin in 2017 as the benefits of our investment in 
the business kick in.  We are maintaining our target for an 
adjusted operating margin of 20% for the business in the 
future.
Andria Vidler
Chief Executive Officer
16 March 2016
We have also invested in Centaur IQ as part of our 
determination to swing the focus of the business wholly 
onto our customers.  Centaur IQ adds a further cross 
portfolio capability.  It enables us to track and monitor 
our products and our customers’ satisfaction with them; 
we can now measure individual product performance, 
customer engagement, loyalty and overall satisfaction.  
Through a number of dashboards we are now much 
closer to our customers, developing products and 
services, in some cases partnering with them.  This work 
is ongoing and is fundamentally changing how we work.
More details of some of these portfolio successes are 
given in the Divisional Review below but it is worth noting 
that our investment and development of our market-
leading brands has been recognised by our industry peers 
and we have received the following awards this year: 
PPA Awards 2015:  
Columnist of the Year (Marketing Week)
PPA Digital Awards 2015:  
Content Sales Team of the Year (Profile Group)
PPA Connect Awards 2015:  
Exhibition of the Year (National Homebuilding  
& Renovating)
PPA Digital Awards 2015:  
Best Use of Technology for our WordPress development
In 2015 there was heavy lifting on the operational side 
as we made a number of significant improvements to 
our technology platforms.  Our businesses now operate 
on a single financial platform, simplifying support and 
reporting; more of our sales teams operate on a core 
CRM system, that will enable easier up-selling and cross 
selling across and within portfolios; and our publishing 
brands’ websites have all been upgraded to a common, 
fully responsive digital platform enabling greater 
audience engagement on mobile and desktop.  While 
the deployment of these technology initiatives resulted 
in some additional implementation effort across the 
business last year, we start 2016 confident that we have 
platforms in place that can better support our more agile 
and higher growth business.
Due to the change in year end from 30 June to 31 
December during 2014, resulting in an 18-month 
reporting period for 2014, we have considered it 
beneficial to include additional information in respect 
of the calendar year ended 31 December 2014 (which 
is unaudited) to enhance comparison with the 2015 
reporting period.  References to underlying or reported 
growth refer to comparative 12 month periods throughout.  
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 were 
£70.5m, with underlying revenue growth of 4%, driven 
principally by growth in paid-for content and live events.  
Adjusted operating profits for the same period were 
£10.5m, with an adjusted operating profit margin of 15%.  
Net debt at 31 December was £17.9m, which reflects a 
disappointing cash conversion performance throughout 
2015.  With new finance and CRM platforms now 
deployed, we expect this trend to reverse in 2016, and we 
are confident that the Group’s business model will return 
to being highly cash-generative in the future. 
The journey of transformation away from Centaur’s siloed 
and format-based publishing legacy towards a business 
being driven by strong content and customer demand 
was never going to be quick or easy.  As a result, whilst 
the challenges of 2015 were demanding they were part of 
this evolution and I am satisfied with the overall progress 
we made in embedding a new operational infrastructure.  
Throughout this testing period we never lost sight of our 
long-term goals and strategic priorities and continued 
to invest in critical product development whilst also 
maintaining acute attention to cost.  I would like to thank 
everyone in the Group for working so hard to manage this 
parallel approach and I am delighted that we delivered 
a higher operating margin alongside significant product 
innovation.
In order to maximise Centaur’s potential the business 
needs a strong talented team at all levels.  Alongside the 
recruitment of new talent, personal development and 
training is therefore an increasingly important ingredient 
in our business evolution.  My aim is to create a culture 
that enables individuals to grow and empowers teams 
to collaborate successfully to deliver new projects.  
Combining the spirit and knowledge of the existing team 
with the addition of new skills will enable Centaur to 
continue its entrepreneurial spirit whilst adopting new 
skills and working practices. 
Many of our competitors remain platform centric, 
organised around events or print formats.  That is not 
our strategy.  We are committed to being market-led 
and providing the best solutions for our audiences and 
customers on their preferred platform or platforms.  We 
are totally focussed across all of our portfolios on what 
our customers want: what data do they need, who are they 
trying to reach, who do they want to meet.  This customer 
centric model differentiates Centaur and I believe it is the 
smart way for a truly multi-platform, customer focused 
media business to work.  
We are looking forward to being able to build on the solid 
progress made in 2015.  2016 will see the completion of 
the major part of our investment to re-focus Centaur and 
I believe that we are increasingly well placed to achieve 
higher levels of growth for our shareholders.
During the year we 
have invested in 
building our own  
in-house 
conference team. 
We can see good 
opportunity in this 
area across all 
of our portfolios 
and it is important 
to us to manage 
this opportunity 
ourselves. 10 11
PERFORMANCE REPORT
BUSINESS MODEL 
The Group’s activities are categorised across four market 
segments: Marketing, Financial Services, Professional 
and Home Interest.  These activities are supported by 
expert teams across digital product development, IQ 
(marketing and research), production, live events and 
exhibition operations. 
The Group generates revenues from three primary revenue 
sources: paid-for content, live events and advertising.
 Paid-for content revenues include:
Subscriptions: These are the fees that customers pay to 
receive access to the Group’s information, through online 
access to various databases or through regular delivery of 
soft copy research or hard copy magazines.  Subscription 
revenue is recognised over the period of the subscription.
Copy sales: These are generated primarily across 
the Group’s Home Interest print titles, Homebuilding 
& Renovating, Real Homes and Period Living, and 
selectively across the Group’s business magazines, 
including Creative Review and Marketing Week.  This 
area also covers the sale of market reports from the 
Platforum business and other one-off sales of products 
and services.  Revenues are recognised in line with the 
publishing schedule for these products.
  Live events revenues are all recognised when the event 
is held and are typically paid in advance of the event. 
These include:
Exhibitor revenues: This represents space sold at our live 
events that enable our customers to raise awareness and 
sell their products and services.  It is an ideal way for our 
customers to forge new relationships through face-to-
face meetings and sell or showcase their products.
Sponsorship revenues: Across all of our live events, we 
have partners that want to be associated with the event. 
Through their participation they can create, develop and 
increase brand awareness, furthering their credibility 
within a target audience to develop contacts and exposure 
for their business. 
Attendee revenues: Our consumer-focused exhibitions, 
The Festival of Marketing and our meetings and awards 
events all charge a fee for attendees to access the event.  
The Group also generates revenues from sales of tables 
for companies and individuals attending the various 
industry awards evenings the Group organises, as well as 
the paid-for entries to these awards. 
Training revenues: The Group provides digital marketing 
training services to customers in the UK and overseas 
through the Econsultancy business.  These services are 
delivered through public training courses and through the 
delivery of bespoke services to clients.  The revenues are 
recognised when the training is delivered.
  Advertising revenues represent the fees that customers 
pay to place an advertisement in one or more of the Group’s 
publications, either in print, online or on mobile. There are 
products where advertising is the main driver and others 
where advertising is simply a supplemental earnings 
stream. This includes display, classified and recruitment 
advertising whatever the delivery platform. The Group 
also classifies as advertising, revenues generated from 
sponsored content, content marketing, native advertising 
and other publication-based marketing solutions, whether 
print or digital.  Revenue is recognised on publication.
We build a deeper understanding of the commercial 
opportunities across each market through an unremitting 
focus on our markets and audience.  We know that 
our customers want flexible content that works 
seamlessly across multiple platforms.  By leveraging this 
market insight and an understanding of our customer 
requirements we are able to offer a higher-value customer 
proposition.  This is delivered in whatever format our 
clients want, whether that is in print, digital or as a live 
event.  Each market segment has clear growth plans 
focused on new digital products, new revenues streams, 
multi-platform content and clear competitor differentials.
Supporting each of these markets, we have centralised 
expert teams across digital product development, IQ 
(marketing and research), production, live events and 
exhibition operations. 
These teams provide the expertise and scale that allows 
us to support effectively and efficiently the delivery of 
commercial opportunities across each market.  The 
creation of these expert teams also enables us to manage 
our cost base effectively and to prioritise investment 
across the business.
The commercial activities of the business, including 
the market-facing portfolios and the expert teams, are 
supported by Group functions including finance, HR, 
property, legal, risk management and IT.
All costs across the business are tightly managed with a 
rigorous focus on margin and return on investment. We 
seek to maintain as flexible and scalable a cost base as 
possible, outsourcing or consolidating shared activities 
where possible.  All of our London activities are now 
consolidated within one building.
This structure creates the potential to scale opportunities 
that alongside underlying revenue growth enables good 
progression in adjusted operating margins.  It also creates 
the opportunity to effectively bolt on acquisitions where 
these can accelerate revenue and margin growth. 
While our business remains primarily UK-focused, we have a 
growing presence in North America and Asia, and we continue 
to explore opportunities across these markets. To underline 
Centaur’s outward-looking strategy, an experienced general 
manager to oversee our US businesses was appointed in 
February 2015 and is based in our New York office.
STRATEGIC REPORT 
STRATEGY
Centaur Media is a content business that predominantly 
offers professionals products and services that accelerate 
their marketing and business performance.  Our core 
objective is to deliver sustainable growth in revenues, 
profits and cash flow, and in turn to increase shareholder 
value.  To achieve this we have set out four strategic 
priorities. These are set out below alongside the initiatives 
we are taking to deliver these, the associated risks and 
the KPIs against which we measure progress internally.  
See page 13 for a detailed explanation of the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties.
PRIORITY ACTIONS KEY RISKS METRICS
To be the most 
knowledgeable,  
connected and 
authoritative  
experts in our markets
The Group has refocused 
across its core market 
segments, and has created 
expert teams to support the 
commercial activity across 
each market. 
    Competitive threat and 
loss of key staff
    Industry recognition
    Client engagement
    Market share
To generate sustainable 
growth in profits and cash 
flows with high quality, 
recurring revenue streams 
and an efficient and 
scalable operating model
The Group is leveraging its 
expertise across live events 
and digital paid-for content 
to grow these recurring 
revenue streams. The 
restructure around expert 
teams and Group functions 
creates the scale that 
can support good margin 
growth.
    Downturn in economy  
or market sectors 
    Failure in digital or live 
events strategy
    Increasing share of live 
events and paid-for 
content revenues 
    Growth in subscription 
invoiced contract values
    Adjusted operating 
margin
    Revenue per employee
To create products and 
services that are both 
innovative and market-
leading, backed by 
strong digital and events 
expertise
The focus across our core 
markets and the creation 
of expert teams in digital 
and live events enable 
the Group to prioritise 
investment and to maintain 
a strong pipeline of new 
product development.
    Competitive threat
    Downturn in market 
sector
    Failure to respond 
fast enough to market 
requirements or 
technological change
    Successful launches 
measured against 
return on investment, 
revenues and operating 
margin
    Market share
To be a united team of 
entrepreneurial, multi-
skilled professionals
Creation of a ‘One Centaur 
Media’ culture.  Alignment 
of incentive plans and link 
to portfolio and Group 
metrics.
    Loss of key staff
    Failure to recruit and 
retain talented new 
employees
     Staff retention and 
engagement 12 13
PERFORMANCE REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT
RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH
The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness 
of the Group’s system of risk management and internal 
controls and these are regularly monitored by the Audit 
Committee.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in this 
financial year can be found in the Audit Committee Report 
on page 50.
The Executive Committee is responsible for identifying, 
managing and monitoring material risks in each area of 
the business and is responsible for regularly reviewing and 
updating the risk register as well as reporting to the Audit 
Committee in relation to risks, mitigations and controls.  
As the Group operates principally from one office and with 
relatively short management reporting lines, members 
of the Executive Committee are closely involved in day-
to-day matters and able to identify areas of increasing 
risk quickly and respond accordingly.  Each risk identified 
is assigned to a member of the Executive Committee or 
senior management.  The Audit Committee considers risk 
management and controls regularly and the Board formally 
considers risks to the Group’s strategy and plans as well 
as the risk management process as part of its strategic 
review.
The risk register is the core element of the Group’s risk 
management process. The register is maintained by 
the Company Secretary with input from the Executive 
Committee which initially identifies the material risks 
facing the Group and then collectively assesses the severity 
of each risk (by ranking both the likelihood of occurrence of 
the risk and its potential impact on the business) and the 
mitigating controls in place in respect of the risk. 
As part of its risk management processes, the Board 
considers both strategic and operational risks and its 
risk appetite in terms of the tolerance level it is willing to 
accept in relation to each principal risk.  This approach 
recognises that risk cannot always be eliminated at an 
acceptable cost and that there are some risks which the 
Board will, after due and careful consideration, choose 
to accept.  The Group’s risk register, its method of 
preparation and the operation of the key controls in the 
Group’s system of internal control are regularly reviewed 
and overseen by the Audit Committee with reference to 
the Group’s strategic aims and its operating environment.  
The register is also reviewed and considered by the Board.
In response to the 2014 revision to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Group has reviewed its procedures 
to ensure that the necessary monitoring of risks and 
controls were carried out throughout the reporting period 
and going forward.
The Group’s risk register currently includes operational 
and strategic risks.  The principal risks faced by the 
Group in 2015, taken from the register, together with the 
potential effects and mitigating factors, are set out below.
PRINCIPAL RISKS
The Directors confirm that they have undertaken a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group.
Trends in print advertising and direct sales of print 
products mean that revenues from these sources 
continue to shrink and are not replaced like-for-like 
with online or digital products. The non-print media 
sector has high levels of competition from a wider 
group and low barriers to entry. This leads to different 
pressures on audience and customer retention as well 
as pricing. 
The strategy of identifying the type of content our 
audiences want and how they want to consume the 
content means that we are not simply putting print 
products online to try to replace diminishing print 
revenues for traditional brands. In 2015, we launched 
3 new subscription products, 6 new annual events and 
one bi-annual event, and relaunched 9 magazines, 12 
websites and 2 annual events with the specific aim of 
meeting current and future demand from audience and 
advertisers. We support our product innovation, by hiring 
people with experiences and skills in new areas of the 
market where appropriate.  The role of our Executive 
Committee includes anticipating future changes in the 
market and ensuring that our business reacts accordingly.
Movement in risk: >The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period.
High levels of attrition amongst staff in some parts 
of the business and loss of key senior staff lead to 
recruitment and training costs, loss of productivity, 
potential loss of clients and potential inability to 
maintain content quality and deliver our specific plans. 
All employees of the Group have regular performance 
reviews at which personal and career development 
opportunities are discussed.  All employees have access 
to training, share schemes and other benefits and the 
Group benchmarks its approach against best practice 
within the sector.  The Group conducted its annual 
staff engagement and satisfaction survey in 2015 and 
the survey will be repeated in 2016 to ensure further 
progress in this area is made and measured.  Addressing 
levels of attrition is a KPI for managers’ performance 
targets in 2016 and the Group is prioritising the setting 
of appropriate remuneration across the Group to ensure 
we remain competitive within the market.  It is a focus of 
Portfolio Directors to ensure that client relationships and 
content quality are maintained as a team rather than by 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
The Group has set out the following core financial metrics 
to measure our performance going forward. 
KPI DESCRIPTION PERFORMANCE
4
Underlying revenue growth    Total revenues adjusted for 
the impact of acquisitions and 
disposals
     2 015: + 4% (2014: +3%)
Adjusted operating margin
    Adjusted operating profits as a 
percentage of revenues
   2015: 15% (2014:14%)
Adjusted diluted EPS
    Adjusted earnings attributable to 
each share, calculated on a fully 
diluted basis, as set out in more 
detail in note 8 to the Financial 
Statements
    2015: 5.3 pence (2014: 5.0 pence)
Cash conversion
    The percentage by which cash 
generated from operations covers 
adjusted operating profit, as set 
out in the financial review
    2015: 31% (2014: 123%)
Development of recurring  
revenue streams
    The percentage of total revenues 
derived from live events and paid-
for content
    Live events and paid-for content 
revenues accounted for 67% of 
total 2015 revenues (2014: 68%)
Return on investment on  
acquisitions and new product 
development
    The incremental cash flows 
generated from an investment 
relative to the total cash 
investment to acquire or develop 
the asset
    Return on investment on new 
product development in 2015 
exceeds internal benchmarks
The key performance indicators are within the Board’s 
expectations and the ongoing focus on these measures 
will support its successful strategy.  These indicators are 
discussed in more detail in the Chief Executive’s Review 
and in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
4 
Performance measures compare the reporting period to the calendar year ended 31 December 2014 (unaudited). 14 15
PERFORMANCE REPORT
major events and exhibitions venue providers and we 
continue to review and explore alternative options for 
venues to mitigate this risk.  We have also reviewed and 
revised our disaster recovery plan to ensure that, in the 
event of the unavailability of any venue or part of a venue, 
our reaction is quick and well-planned.  In addition our 
Group policy is to contract with suppliers and customers 
under our standard terms where possible, which seek to 
protect us from costs and loss of revenue in the event of 
force majeure or cancellation of events.
Movement in risk:  The Board considers this risk 
to have increased since last year due to increased 
competition for venues caused by a higher number of 
events taking place in the market, meaning that this risk 
has been included as a principal risk facing the Group for 
the first time.
The Group’s products could be vulnerable to replication 
by competitors in the UK or other markets including, 
potentially, those offering content under a different 
revenue model that reduces or eliminates costs for 
users. 
The Group has continued to invest in its expert hub, 
entirely focused on digital product development.  The 
team is led by experienced digital product experts and 
adequately resourced in terms of product expertise and 
personnel.  The product pipeline is planned up to 12 
months ahead, and progress against this schedule is 
reviewed (fortnightly) to take into account changes in 
customer requirements and business priorities as well 
as activities of our competitors.  In addition we have 
invested in our registered intellectual property and we 
seek to enforce our legal rights to protect our brands and 
intellectual property where necessary.
Movement in risk: >The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period. 
Changes to regulations and legal requirements, 
including in relation to areas such as data protection 
and direct marketing, restrict or burden the  
Group’s activities. 
Legal and regulatory matters are dealt with by our 
legally-qualified Company Secretary supported by our 
panel of respected law firms.  Our Company Secretary, 
supported by internal experts in employment and health 
and safety matters, is tasked with updating and advising 
the Board on changes to law and regulation that may 
affect the Group’s interests and require alterations to our 
business practices.
Movement in risk: > The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period.
Key to movement in risk from last year
  Increase in risk
>   Risk unchanged
  Decrease in risk
VIABILITY STATEMENT
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have 
assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year 
period to December 2018, taking account of the Group’s 
current position, the Group’s strategy, the Board’s risk 
appetite and, as documented above, the principal risks 
facing the Group and how these are managed.  Based 
on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the period to December 2018.
The Board has determined that the three year period 
to December 2018 is an appropriate period over which 
to provide its viability statement.  In making their 
assessment, the Directors have taken account of the 
Group’s existing financing arrangements to 2019, cash 
flows, dividend cover and other key financial ratios 
over the period. These metrics are subject to stress 
testing which involves sensitising a number of the main 
assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually 
and in unison.  The assumptions sensitised include 
forecasted adjusted operating profit, cash conversion and 
capital expenditure.  Where appropriate, this analysis is 
carried out to evaluate the potential impact of the Group’s 
principal risks actually occurring. 
GOING CONCERN BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
In accordance with provision C.1.3 of the 2014 revision 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), 
the Directors’ statement as to whether they consider 
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting in preparing the financial statements and their 
identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s 
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 
twelve months from the date of approval of the financial 
statements can be found on page 43. 
an individual, where possible.  In addition, most senior 
employees enter into restrictive covenants upon starting 
employment with the Group. 
Movement in risk: > The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period.
Serious systems failure or breach of network security 
controls (as a result of a deliberate cyber-attack or 
unintentional event) results in misappropriation of 
financial assets, proprietary or sensitive information 
or operational disruption, such as unavailability of 
our websites and of our digital products to users or 
unavailability of support platforms, thereby directly 
affecting our revenues or collection activities and 
damaging our reputation with customers and audiences. 
The Group has invested significantly in its IT systems and 
several key IT system upgrades were completed during 
2015, including the implementation of new CRM and 
finance systems.  Progress and performance is closely 
monitored by the Board and further IT system upgrades 
will take place during 2016.  We engaged a new IT 
Director in 2015 and continue to invest in other new roles 
in these areas.  Where possible, implementation of IT 
system upgrades is supported by internal teams to reduce 
the risk of relying on third parties and, where services are 
outsourced to suppliers, contingency planning is carried 
out to mitigate risk of supplier failure.  During 2015, 
websites which were hosted on a legacy platform were 
migrated onto a new and more secure platform which 
is cloud hosted.  Migration of our websites has reduced 
our vulnerability to a serious breach of network security 
controls but we consider the external environment a 
key factor in this risk so the Board has not reduced our 
assessment of likelihood. 
Movement in risk: >The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period.
Fraudulent or accidental breach of our security,  or 
ineffective operation of IT and data management 
systems leads to loss, theft or misuse of confidential 
information or personal data or breach of data 
protection requirements resulting in increased 
regulatory supervision, damage to our reputation and / 
or direct financial impact. 
The central Group IT support function monitors and 
assists our IT systems, including data management.  
Appropriate IT security is undertaken for all key processes 
to keep the IT environment safe.  Websites are hosted by 
specialist third-party providers who provide warranties 
relating to security standards.  All of our websites have 
been migrated onto a new and more secure platform 
which is cloud hosted and databases have been cleansed 
and upgraded during 2015.  External access to data is 
protected and staff are instructed to minimise access 
to internal data and the sending of data lists, which are 
password protected or encrypted where appropriate.  In 
2015, the Group appointed a Data Director whose remit 
includes building on the existing controls around the 
use and processing of sensitive data.  The Group has 
a disaster recovery plan which includes its IT systems 
and there is regular back-up of data, stored off-site.  All 
privacy policies and website terms of use for the Group’s 
websites were updated and standardised during 2015. 
Movement in risk: > The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period. 
The Group runs events that gather large numbers 
of people in single venues and locations, often in 
large cities in the UK and elsewhere.  This results in 
operational health and safety risks including fire safety, 
food hygiene, crowd control, security and failure of 
equipment.  As the Group operates events in locations 
hired from third parties including hotels as well as 
venue operators it is generally not in control of safety 
policies for the locations and depends upon the third 
party venue operator to have adequate safety policies, 
processes and equipment in place and to comply with 
health and safety regulations.  If a serious physical 
incident occurred at an event, physical injury, death and 
other significant damage could occur . 
Events are the responsibility of a specific team within the 
Group which has experience and training in health and 
safety risks and responses.  The Group’s own employees 
are always in attendance at all our events and, at our 
major events, we engage third party floor managers with 
specialist health and safety expertise.  Our Events teams 
risk assess every event venue in conjunction with the 
venue operator and key contractors.  Wherever possible 
we ensure that contracts provide for liability to remain with 
venue operators who are best placed to manage the risks 
and we maintain insurance to cover our public liability. 
Movement in risk: > The Board considers this risk to be 
broadly the same as for the previous reporting period. 
For the Group’s larger events and exhibitions, there are 
only a small number of venues available for hire in the 
market from third parties such as hotels.  If a venue 
or part of a venue becomes unavailable for reasons 
which could include a force majeure event (such as a 
flood or security lock-down due to a terrorist attack), 
it is unlikely that the Group would be able to transfer 
an event to a different venue at short notice, resulting 
in damage to our reputation and direct financial impact 
from revenues we would be unable to collect, costs 
already incurred, refunds due to customers or legal 
claims from customers and suppliers. 
Given the lack of venues available for hire and the demand 
for those venues from our competitors in the market, 
it is impossible to have a plan in place to deal with all 
potential situations which could cause unavailability of a 
venue or part of a venue.  Where possible, however, we 
are now securing longer-term (3 year) contracts with  16 17
PERFORMANCE REPORT
Year ended 31 December 2015
Revenues for the reporting period were £70.5m.  Adjusted operating profits for the 
reporting period were £10.5m, with an adjusted operating profit margin of 15%.  In the 
previous statutory reporting period for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014, 
reported revenues were £105.6m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same period were 
£11.7m with an adjusted operating profit margin of 11.1%. 
Reflecting a more moderate growth outlook across portfolios reported within the 
Professional segment, including HR and Engineering, and specifically reflecting weaker 
print and advertising trends, the Group has recognised a non-cash impairment of 
£11.9m against goodwill in the Professional segment (2014: £nil). 
Live events and paid-for content revenues contributed £47.1m (67%) to revenues in the 
reporting period compared to £70.5m (68%) in the previous statutory reporting period 
for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014. Advertising revenues accounted for 
32% of revenues in the reporting period, consistent with the contribution reported in the 
previous statutory reporting period for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014. 
Additional Information (year ended 31 December 2014 unaudited)
Revenues and adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 
£72.8m and £10.2m respectively. While our reported revenues for the year ended 31 
December 2015 are 3% lower than reported in the year ended 31 December 2014, 
underlying revenue growth, when adjusted for the disposal of Perfect Information, Aidex 
and event rationalisation was 4%.
Across the Group’s core revenue categories, paid-for content revenues (£19.9m, 28% 
of total revenues) continued to grow well and advertising revenues (£22.5m, 32% of 
total revenues) were stable following a 9% underlying revenue decline reported in 
2014. Digital advertising revenues, which account for 58% of total advertising revenues, 
grew by 16%. Live events revenues (£27.2m, 39% of total revenues) grew modestly 
on an underlying basis, with good growth across the exhibitions portfolio being offset 
by revenue declines across training, awards and other smaller event formats. Other 
revenues primarily include rental income.
5
Underlying growth rates exclude the impact of the disposal of Perfect Information (H1 2014 revenue contribution of £2.6m), Aidex (H2 2014 
revenue contribution of £0.8m) and discontinued events (H1 2014 revenue contribution of £1.3m). Excluding the impact of discontinued events, 
underlying revenues grew by 2%.
6
Adjusted results exclude adjusting items as detailed in note 1 to the Financial Statements.
OPERATING REVIEW
This Annual Report covers the statutory reporting period which is the year to 31 
December 2015 (‘the reporting period’).  Due to the change in year end from 30 June to 
31 December during 2014, resulting in an 18-month reporting period for 2014, we have 
considered it beneficial to include additional information in respect of the calendar year 
ended 31 December 2014 (which is unaudited) to enhance comparison with the 2015 
reporting period.  References to underlying or reported growth refer to comparative 12 
month periods throughout.  
Revenues and adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2015, the 
previous statutory period for the 18 month period from 1 July 2013 to 31 December 2014, 
and the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out below. 
  Year ended  18 months ended Year ended Reported Underlying
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 growth growth
5
 Audited Audited Unaudited
 £m £m £m % %
Revenue 70.5 105.6 72.8 -3% 4%
Adjusted operating profit
 6
 10.5 11.7 10.2 3%  
Adjusted operating margin
6
 14.9% 11.1% 14.0%    
Also summarised on the same basis as above are the trends across the Group’s three 
core revenue categories: paid-for content, live events and advertising.
  Year ended  18 months ended Year ended Reported Underlying
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 growth growth
 Audited Audited Unaudited
 £m £m £m % %
Paid-for content 19.9 31.2 20.6 -3% 11%
Live events 27.2 39.3 28.9 -6% 1%
Advertising 22.5 33.7 22.4 0% 0%
Other 0.9 1.4 0.9 0% 0%
Total revenues 70.5 105.6 72.8 -3% 4% 18 19
PERFORMANCE REPORT
The outlook across the Marketing segment remains encouraging.  While the live events 
performance in the year ended 31 December 2015 was disappointing, we anticipate a 
return to growth in 2016 across all live events formats, and further growth in digital 
paid-for content revenues.
HIGHLIGHTS - MARKETING PORTFOLIO 
Fashion and Beauty Monitor
Fashion and Beauty Monitor is the only digital resource to provide media, PR and brand 
contacts and industry events, news and intelligence for the fashion, beauty and lifestyle 
industries, all in one place.  With professional details on more than 50,000 fashion, 
beauty and lifestyle contacts, Fashion and Beauty Monitor is relied upon by almost 900 
subscribing companies worldwide.  In 2015, the team developed a ground-breaking new 
curated database on influencers which is scheduled to launch in early 2016.  Building upon 
20 years of experience in the UK, Fashion and Beauty Monitor launched in the US in late 
2014.  As a result, in 2015 Fashion and Beauty Monitor’s global revenue growth was led by 
its US product which grew at 63%.  The US launch was met with commercial acclaim and, 
in 2015, attracted leading brands including Kate Spade, DKNY, Abercrombie & Fitch, Hugo 
Boss, Vivienne Westwood and Time Inc as corporate subscribers. 
Econsultancy 
Econsultancy enables businesses and professionals to succeed in digital, marketing 
and ecommerce through a range of resources, including best practice reports, trends 
briefings, training, online resources, events and digital transformation consulting.  In 
2015, Econsultancy introduced a new Commercial Director and focused its strategy on 
driving its subscription business, concentrating on corporate ‘enterprise’ subscriptions.  
Key new enterprise clients included leading brands such as Matalan, Just Eat and Lego.  
In 2015, Econsultancy won a UK Blog Award for Digital and Tech, reflecting the strength 
of its content and its position at the very heart of the digital industry.
Festival of Marketing
Launched in 2013, the Festival of Marketing is the largest gathering of senior marketing 
professionals in the UK.  In 2015, the Festival delivered a phenomenal 160 hours of 
content to an audience of discerning practitioners over two days with 12 stages and 
257 speakers.  Speakers included entrepreneur and celebrity Lord Sugar and astronaut 
Chris Hadfield alongside marketing and business leaders from brands such as Estee 
Lauder and BT.  The 2015 Festival featured ‘The Masters of Marketing’, an innovative 
new awards scheme for marketeers and the Festival broke a Guinness World Record 
for the largest marketing lesson ever given.  This event won multiple awards, including 
‘Event of the Year’ at the British Media Awards and ‘Best Live Event’ at the Association of 
Event Organisers Awards.
Design Week
Design Week is the leading B2B title for the UK design industry launched in 1986 
and has been exclusively online since 2011.  In 2015, Design Week launched a new 
responsive website.  Built using extensive reader consultation, the new website reflects 
Design Week’s content strategy focusing on readers’ key interests: ‘People’, ‘Projects’, 
‘Insight’ and ‘Resources’.  The new website has been well-received and, in the first six 
months following its launch, Design Week acquired 40,000 new registered users.  User 
engagement has also increased (readers now view an average of 3 pages a session 
compared with 2.7 before), and this has enabled Design Week to adapt its commercial 
model, resulting in commercial deals with market leaders including IBM and Workfront.
DIVISIONAL REVIEW
Across our four market segments, revenues are weighted towards the Marketing and 
Professional segments, with the Financial Services and Home Interest segments 
accounting for approximately 34% of total Group revenues. 
MARKETING
This segment includes all of the Group’s brands that serve Marketing and Creative 
professions, including Econsultancy, Marketing Week, Festival of Marketing, Celebrity 
Intelligence, Fashion Monitor, Design Week and Creative Review.
  Year ended  18 months ended Year ended Reported Underlying
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 growth growth
 Audited Audited Unaudited
 £m £m £m % %
Revenue 27.0 37.6 26.8 1% 4%
Adjusted operating profit 4.1 4.0 3.9 5%  
Adjusted operating margin 15.2% 10.6% 14.6%     
Year ended 31 December 2015
Revenues for the reporting period were £27.0m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same 
period were £4.1m, with an adjusted operating profit margin of 15.2%. In the previous 
statutory reporting period for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014, reported 
revenues were £37.6m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same period were £4.0m with 
an adjusted operating profit margin of 10.6%.
Additional Information (year ended 31 December 2014 unaudited) 
Revenues and adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 
£26.8m and £3.9m respectively.  Reported revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 
grew by 1% compared to the year ended 31 December 2014.  Adjusted for the impact of a 
repositioned Marketing Week Live, which increased profitability across a more targeted, 
smaller event proposition, underlying revenue growth for the same period was 4%.
Momentum across this segment’s paid-for content revenues remains strong, with digital 
paid-for content revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 of £11.0m growing by 
22%, and with excellent growth from the Celebrity Intelligence and Fashion Monitor 
platforms.  Live events revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 of £8.2m were 
on an underlying basis, 7% lower than in the year ended 31 December 2014, and this 
reflects disappointing training revenues and the impact of consolidating the Marketing 
Week Engage Awards into the Festival of Marketing. This awards event will run on a 
stand-alone basis in 2016. The Festival of Marketing ran in November 2015 and reported 
revenues of £2.0m, 14% up on the 2014 edition of this event.  In aggregate, paid-for 
content and live events revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 contributed 73% 
(year ended 31 December 2014: 72%) to this segment’s revenues.
The increase in digital investment across the Marketing segment, which includes the 
migration of all branded web sites onto the WordPress platform and investment into the 
digital paid-for content platforms, supported total digital revenues in the year ended 31 
December 2015 of £16.0m, 17% higher than in the year ended 31 December 2014. The 
increase in digital investment resulted in an increase in the depreciation charge from 
£1.4m in the year ended 31 December 2014 to £1.9m in the year ended 31 December 
2015.  Despite the impact of the increase in digital investment, adjusted operating profits 
increased from £3.9m in the year ended 31 December 2014 to £4.1m in the year ended 
31 December 2015, with adjusted operating margins increasing from 14.6% to 15.2%. 20 21
PERFORMANCE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS - FINANCIAL SERVICES PORTFOLIO
Platforum
2015 was a significant year for Platforum, which offers objective research and trusted 
insight from industry experts to fund management firms, life companies and platforms, 
informing their products, propositions and distribution strategy.  New research areas for 
Platforum in 2015 included robo-advice, the influence of discretionary fund management 
and retirement.  These were supported by a new online platform for delivering 
reports and analyst briefings offering ‘deep dives’ for customers.  In 2015, Platforum’s 
business model evolved from sales of single copy reports to annual subscriptions 
providing online access to all research areas.  Platforum also launched a new direct 
to consumer conference covering the shifts in the fund distribution landscape, and the 
Platforum’s annual conference, now in its ninth year, remained a key event in the retail 
investment distribution calendar. Following the appointment of its new management 
team, Platforum now has a new team of industry experts in place across the following 
key research areas: UK and European fund distribution; the advisory market; direct to 
consumer; and retirement. 
Money Marketing
Against a backdrop of the biggest shake-up to UK pensions in a generation and the 
prospect of yet another overhaul to the financial advice profession, Money Marketing 
continues to be firmly established as the leading publication for financial advisers.  
Building upon its well-received magazine redesign in 2014, in 2015 Money Marketing 
re-launched its website on a fully responsive mobile-friendly platform, earning it ‘Best 
Financial Trade Website’ at the Santander Media Awards.  Money Marketing also won 
other awards in 2015 including ‘Trade Title of the Year, ’Journalist of the Year’ and 
‘Article of the Year’. 2015 was Money Marketing’s 30th anniversary and the celebratory 
event gathered together luminaries from across the financial services industry including 
representatives from the FCA, Ernst & Young and Lansons.
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Serving the retail financial services industry, this portfolio includes Money Marketing, 
Fund Strategy, Mortgage Strategy, Corporate Advisor, Tax Briefs, Headline Money and 
Platforum.
  Year ended  18 months ended Year ended Reported Underlying
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 growth growth
 Audited Audited Unaudited
 £m £m £m % %
Revenue 12.0 17.6 12.0 0% 3%
Adjusted operating profit 2.1 2.6 2.0 5%  
Adjusted operating margin 17.5% 14.8% 16.7%     
Year ended 31 December 2015
Revenues for the reporting period were £12.0m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same 
period were £2.1m, with an adjusted operating profit margin of 17.5%.  In the previous 
statutory reporting period for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014, reported 
revenues were £17.6m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same period were £2.6m with 
an adjusted operating profit margin of 14.8%.
Additional Information (year ended 31 December 2014 unaudited) 
Revenues and adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 
£12.0m and £2.0m respectively. Reported revenues for the year ended 31 December 
2015 were flat compared to the year ended 31 December 2014.  Adjusted for the impact 
of discontinued events, underlying revenue growth for the same period was 3%, a 
significant improvement on the 12% decline in revenues reported in the year ended 31 
December 2014.
Paid-for content and live events revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 
contributed 51% (year ended 31 December 2014: 57%) to this segment’s revenues.  While 
paid-for content revenues grew modestly, the performance across this segment’s live 
events revenues was disappointing with reported revenues of £2.4m, £0.7m lower than 
reported in the year ended 31 December 2014, although live events revenues trends 
stabilised in the second half of the year.  The Financial Services segment continues 
to have the highest exposure to advertising revenues, which accounted for 49% of 
2015 revenues (year ended 31 December 2014: 42%), and which grew by 11%.  Digital 
advertising revenues, which now account for just over half of total advertising revenues, 
grew by 57%.
Adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2015 of £2.1m were 5% 
higher than the £2.0m reported in the year ended 31 December 2014, with adjusted 
operating margins at 17.5% (year ended 31 December 2014: 16.7%). 
The introduction of new commercial and editorial leadership in 2014 is reflected in a 
stronger underlying performance in 2015.  With further initiatives deployed in 2015 to 
ensure that the commercial, marketing and events teams are more closely aligned 
with a strategy that is focused on delivering trusted insight and routes to market for the 
retail financial services industry, the outlook across this portfolio remains encouraging.  
Initiatives across the live events team are expected to see a return to growth in 
2016 revenues, digital advertising revenues continue to grow well, and we see good 
opportunity to build a higher value paid-for content proposition in the medium-term. 22 23
PERFORMANCE REPORT
Across each of the four subsidiary market portfolios:
  The Legal portfolio reported revenues of £7.5m in 2015, a 7% increase compared to 
2014.  Growth across this portfolio was driven through increases in digital paid-for 
content and live events revenues, offset by weaker advertising revenues.  Lawyer 
Marketing Intelligence was launched towards the end of 2015. 
  Underlying revenues across the HR portfolio of £4.5m were 6% lower than in 2014, 
reflecting, with the exception of Employee Benefits Live, continued weakness across 
this portfolio’s advertising and live events activities.
  The Engineering portfolio reported revenues of £3.6m, up 20% on a reported basis. 
Adjusting for the impact of the biennial Advanced Manufacturing Show and a 
discontinued event, underlying revenues grew by 5%. . 
  The Travel & Meetings portfolio includes The Business Travel Show and The Meetings 
Show.  Revenues across this portfolio of £4.1m were up 6% on an underlying basis 
reflecting good growth across The Business Travel Show offset by flat revenues for 
The Meetings Show. 
There are encouraging areas for growth within the Professional segment, with the Legal 
and Travel & Meetings portfolios offering the greatest opportunity to accelerate growth.
HIGHLIGHTS - PROFESSIONAL PORTFOLIO
Lawyer Market Intelligence
In late 2015, The Lawyer launched its new subscription product, The Lawyer Market 
Intelligence (‘LMI’), coinciding with the relaunch of The Lawyer’s website and print 
magazine.  LMI is a real-time digital intelligence tool that aims to give subscribers 
valuable insights into the relationships between thousands of legal advisers and their 
global clients.  LMI identifies these relationships at both an organisational and individual 
level and its data, which builds upon the content and information-gathering expertise of 
The Lawyer, spans over three years’ worth of corporate deals, disputes and other legal 
advisory work.  LMI is primarily aimed at law firms, who can use it to track competitor 
activity and identify gaps in client coverage, and in-house legal teams, who can use it 
to make informed decisions about the legal advisors and partners they instruct.  Initial 
sales in late 2015 to customers including some of the UK’s top 20 law firms demonstrate 
LMI’s strong potential for growth during 2016.
PROFESSIONAL
The Professional segment includes four subsidiary markets: Legal, Engineering, HR 
and Travel & Meetings.  The Legal portfolio includes the print, digital and live events 
activities associated with The Lawyer and VB Research. The principal assets within the 
Engineering portfolio are The Engineer and Subcon, an exhibition that serves the sub-
contractor industry. The HR portfolio includes FEM, Employee Benefits and Employee 
Benefits Live, and Travel & Meetings includes two exhibitions serving the Business 
Travel and Meetings markets. 
  Year ended  18 months ended Year ended Reported Underlying
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 growth growth
 Audited Audited Unaudited
 £m £m £m % %
Revenue 19.7 34.6 22.9 -14% 1%
Adjusted operating profit 2.2 3.2 2.6 -15%  
Adjusted operating margin 11.2% 9.2% 11.4%    
Year ended 31 December 2015
Revenues for the reporting period were £19.7m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same 
period were £2.2m, with an adjusted operating profit margin of 11.2%.  In the previous 
statutory reporting period for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014, reported 
revenues were £34.6m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same period were £3.2m with 
an adjusted operating profit margin of 9.2%.
Additional Information (year ended 31 December 2014 unaudited) 
Revenues and adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 
£22.9m and £2.6m respectively. Reported revenues for the year ended 31 December 
2015 declined by 14% compared to the year ended 31 December 2014.  Adjusted for 
the impact of the disposal of Perfect Information, Aidex and events rationalisation, 
underlying revenue growth for the same period was 1%.
Paid-for content and live events revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 
contributed 66% to this segment’s revenues (year ended 31 December 2014: 64%). 
Adjusted operating profits fell from £2.6m in the year ended 31 December 2014 to £2.2m 
in the year ended 31 December 2015, with adjusted operating margins of 11.2% (year 
ended 31 December 2014: 11.4%).  24 25
PERFORMANCE REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS – HOME INTEREST PORTFOLIO
Homebuilding & Renovating
Now in its 25th year, Homebuilding & Renovating enjoyed a record year in 2015 with 
14% revenue growth driven by events and digital services.  Homebuilding & Renovating 
has a high-spending consumer audience that shares many of its characteristics with 
Centaur’s B2B brands.  The business comprises a subscriptions-driven monthly 
magazine, responsive website, data service, seven national exhibitions, specialist books 
and an annual awards event in association with The Daily Telegraph.
Homebuilding & Renovating Show London
In 2015 the Home Interest team successfully converted the Home Improvement Show 
into The Homebuilding & Renovating Show London and relocated it from London’s 
Olympia to the expansive Excel exhibition venue.  The exhibition had a 10% increase in 
exhibitors, 19% increase in high quality visitors and 19% growth in revenue year-on-
year.  At the centre of the Homebuilding & Renovating Show London was a series of live 
seminars and one-on-one ‘advice zones’ with our own trusted experts and additional 
industry leaders including TV’s Charlie Luxton and Gabrielle Blackman.  Centaur’s 
investment and focus on quality at the Show has meant the London event won the 
prestigious ‘PPA Consumer Exhibition of the Year’ award for 2015.  
HOME INTEREST 
The Home Interest segment includes the live events and publishing assets focusing on 
homebuilding and home renovation.  These include Homebuilding & Renovating, Real 
Homes and Period Living:
  Year ended  18 months ended Year ended Reported Underlying
 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 growth growth
 Audited Audited Unaudited
 £m £m £m % %
Revenue 11.8 15.8 11.1 6% 9%
Adjusted operating profit 2.1 1.9 1.7 24%  
Adjusted operating margin 17.8% 12.0% 15.3%    
 
Year ended 31 December 2015
Revenues for the reporting period were £11.8m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same 
period were £2.1m, with an adjusted operating profit margin of 17.8%.  In the previous 
statutory reporting period for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014, reported 
revenues were £15.8m.  Adjusted operating profits for the same period were £1.9m with 
an adjusted operating profit margin of 12.0%.
Additional Information (year ended 31 December 2014 unaudited) 
Revenues and adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2014 were 
£11.1m and £1.7m respectively.  Reported revenues for the year ended 31 December 
2015 grew by 6% compared to the year ended 31 December 2014.  Adjusted for the 
impact of one discontinued event, underlying revenue growth for the same period  
was 9%.
Paid-for content and live events revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 
contributed 69% (year ended 31 December 2014: 71%) to this segment’s revenues.  
Paid-for content revenues, which are predominantly print based copy sales, declined 
by 10% in the year ended 31 December 2015.  Live events revenues, which have been 
consolidated around the Homebuilding & Renovating brand, and which account for 
almost half of this segment’s revenues, grew on an underlying basis by 13%.  Advertising 
revenues, which accounted for 31% of this segment’s revenues for the year ended 31 
December 2015, grew by 11%.
Adjusted operating profits for the year ended 31 December 2015 of £2.1m were 24% 
higher than the £1.7m reported in the year ended 31 December 2014, with adjusted 
operating margins at 17.8% (year ended 31 December 2014: 15.3%).  The strong increase 
in adjusted operating profits reflects the impact of excellent underlying revenue growth 
across the live events portfolio, strong growth in digital advertising revenues, and tight 
cost control.
The outlook across this segment is extremely encouraging.  The consolidation of the 
content, commercial, marketing and digital development teams in 2014 has underpinned 
good growth in 2015, and we have a clear focus on building a high growth, high value 
professional portfolio.  Alongside what we regard as a positive underlying market, we 
believe we can continue to deliver strong growth this portfolio and higher quality mix of 
live events and digital revenues. 26 27
PERFORMANCE REPORT
Adjusted operating profit reconciles to (loss) / profit before tax as follows:
    18 months
   Year ended ended 
   31 December 31 December 
     2015 2014
    Note £m £m
Adjusted operating profit     10.5 11.7
Finance costs   5 (0.7) (1.6)
Adjusted profit before tax     9.8 10.1
Adjusting items Exceptional operating costs  
   (excluding impairment and profit on disposal) 4 (0.8) (6.7)
  Exceptional impairment of goodwill  9 (11.9) -
  Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiary 33 - 14.7 
 Exceptional profit on disposal of trade and assets 4 0.4 - 
 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4 (2.2) (3.4)
  Share-based payments 24 (0.7) (0.5) 
  Exceptional finance costs 4 (0.2) (2.9)
  (Loss) / profit before tax    (5.6) 11.3
SUMMARY
Commentary on revenues and adjusted operating profits for the reporting period, the 
previous statutory reporting period for the 18 month period ended 31 December 2014, 
and the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out within the operating review. 
The business has made steady progress against its strategic priorities during 2015, and 
in this context, the results are encouraging, with adjusted operating profit margins up to 
15%.  Cash conversion was disappointing throughout 2015, but working capital trends 
are expected to improve into 2016.  Net debt at 31 December 2015 was £17.9m compared 
to £14.7m at 31 December 2014.  
Reflecting a more moderate growth outlook across portfolios reported within the 
Professional segment, including HR and Engineering, and specifically reflecting weaker 
print and advertising trends, the Group has recognised a non-cash impairment of 
£11.9m against goodwill in the Professional segment (2014: £nil). 
The Group’s KPI measures are underlying revenue growth, adjusted operating profit 
margin, adjusted EPS and cash conversion.  Aside from 2015 cash conversion, we are 
making steady progress against each, and further detail is set out in this Financial 
Review and in the Operating Review.
REVENUES
Revenues for the reporting period were £70.5m (2014: £105.6m).  Further information on 
the divisional revenue performance and the mix of revenues across paid-for content, live 
events and advertising is included in the Operating Review.    
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
REPORTING PERIOD 
This Annual Report covers the statutory reporting period which is the year ended 31 
December 2015 (‘the reporting period’).  Due to the change in year end from 30 June to 
31 December during 2014, resulting in an 18-month reporting period for 2014, we have 
considered it beneficial to include additional information in respect of the calendar year 
ended 31 December 2014 (which is unaudited) to enhance comparison with the 2015 
reporting period.  References to underlying or reported growth refer to comparative 12 
month periods throughout.  
ADJUSTED AND STATUTORY RESULTS 
In these results we refer to adjusted and statutory results.  Adjusted results are 
prepared to provide a more comparable indication of the Group’s underlying business 
performance.  Adjusted results exclude adjusting items as set out in the Consolidated 
Income Statement and below.
The Group’s activities are predominantly UK based and therefore currency movements 
have negligible impact on the Group’s adjusted or statutory results.
The business 
has made steady 
progress against 
its strategic 
priorities during 
2015, and in this 
context, the results 
are encouraging, 
with adjusted 
operating profit 
margins up to 15%. 28 29
PERFORMANCE REPORT
TAXATION 
A tax charge of £1.3m (2014: £0.8m) has been recognised for the reporting period.  The 
adjusted tax charge was £1.9m (2014: £2.1m) giving an effective tax rate (compared to 
adjusted profit before tax) of 19% (2014: 21%).  The fall in tax rate is due to the Finance 
Act 2013 which included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 21% 
to 20% from 1 April 2015, which meant that the Company’s profits were taxed in the UK 
at a blended rate of 20.25% (2014: 22.00%). Furthermore, as the Finance Act 2013 had 
been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, the Group’s deferred tax balances 
arising the UK are recorded at 20%.  
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The Group has reported adjusted fully diluted earnings per share for the reporting period 
of 5.3p (2014: 5.5p). Fully diluted earnings per share for the reporting period were (4.8)p 
(2014: 7.2p).  Full details of the earnings per share calculations can be found in note 8 to 
the Financial Statements. 
DIVIDEND
An interim dividend of 1.5p per share was paid in respect of the period January to 
June 2015 (January to June 2014: 1.7p).  A final dividend in respect of the period July 
to December 2015 of 1.5p per share (July to December 2014: 1.3p) is proposed by the 
Directors, giving a total dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 3.0p (2014: 
3.85p), a decrease of 22%.
The final dividend in respect of the reporting period is subject to shareholder approval at 
the annual general meeting and will be paid on 27 May 2016 to all ordinary shareholders 
on the register at close of business on 6 May 2016.
The Group has adopted a progressive dividend strategy.  Adjusted dividend cover in the 
reporting period was 1.8 times and it is intended to move above 2 times in the medium term. 
OPERATING PROFIT
Adjusted operating profits for the reporting period were £10.5m (2014: £11.7m), with 
an adjusted operating profit margin of 14.9% (2014: 11.1%). Further information on the 
divisional adjusted operating profit performance is included in the Operating Review. 
Net adjusted operating expenses were £60.0m (2014: £93.9m).  Employee related 
expenses in the reporting period were £30.2m (2014: £40.5m), with the average number 
of permanent employees during the reporting period of 564 (2014: 584).  
Reported operating losses for the reporting period of £4.7m (2014: profits of £1.1m) 
include an impairment charge against goodwill of £11.9m (2014: £nil), a £2.2m charge 
for amortisation of intangible assets (2014: £3.4m), exceptional costs of £0.8m (2014: 
£6.7m), share-based payment costs of £0.7m (2014: £0.5m) and a gain on disposal of the 
trade and assets of Aidex of £0.4m (2014: £nil).
ADJUSTING ITEMS
Adjusting items in the reporting period generated a loss before tax of £15.4m (2014: 
profit before tax of £1.2m), which includes an exceptional impairment charge of £11.9m 
(2014: £nil), relating to the write down of goodwill in the Professional segment.
Exceptional restructuring costs in the reporting period of £0.6m (2014: £1.2m) include 
redundancy costs of £0.6m (2014: £0.9m) which principally relate to changes in senior 
management.  Other exceptional items include IFRS 3 earn-out charges of £0.1m (2014: 
£5.0m) and a gain on the disposal of the trade and assets of Aidex of £0.4m (2014: 
£nil).  Other exceptional items during 2014 included a profit on the disposal of Perfect 
Information of £14.7m, charges of £0.5m relating to property consolidation, acquisition 
related costs and other exceptional items.  A charge was recognised during 2014 relating 
to the unwinding of the remaining discount on the Econsultancy.com Limited deferred 
contingent consideration provision of £2.9m.
Other adjusting items include amortisation of acquired intangibles of £2.2m (2014: 
£3.4m) and share-based payments of £0.7m (2014: £0.5m). 
Further analysis on these costs is included in the Basis of Preparation section of notes 1 
and 4 to the Financial Statements.  
NET FINANCE COSTS
Adjusted net finance costs for the reporting period were £0.7m (2014: £1.6m).  Net 
finance costs for the reporting period were £0.9m (2014: £4.5m), which includes 
unamortised facility costs (£0.1m) and legal fees (£0.1m) associated with the re-
financing of the Group’s revolving credit facility.  During 2014 a charge of £2.9m was 
recognised in relation to the unwinding of the remaining discount on the Econsultancy.
com Limited deferred contingent consideration provision of £2.9m, which was 
accelerated as part of its early settlement in June 2014. 30 31
PERFORMANCE REPORT
FINANCING AND BANK COVENANTS
On 8 June 2015, the Group agreed a four year £25.0m multi-currency revolving credit 
facility, provided by RBS and Lloyds. This facility runs to 31 August 2019. The principal 
financial covenants under the facility are: the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA shall 
not exceed 2.5:1, and the ratio of EBITDA to net finance charges shall not be less than 
4:1.  All covenants under the facility at 31 December 2015 and throughout the reporting 
period have been met. 
BALANCE SHEET 
A summary of the Group’s balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 is set out below.
   
 18 months ended Year ended 
 31 December 31 December 
  2015 2014 
 Audited Audited 
 £m £m
   
Goodwill and other intangible assets 96.4 109.9
Property, plant and equipment 2.3 2.5
Deferred consideration on acquisitions - (1.1)
Deferred income (17.0) (15.3)
Other current assets and liabilities 12.7 6.4
Deferred taxation (0.1) (0.9)
Net assets before net debt 94.3 101.5
Net debt (17.9) (14.7)
Net assets    76.4 86.8
Reflecting a more moderate growth outlook across portfolios reported within the 
Professional segment, including HR and Engineering, and specifically reflecting weaker 
print and advertising trends, the Group has recognised a non-cash impairment of 
£11.9m against goodwill in the Professional segment (2014: £nil). 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 
Due to the change in the year end from 30 June to 31 December during 2014, resulting 
in an 18 month reporting period for 2014, we have considered it beneficial to include 
additional information in respect of the calendar year ended 31 December 2014 (which 
is unaudited) to enhance comparison with the 2015 reporting period.  References to 
underlying or reported growth refer to comparative 12 month periods throughout.  
Further commentary is set out below.
Revenue and Adjusted Operating Profit
Revenues and adjusted operating profits in 2015 were £70.5m (2014: £72.8m) and 
£10.5m (2014: £10.2m).  Lower reported revenues during 2015 reflect the disposal of 
Perfect Information during in June 2014.  Underlying trends, adjusting for the sale of 
Perfect Information, Aidex and event rationalisation, show growth of 4% and 14% in 
revenue and adjusted operating profit respectively.
CASH FLOW 
A summary of the Group’s cash flow in the reporting period, in the 18 month period 
to 31 December 2014 and in the year ended 31 December 2014 is set out below.  The 
Group generated free cash flow in the reporting period of £0.5m (2014: £6.7m).  This 
reflects disappointing working capital trends during 2015, which are expected to partially 
reverse into 2016, and the Directors remain confident that the Group’s business model 
will return to being highly cash generative in the future.  Movements in working capital 
in 2014 also benefited from a rent free period on the Group’s London office space until 
November 2014 (increased cash outflow in 2015 of £1.3m).  Cash conversion, measuring 
the ratio of operating cash flow to adjusted operating profits, was 31% in the reporting 
period (2014: 110%).  
 18 months ended Year ended Year ended 
 31 December 31 December 31 December  
 2015 2014 2014 
 Audited Audited Unaudited
 £m £m £m
Adjusted cash flow   
Adjusted operating profit 10.5 11.7 10.2
Depreciation and amortisation 3.0 4.5 3.2
Movement in working capital (6.9) 3.2 2.6
Capital expenditure (3.3) (6.5) (3.5)
Operating cash flow    
Adjusted operating cash flow 3.3 12.9 12.5
Cash impact of exceptional items (0.5) (1.9) (0.9)
Taxation (1.4) (2.5) (1.2)
Interest and finance leases (0.9) (1.8) (1.2)
Free cash flow    
Free cash flow 0.5 6.7 9.2
Acquisitions (0.1) (19.6) (16.8)
Disposals 0.4 23.5 23.5
Dividends (4.0) (5.8) (3.6)
Net cash flow (3.2) 4.8 12.3
Opening net debt (14.7) (19.5) (27.0)
Closing net debt (17.9) (14.7) (14.7)
 
The cash impact of exceptional items primarily related to redundancy costs during 2015, 
and included costs relating to an onerous lease in 2014.
Acquisitions net of disposals generated a cash inflow of £0.3m in the reporting period 
(2014: cash inflow of £3.9m).
NET DEBT
Net debt at 31 December 2015 was £17.9m, £3.2m higher than the £14.7m reported as 
at 31 December 2014. 32 33
PERFORMANCE REPORT
CONCLUSION
2015 has been a challenging year.  While revenue trends have been weaker than 
anticipated, the Group has worked hard to manage its cost base, with adjusted 
operating margins increasing to 15%.  With a more moderate growth outlook across 
the Professional segment, the Group has recognised a non-cash impairment of £11.9m 
against goodwill.
The deployment of new finance and CRM systems during 2015 provides a strong 
platform to support revenue and margin growth in the medium term.  However, the 
operational and commercial disruption associated with the deployment of these 
technology platforms has had a material impact on the collection of trade receivables 
during the year, and the increase in net debt to £17.9m at 31 December 2015 reflects 
the disappointing cash conversion throughout 2015.  I am pleased to see trends in cash 
collections improve since November 2015, and the Group’s business model, with a high 
proportion of live events and subscription revenues, should remain cash generative.
I am encouraged by the continuing shift in favour of digital paid-for content and events, 
and the opportunity in the medium term to translate growing revenues to progressively 
improving adjusted operating margins.
Mark Kerswell
Group Finance Director
16 March 2016
Adjusting Items
Adjusting items before tax in 2015 totalled an expense of £3.5m (2014: credit of £5.0m).  
In 2014, a non-core business, Perfect Information, was disposed of generating a profit of 
£14.7m, which was offset by deferred contingent consideration costs of £5.0m relating to 
Econsultancy.com Limited.
Net Finance Costs
Adjusted finance costs for 2015 were £0.6m (2014: £1.0m).  The reduction in finance 
costs reflects lower net debt during 2015 compared to 2014 following the sale of Perfect 
Information in June 2014, as well as more favourable interest rates following the Group’s 
refinancing in June 2015.  Net finance costs for 2015 of £0.8m (2014: £3.5m) include 
unamortised facility costs (£0.1m) and legal fees (£0.1m) associated with the re-financing 
of the Group’s revolving credit facility, and in 2014 included a charge of £2.5m for 
unwinding the remaining discount on the Econsultancy.com Limited deferred contingent 
consideration provision which was accelerated as part of its early settlement in June 2014.
Share-Based Payments
Share-based payments in 2015 increased to £0.7m (2014: £0.4m), reflecting increased 
participation in the award schemes among senior management.
Tax
A tax charge of £1.3m has been recognised in 2015 (2014: £1.0m).  The adjusted tax 
charge was £1.9m (2014: £1.9m) giving an effective tax rate (compared to adjusted profit 
before tax) of 19% (2014: 21%). 
Adjusted Earnings Per Share
Fully diluted adjusted earnings per share in the year ended 31 December 2015 were 5.3p 
(2014: 5.0p), an increase of 6%.  
Cash Flow
The Group generated free cash flows in 2015 of £0.5m (2014: £9.2m).  This reflects 
disappointing working capital trends during 2015, which are expected to reverse into 
2016, and the Directors remain confident that the Group’s business model will return 
to being highly cash generative in the future.  Movements in working capital in 2014 
benefited from a rent free period on the Group’s London office space until November 
2014. Cash conversion, measuring the ratio of operating cash flow to adjusted operating 
profits, was 31% in the reporting period (2014: 123%).
Dividend
An interim dividend of 1.5p per share was paid in respect of the period January to 
June 2015 (January to June 2014: 1.7p). A final dividend in respect of the period July 
to December 2015 of 1.5p per share (July to December 2014: 1.3p) is proposed by the 
Directors, giving a total dividend for 2015 of 3.0p (2014: 3.0p).
Adjusted dividend cover in 2015 was 1.8 times (2014: 1.7 times). 34 35
PERFORMANCE REPORT
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
Centaur Media is committed to developing a culture of environmental awareness and 
social responsibility and we seek where appropriate to incorporate environmentally and 
socially responsible practices into the way we deliver services and products and procure 
goods and services from third parties.
ENVIRONMENT
Operating in the media sector, our impact on the environment is less significant than 
that of companies operating in many other sectors.  As our products are increasingly 
delivered digitally the use of consumable items such as paper and plastic is reducing 
over time. The move of all our London-based employees to a single location in Wells 
Street has meant that the Group has been able to take advantage of consolidating 
building-related environmental impacts and benefitting from Group sharing of items 
such as photocopiers.  Centaur Media actively seeks to minimise adverse environmental 
impacts and to promote good environmental practices wherever possible.  We do not 
have a company car policy or provide parking at our London office, but parking for 
bicycles is provided.  Some of our other initiatives have included:
  adopting a policy of turning off equipment at the end of the day rather than leaving it 
on standby;
  use of energy-efficient lighting, including a programme of replacing existing light 
fittings with energy efficient LED light fittings in the Wells Street building;
  installation of motion sensors in offices to control lighting;
  analysing and adjusting the timing of boilers and chillers for the office air conditioning 
to increase energy efficiency;
  buying paper that is Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) accredited which means that 
the paper has been sourced in an environmentally-friendly, socially responsible and 
economically viable manner;
  active engagement in the recycling of cans, tins, plastic, glass, cardboard and paper, 
including the replacement of traditional waste bins with recycling bins throughout the 
Wells Street building as part of a new centralised recycling system rolled out in 2015, 
together with a monthly report showing the percentage of waste collected that was 
recycled; 
  recycling of printer cartridges where possible;
  increasing the use of aqueous inks, which limit the release of volatile organic 
compounds; 
  increasingly validating the environmental credentials of suppliers (ISO14001); 
  use of eco-friendly taxis and courier vehicles that are less than 3 years old; 
  use of cyclist couriers where possible;
  a cycle to work scheme; and
  encouraging staff to use public transport by provision of season ticket loans.
CHARITABLE DONATIONS 
The Group supports local communities and charitable organisations through direct 
fundraising, donation and pro-bono work.  During the reporting period, a total of 
£111,242 (comprising employee contributions of £11,512, a Group contribution of £10,000 
and £89,730 in third party contributions raised through out events) was donated to Mind, 
a UK-wide mental health charity and our chosen charity partner for 2015.  We used 
our events to raise money from third parties for Mind including requesting donations in 
return for entry for awards and taking collections at the events.  Every year, the Group 
offers each employee a paid day off to spend volunteering for the non-for-profit cause or 
charity of their choice.  We also operate a Give As You Earn scheme through the payroll.  
In 2015, contributions amounting to £6,723 (consisting of employee contributions of 
£6,198 plus a matching contribution of £525 from the Group) were made through this. 
The Group is in the FTSE4Good Index, an independent body which measures the 
performance of all FTSE companies against a number of stringent social and 
environmental criteria. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY
We are committed to the safety of our staff.  Due to the nature of the business, risk of 
work-based accidents is relatively low but the Group takes its responsibilities for the 
health and safety of its employees seriously.  Our office manager is responsible for 
maintaining a safe environment for employees and an Accident Book is available to all 
staff in Reception.  Where work-related activities take place which have a higher risk 
attached – such as travel, marketing events and outdoor activities – additional planning 
is undertaken which includes a risk assessment and mitigation plan. 
EMISSIONS
We continue to measure our carbon footprint by monitoring our Energy Usage and we 
are pleased to confirm that we are compliant with the new EU Energy Efficiency Directive 
‘Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme’ (ESOS).  
The greenhouse gas ‘GHG’ emission from our operations in the reporting period are set 
out below: 
Year ended 31 December 2015 global GHG emissions data (tonnes of CO2e)
Emissions from: Tonnes CO
2
Scope 1 (Gas, Fuel and Car Mileage) 157.04
Scope 2 (Electricity and Steam) 580.90
Total GHG emissions: 737.94
Average number of employees 564
Emissions per employee 1.31
DIVERSITY 
Centaur Media is committed to recruiting and promoting the most talented people from 
the widest pool and providing equal opportunities for all employees and prospective 
employees.  To support this aim, the Group has an Equal Opportunities policy which 
covers recruitment and selection, promotion, training and development and standard 
contract terms for all staff.  We also support apprenticeships which increase our 
talent pool and demonstrates the Company’s commitment to reaching out to young 
people from a variety of backgrounds. We also offer internships, and work experience 
opportunities for people from a variety of backgrounds.
Two out of our six (33%) Board members are female and, as at 31 December 2015, our 
workforce overall was 60% female and 40% male.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed by order of the Board. 
Grainne Brankin
Company Secretary
16 March 2016 GOVERNANCE
36 37
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1  Ronald Sandler
 Chairman
Ron joined Centaur as Chairman in May 2015. He is also 
currently Chairman of Towry  and is a member of the 
advisory board of Palamon Capital Partners.  His early 
career was with the Boston Consulting Group. He was 
Chief Executive Officer of Lloyd’s of London from 1995 
until 1999, playing a key role in Lloyd’s Reconstruction 
and Renewal, and subsequently Chief Operating Officer of 
NatWest Group. Ron is a past-president of the Chartered 
Institute of Bankers and in 2002 he led an independent 
review of the UK Long Term Savings Industry.  He has 
been chairman of numerous companies, including 
Northern Rock, Phoenix Group and Paternoster.
2  Christopher Satterthwaite
 Senior Non-Executive Director 
Chris began his commercial career as a graduate trainee 
at H.J Heinz. Since then, he has been part of three 
different kinds of marketing communication agencies: 
IMP (1981-1993) - then the UK’s largest Sales Promotion 
and Direct Marketing agency; HHCL & Partners 
(1993-2000) - Campaign’s Advertising Agency of the 
Decade; Bell Pottinger (2000-2002) - the UK’s leading 
Public Relations agency. He became Chief Executive of 
Chime Communications Plc in 2003. He is Chairman of 
The Roundhouse and a member of the Government’s 
Professional and Business Services Council. He is a 
former Chairman of the Marketing Society.
3 Robert Boyle
 Non-Executive Director 
Robert, a qualified Chartered Accountant, was a partner 
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, where he was Chairman 
of the PwC European Entertainment and Media Practice 
for twelve years, retiring in 2006. He is a Non-Executive 
Director, and Chairman of the Audit Committee, of Maxis 
Berhad (in Malaysia) and Witan Investment Trust Plc.
4 Rebecca Miskin
 Non-Executive Director 
Rebecca is Founder and CEO of Gloo Networks Plc, a 
digital transformation company.  She began her career 
in media at Reed Elsevier launching telecom-based 
information services across Europe.  She has since 
worked across the USA and UK at Time Inc., NBC 
Universal and most recently at Hearst Corporation.  
Rebecca helps re-align media organisations through 
a data driven, customer-centric and collaborative 
operational approach.
5 Andria Vidler 
 Chief Executive Officer
Andria joined Centaur Media as Chief Executive in 
November 2013.  From August 2009 to July 2013, Andria 
was Chief Executive Officer of EMI Music UK & Ireland 
during which time she successfully transformed the 
business into a high margin global rights management 
enterprise by driving consumer focus and digital 
innovation.  Between April 2008 and August 2009, she was 
Chief Marketing Officer of Bauer Media.  As part of the 
UK management team she was responsible for building 
the Bauer Media brands to generate greater profitability 
across the portfolio of 53 magazines, 23 radio stations 
and all online products.  Andria was Managing Director 
of Magic FM & National Radio from June 2005 to April 
2008. Prior to that, she held a number of managerial, 
operational and marketing roles at Capital Radio and  
the BBC.
6 Mark Kerswell
 Group Finance Director
Mark joined Centaur Media in 2011 as Group Finance 
Director.  Mark has held international financial and 
operational roles in a range of business information, 
publishing, conferences and exhibitions groups. From 
2005 he worked initially as Deputy Finance Director and 
subsequently as Chief Operating Officer at Informa Plc, 
with responsibilities including corporate finance, investor 
relations, strategy and business integration.  From 1996 
to 2005 he worked at IIR, an international conferences and 
exhibitions business, and was appointed Group Finance 
Director in 2000. Between May and October 2013 Mark 
served as Centaur Media’s interim Chief Executive.  Mark 
is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
2
3
4 1
5
6 GOVERNANCE
38 39
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
In addition to the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, the Executive Committee (formerly known as the 
Operating Board) comprises the Chief Operating Officer, three Divisional Managing Directors, Group HR Director and 
Company Secretary (formally known as the Operating Board.  The biographies of the Executive Committee are set out 
below:
1 Linda Smith
 Chief Operating Officer
Linda was appointed Chief Operating Officer in February 
2016 and manages Centaur’s centralised expert hubs 
of digital product development, IQ (marketing and 
research) and production as well as IT and client delivery 
operations.  Linda has worked at a number of media 
companies including ITV, StarcomMediaVest, Capital 
Radio, RadioCentre and most recently Bauer Media. She 
was a commercial consultant to Centaur Media in 2014.  
Through her previous roles Linda has developed operational 
experience in a number of different areas including M&A, 
sales and general management and across a broad 
spectrum of broadcasting, publishing and digital platforms. 
2 Andrew Evans
 Divisional Managing Director
Andrew has 28 years’ exhibition and event experience 
working in trade and consumer fields.  During this time, he 
has been responsible for the development of some of the 
UK’s largest trade fairs as well as numerous event launches 
into new markets.  Andrew has worked across both UK 
and international platforms, having developed his career 
through Montgomery Exhibitions, Brintex, Reed Exhibitions, 
Fresh RM and Brand Events.  Andrew Joined Centaur Media 
in September 2011 from Brand Events where as Chief 
Operating Officer he helped to build a global business in 
eight countries with leading brands such as Taste Festivals 
and Top Gear Live.  He was appointed Divisional Managing 
Director of Centaur Live in February 2014. 
3 Steve Newbold 
 Divisional Managing Director
Steve was appointed Divisional Managing Director in 
September 2015, overseeing the Home Interest, Legal, 
Engineering, Financial, Business Travel and Recruitment 
markets. 
Prior to joining Centaur Media Steve held Managing 
Director roles at WGSN, i2i Events, Emap Communications 
(now  Ascential) and Emap  Plc.  He has experience of 
running multi-media businesses in key sectors including 
homes, legal, retail, and fashion.  He has also led and 
supported key acquisitions including WGSN, Stylesight, 
Futuros Events, Broadcast Video Expo and Pure London.
4 Jane Turner
 Divisional Managing Director
Jane’s early career began with publishers Maclean Hunter, 
Thomas Telford and Argus Press Group, moving on to Mintel 
International and Claritas Nielsen and helping drive both 
companies into the age of digital distribution. Following this 
foundation, her time with agency groups Havas and WPP 
focused on delivering insight, sales, marketing and digital 
solutions for major enterprise clients. In 2005 Jane joined 
Chorion PLC, as Managing Director.  Latterly, she has run 
her own digital applications business whilst also supporting 
a range of classic digital creative agencies, digital content 
and SaaS technology businesses in growing new audiences 
and developing new channels. Jane joined Centaur as 
Divisional Managing Director with responsibility for the 
Marketing Portfolio in March 2016.
5 Kathleen Jones
 Group HR Director
Kathleen was appointed as Group HR Director in November 
2012.  Her early career in branch banking with TSB led 
to Kathleen specialising in training and development and 
in turn management development.  She then went on to 
undertake various Head of HR roles for multiple businesses 
and functions with Lloyds TSB.  Kathleen broadened her 
HR and commercial experience through a number of 
senior positions including Head of HR for the Multinational 
division and Global Placement practice within Marsh, a 
global insurance broker.  She subsequently undertook 
organisational change consultancy work in DEFRA before 
returning to financial services in 2010, ultimately as the 
Senior HR business partner for the Retail Consumer 
Distribution division of RBS and NatWest.
6 Grainne Brankin
 General Counsel and Company Secretary
Grainne has been with Centaur Media since July 2014 and 
is General Counsel as well as Company Secretary.  Prior 
to joining Centaur Media, Grainne was General Counsel 
at CBS Outdoor International where she was part of the 
management team delivering a successful sale of the 
division by CBS Corp. to Platinum Equity.  Grainne had 
previously worked for 8 years at Yahoo!’s EMEA HQ in London 
and then Switzerland for 8 years and held various roles in 
the legal team including responsibility for M&A, restructures 
and employment. Grainne qualified at Clifford Chance in 
London and worked at law firm Bird & Bird before joining 
Yahoo!.  She has undertaken a broad range of corporate 
and commercial work in Europe and the USA within media, 
telecoms and technology industries.
2
4 1
3
5
6 40 41
GOVERNANCE
At 16 March 2016 6,472,990 (31 December 2014: 6,535,973) 10p ordinary shares are held 
in treasury, representing 4.31% (2014: 4.35%) of the issued share capital of the Company 
as at 31 December 2015.  800,000 (2014: 800,000) deferred shares of 10p each carry 
restricted voting rights and carry no right to receive a dividend payment.  The movement 
in treasury shares during the period is due to the exercise of share options.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The Directors of the Company during the period and up to the date of this report are 
detailed below.  All Directors served from 1 January 2015 unless otherwise stated. The 
Board have decided to continue observing best practice by offering themselves for  
re-election annually.  
  Number of   Number of
  ordinary   ordinary
  shares Shares Shares shares
    held at acquired disposed of held at
  1 July during during 31 December
  2015 the year the year 2015
7
Ronald Sandler (appointed 13 May 2015)
8 
 - - - -
Patrick Taylor (resigned 13 May 2015) 800,000 36,000 - 836,000
Christopher Satterthwaite 95,942 - - 95,942
Robert Boyle   80,000 37,037 - 117,037
Rebecca Miskin - 14,800 - 14,800
Andria Vidler   91,849 46,725 - 138,574
Mark Kerswell  333,108 - - 333,108
The Directors’ interests in long-term incentive plans are disclosed in the Remuneration 
Committee Report on page 72.
QUALIFYING THIRD PARTY INDEMNITY PROVISIONS
By virtue of article 217 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a qualifying third 
party indemnity provision (within the meaning given by section 234 of the Companies Act 
2006) is in force at the date of this report in respect of each Director of the Company and 
was in force throughout the reporting period. 
The Company has purchased appropriate insurance in respect of legal actions against 
Directors and officers.
PAYMENT OF CREDITORS
It is the Group’s policy to agree credit arrangements with suppliers as part of the 
general terms of supply. Payment is then made in accordance with these terms provided 
the goods and services have been delivered in accordance with the agreed terms and 
conditions.  The number and diversity of supply relationships means that the Group 
pursues no formal code or policy beyond this.  Trade creditors of the Group at 31 
December 2015 were equivalent to 33 days’ purchases (2014: 6 days). The Company had 
no trade payables at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014. 
7 
Or date of resignation if earlier.
8
 R Sandler has been authorised at his request to purchase ordinary shares following the announcement of the  
Company’s preliminary results on 17 March 2016.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
The Directors of Centaur Media Plc (‘the Company’ or ‘the Group’), a company 
incorporated and domiciled in the England and Wales, present their report on the affairs 
of the Group and Company together with the audited consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2015 (‘the reporting period’). 
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in note 32 to the 
Financial Statements.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of business information, events and 
marketing solutions to selected professional and commercial markets.  The principal 
activities of the Company are those of a holding company.
BUSINESS REVIEW
The Chief Executive’s Review is set out on pages 7 to 9.  The Strategic Report on pages 
10 to 35 sets out a summary of the Group strategic objectives, business model, key 
performance measures, operating and financial reviews, future developments, principal 
risks and uncertainties and the corporate responsibility statement. 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Details of the Groups’ greenhouse gas emissions are included in the Corporate 
Responsibility section on page 35.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES 
The Group invests in systems and website development activities. Further details are set 
out in note 10 to the Financial Statements.
DIVIDENDS
A final dividend in respect of the period July to December 2015 of 1.5p per share (July to 
December 2014: 1.3p) is proposed by the Directors, and subject to shareholder approval 
at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 27 May 2016 to ordinary shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on 6 May 2016.  With the interim dividend of 1.5p per 
share, the total dividend for the reporting period will be 3.0p per share (18 months ended 
31 December 2014: 3.85p).
SHARE CAPITAL AND SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS 
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 23 to the Financial 
Statements.  As at 31 December 2015, notifications of interests at or above 3% in the 
issued voting share capital of the Company had been received from the following:
      31 December 30 June
      2015 2014
 Aberforth Partners LLP
†
     23.91% 23.99%
Artemis Investment Management    15.22% 13.88%
Standard Life Investments     8.27% 5.32%
Ibis Capital Partners     7.58% 6.39%
Old Mutual Global Investors     6.54% 7.80%
Graham Sherren (inc. spouse)     5.76% 5.76%
Chelverton Asset Management    4.62% 3.93%
River & Mercantile Asset Management LLP    3.52% 4.30%
Legal & General Investment Management    3.00% 2.64%
Individuals      1.58% 2.06%
†
This includes the Wellcome Trust Limited which is managed by Aberforth Partners LLP
During the period between 31 December 2015 and 16 March 2016 the Company did not 
receive any notifications under Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. 42 43
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
A statement in relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group is presented in 
note 17 to the Financial Statements. 
INFORMATION REQUIRED UNDER THE LISTING RULES
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules (LR 9.8.4C), 
the information to be included in the Annual Report and Financial Statements,  where 
applicable, under LR 9.8.4, is set out in this Directors’ Report, with the exception of 
details of transactions with controlling shareholders which is set out on page 71. 
GOING CONCERN
The Directors have carefully assessed the Company’s ability to continue trading and 
have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for at least 12 months from the date of this report.  See note 1 of 
the financial statements for further details.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITORS
The Directors confirm that, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, and the Directors have taken 
all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 
s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed by order of the Board. 
Grainne Brankin
Company Secretary
16 March 2016
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS
During the reporting period the Group made a donation to its nominated charity Mind of 
£111,242 (18 months ended 31 December 2014: £nil).
No political donations were made during the year (2014: £nil). 
EMPLOYMENT POLICY
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and appoints employees without reference 
to age, sex, ethnic group or religious beliefs.
It is the Group’s policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for employment 
by disabled persons.  Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become 
disabled to continue in their employment or to be trained for other positions in the 
Group.
The Group actively encourages employee involvement at all levels, both through monthly 
employee briefings and by direct access to managers and the Executive Committee.  
In addition, the Share Incentive Plan as described in note 24 encourages employees’ 
participation in the Group’s performance.
All employees are regularly briefed on the financial and economic factors affecting 
the Group’s performance and new initiatives through monthly town hall meetings and 
management cascade communication. 
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS
The Group’s bank facility agreement, referred to in note 27 to the Financial Statements, 
is a significant agreement that is terminable on a change of control of the Company.  In 
addition awards under certain of the long-term incentive plans, details of which are set 
out in note 24, will vest or may be exchanged for awards of a purchaser’s shares upon a 
change of control of the Company.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Following the implementation of legislation on conflict of interest, reflected in the 
changes to the Company’s Articles of Association in 2008, procedures are in place to 
deal with such conflicts and they have operated effectively. 44 45
GOVERNANCE
BOARD MEETINGS 
During the reporting period, the membership of the Board and of each Committee was 
as follows:
 Board Role Audit Remuneration Nomination 
  Committee Committee Committee
Patrick Taylor (resigned 13 May 2015) Chairman Member - Chairman
Ronald Sandler (appointed 13 May 2015) Chairman Member Member Chairman
Christopher Satterthwaite  Senior Independent Director - Member Member
Robert Boyle Non-Executive Director Chairman Member -
Rebecca Miskin Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member
Andria Vidler
9
 Chief Executive - - -
Mark Kerswell Group Finance Director - - -
The number of scheduled full Board meetings and Committee meetings during the 
reporting period along with attendance of Directors was as follows: 
    Audit  Remuneration  Nomination  
  Board  Committee   Committee  Committee
Number of meetings held:  6  4  2  2
 Meetings  Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings 
 attended eligible to attended eligible to attended eligible to attended eligible to 
  attend  attend  attend  attend
Patrick Taylor 3 3 1 2 - - 1 1 
(resigned 13 May 2015)
Ronald Sandler  3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 
(appointed 13 May 2015)
Christopher Satterthwaite 6 6 - - 2 2 2 2
Robert Boyle 6 6 4 4 2 2 - -
Rebecca Miskin 6 6 4 4 2 2 2 2
Andria Vidler 6 6 - - - - - -
Mark Kerswell 6 6 - - - - - - 
 
9
 Andria Vidler’s married surname is Gibb and she appears as Andria Gibb on records kept by Companies House.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (September 2012). The Board sets out its report below 
on how the Group has applied the principles of, and complied with, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code during the reporting period.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Company has applied the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
throughout the reporting period. The Board is committed to maintaining a structure, 
which establishes a sound corporate governance framework on behalf of the Company’s 
shareholders.  Throughout the reporting period, the Group has complied with all the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
THE BOARD
As at 31 December 2015 the Board had four Non-Executive Directors and two Executive 
Directors (Chief Executive and Group Finance Director).  Biographies for each currently 
serving Director are shown on page 36.  The Board endeavours to maintain diversity in 
its composition with respect to gender, skills, knowledge and length of service in order 
to ensure the balanced and effective running of the Company.  During the first part of 
the reporting period (from January 2015 to 13 May 2015) the Chairman of the Board 
was Patrick Taylor, an independent Non-Executive Director.  From 13 May 2015, Ron 
Sandler was appointed Chairman of the Board, replacing Patrick Taylor. Ron Sandler 
is an independent Non-Executive Director, who leads the Board and ensures that both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors make available sufficient time to carry out their 
duties in an appropriate manner, that all Directors receive sufficient financial and 
operational information and that there is proper debate at Board meetings.
The Board is responsible for the leadership of the Company and the Group, and in 
discharging that responsibility it makes decisions objectively and in the best interests of 
the Group.  The Board sets the vision, values and standards for the Group.  The balance 
of the Board, together with the advice sought from the Executive Committee members 
and the Company’s external advisors, ensures that no one individual has unfettered 
powers of decision.  The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility for the running of the 
Company to the Chief Executive. 
The Chairman is responsible for the effective performance of the Board through a schedule 
of matters reserved for approval by the Board (comprising issues considered most 
significant to the group in terms of financial impact and risk) and control of the Board 
agenda.  The Chairman conducts Board and shareholder meetings and ensures that 
all directors are properly briefed.  The Chief Executive, supported by the Group Finance 
Director and Executive Committee, is responsible to the Board for running the business and 
implementing strategy.  The Board reviews the performance of the Executive Directors and 
the Group against agreed budgets and against the Group’s objectives, strategy and values.
The Senior Independent Director is Christopher Satterthwaite who is also a member 
of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.  The Company Secretary is Grainne 
Brankin, who is also General Counsel.  The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in 
ensuring there is efficient communication between all Directors, the Committees and 
senior management, as well as the professional development of Directors. Independent 
advisors including lawyers, remuneration specialists and external auditors are available 
to advise the Non-Executive Directors at the Company’s expense.  All the Non-Executive 
Directors are independent.  Committee meetings are held independently of Board 
meetings and invitations to attend are extended by the Committee Chairman to other 
directors, the Group’s advisors and management as appropriate.  The terms of reference 
of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee, 
including their roles and the authority delegated to them by the Board, are available on 
request from the Company Secretary and will be available at the AGM.  46 47
GOVERNANCE
The biographies of the members of the Executive Committee are set out on page 38.  
Supporting the Executive Committee are the Portfolio Directors who are responsible 
for specific market segments and the expert leaders who lead the teams delivering 
functional expertise. The focus on our markets and audience enables us to build 
a deeper understanding of the commercial opportunities across each market.  We 
know that our customers want flexible content that works seamlessly across multiple 
platforms. By leveraging this market insight and an understanding of our customer 
requirements we are able to offer a higher value customer proposition. The expert teams 
provide the expertise and scale that allows us to effectively and efficiently support the 
delivery of commercial opportunities across each market. The creation of these expert 
teams also enables us to effectively manage our cost base and to prioritise investment 
across the business.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company encourages meaningful dialogue with all shareholders.  Shareholder 
communication centres primarily on the publication of annual reports, periodic press 
releases, investor presentations and trading updates. The Chairman and Executive 
Directors are available for discussions with shareholders throughout the year and 
particularly at the time of results announcements. The Senior Independent Director is 
also available should any shareholder wish to draw any matters to his attention.  The 
Directors are available for comment throughout the year and at all General Meetings of 
the Company. Centaur Media values the views of its shareholders and recognises their 
interest in the Company’s strategy and performance, Board membership and quality 
of management. The Group therefore has an active programme to meet and make 
presentations to its current and potential shareholders to discuss its objectives. The 
AGM is used to communicate with investors and they are encouraged to attend the AGM 
and to participate in proceedings formally or sharing their views with Board members 
informally after the meeting. The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees are available to answer questions. Separate resolutions are proposed on 
each issue so that they can be given proper consideration and there is a resolution to 
approve the annual report and financial statements. The Company counts all proxy votes 
and indicates the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, after it has been voted on 
by a show of hands.  All shareholders can gain access to the annual reports, trading 
updates, announcements, press releases and other information about the Company 
through the Company’s website, www.centaurmedia.com. 
RISK ASSESSMENT
Risks that affect or may affect the business are identified and assessed, and appropriate 
controls and systems implemented to ensure that the risk is managed.  The Group’s risk 
register is kept by the Company Secretary with the input of the Executive Committee and 
is reviewed by the Audit Committee every six months with appropriate mitigation actions 
also being reported to and overseen by the Committee.
The principal risks facing the Group, with associated mitigating controls are detailed on 
page 13 within the Strategic Report.
If a Director is unable to attend a meeting he or she is provided with the same level of 
information as the other directors in advance of the meeting and given the opportunity to 
express views, which will then be shared at the meeting. 
In addition to the key items identified for discussion by the Committees above, the Board 
discussed the following matters at the Board meetings during the reporting period:
  Review of financial performance against budget and prior year;
  Review of Group strategy and objectives for the Executive Directors;
  Review and approval of budgets;
  Review of Group key performance indicators;
  Review of acquisition targets;
  Approval of financial reports and communication to shareholders and investors; and
  Approval of the Group‘s internal control policy, including an assessment of the risk 
and corporate governance environment.
BOARD ASSESSMENT AND DIRECTORS’ PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
The Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
Committees and individual Directors.  Individual evaluation aims to show whether 
each Director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to 
the role (including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and other 
duties).  Evaluations are undertaken annually by self-assessment and the Chairman’s 
performance is also evaluated by the other Non-Executive Directors at a separate 
meeting for this purpose each year.  In addition the Chief Executive is subject to an 
annual performance review with the Chairman. New directors receive an induction 
programme and all the Directors are encouraged to undertake continuous professional 
development programmes as appropriate.  The Group offered training presentations in 
relation to directors’ duties to the Board during 2015 and maintains insurance cover in 
respect of legal action against its Directors.
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
The Board delegates the day-to-day running of the Company to the Executive Directors, 
who in turn share the operational running of the Group with the Executive Committee. 
Throughout the reporting period, the Executive Committee was the primary body 
implementing operational management across the Group. The role of the Executive 
Committee is to review:
  Financial performance and budget (at operational level);
  Human capital management; 
  Operational efficiency and developments (including Group IT, procurement  
and facilities);
  Product development;  
  Market development;
  Business planning;
  Acquisition needs;
  Internal and external communications;
  Business transformation and change management. 48 49
GOVERNANCE
BRIBERY ACT 2010
In response to the Bribery Act 2010, the Board performed a risk assessment across the 
Group and formalised its policy to prevent bribery.  The Board has in place processes to 
prevent corruption or unethical behaviour.  The policy explains what is considered a bribe 
or facilitation payment, which are prohibited, and provides guidance over the levels of 
gifts, entertainment and hospitality that are considered reasonable. This documentation 
has been circulated to all staff.  Training has been mandatory for those groups of 
employees identified and is available as required to new joiners. The Group’s policy  
was communicated to all appropriate third parties.  It is re-communicated to  
staff on an annual basis. The more rigorous processes around declaring directors’ 
interests and identifying potential conflicts have improved the regular monitoring of  
the Group’s policy.
WHISTLEBLOWING
The Company is committed to the highest standards of integrity and honesty.  Along 
with other policies, which encourage this behaviour, a whistleblowing policy is annually 
re-communicated to all staff.  This allows all employees to disclose openly, in confidence 
or anonymously, any concerns they may have about possible improper practices, 
in financial or other matters.  An escalation process has been communicated to 
employees.  Any matters raised will be investigated and resolved.  The Audit Committee 
will be notified of any issues raised through this process and appropriate action taken.  
However, no incidents were noted during the period.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Information on the share capital structure is included in the Directors’ Report on  
page 40.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed by order of the Board. 
Grainne Brankin
Company Secretary
16 March 2016
ETHICS
The Group carries out its business in a fair, honest and open manner, ensuring that it 
complies with all relevant laws and regulations.  The Company has specific policies on 
fraud, director conflict, bribery and whistleblowing, which are widely distributed and 
compliance with these policies is monitored.  The Board has oversight of the Group’s 
actions. The HR team ensures that new job opportunities are made available to existing 
employees as well as to outside applicants and that all employees are able to benefit 
from training, career development and promotion opportunities where appropriate.  The 
recruitment of new personnel is made without prejudice and the Group believes in equal 
opportunity and encourages diversity.  The analysis of the Group’s workforce and Board 
by gender is set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 35.
Through all our interaction with our customers and partners we ensure that we treat 
them fairly and openly whilst abiding by the terms of contracts and relevant law.  
Equally, we treat our suppliers fairly and do not exploit them or their employees. 
MONITORING OF CONTROLS
The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal controls and these are regularly monitored by the Audit 
Committee.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in this financial year can be found in the 
Audit Committee Report on page 50.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
The disclosure in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions of the Group that are 
attributable to human activity in tonnes of carbon dioxide is set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report on page 35.
FRAUD
Whilst the Group cannot guarantee to prevent fraud, the internal control framework 
is in place to reduce the likelihood of fraud arising.  The Group also ensures that all 
employees are aware of the whistleblowing policy should any individual become aware of 
any incidence of fraud.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS
Group and subsidiary directors have to notify their employing company of all 
directorships they hold.  Annual conflict of interest disclosures require them to disclose 
such directorships or other relationships, which they or a person connected to them 
may hold.  These are reviewed by the Board to assess the impact on the Company and 
whether it would impair the Group’s objectives. 50 51
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
During the reporting period and up until the date of this report, the Audit Committee 
undertook the following activities to ensure the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements and formal announcements:
  Regularly met with management and the Group Finance Director to discuss the 
results and performance of the business;
  Received reports from management on the internal controls covering the financial 
reporting process;
  Reviewed and agreed the external auditors’ audit strategy in advance of their audit for 
the reporting period; 
  Reviewed compliance with requirements under the newly issued UK Corporate 
Governance Code, and in particular its impact on the Strategic Report and Viability 
Statement;
  Discussed the report received from the external auditors regarding their audit in 
respect of the previous reporting period, which included comments on significant 
financial reporting judgements and their findings on internal controls; and
  Reviewed and discussed with management and the Group Finance Director each 
formal announcement made by the Group. 
The most significant financial reporting judgements considered by the Audit Committee 
and discussed with the external auditors during the reporting period were as follows:
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets
The Audit Committee has reviewed management’s assessment of the recoverability of 
the Group’s goodwill and intangible assets and whether there is a need for any resulting 
impairment.  The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined through value 
in use calculations of each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) based on formally approved 
forecasts for the first three years of the value-in-use calculation, and applying a terminal 
growth rate of 2.25%.  
Management’s assessment of the recoverability of the Group’s goodwill and intangible 
assets resulted in an impairment of £11.9m being recognised against the goodwill in the 
Professional segment.  This was triggered by a more moderate growth outlook across 
portfolios reported within the Professional segment, including HR and Engineering, 
and specifically reflects weaker print and advertising trends.  The Committee has paid 
particular attention to the judgements and assumptions used to forecast cash flows, 
particularly around revenue and EBITDA growth rates.  The Committee was satisfied 
that the forecasts reflect the CGUs’ historic budgeting performance and sensitivities 
performed, and that the value-in-use calculation reflects management’s best estimate, 
and that the impairment recognised against goodwill of £11.9m is appropriate.  As 
a result the Audit Committee was satisfied with the carrying value of goodwill and 
intangible assets in the Group balance sheet.
Further details on goodwill and the impairment testing are included in note 9 to the 
Financial Statements.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee (‘the Committee’) for the 
year ended 31 December 2015 (‘the reporting period’). This report details the Audit 
Committee’s on-going responsibilities and key activities over the period.  The role of 
the Committee is to review and report to the Board on the Group’s financial reporting, 
internal controls and risk management processes and the performance, independence 
and effectiveness of the external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The Committee 
receives regular reports from management on performance and risk management 
as well as input from the external auditors.  The Executive Directors, representatives 
of the auditors and other Group executives, including the General Counsel, regularly 
attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.  At least once during the year, the 
Committee meets separately with the external auditors and with management and as 
Chairman I am in regular direct contact with the external auditors and with the Group 
Finance Director. 
During the reporting period, the Audit Committee composition changed as a result of 
Patrick Taylor stepping down from Centaur Media Plc’s Board at the last AGM in May 
2015, at which time Ron Sandler joined.  For the remainder of the reporting period, the 
Committee comprised Robert Boyle (Chairman), Ron Sandler and Rebecca Miskin. 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to:
  Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any public 
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance, reviewing (and 
approving) significant financial reporting judgements contained in them;
  Review and monitor the external auditors’ independence and objectivity and the 
effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional 
and regulatory requirements;
  Review and assess the annual report in order to determine that it can advise the 
Board that, taken as a whole, the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, 
and provides shareholders with the information they need to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy as required by provision C.1.1 of the Code;
  Make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and terms of 
engagement of the external auditors and to review and approve levels of audit and 
non-audit the remuneration;
  Develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply 
non-audit services;
  Review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal financial control and risk 
management systems;
  Review the Group’s finance and operational policies and procedures to ensure they 
remain effective and relevant;
  Oversee the whistleblowing arrangements of the Group and to ensure they are 
operating effectively; and
  Report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities. 52 53
GOVERNANCE
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s management is responsible for the identification, assessment and 
management of risk, as well as for designing and operating the system of internal 
control.  The Audit Committee has worked closely with management and received 
detailed information to assess the effectiveness of internal financial control and risk 
assessment and management systems and report on them to the Board (which retains 
ultimate responsibility).  A new finance system was implemented during the reporting 
period which is expected to deliver significant benefits, and the Committee is confident 
that, together with a centralised finance team, it will contribute to further enhancement 
of the system of internal control in future periods.
Having monitored the Group’s risk management and internal control system, and 
having reviewed the effectiveness of material controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls, the Audit Committee confirms on behalf of the Board that it 
has not identified any significant control failings or weaknesses at any time during the 
reporting period. 
RISK OF FRAUD 
The Audit Committee considered the risk of fraudulent financial reporting in the 
business, and through its review of the effectiveness of internal controls and reporting 
from management has concluded that adequate controls were in place during the 
reporting period.
WHISTLEBLOWING
The Committee reviewed the Group’s whistleblowing policy and is satisfied that this 
has met FCA rules and good standards of corporate governance.  Further details of 
the whistleblowing policy are set out within the Directors’ Statement on Corporate 
Governance on page 49.
Adjusting items 
The Audit Committee has challenged management strongly over recent financial 
reporting periods with regard to the presentation of exceptional items. Exceptional 
items disclosed in the reporting period relate to the impairment of goodwill, further 
restructuring activities, the profit on disposal of trade and assets, the refinancing of 
the Group’s banking facilities, and the settlement of an earn-out agreement.  The 
Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate to present these exceptional items as 
adjusting items.
The Committee assesses the appropriateness of all items disclosed as adjusting and the 
impact these have on the quality of the Group’s underlying earnings.  
Further details on adjusting items are included in note 1 to the Financial Statements.
Recoverability of trade receivables
As set out in the Financial Review, the introduction of new finance and CRM systems 
during 2015 led to operational and commercial disruption, and this had a material 
impact on subsequent collection of trade receivables during the second half of the 
year.  At 31 December 2015, trade receivables greater than 90 days overdue was £5.0m 
compared to £0.5m at 31 December 2014.  
The Committee notes that the collectability of trade receivables is a judgemental 
area.  The Audit Committee has reviewed management’s detailed assessment of the 
recoverability of the trade receivables balance, which considered amounts not collected 
since the year end and the appropriateness of the provision for impairment recorded 
of £0.9m in this context.  This assessment sets out the measures which have been 
taken by management to address the cash collection issues on aged balances, and 
has considered the trends in cash collections throughout 2015 and in January and 
February 2016.  The Committee concurred with management’s judgement that the level 
of provision recorded is adequate and concluded that appropriate measures had been 
taken to address the related systems issues.
GOING CONCERN
The Audit Committee received a report setting out the going concern review undertaken 
by management which forms the basis of the Board’s going concern conclusion.  The 
Group agreed a four year £25.0m multi-currency revolving bank facility during the 
period.  The Committee has considered the negative working capital trends during the 
reporting period, and is satisfied that these are temporary in nature.  There is significant 
headroom on all of the financing covenants.  On this basis the Committee has concluded 
that the adoption of the going concern basis is appropriate.  54 55
GOVERNANCE
SELF-ASSESSMENT
During the period the Audit Committee performed a formal, questionnaire based, self-
assessment with satisfactory results.
REPORT TO THE BOARD
The Board has requested the Committee to confirm that in its opinion the Board can 
make the required statement that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. The Committee has given 
this confirmation on the basis of its review of the whole Annual Report, underpinned by 
involvement in the planning for its preparation, review of the processes to ensure the 
accuracy of factual content and by assurances from the Remuneration Committee.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment as 
auditors of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
Robert Boyle
Chairman of the Audit Committee
16 March 2016
KEY ISSUES 
Other significant issues monitored and approved by the Committee following appropriate 
presentations during the reporting period were: 
  Review of data protection policies and compliance;
  Review of business continuity plans and the results of related testing;
  Review of authority framework;
  Review of internal procedures for managing security of banking administration; 
  Monitoring the roll out of anti-bribery training; 
  Review of the final VBR earn-out calculations; and
  Review of the deployment plans for the new finance system.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Committee considered whether it was appropriate to appoint internal auditors and 
concluded that this is not currently required given the size of the business, its relatively 
centralised operations and the risks identified together with the mitigating controls.
EXTERNAL AUDIT
The external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, were appointed in 2004 and no 
formal retender process has been conducted since this time.
The Audit Committee monitors the external audit process to ensure high standards of 
quality and effectiveness.  This was assessed throughout the reporting period using a 
number of measures, including:
  Reviewing the quality and scope of planning of the audit and the level of fees;
  Monitoring the independence and transparency of the audit; and
  Obtaining feedback from management and the Directors on the quality of the audit 
team, their business understanding and audit approach and approving reappointment.
The Audit Committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditors through a careful review of their terms of engagement, scope of work and level 
of fees.  This included reviewing the nature and extent of non-audit services supplied by 
the external auditors to the Group, seeking to balance objectivity and value for money. 
The external auditors are excluded from providing services where there could be a threat 
to their independence. Prior approval from the Audit Committee has been required 
where non-audit fees exceed twice the annual audit fee.  This policy will be brought into 
line with new regulations in 2016. 
During the reporting period, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP provided non-audit services 
to the Group in respect of taxation compliance and advisory.  The Board is satisfied that 
there has been no impairment of their objectivity and independence, and anticipates the 
level of non-audit fees will fall further in 2016. Refer to note 3 of the financial statements 
for fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during the reporting period.  The 
external auditors’ report to the Directors and the Audit Committee also confirmed their 
independence in accordance with auditing standards.
The Group is required to put the audit out to tender for the year ended 31 December 
2017. It is intended that the audit for the year ended 31 December 2017 be placed out to 
a formal tender in autumn 2016.  HEADING
56 57
ACTIVITIES IN 2016
After nearly 9 years as a Non-Executive member of the Board, our Senior Independent 
Director Chris Satterthwaite has informed the Board of his intention to step down during 
2016, once a replacement Non-Executive Director has been recruited. We have started 
a process to identify a successor Non-Executive Director to join the Board and in the 
meantime Chris will offer himself for re-election at the 2016 AGM and continues to be an 
active and valued member of the Board as well as the Senior Independent Director.
Ronald Sandler
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
16 March 2016
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 
December 2015. This report details the Committee’s ongoing responsibilities and key 
activities over the period. 
In May 2015, the Nomination Committee composition changed when Patrick Taylor 
stepped down from the Board and I became Chairman of the Committee as well as the 
Board.  For the rest of the reporting period the Committee comprised Ron Sandler, Chris 
Satterthwaite and Rebecca Miskin, ensuring that there is a majority of independent Non-
Executive Directors on the Committee.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
  Reviewing the Board’s structure, size and composition;
  Reviewing the composition of Board Committees;
  Defining the role and competencies required for appointments to the Board;
  Identifying, nominating and reviewing candidates for appointment to the Board;
  Putting in place plans for succession for the Chairman and other members of the 
Board, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director; and
  Reviewing the leadership needs of the organisation, both Executive and Non-
Executive.
The appointment of directors is a matter for the Board, which considers 
recommendations of the Nomination Committee.  The Committee is responsible 
for ensuring that the Board and the Board Committees are properly constituted and 
balanced in terms of skills, experience and diversity.  Our policy on Board diversity is set 
out in the Directors’ Report above and during the reporting period we had two female 
Board members, comprising 33% of the Board.
ACTIVITIES DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD
The main focus of the Committee during the first part of the reporting period was 
to identify and appoint a new Non-Executive Director who would join the Board as 
Chairman following the AGM when Patrick Taylor stepped down. The Committee was 
led by Chris Satterthwaite for this purpose and followed a rigorous process that was 
approved by the Board.  The search was supported by executive search consultants and 
following a comprehensive short list and interview exercise my own appointment was 
recommended to the Board by the Committee and I was confirmed as a Non-Executive 
Director, Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member 
of each of the Remuneration and Audit Committees immediately following the AGM 
on 13 May 2015. For the remainder of the reporting period the Committee focused on 
the responsibilities set out above, including in particular undertaking a review of the 
Board’s structure, size and composition, as well as the effectiveness of the Board and its 
Committees. 58 59
GOVERNANCE
SHARE SCHEMES
Centaur Media’s LTIP is now the Company’s only executive share scheme and is due to 
reach the end of its 10 year life in 2016.  At our forthcoming AGM we will therefore seek 
approval for a replacement share scheme.  The terms of the 2016 LTIP will be broadly 
similar to the 2006 LTIP and are set out in more detail in the Notice of AGM.  Given the 
timing of adoption of the 2016 LTIP and the absence of significant changes to the terms 
of the awards, the existing LTIP will be used for the final time in March 2016 to grant the 
2016 LTIP awards.
We take the views of our shareholders seriously and seek to maintain a dialogue 
on remuneration matters.  For this reason, I contacted major shareholders and 
representative bodies in January to set out the key terms of the 2016 LTIP and consider 
feedback received. 
REMUNERATION FOR 2016
We believe the Directors’ Remuneration Policy remains fit for purpose and therefore 
no changes will be made for 2016 other than a limited consequential amendment to 
accommodate the addition of an exceptional grant limit in the 2016 LTIP which was not 
in the 2006 LTIP.
The budgeted average salary increase for annual pay reviews in April 2016 for 
management and staff across the Group will be 3% (2% in 2015).
The Executives’ base salaries will be increased by 3% with effect from 1 April 2016.  The 
fees paid to Non-Executive Directors (other than the Chairman who joined in May 2015) 
were last reviewed in December 2013 and will also be increased by 3% from 1 April 2016.
At the AGM on 11 May 2016, a resolution will be proposed to adopt the new LTIP and in 
addition, shareholder approval will be sought for the consequential amendment to the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy.  In addition to these binding shareholder votes,  
the Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an 
advisory vote.
I hope that shareholders will vote in favour of these resolutions and I will of course be 
happy to answer any questions that shareholders may have before or at the AGM.
Rebecca Miskin
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
16 March 2016
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT  
ANNUAL STATEMENT 
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present to you the report of the Remuneration 
Committee for the year ended 31 December 2015 (‘the reporting period’). This is in three 
parts: this Annual Statement, the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.  At the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2016 we will be seeking 
approval for the Annual Statement, the Annual Report on Remuneration, a new Long 
Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) to replace the current plan which is reaching the end of its 
10 year life and minor changes to the Directors’ Remuneration Policy to accommodate 
the new LTIP.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
During the reporting period Centaur Media‘s Remuneration Committee was joined by 
Ron Sandler, from 13 May 2015, as a member of the Committee as well as Chairman of 
the Board.  For the remainder of the reporting period the Committee comprised myself 
(Chair), Ron Sandler, Chris Satterthwaite and Robert Boyle.
CONTEXT FOR EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION AT CENTAUR MEDIA
The Company’s broader remuneration strategies remain unchanged from those 
outlined in last year’s report; we are committed to simplification, performance-related 
remuneration and long-term share-based incentives.  During the reporting period, we 
implemented a new cycle of reviewing pay in the first quarter of each financial year, to 
take effect from 1 April.  This happened for the first time in 2015 across the Company at 
the same time for all employees and the process is underway for 2016.  
In the reporting period, we have seen some turnover in senior management and other 
positions, in part reflecting the continuing high levels of change in the business as we 
execute the business strategy set out by Andria Vidler in 2014.  Retention of our key 
people is a focus of the Remuneration Committee going forward, reflecting a priority of 
the Executive Committee and the Company generally. 
EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION
A review of Centaur Media’s executive remuneration was last undertaken in February 
2013 by the Committee, and we believe it continues to reflect our remuneration strategy, 
with no major changes proposed.  As disclosed in last year’s Remuneration Report, 
Andria Vidler’s base salary was increased by 4.5% in April 2015 and Mark Kerswell’s 
base salary was increased by 1.46% at the same time.  Executive remuneration has been 
unchanged since that date. Based on Company performance the Executives will receive 
a bonus for the financial year 2015 of £7,106 in the case of Andria Vidler and £4,870 in 
the case of Mark Kerswell.  No LTIP or other share awards to the Executives vested in 
the reporting period and the Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of LTIP 
awards granted to Andria Vidler and Mark Kerswell in March 2015, which are due to vest 
in March 2018. 60 61
GOVERNANCE
      
PURPOSE AND LINK  
TO STRATEGY
ELEMENT BASE SALARY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE TARGETS  
& RECOVERY PROVISIONS
ANNUAL BONUS
     Reflects the value of the 
individual and their role
    Reflects skills and 
experience over time
    Provides an appropriate 
level of basic fixed 
income avoiding 
excessive risk arising 
from over reliance on 
variable income
    Reviewed annually, 
normally effective  
1 April
    Paid in cash on a 
monthly basis.
   Pensionable
    Takes periodic account 
against companies with 
similar characteristics 
and sector comparators
    The Committee has not 
set a maximum level of 
salary. Increases will be 
set in the context of salary 
increases amongst the 
wider work force
    The Committee retains 
the discretion to make 
increases above this level 
in certain circumstances, 
for example, but not 
limited to: 
-  An increase in the 
individual’s scope and 
responsibilities
      -  Alignment to the 
external market
      -  An increase to reflect an 
individual’s performance 
and development in the 
role, e.g. where a new 
appointment is recruited 
at a lower salary level 
and is awarded stepped 
increases
      Not applicable
    Incentivises annual 
delivery of financial and 
strategic goals
    Maximum bonus only 
payable for achieving 
demanding targets
    Targets reviewed 
annually
    Not pensionable
    Mandatory deferral of 
any bonus over 75% of 
base salary into shares 
for 3 years
    Dividend equivalents 
may be payable on 
deferred share awards
    100% of salary    Normally measured 
over a one year 
performance period
    Primarily based on 
Group’s annual financial 
performance (majority, 
if not all) 
    Personal and/or 
strategic objectives 
(minority)
    Measures for the 
following years will 
be set out in the 
Annual Report on 
Remuneration of the 
relevant year
    Clawback provisions 
apply
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY 
Centaur Media recognises the need to attract, retain and incentivise executives with the 
appropriate skills and talent to manage and develop the Group’s businesses in such a 
way as to drive the Group’s strategy and deliver shareholder value.  The main principles 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy are:
  To achieve total remuneration packages that are competitive in the sector within which 
the Group operates and with the market in general; 
  To provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration which 
rewards high levels of performance; and 
  To incentivise and retain management and to align their interests with those of 
shareholders.
CONSIDERATIONS OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP
The Committee considers the general base salary increase for all employees when 
determining the annual salary increases for the Executive Directors.  Employees have 
not been consulted in respect of the design of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, 
although the Committee will keep this under review.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each 
year.  This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during the course of the 
year is then considered as part of the Company’s annual review of remuneration policy.  
In addition, the Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and 
their representative bodies should any material changes be made to the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy.  Details of votes for and against the resolution to approve last 
year’s Remuneration Report are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY – SUMMARY TABLE
The table below sets out the remuneration policy that will, subject to shareholder 
approval, be formally effective from the date of the 2016 AGM.  The only change 
as compared to the remuneration policy disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on 
Remuneration is in relation to the Centaur Media Long Term Incentive Plan 2006 
(‘2006 LTIP’) which will shortly reach the end of its 10-year life.  It is intended that 
under the proposed 2016 LTIP, to be approved at the 2016 AGM, the normal maximum 
award permitted in any financial year will continue to be 100% of salary. However, in 
exceptional circumstances (e.g. recruitment or retention), awards up to 200% of salary 
may be granted.    
Note that payments may be made under arrangements in place prior to this policy 
becoming effective (including pension, other benefits and incentives).
The remuneration policy offered to employees of the Group will be adapted to reflect 
local market practice and seniority. 62 63
GOVERNANCE
NOTES
1. The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how the Company intends to implement 
the policy presented above.
2. Not all employees have a bonus opportunity, and below Executive Director level 
bonus opportunities are generally lower.  Participation in the LTIP is limited to Executive 
Directors and certain selected senior management.  Other employees are eligible to 
participate in the Company’s all employee share plans. In general these differences 
arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive 
for the various categories of individuals, together with the fact that remuneration of 
the Executive Directors and Senior Executives typically has a greater emphasis on 
performance related pay.  All bonus schemes are discretionary.
3. The choice of performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus plan reflect the 
Committee’s belief that any incentive compensation should be appropriately challenging 
and primarily tied to financial measures.
4. The TSR and EPS performance conditions applicable to the LTIP were selected 
by the Committee on the basis that they reward the delivery of long-term returns to 
shareholders and the Group’s financial growth, and are consistent with the Company’s 
objective of delivering long-term value to shareholders.
5. Executive Directors may participate in any all-employee share plan, in line with HMRC 
limits, and to the extent offered. 
  
 
 
PURPOSE AND LINK  
TO STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE TARGETS  
& RECOVERY PROVISIONS
ELEMENT
      Aligns to main strategic 
objectives of delivering 
profit growth and 
shareholder return
      Annual grant of 
conditional awards or 
nil cost options granted
      Dividend equivalents 
may be payable on 
shares to the extent 
awards vest
     Awards capped 
at 100% of salary 
(200% in exceptional 
circumstances)
     Normally a three year 
performance period
     Performance is based 
on financial and/or 
share price  based 
measures (e.g. relative 
Total Shareholder 
Return and EPS)
     The Committee may 
alter the weighting and 
targets annually if it 
determines that it is 
appropriate to do so
     Targets for the following 
years will be set out in 
the Annual Report on 
Remuneration 
     Awards vest as follows:
        -  Threshold 
performance:  
25% of award
        -  Maximum performance: 
100% of award
        -  Clawback provisions 
apply
    Provides competitive 
retirement benefits
    Provides an opportunity 
for Executive Directors 
to contribute to their 
own retirement plan
    Defined contributions 
made to Executive 
Directors’ own 
pension plans. Cash 
supplements may also 
be paid
     Up to 15% of base 
salary
      Not applicable
    Aids retention and 
recruitment
    Executive Directors are 
provided with  private 
medical insurance
    Other benefits including 
company car allowance 
may be provided if 
considered appropriate 
by the Committee
    There is no maximum. 
Set at a level which the 
Committee considers 
is appropriate in 
the context of the 
circumstances of the 
role/individual and local 
market practice
      Not applicable
    To provide alignment 
of interests between 
Executive Directors and 
shareholders
    50% of the net of tax 
vested LTIP shares 
required to be retained 
until the guideline is met
    100% of salary      Not applicable
LONG TERM INCENTIVES PENSION OTHER BENEFITS
SHARE  
OWNERSHIP 64 65
GOVERNANCE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS
The current Executive Directors have service contracts which have a twelve month notice 
period.
In respect of Andria Vidler’s service contract (dated 30 October 2013), at the Board’s 
discretion, a payment in lieu of any unexpired notice may be paid, comprising an amount 
for base salary, pension and any accrued holiday entitlement.  The amount may be paid 
in one lump sum or in two instalments and mitigation will be applied to the second 
instalment.  If termination is within six months of a change of control, a payment equal 
to 12 months’ salary, pension and accrued holiday pay is payable.  Where the Company 
terminates the contract in any other manner, any damages shall be calculated in 
accordance with common law principles including those relating to mitigation of loss.  
Notwithstanding the above, the Company is entitled to terminate employment without 
compensation, damages or payment in lieu of notice in specified circumstances (e.g. 
serious misconduct).
In respect of Mark Kerswell’s service contract (dated 11 October 2011), at the Board’s 
discretion, a payment in lieu of any unexpired notice may be paid, comprising an amount 
for base salary, pension, bonus and any accrued holiday entitlement.  Where the 
Company terminates the contract in any other manner, any damages shall be calculated 
in accordance with common law principles including those relating to mitigation of loss.  
Notwithstanding the above, the Company is entitled to terminate employment without 
compensation, damages or payment in lieu of notice in specified circumstances (e.g. 
serious misconduct).
In respect of incentives, an annual bonus will normally be payable with respect to the 
period of the financial year served, although it will be pro-rated and paid at the normal 
pay-out date.  Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the 
Company’s share plans will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. However, 
in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, retirement or other 
circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, ‘good leaver’ status may be applied.  
For good leavers, awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date, subject to the 
satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions at the time, and reduced pro-rata 
to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served.  However, the 
Committee has discretion to determine that awards vest at cessation of employment or 
to not apply time pro-rating.
In addition to the above, outplacement support may be provided and legal fees or any 
other minor incidental costs which are considered appropriate may be payable.
REWARD SCENARIOS
The chart below shows how the composition of each Executive Director’s remuneration 
package varies at different levels of performance under the policy set out above, as a 
percentage of total remuneration opportunity and as a total value:
FIXED PAY
ANNUAL BONUS
LTIP
£429
£704
Andria Vidler
MIN MAX TARGET
£1,161
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
-
26%
13%
32%
32%
£279
£467
£780
MIN MAX TARGET
Mark Kerswell
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
-
27%
13%
32%
32%
NOTES
1.  Fixed pay consists of salary from 1 April 2016.  The value of benefits and pension have 
been estimated for 2016. 
2.  Target performance is the level of performance required to deliver 50% of the 
maximum bonus and 25% of the maximum LTIP value (see below).
3.  Maximum performance would result in a maximum bonus payment of 100% of salary 
and full vesting of the normal maximum LTIP award (100% of salary).
4. No share price appreciation has been assumed. 
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT AND PROMOTIONS
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance 
with the terms of the Company’s prevailing approved remuneration policy at the time 
of appointment and would take into account the skills and experience of the individual, 
the market rate for a candidate of that experience and the importance of securing the 
relevant individual. 
On recruitment, salary may (but need not necessarily) be set below the normal market 
rate, with phased increases as the executive gains experience.  The maximum annual 
bonus would be no more than 100% of salary and grants under the LTIP would be limited 
to a maximum of 100% of salary (200% in exceptional circumstances).  In addition, 
on recruitment the Company may compensate for amounts foregone from a previous 
employer (using Listing Rule 9.4.2 if necessary) taking into account the quantum 
foregone and, as far as reasonably practicable, the extent to which performance 
conditions apply, the form of award and the time left to vesting.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of their 
prior role should be allowed to pay out according to its terms. Any other on-going 
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they 
are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
The Committee may agree that the Company will meet relocation, legal fees or 
incidental costs where appropriate. 66 67
GOVERNANCE
LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the 
Company, which are for an initial three-year period with an extension for a further three-
year period, and provide for a notice period of one month. All existing Directors have 
chosen to submit to annual re-election at each AGM.
 First appointed Current letter of appointment Current letter of 
 as a Director commencement date appointment expiry date
Ronald Sandler 13 May 2015 13 May 2015 13 May 2021
Christopher Satterthwaite 1 July 2007 1 July 2007 1 July 2016
Robert Boyle 8 January 2010 8 January 2016 8 January 2019
10
Rebecca Miskin 13 January 2011 13 January 2011 13 January 2017
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement 
would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time. 
10 
Robert Boyle’s previous letter of appointment commenced on 8 January 2010 and expired on 8 January 2016.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Company Chairman’s fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee (other 
than the Company Chairman, if he sits on the Committee).  The fees for the Non-
Executive Directors are reviewed by the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors.  
The table summarises the key aspects of the remuneration policy for the Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors:
ELEMENT PURPOSE AND LINK 
TO STRATEGY
OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE 
TARGETS & RECOVERY 
PROVISIONS
Non-Executive 
Directors fees
     Provides fees 
reflecting time 
commitments and 
responsibilities 
of each role, in 
line with those 
provided by 
similarly sized 
companies
      Cash fee normally 
paid on a monthly 
basis
     Reimbursement 
of incidental 
expenses where 
appropriate
     Fees are reviewed 
periodically
     There is no 
prescribed 
maximum 
annual fee or fee 
increase.
     The Committee 
and Board 
are guided by 
the general 
increase in the 
Non-Executive 
market, but may 
decide to award 
a lower or higher 
fee increase to 
recognise, for 
example, an 
increase in the 
scale, scope or 
responsibility 
of the role or 
take account of 
relevant market 
movements.
Not applicable GOVERNANCE
68 69
FEES FOR THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Company Chairman’s fee and those of the Non-Executive Directors are determined 
as described on page 60.  The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
(excluding the Chairman) were reviewed in December 2015, and it is proposed that Non-
Executive Directors fees will be increased by 3% effective from 1 April 2016.  The current 
and proposed fees are as follows:
 From 1 April 2016 As at 1 April 2015 % change
Ronald Sandler (Chairman) 125,000 125,000 0%
Christopher Satterthwaite 43,775 42,500 3%
Robert Boyle 43,775 42,500 3%
Rebecca Miskin 43,775 42,500 3%
REMUNERATION RECEIVED BY DIRECTORS FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD (AUDITED)
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 (and for the 18 months ended 31 December 2014) was as follows:
  Salary Taxable Bonus Long-term Pension
11
 Total 
  and fees benefits  incentives
Executive       
Andria Vidler 2015 351,475 16,056 7,106 - 41,070 415,707
 2014 394,487 14,802 221,340 - 39,448 670,077
Mark Kerswell 2015 242,625 2,634 4,870 - 24,263 274,392
 2014 372,750 3,886 178,920 103,591 39,552 698,778
Non-Executive       
Ronald Sandler
12
   2015 79,167 - - - - 79,167
 2014 - - - - - -
Christopher Satterthwaite  2015 42,500 - - - - 42,500
 2014 62,708 - - - - 62,708
Robert Boyle 2015 42,500 - - - - 42,500
 2014 60,625 - - - - 60,625
Rebecca Miskin 2015 42,500 - - - - 42,500
 2014 62,708 - - - - 62,708
Former Directors       
Patrick Taylor
13
  2015 31,276 - - - - 31,276
 2014 125,417 - - - - 125,417
Colin Morrison
14
  2015 - - - - - -
 2014 16,667 - - - - 16,677
11
 Mark Kerswell received a balancing payment of £6,954 in pension contributions in November 2014 which was due to a correction  
of past payments.
12
 Ronald Sandler was appointed Chairman with effect from 13 May 2015.
13
 Patrick Taylor stepped down from the Board with effect from 13 May 2015.
14
 Colin Morrison stepped down from the Board on 13 November 2013.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE YEAR 
ENDING 31 DECEMBER 2016
A summary of how the Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be applied during the year 
ending 31 December 2016 is set out below:
BASE SALARY
The Executive Directors’ salaries were reviewed in December 2015, and will be increased 
by 3% from 1 April 2016.  The current and proposed salaries are as follows:
 From 1 April 2016 As at 1 April 2015 % change
Andria Vidler £365,959 £355,300 3%
Mark Kerswell £250,805 £243,500 3%
PENSION AND BENEFITS
The Committee intends that the implementation of its policy in relation to pension and 
benefits will be in line with the disclosed policy on page 62 of this report.
ANNUAL BONUS
The Committee will operate an annual bonus plan for Executive Directors during 2016 
in line with 2015.  The maximum bonus will remain at 100% of salary, with performance 
measured against revenue and PBTA (profit before tax and amortisation) targets.  Any 
annual bonus greater than 75% of basic salary will be awarded in Centaur Media Plc 
shares and deferred for three years.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES
It is intended that  LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors in March 2016 will be 
made under the Centaur Media Long Term Incentive Plan 2006 (‘2006 LTIP’), equal  
to 100% of salary and subject to EPS and TSR conditions as follows:
  50% of the 2016 LTIP award will be based on absolute earnings per share (‘EPS’) 
targets.  25% of this part of the award will vest for a threshold EPS of 6.5p increasing 
pro-rata to 100% vesting for a maximum EPS of 10.5p for the year ending 31 
December 2018.  The EPS target range for these awards has been set in line with the 
Company’s long-term plan and the Committee is satisfied that this represents an 
appropiate stretch on current forecasts.
  50% of the 2016 LTIP award will be based on relative total shareholder return (‘TSR’) 
measured against the constituents of the FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment 
trusts).  25% of this part of the award will vest for median TSR increasing pro-rata to 
100% vesting for upper quartile TSR over the three years ending 31 December 2018.  
In addition to the TSR performance condition, the Committee will need to be satisfied 
that the Company’s TSR performance reflects the underlying financial performance of 
the Company for this part of an award to vest.
Any awards granted after the 2016 AGM will, subject to shareholder approval, be  
granted under the 2016 LTIP (as explained in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and 
Notice of AGM). GOVERNANCE
70 71
EPS will be measured over the financial year ending 31 December 2017.  The TSR 
element will only vest if there has been sustained improvement in the Company’s 
underlying financial performance over the performance period.
Details of the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director’s awards in November 2013 
under the LTIP are detailed in the remuneration table on page 72.
Further, Andria Vidler purchased 2,430 shares during the period under the Share 
Incentive Plan.  The Company matched these shares on a 1 for 2 basis, resulting in 1,215 
matching shares being awarded in the period.
BOARD CHANGES AND PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE (AUDITED)
Patrick Taylor stepped down from the Board as Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
with effect from 13 May 2015.  No compensation for loss of office was paid.
No Executive Directors left office in the reporting period and accordingly no 
compensation for loss of office was paid.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
Consistent with a long-standing arrangement, Graham Sherren, former Chief Executive 
and Chairman, was paid £3,000 during the reporting period for advisory services 
performed. 
ANNUAL BONUS FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD (AUDITED)
The maximum annual bonus opportunity in the reporting period for Executive Directors 
was 100% of salary.  
The actual bonus paid to Andria Vidler in respect of the reporting period was £7,106.  
This represented 2% of the potential opportunity over the period from 1 January 2015 to 
31 December 2015.  Andria Vidler’s bonus was calculated based on actual performance 
in the 12 months to 31 December 2015, measured against budgeted annual revenue and 
PBTA targets. 
The actual bonus paid to Mark Kerswell in respect of the reporting period was £4,870.  
This represented 2% of the maximum opportunity over the period from 1 January 2015 to 
31 December 2015.  Mark Kerswell’s bonus was calculated based on actual performance 
in the 12 months to 31 December 2015, measured against budgeted annual revenue and 
PBTA targets. 
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD
On 26 March 2015 the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director received awards 
under the LTIP. These awards were in line with the policy table set out in the Policy 
Report and details of these awards are set out below.
Vesting will be 
determined by 
absolute earnings 
per share (‘EPS’) and 
total shareholder 
return (‘TSR’) over the 
performance period.
Executive Number of awards  Basis Face value of awards  Performance condition Performance period
Andria Vidler 493,129  100% of £355,300  1 January 2015  to 
  base salary   31 December 2017
Mark Kerswell 337,959  100% of £243,500  1 January 2015  to 
  base salary   31 December 2017
The LTIP awards were structured as nil-cost options and the quantum of shares 
awarded was calculated using a share price of 72.05p.  The performance conditions for 
these awards are set out below:
Performance condition % of award Targets % of award 
  subject to condition  which will vest
Absolute earnings per share (EPS)  50% EPS of 6.5p 25% 
  EPS of 10.5p or more 100% 
   
  Between 6.5p and 10.5p Straight line between 
   25% and 100%
Total shareholder return (TSR)  50% Median 25% 
against the constituents of  Upper quartile 100% 
the FTSE SmallCap (excluding  Between median Straight line between 
investment trusts) at 1 January 2015  and upper quartile 25% and 100% GOVERNANCE
72 73
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The graph below shows the total shareholder return (‘TSR’) of Centaur Media Plc 
compared to the performance of the FTSE SmallCap (excluding Investment Trusts) over 
the last five and a half years. This comparator has been chosen on the basis that it is the 
group against which the LTIP performance is assessed. 
Total Shareholder Return. Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream
300
250
200
150
100
50
1-Jul-09    30-Jun-10    30-Jun-11    30-Jun-12    30-Jun-13    31-Dec-14    31-Dec-15
VALUE
This graph shows the value, 
by 31 December 2015, of 
£100 invested in Centuar 
Media plc on 1 July 2009 
compared with the value of 
£100 invested in the FTSE 
SmallCap Index (excluding 
Investment Trusts).  The 
other points plotted 
represent intervening 
financial period ends. 
Centaur Media PLC
FTSE SmallCap 
(Excluding 
Investment Trusts)
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS (AUDITED) 
Share ownership plays a key role in the alignment of our executives with the interests 
of shareholders.  The Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a 
shareholding in the Company equal to 100% of salary.  Where an executive does not 
meet this guideline, they are required to retain at least 50% of the vested shares net of 
tax under the Company’s LTIP until the guideline is met. 
The tables below set out details of Executive Directors’ outstanding share awards (which 
will vest in future years subject to performance and continued service).  Under each 
scheme the exercise price is £nil.
 Executive Scheme At 31 Granted At 31 Date of Performance Exercise Share price 
   December during December award period period on date of 
   2014 period 2015    grant 
 Andria Vidler LTIP 618,182 - 618,182 08/11/13 01/07/13  13/03/17 £0.55
       31/12/16 12/09/17 
  LTIP - 493,129 493,129 26/03/15 01/01/15 26/03/18 £0.72
       31/12/17 25/09/18
   618,182 493,129 1,111,311    
 Mark Kerswell LTIP 436,364 - 436,364 08/11/13 01/07/13 13/03/17 £0.55
        31/12/16 12/09/17
  LTIP - 337,959 337,959 26/03/15 01/01/15 26/03/18  £0.72 
       31/12/17 25/09/18 
   436,364 337,959 774,323    
The table below sets out the number of shares held or potentially held by Directors 
(including their connected persons where relevant) as at 31 December 2015.
Director Interests in ordinary shares Shareholding Interests Total 
   guideline in share  
   achieved schemes
 31 December 31 December  LTIP 
 2014 2015
Executive     
Andria Vidler 91,849 138,574 No 1,111,311 1,249,885
Mark Kerswell 333,108 333,108 No 774,323  1,107,431
Non-Executive     
Ronald Sandler - - N/A - -
Christopher Satterthwaite 95,942 95,942 N/A - 95,942
Robert Boyle 80,000 117,037 N/A - 117,037
Rebecca Miskin - 14,800 N/A - 14,800 GOVERNANCE
74 75
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE ON THE SPEND ON PAY
The following table sets out the percentage change in distributions to shareholders 
and employee remuneration costs.  Given the previous reporting period was for the 18 
months ended 31 December 2014, the employee remuneration costs and dividend paid 
presented below are based on consistent 12 month period ended 31 December 2015 and 
2014.
 2015 2014 % Change
Employee remuneration costs £30.2m £26.2m 15%
Dividends paid £4.0m £3.6m 11%
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS
The Executive Directors did not hold any external directorships in the reporting period.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for monitoring, reviewing and making 
recommendations to the Board at least annually on the broad policy for the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and Company Secretary.  It also 
determines their individual remuneration packages, including pension arrangements, 
bonuses and all incentive schemes and the determination of targets for any 
performance-related pay schemes operated by the Group.  The Committee asks the 
Board, when appropriate, to seek shareholder approval for any long-term incentive 
arrangements, bonuses, incentive payments and any compensation payments and share 
option entitlements.  In addition the Committee monitors and recommends the level and 
structure of remuneration for senior management.
During the reporting period, the Committee consisted of the following Non-Executive 
Directors: Rebecca Miskin (Chair), Robert Boyle, Chris Satterthwaite and Ron Sandler 
(from 13 May 2015).  The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice each year and 
met three times during the reporting period.  Minutes of the Committee are circulated to 
the Board once they have been approved by the Committee.
EXTERNAL ADVISORS
The Remuneration Committee has access to independent advice where it considers it 
appropriate.  The Committee seeks advice relating to executive remuneration from New 
Bridge Street (‘NBS’), part of Aon Plc.  
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received by NBS in relation to executive 
remuneration matters during the reporting period under review was objective and 
independent.  NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by 
the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be 
objective and impartial.  The fees paid to NBS for providing advice in relation to executive 
remuneration over the reporting period were £20,188.
CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION
The table below sets out the Chief Executive single figure total remuneration over the 
past six and a half years.
Period Ending Chief Executive Total Annual bonus Long-term incentives  
  remuneration  (% of max) (% of max)
31 December 2015 Andria Vidler £415,707 2 N/A 
31 December 2014
15
  Andria Vidler £670,077 56 N/A 
 (from 14/11/13)
30 June 2013 Geoff Wilmot  £514,920
16
  0 0
30 June 2012 Geoff Wilmot £363,321 7 0
30 June 2011 Geoff Wilmot £568,673 58 0 
30 June 2010 Geoff Wilmot £450,180 45 0
PERCENTAGE INCREASE IN THE REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief 
Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to all employees 
of the Company.  Given the previous reporting period was for the 18 months ended 31 
December 2014, the information presented below is based on consistent 12 month 
periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014.
Element of remuneration  % Change
Salary Chief Executive  3%
 Employees  2%
Taxable benefits Chief Executive  26%
 Employees  19%
Annual bonus Chief Executive  -97%
 Employees  3%
15
 18 month period.
16
 Excludes £384,704 termination and contractual notice payment as detailed in 30 June 2013 Report and Accounts. GOVERNANCE
76 77
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration 
Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and parent company 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.  Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss 
of the Group for that period.  In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
  Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
  State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; 
  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Committee Report 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s 
website.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess a company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors 
summary on page 36, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
  The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group; and
  The Operational Review and Financial Review, contained in the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report contained in the Governance Report, include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
Grainne Brankin
Company Secretary 
16 March 2016
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING 
At last year’s AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Remuneration Report 
received the following votes from shareholders:
Resolution Number of votes for Number of votes against Number of votes cast Number of votes withheld  
 (and percentage of votes cast) (and percentage of votes cast)
Approval of Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy 107,719,907 (97.74%) 2,493,822 (2.26%) 110,213,729 29,838
Approval of   
Remuneration Report 104,411,342 (94.71%) 5,830,625 (5.29%) 110,241,967 1,600
APPROVAL
The Board of Directors has approved this Remuneration Report, including both the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Rebecca Miskin
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
16 March 2016 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
78 79
OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Overview 
  Overall Group materiality: £0.5 million which represents 5% 
of Adjusted profit before tax (as presented on the face of the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income).
  The Group has a centralised function in the UK which is 
responsible for the accounting and financial reporting of the 
whole Group and our audit was carried out there, covering all 
Group entities and the consolidation.
  Goodwill and intangible assets impairment assessment;
  Classification and measurement of adjusting items; and
  Recoverability of Trade receivables.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked at where the directors 
made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates 
that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override 
of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the 
directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including 
the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as “areas of focus” in the table 
below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in 
order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments 
we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a 
complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF  
CENTAUR MEDIA PLC
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OUR OPINION
In our opinion:
  Centaur Media Plc’s Group financial statements and Company financial statements 
(the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of 
the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Group’s loss and the Group’s 
and the Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European 
Union;
  the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements 
(the ‘Annual Report’), comprise:
  the Consolidated and Company Statements of Financial Position as at 31 December 
2015;
  the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
  the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended;
  the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then 
ended; and
  the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, 
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from 
the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
MATERIALITY
AUDIT SCOPE
AREA OF FOCUS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
80 81
We found that the key assumptions were reasonable and the discount rate was within 
our expected range. With regard to the above procedures, including the reflection 
of historical levels of variance from budget into the future forecasts, we determined 
that the inputs to the base case Value in Use model were appropriate.  This provided 
sufficient evidence for the impairment charge in the Professional segment. All other 
segments showed headroom above the carrying value of the net assets including 
Goodwill.
We evaluated the results and disclosure of the sensitivity analyses performed by 
management (as set out in Note 9).  As the carrying value of the Professional segment 
was impaired down to the Value in Use there was no further headroom, and any 
unfavourable change in assumptions used in the additional sensitivities showed 
further impairments to Goodwill.  We determined the results of these sensitivities are 
appropriately disclosed and the sensitivities present a fair reflection of reasonably 
possible changes to assumptions used in the Value in Use model. For the other 
segments, the sensitivities showed remaining headroom in all scenarios. 
From the above procedures, we found that the evidence supported the impairment 
charge recognised against Goodwill and Intangible assets in the Professional segment 
and that the other segments are not impaired.  Appropriate disclosure of management’s 
assumptions and sensitivity scenarios have been included in the financial statements.
AREA OF FOCUS - CLASSIFICATION AND MEASUREMENT OF ADJUSTING ITEMS
Refer to page 52 (Audit Committee Report), page 106 (Key accounting assumptions, 
estimates and judgements) and page 113 (Note 4).
Adjusting items are presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.  These include ‘exceptional items’ and a number of other 
adjusting items which recur. Together, these items are not regarded by management as 
relevant to the assessment of the quality of the Group’s underlying earnings. 
The Group’s accounting policy is to separate items of income and expenses as 
exceptional items where the nature of the item, or its size, is likely to be material and 
non-recurring in nature so as to provide a better understanding of the results of the 
operations of the Group.  
The exceptional items related mainly to the Goodwill impairment charge of £11.9 
million (see section above), redundancy costs of £0.6 million as part of the Group’s 
ongoing restructuring, a residual earn-out adjustment on settlement (£0.1 million) and 
accelerated amortisation charges due to early renegotiation of the Group’s financing 
facilities of £0.3 million. A non-recurring profit on disposal of the trade and assets of 
the Aidex Exhibition brand of £0.4 million is also classified as exceptional. Determining 
whether such items satisfy the Group’s policy for exceptional items requires a degree of 
management judgement and so we focused on the application of policy in this area and 
the appropriateness of disclosures.
Other adjusting items include amortisation charges on acquired intangible assets of £2.2 
million and the annual share based payments charge of £0.7 million. These items have 
been historically separated from underlying profit mainly due to their non-cash nature 
and this is consistent with the presentation used by a number of other industry peers. 
Therefore there was less judgement required by management this year in determining 
the treatment for these items.     
AREA OF FOCUS - GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT
Refer to page 51 (Audit Committee Report), page 106 (Key accounting assumptions, 
estimates and judgements) and page 120 (Note 9).
Determining if an impairment charge is required for Goodwill and Intangible assets 
involves significant judgements about the future results and cash flows of the business, 
including forecast growth in future revenues and operating profit margins, as well as 
determining an appropriate Weighted Average Cost of Capital (‘WACC’) discount factor 
and long term growth rate. Management used a Value in Use model to compute the 
present value of forecast future cash flows for each segment which was then compared 
to the carrying value of the net assets of each segment (including Goodwill and 
Intangible assets) to determine if there was an impairment.
Management aggregates cash generating units (‘CGUs’) into segments which represent 
the level at which the cash flows of the businesses (and Goodwill) are monitored and 
therefore this is the level at which management performs its impairment assessment. 
Market conditions remain challenging and performance has varied compared to 
expectations in certain parts of the business.  This has been particularly the case 
within the Professional segment where EBITDA performance was 28% below budget. 
Management’s impairment assessment showed a £11.9 million impairment of Goodwill 
in the Professional segment which has been recognised in the financial statements.
We therefore focused on this area and the judgements applied to the revised forecasts 
to ensure that they appropriately factored in historical variances and market conditions. 
We also focused on the amount of the impairment charge recognised and checked 
that appropriate sensitivity disclosures were provided in the financial statements to 
explain any additional impairment amounts which would arise from reasonably possible 
changes to the model’s key assumptions.
How our audit addressed the area of focus
We checked that the allocation of CGUs to segments was consistent with internal 
management reporting and the prior year.
We evaluated the directors’ future cash flow forecasts for each segment, and the 
process by which they were drawn up. Where historical variances to budget had been 
unfavourable, management applied a ‘reduction factor’ to the latest Board forecast 
to reflect the risk of forecasting inaccuracy and any stretch in the Board forecast. The 
resulting forecast after application of management’s reduction factor was used in the 
Value in Use model. 
We checked the approval of the Board’s forecast and checked that management’s 
additional reduction factor to this was reasonably aligned with the historical levels of 
budgeting inaccuracy.  
We considered:
– the directors’ key assumptions including revenue and EBITDA growth rates used in the 
cash flow forecasts by comparing them to historical results, and economic and industry 
forecasts; 
– the WACC discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the group and comparable 
organisations; and
– the long term growth rate by comparing management’s rate to forecast long term GDP 
growth in the UK and industry growth reports and then sensitising management’s Value 
in Use model for reductions in this rate. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
82 83
AREA OF FOCUS - RECOVERABILITY OF TRADE RECEIVABLES
Refer to page 52 (Audit Committee Report), page 106 (Key accounting assumptions, 
estimates and judgements) and page 125 (Note 14).
As set out in the Financial Review on page 33 and the Audit Committee Report on page 52, the 
launch of a new financial system in the second half of the year caused operational disruption 
and led to an extended period of weaker cash collections and ledger control. As a result of 
this the ageing of trade receivables increased, and at the year end a significant portion 
of older invoices remained uncollected. At 31 December 2015, trade receivables over 90 
days past due date was £5.0 million (2014: £0.5 million) and the associated provision for 
impairment of trade receivables was £0.9 million (2014: £0.2 million) and a further £1.4 million 
(2014: £0.3 million) was in the 61-90 day category with no provision (2014: £0.1 million). 
The determination of whether trade receivables are collectable involves management 
judgement. Accordingly, with regard to the amount of aged trade receivables at the year 
end, we considered whether management’s judgements were appropriate and reflected 
the latest available evidence. 
We also considered the application of management’s policy for providing against 
aged trade receivables and whether this had been consistently applied year on year.  
Management recognise provisions for impairment of trade receivables based on specific 
known facts or circumstances surrounding the invoice or customers’ abilities to pay.  For 
example, certain trade receivables may be being pursued through legal avenues and 
these are wholly provided against. An additional provision is then recognised based on 
the general history of write-offs. 
How our audit addressed the area of focus
We were able to confirm that the policy for providing against trade receivables had been 
implemented consistently year on year.
For the year end balance, we tested:
  The ageing of trade receivables and that this was accurately determined;
  The accuracy of management’s computations of general provisions reflecting history 
of bad debt write-offs.  This included checking that amounts excluded from this 
computation were appropriate, such as amounts invoiced in advance of exhibitions 
(where there is an associated liability held within deferred revenue);
  A sample of aged trade receivables where no provision was recognised to check 
management’s evidence for these being deemed collectable; and
  The levels of post year end cash received and allocated against aged trade receivables 
at the year end.
We discussed with management their view that operational disruptions following the 
implementation of the new financial system were a specific driver of the extended 
ageing of trade receivables at the year end.  We understood the measures management 
have taken since year end to address this issue, which included increasing the resource 
headcount within the credit control team who are focused on collecting cash.
Based on post year end cash collections, there still remained a portion of the trade 
receivables balance which was over 60 days overdue at year end and not provided, and 
not yet collected. At the end of February 2016 this amounted to £2.0 million (excluding 
VAT). We considered this residual exposure against the circumstances giving rise to the 
ageing, the ongoing actions taken and in place to collect the aged debt (and what has 
been achieved to date), together with the history of write-offs in the business.  As noted, 
determining an appropriate level of provision at the year end is a judgemental area.  
We concluded that, whilst there remains a residual exposure, the evidence obtained 
supports the level of provision at the year end of £0.9 million.  
How our audit addressed the area of focus
We considered whether the exceptional items recorded were non-recurring in nature 
and recognised and presented in accordance with the Group’s disclosed accounting 
policy.
Our work in relation to each type of exceptional item is summarised below. 
  Goodwill impairment charge – refer to our work described in the section above 
‘Goodwill and Intangible assets impairment assessment’. With regard to the quantum 
of this charge and the expectation that it is not a recurring item each year, we agreed 
it is appropriate to separate this item as exceptional.
  Redundancy costs – these include redundancy payments made to certain members of 
senior management as part of the Group’s restructuring of certain segment reporting 
lines and roles. We tested the accuracy and completeness of the costs incurred, 
including checking the actual payments made to those employees. We also checked 
that these positions were removed from the Group’s structure permanently, checking 
that these costs did not just relate to replacing specific individuals. 
  Residual earn-out charge – the costs of acquisition related earn-out provisions, 
including any subsequent adjustments to these estimates, have been treated as 
exceptional items historically.  This year’s charge relates to a final adjustment to the 
VBR earn-out provided on final settlement.  We agreed the final settlement amount to 
the agreement and concluded that classifying this item as exceptional is appropriate 
and consistent with prior years’ treatments of such items.   
  Finance facility renegotiation costs – we tested the accuracy of this accelerated 
amortisation charge. The amortisation charge has historically been recorded 
within underlying earnings and therefore we challenged management as to 
whether separating this cost as an exceptional item this year was appropriate. In 
management’s view the quantum of this cost was significantly higher this year due to 
it being accelerated following early renegotiation of financing facilities. A normal level 
of amortisation for the new facility fees is included within underlying earnings, and 
the incremental portion this year was therefore in management’s view non-recurring.  
We accepted this position and assessed the disclosures to check this was clearly 
explained in the financial statements.
  Aidex disposal - we checked the accuracy of the gain on disposal and agreed with the 
separation of the gain on disposal of Aidex as exceptional due to its non-recurring 
nature.
Redundancy costs had been incurred in both the current year and in prior years so we 
challenged management as to whether such costs were therefore non-recurring in 
nature. Management’s view was that the redundancy decisions in 2015 were particularly 
significant, as evidenced by the high cost per individual, and that they formed part of the 
restructuring that had occurred over recent years, the costs of which were exceptional.  
On this basis we accepted this treatment for the current year.  
In respect of other adjusting items, including the amortisation of acquired intangibles 
and the share based payments charge, we checked management’s computations of the 
costs.  
We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements provide 
sufficient detail to understand the nature of these items and found these are 
appropriate. From the evidence obtained, we concurred with management’s assessment 
to classify and disclose these items as exceptional or other adjusting items, in line with 
the disclosed accounting policy. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
84 85
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report 
sections of the Performance Report and Governance sections of the Annual Report for 
the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared, is consistent with the 
financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
  information in the Annual Report is:
      - materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
  -  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group   
and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 - otherwise misleading.
  the statement given by the directors on page 55, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and 
Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit. 
  the section of the Annual Report on page 51, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the 
work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit 
Committee. 
THE DIRECTORS’ ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE 
PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material 
to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
  the directors’ confirmation on page 13 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the 
Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
  the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed 
or mitigated. 
  the directors’ explanation on page 15 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, 
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why 
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 
over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 
qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they 
have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the 
directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review 
was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries 
and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the 
statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering 
whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course 
of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be 
able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the 
geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the 
industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group operates a centralised accounting function in the UK that is responsible for 
processing transactions for all entities within the Group, and for consolidated financial 
reporting.
The whole Group was audited by the UK audit team at the centralised accounting 
function which is based in London.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain 
quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, 
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our 
audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in 
evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements 
as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial 
statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £0.5 million (2014: £0.5 million).
How we determined it  5% of Adjusted profit before tax (as presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income).
Rationale for benchmark applied  We believe that Adjusted profit before tax provides us with a consistent period on period basis for 
determining materiality and eliminates the disproportionate effect of a small number of items on 
the benchmark, which was also used last year.    
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements 
identified during our audit above £24,500 (2014: £24,000) as well as misstatements below 
that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on 
page 43, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having performed our 
review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material 
to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement about whether they 
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. The going 
concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to 
remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year 
from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have 
concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, 
because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a 
guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
We have no exceptions to report.
 We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to.
 We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to.
 We have nothing material to add 
or to draw attention to.
We have no exceptions to report.
We have no exceptions to report. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
86 87
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
  whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
  the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
  the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures 
in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the 
extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. 
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. 
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Philip Stokes (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
16 March 2016
Other matters:
  The maintenance and integrity of the Centaur Media Plc website is the responsibility 
of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of 
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes 
that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented 
on the website.
  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND INFORMATION AND  
EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
  the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee 
Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Remuneration Committee Report - Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain 
disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no 
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 
77, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in 
writing. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88 89
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88 89
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY
 
       Reserve      
        for shares      
  Share Own Share to be Deferred Retained Total 
  capital shares premium issued shares earnings equity
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
               
Balance at 30 June 2013 15.0  (10.1) 0.7  3.9  0.1  72.0  81.6 
               
Profit for the period and               
other comprehensive income -  -  -  -  -  10.5  10.5 
Transactions with owners:              
Dividends (note 25) -  -  -  -  -  (5.8) (5.8)
Employee Benefit Trust -  (0.2) -  -  -  -  (0.2)
Shares options exercised -  0.2  -  -  -  -  0.2 
Fair value of employee services              
(note 24) -  -  -  0.5  -  -  0.5 
As at 31 December 2014 15.0  (10.1) 0.7  4.4  0.1  76.7  86.8 
               
Loss for the year and               
other comprehensive loss -  -  -  -  -  (6.9)  (6.9)
Transactions with owners:              
Dividends (note 25) -  -  -  -  -  (4.0) (4.0)
Fair value of employee services              
(note 24) -  -  -  0.5  -    0.5 
As at 31 December 2015 15.0  (10.1) 0.7  4.9  0.1  65.8  76.4
At 31 December 2015, 6,472,990 (2014: 6,535,973) 10p ordinary shares are held in treasury and 473,859  
(2014: 616,373) 10p ordinary shares are held in an employee benefit trust.     
The 800,000 deferred shares of 10p each carry restricted voting rights and carry no right to receive a  
dividend payment in respect of any financial year.       
The changes to the reserve for shares to be issued represent the total charges for the period relating to  
equity-settled share-based payment transactions with employees as accounted for under IFRS 2.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
     Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory
     Results Items Results Results Items Results
     Year ended Year ended Year ended 18 months 18 months  18 months 
     31 December  31 December  31 December  ended 30 June ended 30 June ended 30 June
     2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014
    Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
          
Revenue    2 70.5  - 70.5 105.6  -  105.6 
Net operating expenses  3 (60.0) (15.2) (75.2) (93.9) (10.6) (104.5)
Operating profit / (loss)   10.5  (15.2) (4.7) 11.7  (10.6) 1.1  
       
Profit on disposal of subsidiary 33  -  - - -  14.7  14.7 
Finance costs  5 (0.7) (0.2) (0.9) (1.6) (2.9) (4.5)
Profit / (loss) before tax    9.8  (15.4) (5.6) 10.1  1.2  11.3 
  
Taxation (expense) / credit  7 (1.9) 0.6 (1.3) (2.1) 1.3  (0.8)
Profit / (loss) for the period  
attributable to owners of the parent  7.9  (14.8) (6.9) 8.0  2.5  10.5 
Total comprehensive income / (loss)  
attributable to owners of the parent  7.9  (14.8) (6.9) 8.0  2.5  10.5 
 
Earnings per share attributable to  
owners of the parent  8       
Basic     5.5p   (4.8)p 5.6p    7.4p  
Fully diluted    5.3p   (4.8)p 5.5p    7.2p  
      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
90 91
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY
 
        Reserve       
  Share Own Share for shares  Deferred Retained  Total
  capital shares premium  to be issued shares earnings equity
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
               
Balance at 30 June 2013 15.0  (8.4) 0.7  3.9  0.1  109.1  120.4 
              
Total comprehensive               
loss for the period -  -  -  -  -  (2.5) (2.5)
Transactions with owners:              
Dividends (note 25) -  -  -  -  -  (5.8) (5.8)
Shares options exercised -  0.2  -  -  -  -  0.2 
Fair value of employee services (note 24) -  -  -  0.5  -  -  0.5 
               
As at 31 December 2014 15.0  (8.2) 0.7  4.4  0.1  100.8  112.8 
               
Total comprehensive               
loss for the year -  -  -  -  -  (2.0) (2.0)
Transactions with owners:              
Dividends (note 25) -  -  -  -  -  (4.0) (4.0)
Fair value of employee services (note 24) -  -  -  0.5  -  -  0.5 
               
As at 31 December 2015 15.0  (8.2) 0.7  4.9  0.1  94.8  107.3 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has 
not presented its own statement of comprehensive income in these financial statements.  The parent company’s loss 
for the year amounted to £2.0m (2014: loss of £2.5m). 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 
REGISTERED NUMBER 04948078
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
  Note £m £m
       
Non-current assets      
Goodwill 9        78.1         90.0 
Other intangible assets 10 18.3  19.9 
Property, plant and equipment 11 2.3  2.5 
Deferred income tax assets 22 0.6  0.8 
 
    99.3  113.2 
       
Current assets      
Inventories 13 2.0  1.8 
Trade and other receivables 14 25.0  15.7 
Cash and cash equivalents 15 3.1  3.4 
 
    30.1  20.9 
       
Total assets   129.4  134.1 
       
Current liabilities      
Trade and other payables 18 (12.4) (11.0)
Deferred income 19 (17.0) (15.3)
Current income tax liabilities 20 (0.9) (0.2)
Borrowings 16 (1.1)  0.1 
Provisions 21 - (1.1)
  
   (31.4) (27.5)
 
Net current liabilities   (1.3) (6.6)
       
Non-current liabilities      
Borrowings 16 (20.9) (18.1)
Deferred income tax liabilities 22 (0.7) (1.7)
 
    (21.6) (19.8)
 
Net assets   76.4  86.8 
       
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the parent      
Share capital 23 15.0  15.0 
Own shares   (10.1) (10.1)
Share premium   0.7  0.7 
Other reserves   5.0  4.5 
Retained earnings   65.8  76.7 
 
Total equity   76.4  86.8 
    
 
The financial statements on pages 88 to 140 were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 March 2015 and were 
signed on its behalf by:   
Mark Kerswell  
Group Finance Director FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
92 93
COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015
REGISTERED NUMBER 04948078
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
  Note £m £m
       
Non-current assets      
Investments 12 134.0  134.0 
  
   134.0  134.0 
       
Current assets      
Trade and other receivables 14 2.7  2.1 
Cash and cash equivalents 15 -  - 
 
    2.7  2.1 
       
Total assets   136.7  136.1 
       
Current liabilities      
Trade and other payables 18 (8.5) (5.3)
Borrowings 16 -  0.1 
 
    (8.5) (5.2)
 
Net current (liabilities) / assets   (5.8) (3.1)
       
Non-current liabilities      
Borrowings 16 (20.9) (18.1)
 
    (20.9) (18.1)
 
Net assets   107.3  112.8 
         
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the parent      
Share capital 23 15.0  15.0 
Own shares   (8.2) (8.2)
Share premium   0.7  0.7 
Other reserves   5.0 4.5 
Retained earnings   94.8  100.8 
 
Total equity   107.3  112.8 
The financial statements on pages 90 to 140 were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 March 2015 and were 
signed on its behalf by:   
Mark Kerswell   
Group Finance Director  
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
    Year ended 18 months ended
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
  Note £m £m
       
Cash flows from operating activities      
Cash generated from operations 26 6.1  17.5 
Tax paid   (1.4) (2.5)
 
Net cash generated from operating activities   4.7  15.0 
       
Cash flows from investing activities      
Other acquisitions - settlement of deferred consideration 21 (0.1) (19.6)
Disposal of subsidiary 33 -  23.2 
Disposal of trade and other assets 4 0.4 -
Other disposals - deferred consideration received   -  0.3 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11 (0.5) (1.7)
Purchase of intangible assets 10 (2.8) (4.8)
 
Net cash flows used in investing activities   (3.0) (2.6)
       
Cash flows from financing activities      
Purchase of own shares - employee benefit trust   - (0.2)
Exercise of share options settled through treasury shares   -  0.2 
Interest paid   (0.9) (1.5)
Repayment of obligations under finance lease   - (0.3)
Dividends paid 25 (4.0) (5.8)
Proceeds of borrowings 26 21.0 -
Repayment of borrowings 26 (18.1) (4.7)
 
Net cash flows used in financing activities   (2.0) (12.3)
       
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents   (0.3)  0.1 
       
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December / 1 July    3.4  3.3 
       
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  15 3.1  3.4  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
94 95
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015
   18 months 
  Year Ended  ended 
  31 December 31 December
   2015 2014
  Note £m £m
       
Cash flows from operating activities      
Cash generated from operating activities 26 2.0  10.2 
       
Cash flows from financing activities      
Interest paid  (0.9) -
Exercise of share options settled through treasury shares   -  0.2 
Dividends paid 25 (4.0) (5.8)
Proceeds of borrowings 26 21.0 -
Repayment of borrowings 26 (18.1) (4.7)
 
Net cash flows used in financing activities   (2.0) (10.3)
       
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents   - (0.1)
       
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December / 1 July    -  0.1 
       
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  15 -  - 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
This principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated and 
Company financial statements are set out below, to the extent they have not already 
been disclosed in the other notes below.  These policies have been consistently applied 
to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.  The financial statements are for 
the Group consisting of Centaur Media Plc and its subsidiaries.  Centaur Media Plc is a 
public company limited by shares and incorporated in England and Wales.
(A) BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by 
the European Union and IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRS IC’) and with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.  The 
financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. 
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The Directors 
have carefully assessed the Group’s ability to continue trading, and have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of these 
financial statements
Net debt at 31 December 2015 amounted to £17.9m (31 December 2014: £14.7m). In 
June 2015, the Group agreed a four year £25m multi-currency revolving credit facility 
with the Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds, which runs to 31 August 2019.  While cash 
conversion during 2015 was disappointing, the Directors consider this to be short term 
in nature, and working capital trends are expected to improve into 2016. The business 
model is expected to return to being highly cash-generative in the future. 
The Group has net current liabilities which arise from its normal high levels of 
deferred income relating to events in the future rather than an inability to service 
its liabilities. An assessment of cash flows for the next three financial years, which 
has taken into account the factors described above, has indicated an expected level 
of cash generation which would be sufficient to allow the Group to fully satisfy its 
working capital requirements, to cover all principal areas of expenditure, including 
maintenance, capital expenditure and taxation during this period, and to meet the 
financial covenants under the revolving credit facility.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities 
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on 
management’s best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, the actual results 
may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its own statement of comprehensive 
income in these financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
96 97
1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(A) BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(i) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
None of the new standards and amendments to standards that are mandatory for 
the first time for the financial year commencing 1 January 2015 affected any of the 
amounts recognised in the current period or any prior period, and is not likely to affect 
future periods.  
(ii) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The following new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that 
are not mandatory for 31 December 2015 reporting periods and have not been early 
adopted by the Group: 
•  IFRS 9: Financial Instruments is a new standard which enhances the ability of 
investors and other users of financial information to understand the accounting for 
financial assets and reduces complexity.  The standard uses a single approach to 
determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value, 
replacing the various rules in IAS 39.  This standard is effective for accounting 
periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018. 
•  IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers is a new standard based on 
a five-step model framework, which replaces all existing revenue recognition 
standards.  The standard requires revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods 
or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the 
entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.  This standard 
is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
•  IFRS 16: Leases – is a new standard which sets out the principles for the 
recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties 
to a contract.  The standard eliminates the classification of leases as either 
operating leases or finance leases as required by IAS 17 and, instead, introduces a 
single lessee accounting model.  A lessee will be required to recognise assets and 
liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months and depreciate lease 
assets separately from interest on lease liabilities in the income statement.  This 
standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 
2019.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in 
future periods may have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
There are no other standards that are not yet effective and that would be expected to 
have a material impact on the entity in the current or future reporting periods and on 
foreseeable future transactions. 
(B) PRESENTATION OF NON-STATUTORY MEASURES
The Directors believe that adjusted results and adjusted earnings per share provide 
additional useful information on the on-going operations of the Group to shareholders.  
The term ‘adjusted’ is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be 
comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.  It 
is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
The principal adjustments are made in respect of:
•  Exceptional costs - the Group considers items of income and expenses as 
exceptional items and excludes them from the adjusted results where the nature 
of the item, or its size, is likely to be material and non-recurring in nature so as to 
assist the user of the financial statements to better understand the results of the 
operations of the Group.  Details of exceptional items are shown in note 4.
•  Amortisation of acquired intangibles – the Group amortises all intangible assets. 
The amortisation charge for those intangible assets recognised on the acquisition 
of a subsidiary is excluded from the adjusted results of the Group so as to assist the 
user of the financial statements to better understand the results of the underlying 
trading of the Group. The amortisation of intangible software assets acquired other 
than through the acquisition of a subsidiary is included in the adjusted results. 
Details of amortisation of intangibles are shown in note 10.
•  Share-based payments – share-based payment expenses are excluded from the 
adjusted results of the Group, so as to assist the user of the financial statements to 
better understand the results of the underlying trading of the Group. 
•  Profit on disposal of subsidiaries or other lines of business - the profit on disposal 
of subsidiary in the 18 months ended 31 December 2014 related to Perfect 
Information Limited.  Economic control was transferred on 31 May 2014.  On 6 
February 2015, the Group sold the trade and assets of the Aidex Exhibition brand 
sitting within the Professional segment for total consideration of £0.4m generating 
a profit on disposal of £0.4m.
•  Exceptional finance costs – exceptional finance costs in 2015 relate to the Group’s 
refinancing in June 2015. In the prior period the Group discounted provisions to 
the net present value where the effects of such discounting were material. The 
discounting on provisions relating to deferred contingent considerations deriving 
from acquisitions is excluded from adjusted results of the Group so as to assist the 
user of the financial statements to better understand the results of the operations 
of the Group. Details of the exceptional finance costs are shown in note 4.
•  Impairment – any charge resulting from the impairment of goodwill is excluded 
from the adjusted results of the Group in order to assist the user of the financial 
statements to better understand the results of the underlying trading of the Group.
The tax related to adjusting items is the tax effect of the items above that are allowable 
deductions for tax purposes, calculated using the standard rate of corporation tax. 
Further details of adjusting items are included in note 4. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
98 99
1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(B) PRESENTATION OF NON-STATUTORY MEASURES (CONTINUED) 
Adjusting operating profit reconciles to (loss) / profit before tax as follows:
      Year ended 18 months ended
   31 December 31 December
      2015 2014
    Note £m £m
Adjusted operating profit      10.5  11.7 
Finance costs   5 (0.7) (1.6)
         
Adjusted profit before tax     9.8  10.1 
Adjusting items Exceptional operating costs  
   (excluding impairment and profit on disposal) 4 (0.8) (6.7)
 Exceptional impairment of goodwill 9 (11.9) -
 Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiary  33 -  14.7 
 Exceptional profit on disposal of trade and assets  4 0.4 -
 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4 (2.2) (3.4)
 Share-based payments 24 (0.7) (0.5)
 Exceptional finance costs 4 (0.2) (2.9)
         
 
(Loss) / profit before tax     (5.6)  11.3 
(C) PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Centaur 
Media Plc and all of its subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany transactions. 
(i)  Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity 
when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement 
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct 
the activities of the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control 
ceases. 
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between 
Group companies are eliminated. The accounting policies of subsidiaries are 
consistent with the policies adopted by the Group. 
Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of subsidiaries are shown 
separately in the consolidated statement of profit or loss, statement of comprehensive 
income, statement of changes in equity and balance sheet respectively. 
(ii)  Business Combinations
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for all business combinations. 
The consideration transferred for acquisition of a subsidiary is measured at the 
aggregate of fair values of assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed to the 
former owners of the acquired business and equity interests issued by the Group 
in exchange for control of the subsidiary.  Acquisition-related costs incurred are 
expensed as incurred and included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income.
Any deferred consideration to be transferred by the acquirer is recognised at fair value. 
If the conditions attached to the consideration indicate that the payment forms part of 
the acquisition, a provision is made for the future liability at the acquisition date. Where 
the deferred consideration is contingent on the continued employment of the vendors, 
such arrangements are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income on a straight line basis over the life of the earn-out. Subsequent changes to 
the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in accordance with IAS 39 
through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, amount of any non-controlling 
interest in the acquired entity, and acquisition date fair value of any previous equity 
interest in the acquired entity over the fair value of the assets acquired is recorded as 
goodwill. 
(D) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
(i) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured 
using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates 
(‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
Great British Pounds, which is the Group and Company’s functional and presentation 
currency. 
(ii)  Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using 
the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and 
losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation 
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at year end 
exchange rates are recognised in profit or loss. 
(iii) Group Companies
The results and financial position of the Group entities that have a functional currency 
different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency 
as follows:
•  assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing 
rate at the date of that balance sheet;
•  income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average 
exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the 
cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case 
income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions); 
and
• all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net 
investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings, are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that 
were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or 
loss on sale. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are 
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
100 101
1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 
(E) REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable 
and represents amounts recoverable by the Group for the sales of advertising space, 
subscriptions and individual publications and revenue from events provided in the 
normal course of business, net of discounts and value added tax.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, 
it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and specific criteria 
have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below.
Sales of advertising space are recognised in the period in which publication occurs. 
Sales of publications are recognised in the period in which the sale is made. Sales of 
online advertising are recognised in the period in which the advertisements are placed.  
Revenue received in advance for events is deferred and recognised in the period in 
which the event takes place.
Revenue from subscriptions to publications and digital services is deferred and 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the subscription period. 
(F) INVESTMENTS
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost 
less provision for impairment in value. 
(G) INCOME TAX
The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on the taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from 
profit as reported in the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes 
items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years, and it further 
includes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group and Company’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences 
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences 
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses. Such assets 
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill 
or the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the statement of comprehensive income, except 
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the 
deferred tax is recognised in other comprehensive income. 
(H) LEASES
Agreements under which payments are made to owners in return for the right to use 
an asset for a period are accounted for as leases. Leases that transfer substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership are recognised at the commencement of 
the lease term as finance leases within property, plant and equipment and debt at the 
fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments. Finance lease payments are apportioned between interest expense and 
repayments of debt. All other leases are classified as operating leases and the cost is 
recognised in income on a straight-line basis.
(I) IMPAIRMENT OF ASSET
Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for impairment 
whenever events indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An 
impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher 
of the asset’s fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. An asset’s value in use 
is calculated by discounting an estimate of future cash flows by the Group’s pre-tax 
weighted average cost of capital.
(J) INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated 
using the first in, first out method. Work in progress comprises costs incurred relating 
to publications, exhibitions and conferences prior to the publication date or the date of 
the event. 
(K) PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. The historical cost of property, plant and 
equipment is the purchase cost together with any incidental direct costs of acquisition. 
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets, 
on a straight line-basis over the expected useful economic lives to the Group over the 
following periods:
Leasehold improvements - 10 years or the expected length of the lease if shorter
Fixtures and fittings - 10 years
Computer equipment - 3 - 5 years
Residual values, where applicable, are reviewed annually against prevailing market 
rates at the balance sheet date for equivalent aged assets and depreciation rates 
adjusted accordingly on a prospective basis.  An asset’s carrying amount is written 
down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater 
than its estimated recoverable amount.  Each year, a review of the estimated useful 
economic life of each asset is carried out to ensure depreciation rates are adequate. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
102 103
1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 
(L) INTANGIBLE ASSETS
(i) Goodwill
Where the cost of a business acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the 
separable net assets acquired, the resulting goodwill is capitalised and allocated to 
the cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from 
the synergies of the business combination. Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and 
is tested for impairment annually on a Group level or whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Each brand is deemed to be a CGU.  Goodwill is attributed to groups of CGUs but is 
reviewed at the segment level for the purposes of the Group’s annual impairment 
review as this is the level that management monitors goodwill.  Goodwill and acquired 
intangible assets are tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.  In assessing 
whether a write-down of goodwill and acquired intangible assets is required, the 
carrying value of the segment is compared with its recoverable amount.  Recoverable 
amount is measured based on value-in-use.  Any impairment is recognised in 
the statement of comprehensive income and is classified as an exceptional item. 
Impairment of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
On the disposal of a CGU, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the 
determination of the profit and loss on disposal.
(ii) Brands and publishing rights, customer relationships and non-compete 
arrangements
Separately acquired brands and publishing rights are shown at historical cost.  Brands 
and publishing rights, customer relationships and non-compete arrangements 
acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.  
They have a finite useful life and are subsequently carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. 
(iii) Software 
Computer software that is not integral to the operation of the related hardware is 
carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.  Costs associated with the development 
of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group that will generate 
probable future economic benefits in excess of costs are recognised as intangible 
assets when the criteria of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ are met. They are carried at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
(iv) Amortisation methods and periods
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost or fair value of assets on a straight-line 
basis over the expected useful economic lives to the Group over the following periods:
Computer software - 3 - 5 years
Brands and publishing rights - 20 years
Customer relationships - 10 years or the length of the contract if shorter
Websites and content  - 3 - 5 years
Non-compete arrangements - Over the term of the arrangement
(M) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
(i)  Post-employment obligations
The Group and Company contribute to a defined contribution pension scheme for the 
benefit of employees. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the 
Group in an independently administered fund. Contributions to defined contribution 
schemes are charged to the statement of comprehensive income when employer 
contributions become payable.
(ii)  Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans for 
its employees. The fair value of the share-based compensation expense is estimated 
using a Monte Carlo option pricing model and is recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the 
awards granted:
•  including any market performance conditions;
•  excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting 
conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an 
employee of the entity over a specified time period); and
•  including the impact of any non-vesting conditions (for example, the requirement 
for employees to save).
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which 
all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each reporting 
period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to 
vest based on the non-market vesting and service conditions. It recognises the impact 
of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the statement of comprehensive income, 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The Company issues new shares or transfers shares from treasury to settle share-
based compensation awards. 
The award by the Company of share-based compensation awards over its equity 
instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated  
as a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured  
by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as  
an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit  
to equity. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
104 105
1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 
(N) PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or 
constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable that an outflow of resources will 
be required to settle the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for deferred contingent consideration are based on the Directors’ best 
estimate of the future liability.  Where the deferred consideration is contingent on 
the continued employment of the vendors, such arrangements are recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight line basis over the 
period of the arrangement.
(O) SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM
Ordinary and deferred shares are classified as equity. The excess of consideration 
received in respect of shares issued over the nominal value of those shares is 
recognised in the share premium account.
The Company also holds a non-distributable reserve representing the fair value of 
unvested share-based compensations plans.
(P) DIVIDENDS
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are paid or approved 
by the shareholders in the annual general meeting.
(Q) SEGMENTAL REPORTING
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting 
provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The Executive Committee has been 
identified as the chief operating decision-maker, responsible for allocating resources 
and assessing performance of the operating segments. The Group operates in four 
market-facing divisions: Marketing, Financial Services, Professional, and Home 
Interest. 
(R) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group has applied IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, and IAS 39, 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, as outlined below:
(i) Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories where relevant: 
at fair value through profit or loss; loans and receivables; and available-for-sale. The 
classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.  
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
All of the Group’s financial assets have been classified as loans and receivables.  
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable 
payments that are not quoted in an active market.  They are included in current assets, 
except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are 
classified as non-current assets.  The Group’s loans and receivables comprise trade 
and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.  Loans and 
receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
(ii) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to 
the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, 
probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default 
or delinquency in payments (more than 90 days overdue) are considered indicators that 
the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, 
discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset 
is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is 
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income within net operating expenses. 
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account 
for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are 
credited against net operating expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand 
or maturing within three months of the balance sheet date
(iv)  Financial liabilities
Debt and trade payables are recognised initially at fair value based on amounts 
exchanged, net of transaction costs, and subsequently at amortised cost. 
Interest expense on debt is accounted for using the effective interest method and, is 
recognised in income.
(v) Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
(vi)  Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and carried 
subsequently at amortised cost.  Costs of borrowings are recognised in the statement 
of comprehensive income as incurred or, where appropriate, across the term of the 
related borrowing.
(vii) Derivative financial instruments
The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments either for trading 
purposes or designated as hedges. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
106 107
1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 
(S) KEY ACCOUNTING ASSUMPTIONS, ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the use of certain key 
accounting assumptions and requires management to exercise its judgement and to 
make estimates.  The areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated financial statements are as follows:
i) Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets
In assessing whether goodwill and other intangible fixed assets are impaired, the 
Group uses a discounted cash flow model which includes forecast cash flows and 
estimates of future growth.  If the results of operations in future periods are lower than 
included in the cash flow model, impairments may be triggered.  Further details of the 
assumptions and sensitivities in the discounted cash flow model are included in note 9.
Intangible assets arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries are identified based on the 
Group’s understanding of the acquired subsidiary and previous experience of similar 
businesses.  Consistent methods of valuation for similar types of intangible asset 
are applied where possible and appropriate, using information reviewed at Board 
level where available.  Discount rates applied in calculating the values of intangible 
assets arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries are calculated specifically for each 
acquisition, and adjusted to reflect the respective risk profile of each individual asset 
based on the Group’s past experience of similar assets.
ii) Recoverability of trade receivables
The recoverability of trade receivables requires judgement.  The Group uses all 
available evidence to determine the appropriate level of provision to record for 
impairment of trade receivables, including known disputes, historical trends in write-
offs, collections post year end and the ageing of the receivables balance.  Further 
details about trade receivables are included in note 14. 
iii) Adjusting items
The term ‘adjusted’ is not a defined term under IFRS.  Judgement is required to 
ensure that the classification and presentation of certain items as adjusting, including 
exceptional items,  is appropriate and consistent with the Group’s accounting policy.  
Further details about the amounts classified as adjusting are included in note 4.
2 SEGMENTAL REPORTING
The Executive Committee has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker, 
reviewing the Group’s internal reporting on a monthly basis in order to assess 
performance and allocate resources. 
The Group is organised around four market-facing segments: Marketing, Financial 
Services, Home Interest and Professional. Corporate costs are allocated to these 
segments on an appropriate basis depending on the nature of the cost.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets 
including goodwill, inventories and trade receivables. Segment liabilities comprise 
trade payables, accruals and deferred income.  
Corporate assets and liabilities comprise current and deferred tax balances, cash and 
cash equivalents and borrowings.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment, intangible 
assets and includes additions resulting from acquisitions through business 
combinations. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
108 109
2 SEGMENTAL REPORTING (CONTINUED)
   Marketing Financial Services Home Interest Professional Group
  £m £m £m £m £m
Year ended 31 December 2015          
           
Revenue 27.0 12.0 11.8 19.7 70.5 
           
Adjusted operating profit                4.1              2.1            2.1                  2.2  10.5 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1.5) (0.3) (0.3) (0.1) (2.2)
Impairment of goodwill - - - (11.9) (11.9)
Exceptional costs (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) (0.8)
 
Segment result 2.5 1.6 1.6 (10.1)           (4.4) 
Profit on disposal of trade and assets              0.4
Share-based payments           (0.7)
 
Operating loss         (4.7) 
Finance costs         (0.9)
 
Loss before tax         (5.6) 
Taxation         (1.3)
 
Loss for the year from continuing operations         (6.9) 
           
           
Segment assets 57.1 17.9 15.2 30.6 120.8
Corporate assets         8.6 
 
Consolidated total assets         129.4 
           
 
Segment liabilities (17.5) (3.3) (1.6) (4.3) (26.7)
Corporate liabilities         (26.3)
 
Consolidated total liabilities         (53.0)
           
Other items          
Capital expenditure (tangibles and intangibles) 1.4 0.5  0.6  0.9 3.4
   Marketing Financial Services Home Interest Professional Group
  £m £m £m £m £m
18 months ended 31 December 2014          
           
Revenue 37.6 17.6 15.8 34.6 105.6
 
Adjusted operating profit              4.0              2.6            1.9                3.2  11.7 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (2.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.3) (3.4)
Exceptional costs (2.5) (3.3) (0.2) (0.7) (6.7)
 
Segment result (1.1) (1.0) 1.5 2.2  1.6 
Share-based payments           (0.5)
 
Operating profit         1.1 
Profit on disposal of subsidiary         14.7 
Finance costs         (4.5)
 
Profit before tax         11.3 
Taxation         (0.8)
 
Profit for the period from continuing operations         10.5 
          
Segment assets 56.9 17.4 13.2 42.5 130.0 
Corporate assets         4.1 
 
Consolidated total assets         134.1 
           
Segment liabilities (12.5) (1.7) (3.7) (9.6) (27.5)
Corporate liabilities         (19.8)
 
Consolidated total liabilities         (47.3)
 
           
Other items          
Capital expenditure (tangibles and intangibles) 3.2 0.7  0.6  2.0  6.5  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
110 111
2 SEGMENTAL REPORTING (CONTINUED)
Revenue by Geographical Location
 
The Group’s revenues from external customers by geographical location are detailed below.
  Year ended 18 months ended
  31 December 31 December
  2015 2014
  £m £m
     
United Kingdom 64.1 90.7
Europe (excluding United Kingdom) 2.4 4.1
North America 2.5 7.7
Rest of world 1.5 3.1
     
  70.5 105.6
Substantially all of the Group’s net assets are located in the United Kingdom.  The Directors therefore consider that 
the Group currently operates in a single geographical segment, being the United Kingdom. 
The Group’s revenue by type is as follows:
  Year ended 18 months ended
  31 December 31 December
  2015 2014
  £m £m
Sale of goods:    
Paid-for content 19.9  31.2 
Live events 27.2  39.3 
Advertising 22.5  33.7 
Other 0.9  1.4 
     
  70.5 105.6
 
3 NET OPERATING EXPENSES
 Operating profit / (loss) is stated after charging / (crediting):
      Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory
      Results Items Results Results Items Results
      Year ended Year ended Year ended 18 months 18 months 18 months
      31  31  31  ended 31  ended 31  ended 31 
      December December December December December December
      2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014
    Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
                 
Net foreign exchange gains    - -  - (0.1) - (0.1)
Employee benefits expense  6 30.2  -  30.2  40.5 -  40.5
Depreciation of property, plant and            
equipment  11 0.9  -  0.9  1.2  -  1.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets 10 2.1  2.2  4.3  3.3 3.4  6.7 
Exceptional impairment of goodwill 9 -  11.9  11.9  - -  - 
Other exceptional operating costs 4 -  0.8 0.8 - 6.7  6.7 
Operating lease rentals    1.8  -  1.8  3.2 -  3.2 
Repairs and maintenance expenditure    -  -  -  0.1 -  0.1 
Trade receivables impairment 14  0.2  -  0.2  0.8 - 0.8
Share-based payment expense 24 -  0.7  0.7  - 0.5 0.5 
Exceptional profit on disposal of trade 4 - (0.4) (0.4) - - -
and assets 
Other operating expenses*   24.8  -  24.8  44.9 - 44.9
                 
      60.0  15.2 75.2  93.9  10.6  104.5 
                 
Cost of sales    33.2  -  33.2  56.3  -  56.3 
Distribution costs    1.3  -  1.3  2.6  -  2.6 
Administrative expenses    25.5  15.2  40.7  35.0  10.6  45.6 
                 
      60.0  15.2  75.2  93.9  10.6  104.5 
 
* Within the other operating expenses category, rental income for the sub-lease of properties under leases totalled £0.6m (2014: £0.6m).   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
112 113
3 NET OPERATING EXPENSES (CONTINUED)
Services provided by the Company’s auditor
   18 months 
  Year ended  ended 
  31 December 31 December
   2015 2014
     £’000 £’000
       
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of parent     
company and consolidated financial statements 139  126 
       
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:  
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 30  40 
 
Total audit fees 169  166 
       
  Audit related assurance services 28  54 
  Taxation compliance services 131  78 
  Other taxation advisory services 104  138 
  Other assurance services  10  51 
  Corporate finance services -  153 
 
Total non-audit fees 273  474 
       
    442  640 
The corporate finance fees in 2014 related to the provision of reporting accountant services in the shareholder 
circular prepared for the disposal of Perfect Information Limited.
4 ADJUSTING ITEMS
As discussed in note 1, certain items are presented as adjusting. These are detailed below. 
   18 months 
  Year ended  ended 
  31 December 31 December
   2015 2014
     £m £m
Restructuring costs    
 Redundancies  0.6  0.9 
 Post closure costs  -  0.3 
 
   0.6  1.2 
Acquisition-related costs  -  0.2 
Deferred contingent consideration  0.1  5.0 
Other  0.1  0.3 
 
Exceptional operating costs (excluding impairment and profit on disposal)  0.8  6.7 
  
Exceptional impairment of goodwill  11.9  - 
Exceptional profit on disposal of trade and assets  (0.4) - 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles  2.2  3.4 
Share-based payments  0.7  0.5 
 
Adjusting items to operating profit  15.2 10.6
Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiary  - (14.7) 
Exceptional finance costs  0.2  2.9 
 
Adjusting items to profit before tax  15.4 (1.2)
Tax relating to adjusting items  (0.6) (1.3)
     
Total adjusting items after tax  14.8 (2.5) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
114 115
4 ADJUSTING ITEMS (CONTINUED) 
EXCEPTIONAL COSTS
Restructuring costs 
In 2015 these comprise redundancy costs of £0.6m as a result of further specific  
restructuring activities. In 2014, costs comprised of redundancy costs of £0.9m and 
product closure costs. 
Goodwill impairment
Impairment of goodwill relates to the write down during the year of goodwill in the 
Professional segment (note 9).
Acquisition-related costs
In 2014 acquisition-related costs related to legal and professional fees.
Deferred contingent consideration
The charge in the period relates to an increase in the deferred contingent 
consideration associated with the acquisition of Venture Business Research Limited 
(‘VB Research’). 
The costs in the prior period related to contingent consideration associated with 
the acquisition of Investment Platforms Limited (‘IPL ’) (£2.7m) and VB Research 
(£0.3m) in 2012. An additional £2.0m was charged in relation to the Econsultancy.com 
Limited (‘Econsultancy’) as part of its early settlement in June 2014. The deferred 
considerations for IPL and Econsultancy were settled in 2014. 
Profit on disposal of trade and assets
On 6 February 2015, the Group sold the trade and assets of the Aidex Exhibition brand 
sitting within the Professional segment for total consideration of £0.4m.  Profit on 
disposal was £0.4m.
Exceptional finance costs
Current period costs of £0.2m relate to unamortised facility costs £0.1m and legal fees 
of £0.1m associated with refinancing of the Group’s revolving credit facility. 
The prior period cost related to the accelerated unwinding of the discounting on the 
Econsultancy deferred contingent consideration provision.
Other exceptional costs
In the prior period, costs included a credit in relation to the unwinding of the discount 
of the deferred consideration receivable on disposed trading assets of £0.1m, offset by 
costs incurred in relation to assignment of a lease for £0.1m, and other items.
OTHER ADJUSTING ITEMS
Other adjusting items relate to the amortisation of acquired intangibles and share-
based payment costs.  Further details are presented in note 1.
5 FINANCE COSTS
       Year 18 months
       ended 31  ended 31
      December December
      2015 2014
      £m £m
         
Interest payable on revolving credit facility     0.5  1.2 
Commitment fees and amortisation of arrangement fee 
in respect of revolving credit facility     0.2  0.4 
 
Total interest expense     0.7  1.6 
Exceptional finance costs    0.2  2.9 
         
      0.9  4.5 
Exceptional finance costs in 2015 relate to unamortised facility costs (£0.1m) and legal fees (£0.1m) associated 
with the refinancing of the Group’s revolving credit facility.  In 2014, the exceptional finance costs related to the 
accelerated unwinding of the discount on the Econsultancy deferred contingent consideration provision.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
116 117
6 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES
 
  Year ended 18 months Year ended 18 months
  31 ended 31 31  ended 31  
  December December December December 
  2015 2014 2015 2014
   Group Group Company Company
    £m £m £m £m
           
Wages and salaries  25.6  34.5  1.2  1.7 
Social security costs  3.0  4.4  0.2  0.2 
Other pension costs   0.9  1.1  -  - 
Equity-settled share-based payments (note 24)  0.7  0.5  0.7  0.3 
 
    30.2  40.5  2.1  2.2 
Exceptional redundancy costs (note 4)  0.6  0.9  -  - 
           
    30.8  41.4  2.1  2.2 
 
The average monthly number of employees employed during the period, including Directors, was:
       Year 18 months
       ended 31  ended 31
      December December
      2015 2014
      Group Group
   Number Number
Marketing   146  171 
Financial Services   42  55 
Home Interest   59  62 
Professional   78  112 
Central    239  184 
       
     564  584 
Key management compensation
    Year ended 18 months ended
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
    £m £m
       
Salaries and short term employment benefits  1.9 3.4
Termination benefits  0.3  - 
Post-employment benefits  0.1  0.2 
Share-based payments  0.4  0.4 
       
    2.7  4.0 
Key management is defined as the Executive Directors and Executive Committee members.
 Aggregate Directors’ remuneration
    Year ended 18 months ended
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
    £m £m
       
Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind  1.0  1.7 
Gains on exercises of share options  -  0.1 
Amounts receivable under long term incentive schemes  0.2  0.3 
Money purchase pension contributions  0.1  0.1 
       
    1.3  2.2 
Further details of Directors’ remuneration are included in the Remuneration Committee Report starting on page 58.  
Details of the emoluments of the highest paid Director are shown on page 69 of the Remuneration Committee 
Report.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
118 119
7 TAXATION  
  Year ended 18 months ended 31
    31 December December
    2015 2014
    £m £m
Analysis of charge for the period    
       
Current tax    
  UK Corporation Tax 1.5  1.5 
 Overseas tax 0.5 0.2
  Adjustments in respect of prior period 0.1 (0.2)
 
    2.1  1.5 
       
Deferred tax (note 22)    
  Current period (0.8) (0.5)
  Adjustments in respect of prior period - (0.2)
 
    (0.8) (0.7)
       
Taxation 1.3  0.8
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the (loss) / profit in the statement of comprehensive income as 
follows:
      Year ended 18 months ended
      31 December 31 December
      2015 2014
      £m £m
         
(Loss) / profit before tax   (5.6)  11.3 
         
Tax at the UK rate of corporation tax of 20.25% (2014: 22%)  (1.1)  2.5 
 
Effects of:      
         
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes   0.1  1.9 
Goodwill impairment not deductible  2.4 -
Income not subject to tax   - (3.2)
Effects of changes in tax rate on deferred tax balances   (0.1) (0.2)
Reversal of timing differences  (0.6) -
Adjustments in respect of prior period   0.1 (0.4)
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries in other jurisdictions  0.5  0.2
 
      1.3  0.8 
The Finance Act 2013 included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 21% to 20% from 1 April 
2015.  Accordingly the Company’s results for this accounting period will be taxed at a blended rate of 20.25%.  
This change had been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and the Group’s deferred tax balances are 
therefore recorded at 20%.  Further changes to the UK corporation tax rates were announced in the Chancellor’s 
Budget on 8 July 2015.  These include reductions to the main rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 
2020.  As these changes had been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date their effects are included in these 
financial statements in measuring deferred tax balances.
8 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. 473,859 (2014: 616,373) shares held in the employee 
benefit trust and 6,472,990 (2014: 6,535,973) shares held in treasury have been excluded in arriving at the weighted 
average number of shares.
For diluted earnings per share the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume 
conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.  This comprises share options and awards (including those 
granted under the Sharesave plan) granted to Directors and employees where the exercise price is less than the 
average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share have also been presented on an adjusted basis, as the Directors believe that 
this measure is more reflective of the underlying performance of the Group.
    Year     
    ended 31  Year    18 months 18 months   
    December ended 31  ended 31 ended 31 
    2015 December Year December December 18 months
  Earnings 2015 ended 31 2014 2014 ended 31 
  attributable Weighted December Earnings Weighted December
   to owners  average 2015  attributable average 2014 
  of the number of Earnings to owners of number of Earnings 
  parent shares per share the parent shares per share
  £m millions Pence £m millions Pence
               
Basic   (6.9)  143.2  (4.8) 10.5  142.5  7.4 
               
Effect of dilutive securities         
Options*    -  - - -  2.8  (0.2)
               
Diluted   (6.9)  143.2 (4.8) 10.5  145.3  7.2 
               
 
Adjusted             
 
Basic  (6.9)  143.2 (4.8) 10.5  142.5  7.4 
 
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (excluding software) (note 10) 2.2    1.5 3.4    2.4 
Exceptional finance costs  0.2   0.1 2.9    2.0 
Exceptional operating costs (note 4) 0.8    0.6 6.7    4.7 
Share-based payments  0.7    0.5 0.5    0.3 
Impairment of goodwill  11.9  8.3 -  -
Profit on disposal of trade and assets (0.4)  (0.3) -  -
Profit on disposal of subsidiary -   - (14.7)   (10.3)
Tax effect of above adjustments (0.6)   (0.4) (1.3)   (0.9)
               
Adjusted basic  7.9  143.2  5.5 8.0  142.5  5.6 
              
Effect of dilutive securities          
 
Options  -  4.5  (0.2) -  2.8  (0.1)
               
Adjusted diluted  7.9  147.7  5.3 8.0  145.3  5.5 
 
*Due to the reported loss during 2015, the effect of share options and awards is not dilutive FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
120 121
9 GOODWILL
           Group
           Total
       £m
Cost          
At 1 July 2013         164.0
Disposal of subsidiary (note 33)        (8.9)
 
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015         155.1 
          
   
Accumulated impairment          
At 1 July 2013 and 31 December 2014         65.1 
Charge for the year         11.9
 
At 31 December 2015               77.0
     
Net book amount          
At 1 July 2013      98.9
 
At 31 December 2014         90.0 
 
At 31 December 2015         78.1 
Goodwill by segment 
Each brand is deemed to be a Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’), being the lowest level for which cash flows are 
separately identifiable.  Goodwill is attributed to individual CGUs but is reviewed at the segment level for the 
purposes of the annual impairment review as this is the level at which management monitors goodwill. The majority 
of the Group’s goodwill arose on the acquisition of the Centaur Communications group in 2004. 
Goodwill is allocated to segments as follows:
    Marketing Financial Services Home Interest Professional Total
    £m £m £m £m £m
             
At 31 December 2015  36.7 12.3  7.5  21.6  78.1 
 
At 31 December 2014  36.7 12.3  7.5  33.5  90.0 
 
Impairment testing of goodwill and acquired intangible assets
During the period, goodwill and acquired intangible assets were tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.  
In assessing whether a write-down of goodwill and acquired intangible assets is required, the carrying value of the 
segment is compared with its recoverable amount.  Recoverable amount is measured based on value-in-use.
The Group estimates the value-in-use of its CGUs using a discounted cash flow model, which adjusts the cash flows 
for risks associated with the assets and discounts these using a pre-tax rate of 13.2% (2014: 13.2%).  The discount 
rate used is consistent with the Group’s weighted average cost of capital and is used across all segments, which all 
are based predominantly in the UK and considered to have similar risks and rewards.
The key assumptions used in calculating value-in-use are revenue growth, margin, adjusted EBITDA, discount 
rate and the terminal growth rate.  The Group has used formally approved forecasts for the first three years of the 
calculation and applied a terminal growth rate of 2.25% (2014: 2.25%).  This timescale and the terminal growth rate 
are both considered appropriate given the cyclical nature of the Group’s revenues.
The assumptions used in the calculations of value-in-use for each segment have been derived based on a 
combination of past experience and management’s expectations of future growth rates in the business.
At 31 December 2015, before impairment testing, goodwill of £36.7m, £12.3m and £7.5m and £33.5m was allocated 
to the Marketing, Financial Services, Home Interest and Professional segments respectively. The portfolios reported 
within the Professional segment, including HR and Engineering, have been affected by weaker print and advertising 
trends leading to a more moderate growth outlook. The goodwill relating to the Professional segment has therefore 
been reduced to its recoverable amount through recognition of an impairment loss of £11.9m. 
For the remaining segments, Marketing, Financial and Home Interest, the value-in-use calculations comfortably 
exceed the carrying values in the sensitivity scenarios. 
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-calculations, holding all other variables constant, to:
 (i)  apply a 5% reduction to forecast EBITDA in each year of the modelled cash flows.  This would result in a 
further impairment of £1.2m in the Professional segment.  No impairment would occur in any of the other 
segments. 
 (ii)  apply a 0.5 percentage points increase in discount rate from 13.2% to 13.7%.  This would result in a 
further impairment of £1.0m in the Professional segment.  No impairment would occur in any of the other 
segments.
 (iii)  reduce the terminal value growth rate from 2.25% to 2.00%.  This would result in a further impairment of 
£0.4m in the Professional segment.  No impairment would occur in any of the other segments.
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
122 123
10 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
     Separately   
   Brands  acquired  
   and  websites Non- 
   Computer  publishing Customer  and compete 
  software rights* relationships* content* arrangements* Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
               
Cost            
At 1 July 2013  19.2  5.6  11.6  4.7  0.5  41.6 
Additions - separately acquired 2.8  -  -  -  -  2.8 
Additions - internally generated 2.0  -  -  -  -  2.0 
Disposal of subsidiary (note 33) (7.2) -  -  -  -  (7.2)
Disposals   (7.3) -  -  -  -  (7.3)
 
At 31 December 2014  9.5  5.6  11.6  4.7  0.5  31.9 
Additions - separately acquired 1.7  -  -  -  -  1.7
Additions - internally generated 1.2  -  -  -  -  1.2
Disposals   (1.5) -  -  -  -  (1.5)
 
At 31 December 2015  10.9  5.6 11.6 4.7  0.5  33.3
               
               
Accumulated amortisation            
At 1 July 2013  12.6  1.1  2.3  1.3  0.5  17.8 
Amortisation charge for the period 3.3  0.4  1.7  1.3  -  6.7 
Disposal of subsidiary (note 33) (5.2) -  -  -  -  (5.2)
Disposals  (7.3) -  -  -  -  (7.3)
 
At 31 December 2014  3.4  1.5  4.0  2.6  0.5  12.0 
Amortisation charge for the year 2.1  0.2 1.2 0.8 - 4.3
Disposals  (1.3) -  -  -  -  (1.3)
 
At 31 December 2015  4.2  1.7 5.2 3.4 0.5 15.0
               
Net book value at 31 December 2015 6.7  3.9 6.4 1.3 -  18.3
               
Net book value at 31 December 2014 6.1 4.1 7.6 2.1 -  19.9
               
Net book value at 1 July 2013 6.6 4.5 9.3 3.4 -  23.8
* Amortisation of acquired intangibles is presented as an adjusting item.
The Company has no intangible assets (2014: £nil). Amortisation of intangible assets is included in net operating 
expenses in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
  Leasehold Fixtures Computer  
  improvements and fittings equipment Total
  £m £m £m £m
         
Cost        
At 1 July 2013 3.6  3.1  2.0  8.7 
Additions  0.9  0.1  0.7  1.7 
Disposal of subsidiary (0.1) -  (0.5) (0.6)
Disposals (1.5) (2.3) (1.5) (5.3)
At 31 December 2014 2.9  0.9  0.7  4.5 
Additions  0.1  0.2 0.5 0.8
Disposals (0.9) (0.5) (0.3) (1.7)
 
At 31 December 2015 2.1  0.6 0.9 3.6
         
Accumulated depreciation        
At 1 July 2013 2.9  2.3  1.5  6.7 
Depreciation charge for the period 0.3  0.5  0.4  1.2 
Disposal of subsidiary (0.2) -  (0.4) (0.6)
Disposals (1.5) (2.3) (1.5) (5.3)
 
At 31 December 2014 1.5  0.5  -  2.0 
Depreciation charge for the year 0.3  0.2 0.4 0.9
Disposals (0.8) (0.5) (0.3) (1.6)
 
At 31 December 2015 1.0  0.2 0.1 1.3
         
Net book value at 31 December 2015 1.1 0.4 0.8 2.3
         
Net book value at 31 December 2014 1.4  0.4  0.7  2.5 
         
Net book value at 1 July 2013 0.7  0.8  0.5  2.0 
 
The Company has no property, plant and equipment (2014: £nil).  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
124 125
12 INVESTMENTS
          Investments
          in subsidiary
          undertakings
          £m
Company        
Cost        
At 1 July 2013, 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015       146.2 
           
Accumulated impairment        
At 1 July 2013, 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015     12.2
     
Net book amount          
At 1 July 2013, 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015        134.0
           
   Proportion of ordinary shares     
Name held and voting rights Principal activities Country of incorporation
   %    
Ascent Publishing Limited 100 Digital and print publishing United Kingdom
Centaur Communications Limited 
1
 100 Holding company and agency services United Kingdom
Centaur Consumer Exhibitions Limited 100 Exhibitions United Kingdom
Chiron Communications Limited 100 Digital information, training and events United Kingdom
E-consultancy.com Limited 100 Digital information, training and events United Kingdom
E-consultancy Asia Pacific Pty Limited 100 Digital information, training and events Singapore
E-consultancy Australia Pty Ltd 100 Digital information, training and events Australia
E-consultancy LLC 100 Digital information, training and events United States
Investment Platforms Limited 100 Research data and analysis United Kingdom
Mayfield Publishing Ltd 100 Investment company United Kingdom
Pro-talk Ltd 100 Digital Publishing United Kingdom
Taxbriefs Holdings Limited 100 Holding company United Kingdom
Taxbriefs Limited 100 Digital and print publishing United Kingdom
The Forum for Expatriate Management Limited 100 Events and information services United Kingdom
The Forum for Expatriate Management Incorporated 100 Events and information services United States
The Profile Group (UK) Limited 100 Digital information services United Kingdom
The Profile Group (US) Incorporated 100 Dormant United States
Your Business Magazine Limited 100 Investment company United Kingdom
Venture Business Research Limited 100 Research data and analysis United Kingdom
1 
Directly owned by Centaur Media Plc
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of all entities controlled by the Company 
at 31 December 2015.
13 INVENTORIES
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
    Group Group
    £m £m
       
Work in progress 2.0  1.8 
 
The Company had no inventory at 31 December 2015 (2014: £nil).
14 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
   2015 2014 2015 2014
   Group Group Company Company
   £m £m £m £m
         
Amounts falling due within one year        
Trade receivables 20.8  11.9  -  - 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (0.9) (0.5) -  - 
 
Trade receivables - net 19.9  11.4  -  -
Employee benefit trust -  -  2.5  1.8 
Other receivables 2.3  1.4  0.2  0.3 
Prepayments 1.7  1.7  -  - 
Accrued income 1.1  1.2  -  - 
       
   25.0  15.7  2.7  2.1 
The ageing of trade receivables according to their original due date is detailed below:
   31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
   2015 2015 2014 2014
   Gross Provision Gross Provision
   £m £m £m £m
        
   
Not due 9.0  -  6.9  - 
0-30 days 3.7  -  2.8  - 
31-60 days 1.7  - 1.4  (0.2)
61-90 days 1.4  - 0.3  (0.1)
Over 90 days 5.0  (0.9) 0.5  (0.2)
        
   
  20.8  (0.9)  11.9 (0.5)
Within the balance is an amount relating to future revenues of £6.1m (2014: £4.6m) which forms part of deferred 
income in note 19.
The movement in the provision for impairment of receivables is detailed below:
     Year ended  18 months 
    31  ended 
    December 31 December  
       2015 2014
        Group Group
        £m £m
           
Balance at start of period     0.5  0.2 
Utilised     (0.2) (0.5)
Additional provision charged to the statement of comprehensive income    0.6  0.8 
           
        0.9  0.5 
The Group’s policy requires customers to pay in accordance with agreed payment terms, which are generally 30 days 
from the date of invoice or, in the case of live events related revenue, no less than 30 days before the event.  All credit 
and recovery risk associated with trade receivables has been provided for in the balance sheet. The Group’s policy for 
recognising an impairment loss is given in note 1.  Impairment losses are taken through administrative expenses in 
the statement of comprehensive income.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
126 127
15 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
   2015 2014 2015 2014
   Group Group Company Company
   £m £m £m £m
         
  Cash at bank and in hand 3.1  3.4 -        -
16 BORROWINGS
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
   2015 2014 2015 2014
   Group Group Company Company
   £m £m £m £m
         
Current liabilities        
Loan notes 1.1  -  -  - 
Arrangement fee in respect of revolving credit facility - (0.1) - (0.1)
          
   1.1 (0.1) - (0.1)
        
   
Non-current liabilities        
Finance lease payables 0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 
Arrangement fee in respect of revolving credit facility (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1)
Revolving credit facility 21.0  18.1  21.0  18.1 
        
   
   20.9  18.1  20.9  18.1 
 
Loan notes totalling £1.1m were issued in November 2015 to settle the deferred consideration in relation VB 
Research earn-out.  Interest is payable on these loan notes at a variable rate of 1% above LIBOR, payable in June 
and December. Loan notes are redeemable up to twelve months from the date of issue.  No loan notes were 
redeemed during the current or prior period. 
Further details about the Group’s borrowings are provided in note 27.
17 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Finance lease payables
Lease payables are secured as the rights to the leased assets revert to the lessor in the event of default.
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
   2015 2014 2015 2014
   Group Group Company Company
   £m £m £m £m
         
Gross finance lease liabilities - minimum lease payments      
No later than 1 year -  -  -  - 
Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 
 
   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 
Future finance charges on finance leases -  -  -  - 
        
   
Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 
The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows:
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
   2015 2014 2015 2014
   Group Group Company Company
   £m £m £m £m
         
No later than 1 year -  -  -  - 
Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 
         
Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1 
The Group leases office equipment with a carrying amount of £0.1m (2014: £0.1m) under a finance lease expiring in 
two years. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
128 129
18 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
   2015 2014 2015 2014
   Group Group Company Company
   £m £m £m £m
         
Trade payables 3.0  1.8  -  - 
Payables to subsidiaries -  -  8.3 4.8 
Social security and other taxes 1.1  1.8  0.1  - 
Other payables 2.4  0.5  -  - 
Accruals 5.9  6.9  0.1  0.5 
         
   12.4  11.0 8.5  5.3
Payables to subsidiaries are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment and bear interest at an annual rate of 2.71% 
(2014: 2.11%).
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of the trade payables approximates their fair value.
19 DEFERRED INCOME
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
    Group Group
    £m £m
       
Deferred income 17.0  15.3
20 CURRENT INCOME TAX LIABILITIES
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
    Group Group
    £m £m
       
Corporation tax 0.9  0.2
21 PROVISIONS
         Deferred 
       consideration  
       £m
Group
At 31 December 2014   1.1 
Charged to statement of comprehensive income during the year  0.1
Released during the year  (1.2) 
 
At 31 December 2015   - 
Deferred Consideration
Deferred consideration relates to VB Research.
The amount provided is dependent on continued employment of the former owners of the business and is treated 
as post-acquisition remuneration accruing over the period to the end of the performance period.  All amounts 
represent the Directors' best estimate of the amount to be paid at the balance sheet date.
The amount of deferred contingent consideration payable with respect to the acquisition of VB Research was 
dependent on the profits generated by VB Research in the period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 (the performance 
period), subject to a maximum earn-out payment of £5.0m. 
The deferred consideration was settled in the current year through the payment of £0.1m in cash and the issue of 
loan notes for the remaining balance (see note 16 for more details). 
22 DEFERRED INCOME TAX
The movement on the deferred income tax account is shown below.
    Accelerated Other  
   capital temporary Tax   
   allowances differences losses Total  
   £m £m £m £m
         
Net asset / (liability) at 1 July 2013  1.0  (3.0) 0.5  (1.5)
Adjustments in respect of prior period  (0.5) 0.3  0.4  0.2 
Disposal of subsidiary  (0.1) -  -  (0.1)
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  (0.2) 0.9  (0.4) 0.3 
Effect of rate change  0.1  0.1  -  0.2 
     
Net asset / (liability) at 31 December 2014  0.3  (1.7) 0.5  (0.9)
Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income  0.1 1.0 (0.3) 0.8
Net asset / (liability) at 31 December 2015  0.4 (0.7) 0.2 (0.1)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an 
intention to settle the balances net.
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
    Group Group
    £m £m
       
Deferred tax asset    0.6  0.8 
Deferred tax liabilities   (0.7) (1.7)
        
Total    (0.1) (0.9)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £1.9m (2014: £2.0m) available for offset against future 
profits. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of £1.5m (2014: £1.8m) of such tax losses.  No deferred 
tax has been recognised in respect of the remaining £0.4m (2014: £0.2m) as it is not currently considered probable 
that there will be future taxable profits available. Unrecognised losses may be carried forward indefinitely.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
130 131
23 SHARE CAPITAL
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
    Group and Company Group and Company
    £m £m
       
Authorised     
200,000,000 (2014: 200,000,000) ordinary shares of 10p each 20.0  20.0 
       
Issued and fully paid    
150,207,960 (2014: 150,207,960) ordinary shares of 10p each 15.0  15.0 
There are 800,000 (2014: 800,000) deferred shares of 10p each which carry restricted voting rights carry no right to 
receive a dividend payment in respect of any financial year. 
See note 24 for information regarding the number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were 
granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below.
24 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Group’s share-based payment expense for the period by scheme:
   18 months  
   Year ended  ended 31 
  31 December December
    2015 2014
    £m £m
       
Equity-settled Plans    
LTIP 2006 0.6 0.3
2014 Retention 0.1 0.1
SELTIP - 0.1
Share Incentive Plan - -
ShareSave Plan - -
 
   0.7  0.5
The Group’s share-based payment schemes are equity-settled.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Group operates a Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) for Executive Directors and selected senior management. 
This is an existing incentive policy and was approved by shareholders at the 2006 AGM. The share awards are valued 
at date of grant and the consolidated income statement is charged over the vesting period, taking into account 
the number of shares expected to vest. Full details of how the scheme operates are included in the Remuneration 
Report. 
2014 Retention Plan
The 2014 Retention Plan was introduced in June 2014 with the aim of incentivising and rewarding participants for 
continued employment by the Group.  Its purpose is to increase the interest of the employees in the Company’s 
business goals and results through share ownership. 
Awards vest over a period of two or three years, with the only condition being continued employment.  Awards were 
granted under this scheme in the prior period for no consideration and no exercise price.  The Retention Plan will 
not result in the issue of any new ordinary shares as this plan is not approved by Shareholders.  The awards will be 
settled from the shares held in the employee benefits trust.
Senior Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘SELTIP’)
The Centaur Media Plc 2010 Senior Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan (the ‘SELTIP’) was introduced during 
2011 and was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM.  This is not an HMRC approved scheme and vests over 
a 3 year period with service and performance conditions.  Awards were granted under this scheme in 2011 for no 
consideration and no exercise price.
This scheme has closed to new awards. 
Awards of bonus units were made in 2013 as summarised in the following table: 
        Number of 
        shares 
 Financial Threshold PBTA Profit SELTIP Total bonus Bonus pool awarded in 
 year profit achieved growth contribution pool allocated* total** 
 2013 £8.0m £8.6m £0.6m 30% £0.1m £0.1m 118,851
*The Remuneration Committee did not allocate the entire bonus pool in 2013
** Awards were only made to participants with continuing employment 
Long Term Incentive Plan, Retention Plan and Senior Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan
      2014
 LTIP LTIP LTIP LTIP LTIP Retention SELTIP
 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 Plan 2013
       
Grant date 27.10.15 10.08.15 26.03.15 04.08.14 08.11.13 30.06.14 15.09.11
Share price at grant date (p) 78.25 80.5 69.5 56.75 54.25 62.38 33.88
Fair value (p)        66.96  68.37 59.79 97.88 94.32 52.64 23.76
Exercise date 28.10.18 10.08.18 23.03.18 04.08.17 15.03.17 31.12.16 17.09.14
Exercise price (p) £nil £nil £nil £nil £nil £nil £nil
       
Number of awards       
Balance at 1 January 2015 - - - 155,897 1,706,182 382,668 6,862
Granted for the year 143,036 108,556 2,847,749 - - - -
Forfeited during the year - - (629,175) - (267,273) - -
 
Balance at 31 December 2015 143,036 108,556 2,218,574 155,897 1,438,909 382,668 6,862
 
Exercisable at 31 December 2015 - - - - - - 6,862
       
Balance at 1 July 2013 - - - - - - 118,851
Granted for the period - - - 155,897 1,706,182 382,668 -
Forfeited during the period - - - - - - (90,030)
Exercised during the period - - - - - - (21,959)
 
Balance at 31 December 2014 - - - 155,897 1,706,182 382,668 6,862
 
Exercisable at 31 December 2014       6,862
 
Average share price at date of exercise (p)       59.75
The shares outstanding at 31 December 2015 had a weighted average exercise price of £nil (2014: £nil) and a 
weighted remaining life of 2.0 years (2014: 2.6 years). 132 133 132 133
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
      2014
 LTIP LTIP LTIP LTIP LTIP Retention SELTIP
 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 Plan 2013
       
Grant date 27.10.15 10.08.15 26.03.15 04.08.14 08.11.13 30.06.14 15.09.11
Expected volatility (%) 28.1 36.8 39.4 43.6 43.8 49.5 54.0
Expected dividend yield (%) - - - - - 6.79 5.26
Risk free interest rate (%) 0.69 1.02 0.58 1.17 0.92 1.22 0.57
Model of valuation used Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Stochastic Black- Black- 
      Scholes Scholes
Share Incentive Plan
The Group has a Share Incentive Plan, which is a HRMC approved Tax-Advantaged plan, which provides employees 
with the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company. This plan is open to all employees who have been employed 
by the Group for more than 12 months. Employees may invest up to £1,800 per annum (or 10% of their salary if 
less) in ordinary shares in the Company, which are held in trust. The shares are purchased in open market and 
are held in trust for each employee. The shares can be withdrawn with tax paid at any time, or tax-free after five 
years. The Group matches the contribution with a ratio of one share for every two purchased.  Other than continuing 
employment, there are no other performance conditions attached to the plan. 
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Share Incentive Plan, as are all employees of the Group.
Share Incentive Plan
    31 December 31 December
    2015 2014
    Group Group
    
Number of outstanding matching shares 78,602 65,594
ShareSave Plan
The Group had a ShareSave Plan (the ‘SAYE Scheme’) which is closed to new awards. The SAYE Scheme was an 
HMRC approved all-employee plan and is open to all employees who have been employed by the Group for more 
than 12 months.  Employees could invest up to £3,000 per annum for a period of either 3 or 5 years, after which 
they could exercise SAYE options within 6 months of the anniversary date of the contract commencement date.  
Options were granted in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Other than continuing employment, there were no other performance 
conditions attached to the plan.
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the ShareSave Plan, as are all employees of the Group.
24 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)
These awards were priced using the following models and inputs:
ShareSave Plan
    2010 2010 2009 2008 
    Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave
    (5 year plan) (3 year plan) (5 year plan) (5 year plan)
 
Grant date    23.04.10 23.04.10 30.04.09 24.04.08
Share price at grant date (p)    50.5 50.5 37.3 72.0
Fair value (p)    20.66 20.77 10.85 16.81
Exercise date    23.04.15 23.04.13 30.04.14 24.04.13
Exercise price (p)    41.24 41.24 20.92 64.7
Contractual life remaining years    - - - -
       
Number of shares       
Balance at 1 January 2015    18,098 - - -
Exercised during the year    (18,098) - - -
 
Balance at 31 December 2015    - - - -
 
Exercisable at 31 December 2015    - - - -
 
Average share price at date of exercise (p)    79.7 - - -
 
Balance at 1 July 2013     18,098 83,618 564,051 29,678
Forfeited during the period    - (26,405) - - 
Exercised during the period    - (57,213) (564,051) (29,678)
 
Balance at 31 December 2014    18,098 - - -
 
Exercisable at 31 December 2014    - - - -
 
Average share price at date of exercise (p)    - 57.0 35.96 -
In the current year, the weighted average exercise price was £nil (2014: £22.8p) and the weighted remaining life was 
0 years (2014: 1 year).
These SAYE options were valued using a stochastic model with the following inputs:    
    2010 2010 2009 2008 
    Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave
    (5 year plan) (3 year plan) (5 year plan) (5 year plan)
 
Grant date    23.04.10 23.04.10 30.04.09 24.04.08
Expected volatility (%)    48.1 57.7 45.2 29.6
Expected dividend yield (%)    3.17 3.17 9.4 5.14
Risk free interest rate (%)    2.88 2.02 2.65 4.56 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
134 135
25 DIVIDENDS
   18 months  
   Year ended  ended 31 
  31 December December
    2015 2014
    £m £m
       
Equity dividends     
Final dividend for 2014: 1.3p per 10p ordinary share 1.9 -
Interim dividend for 2015: 1.5p per 10p ordinary share 2.1 -
Final dividend paid for 2013: 1.575p per 10p ordinary share  - 2.2
Interim dividend paid for 2014: 0.85p per 10p ordinary share  - 1.2
Interim dividend paid for 2014: 1.7p per 10p ordinary share  - 2.4
 
  4.0  5.8
A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of £2.2m (1.5p per share) is proposed by the Directors and, 
subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 27 May 2016.
26 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Reconciliation of (loss) / profit for the period to net cash inflow from operating activities
    Year ended 18 months ended Year ended  18 months ended
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
   2015 2014 2015 2014
   Group Group Company Company
   £m £m £m £m
         
(Loss) / profit for the period  (6.9)  10.5  (2.0) (2.5)
    
Adjustments for:
Tax  1.3  0.8  - - 
Interest expense  0.9  1.6  0.9 0.1  
Depreciation  0.9  1.2  -  - 
Amortisation of intangibles  4.3  6.7  -  - 
Impairment of goodwill (included within exceptional costs) 11.9 - - -
IFRS 3 (‘R) earn-out (included within exceptional costs) 0.1  5.0 -  -
Earn-out discounting unwind  - 2.9  -  - 
Share-based payment charge  0.7  0.5  0.7  0.3 
Profit on disposal of subsidiary  - (14.7) -  - 
Profit on disposal of trade and assets (0.4) - - -
Other  (0.3) (0.2) (0.2)  - 
   
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of   
  acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries)       
   
(Increase) / decrease in inventories  (0.2)  0.2  -  - 
(Increase) / decrease in trade and other receivables  (9.3) (0.6) (0.6)  7.3
Increase in trade and other payables  1.4  0.2  3.2  5.0
Increase in deferred income  1.7  3.5  -  - 
Decrease in provisions  - (0.1) -  - 
          
Cash generated from operating activities  6.1  17.5  2.0  10.2
Analysis of changes in net debt
       At 31
    At 31 December  Net December
Group  2014 cash flow 2015   
 Note £m £m £m
         
Cash and cash equivalents 15 3.4  (0.3)  3.1 
Revolving credit facility 16 (18.1) (2.9)  (21.0)
        
Net debt    (14.7) (3.2)  (17.9)
    
    At 31
    At 31 December  Net December
Company  2014 cash flow 2015   
 Note £m £m £m
         
Cash and cash equivalents 15  -  - - 
Revolving credit facility 16 (18.1) (2.9)  (21.0)   
 
Net debt    (18.1) (2.9)  (21.0)
27 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
     31 December 31 December
     2015 2014
     Note £m £m
       
Financial assets     
   
Cash and bank balances  15 3.1 3.4
Loans and receivables 14 22.2 12.8
        
     25.3 16.2
         
Financial liabilities     
Amortised cost    33.5 27.4
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, capital risk 
and currency risk.  The following note describes the role that financial instruments have had during the period ended 
31 December 2015 in the management of the Group’s financial risks.
Interest rate risk
The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets but is exposed to interest rate risk as it borrows funds 
at floating interest rates.  This risk may be managed by the use of interest rate swap contracts as cash flow 
hedges.  Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align interest rate views and risk appetite with the hedging 
requirements of the Group’s revolving credit facility.  The Group did not enter into any hedging transactions during 
the current or prior period and, as at 31 December 2015, the only floating rate to which the Group is exposed was 
LIBOR. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
136 137
27 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED) 
Interest rate sensitivity
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on exposure to interest rates at the reporting date and the 
stipulated change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the year.
At the reporting date, if interest rates had been 25 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held 
constant, the Group’s net profit after tax would increase / decrease by £0.1m.
The Group’s exposure to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities is detailed in the liquidity risk 
section of this note.
Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks 
and financial institutions, and credit exposures to customers including outstanding receivables and committed 
transactions.  Banks and financial institutions are independently rated by credit rating agencies.  We choose only 
to deal with those with a minimum ‘A’ rating.  We determine the credit quality for cash and cash equivalents to be 
strong. For customers, the business assesses the credit quality based on their financial position, past experience 
and other factors.  The credit quality of trade receivables not yet due nor impaired has been assessed as acceptable 
based on historical performance.  The Directors consider the maximum credit risk to which the Group is exposed 
is the sum of cash and cash equivalents per note 15 and the receivables balance per note 14. The Group does not 
consider that it is subject to any significant concentrations of credit risk. 
Liquidity risk
The Group has exposure to liquidity risk if it is unable to settle transactions in the normal course of business and if 
new funding and refinancing cannot be obtained as required and on reasonable terms.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2015, and for the foreseeable future, the Group was and is expected to be in 
a net borrowings position.  The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and working capital 
credit facilities, and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows. 
The total facility available to the Group is £25.0m and is available through to August 2019. 
As at 31 December 2015, the Group had cash of £3.1m (2014: £3.4m) and undrawn loan facilities to further reduce its 
liquidity risk of £4.0m (2014: £6.9m). 
The following tables detail the financial maturity for the Group’s financial liabilities: 
       
     Less than   
    Book value Fair value 1 year 2-5 years
    £m £m £m £m
         
At 31 December 2015          
Financial liabilities          
  Variable interest rate instruments   22.1  22.1 1.1 21.0
  Fixed interest rate instruments   0.1  0.1  -  0.1 
           
     22.2  22.2 1.1 21.1
          
   
At 31 December 2014          
Financial liabilities          
  Variable interest rate instruments   18.1  18.1  -  18.1 
  Fixed interest rate instruments   0.1  0.1  -  0.1 
           
     18.2  18.2  -  18.2 
The book value of primary financial instruments approximates to fair value where the instrument is on a short 
maturity or where they bear interest at rates approximate to the market.    
All trade and other payables are due in one year or less, or on demand.    
Capital risk 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that all entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern 
while maximising return to stakeholders, as well as sustaining the future development of the business.  
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes borrowings (note 16) and cash and cash 
equivalents (note 15), and equity attributable to the owners of the parent, comprising issued share capital (note 23), 
other reserves and retained earnings.
The Group continues to benefit from its banking facilities (as renewed during June 2015), which features both a 
working capital facility, to assist in managing the Group’s liquidity risk, and an acquisition facility to support the 
Group’s acquisition strategy.  The facility, available until August 2019, allows for a maximum drawdown of £25m.  
Interest is calculated on LIBOR plus a margin dependent on the Group’s net leverage position, which is re-measured 
quarterly in line with covenant testing.
The Group’s borrowings are subject to financial covenants tested quarterly.  At 31 December 2015 and throughout 
2015 all of these covenants were achieved.
Currency risk
Substantially all of the Group’s net assets are located and substantially all revenue and adjusted EBITDA is 
generated in the United Kingdom and consequently foreign exchange risk is limited.  The results of the Group are not 
currently sensitive to movements in currency rates.  
28 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS - MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS
       31 December 31 December
        2015 2014
        £m £m
Commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases         
        
  Within 1 year     2.1  2.0 
  Later than one year and less than 5 years     6.5  7.8 
  After 5 years     -  0.4 
 
        8.6  10.2 
 
Commitments receivable under non-cancellable subleases        
        
  Within 1 year     0.5  0.2 
  Later than one year and less than 5 years     1.8  1.2 
 
      2.3  1.4 
 
 
The Group’s operating leases do not include any significant leasing terms or conditions.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had contracted with tenants to receive payments in respect of operating leases on 
land and buildings.
All lease commitments relates to land and buildings.
In November 2013 the Group signed a new lease for the entire Wells Street building.  Two parts of the building are 
sub-let to tenants.
On 19 March 2015, the Group signed a new lease for its New York office, expiring on 31 January 2018. The total 
commitments relating to this lease amounted to £0.3m.
On 2 November 2015, the Group signed a non-cancellable property lease for its Singapore office, expiring 31 January 
2017.  The total commitments relating to this lease amounted to £0.1m. 138 139
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29 PENSION SCHEMES
The Group contributes to individual and collective money purchase pension schemes in respect of Directors and 
employees once they have completed the requisite period of service.  The charge for the period in respect of these 
defined contribution schemes is shown in note 6. Included within other payables is an amount of £0.1m (2014: 
£0.1m) payable in respect of the money purchase pension schemes.
30 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
At 31 December 2015, the Group had capital commitments totalling £nil.  At 31 December 2014, capital 
commitments totalled £0.4m and related to new finance and CRM systems. 
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Group
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 6.  There were no other material related party transactions.
Company
During the year, interest was recharged from subsidiary companies as follows:
   18 months  
   Year ended  ended 31 
  31 December December
    2015 2014
    £m £m
       
Interest payable 0.2  0.1 
       
    0.2  0.1
Borrowings of £2.9m were received (2014: £4.7m) by subsidiaries on behalf the Company. 
The balances outstanding with subsidiary companies are disclosed in notes 14 and 18.   
Audit Exemption     
For the year ended 31 December 2015 the Company has provided a guarantee pursuant to sections 479A-C of 
the Companies Act 2006 over the liabilities of the following subsidiaries and as such they are exempt from the 
requirements of the Act relating to the audit of individual financial statements, or preparation of individual financial 
statements, as appropriate, for this financial year. 
  
Name Company Number   Outstanding 
   liabilities
        
   £m
Centaur Communications Limited 01595235   12.8 
Centaur Consumer Exhibitions Limited 07276298   3.9 
Chiron Communications Limited 01081808   9.3 
Ascent Publishing Limited 02561341   1.7 
The Forum for Expatriate Management Limited 06776955   0.5 
Pro-Talk Ltd 03939119   - 
Taxbriefs Holdings Limited 03572069   - 
Taxbriefs Limited 01247331   0.5 
Investment Platforms Limited 06439194   0.9 
Venture Business Research Limited 05663936   0.3 
The Profile Group (UK) Limited 05243851   5.8 
Econsultancy.com Limited 04047149   4.9 
Mayfield Publishing Ltd 02034820   0.4 
Your Business Magazine Limited 01707331   2.4  140 141
OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
32 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
No material events have occurred after the reporting period.
33 DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY
On 12 June 2014, the Group disposed of its interest in Perfect Information Limited (‘Perfect Information’). Economic 
control transferred on 31 May 2014. 
The net assets of Perfect Information at the date of disposal were as follows:
  31 May
  2014
  £m
   
Intangible assets 2.0 
Trade and other receivables 0.8 
Intercompany 3.1 
Cash and bank balances 0.4 
Deferred tax asset 0.1 
Current tax liability (0.2)
Trade and other payables (0.5)
Deferred income (2.5)
Onerous lease provision (0.1)
Attributable goodwill 8.9 
   
Net assets disposed attributable to shareholders of the Parent Company 12.0 
Directly attributable costs of disposal 1.2 
   
Gain on disposal 14.7 
   
Fair value of consideration 27.9 
 
Satisfied by:  
Cash and cash equivalents 24.8 
Novation of intercompany balances 3.1 
   
  27.9 
 
Net cash inflow arising on disposal:  
Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 24.8 
Less: directly attributable costs of disposal 1.2 
Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 0.4 
   
  23.2 
Proceeds of £27.9m comprised cash of £24.8m and settlement of amounts owed by the continuing group to Perfect 
Information of £3.1 million. 
There were no disposals of subsidiaries during 2015.
FIVE YEAR RECORD (UNAUDITED)
  2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
     
Revenues (£m) 67.4 69.3 74.4 72.8 70.5
Live events and paid-for content revenues     
as % of whole 52% 60% 66% 68% 67%
     
Adjusted operating profit 7.2 10.4 10.0 10.2 10.5
Adjusted operating profit margin 11% 15% 13% 14% 15%
     
Operating (loss) / profit (£m) (30.0) 0.9 (33.3) 3.0 (4.7)
     
Adjusted profit before tax (£m) 7.2 9.1 8.8 9.2 9.8
 (30.2) (0.8) (35.7) 14.2 (5.6)
     
Diluted adjusted EPS (pence) 3.6 4.4 4.7 5.0 5.3
     
Dividend per share (pence) 1.3 1.5 2.425 3.0 3.0
     
Operating cash flow (£m) 5.7 10.4 9.9 12.3 4.7
     
Average permanent headcount (FTE) 577 557 598 576 564
Revenue per head (£’000) 117 124 124 126 125
Revenue by type
 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
 £m £m £m £m £m 
 
Live events 20.8 22.8 28.0 28.9 27.2 
 
Paid-for content 14.5 19.0 21.1 20.6 19.9 
 
Advertising 31.6 26.3 24.6 22.4 22.5 
 
Other 0.5 1.2 0.7 0.9 0.9
 
 67.4 69.3 74.4 72.8 70.5
Balance Sheet Summary
 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
 £m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill and other intangible assets 128.8 160.0 122.7 109.9 96.4
Other assets and liabilities (2.4) (19.0) (18.6) (8.4) (2.1)
Net assets before net debt 126.4 141 104.1 101.5 94.3
 
Net debt (5.4) (24.5) (27.0) (14.7) (17.9)
 
Total equity 121.0 116.5 77.1 86.8 76.4 HEADING
DIRECTORS, ADVISORS AND OTHER CORPORATE INFORMATION
Company registration number
04948078
Incorporated / Domiciled in
England and Wales
Registered office
Wells Point
79 Wells Street
London
W1T 3QN
Directors 
Ronald Sandler (Chairman) 
Andria Vidler (Chief Executive) 
Mark Kerswell (Group Finance Director)
Christopher Satterthwaite 
Robert Boyle 
Rebecca Miskin
Company Secretary
Grainne Brankin
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
1 Embankment Place
London 
WC2N 6RH
Registrars
Share Registrars Limited 
Suite E, First floor
9 Lion and Lamb Yard
Farnham
Surrey
GU9 7LL
142
OTHER INFORMATION Wells Point, 79 Wells Street, London W1T 3QN
