 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CENTRICA PLC Registered office:  
Millstream 
Maidenhead Road 
Windsor 
Berkshire 
SL4 5GD
Company registered  
in England and Wales 
No. 3033654
centrica.com
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Satisfying the  
changing needs  
of our customers
“ In July 2015, we announced the conclusions of  
our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic 
review. We concluded that Centrica’ s strength 
lies in being a customer-facing energy and 
services business. This is where we have 
distinctive positions and capabilities and 
where we can make the biggest difference and 
contribution going forward, for our customers, 
our employees and our shareholders.”
Iain Conn
Chief Executive  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CENTRICA PLC Registered office:  
Millstream 
Maidenhead Road 
Windsor 
Berkshire 
SL4 5GD
Company registered  
in England and Wales 
No. 3033654
centrica.com
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Satisfying the  
changing needs  
of our customers
“ In July 2015, we announced the conclusions of  
our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic 
review. We concluded that Centrica’ s strength 
lies in being a customer-facing energy and 
services business. This is where we have 
distinctive positions and capabilities and 
where we can make the biggest difference and 
contribution going forward, for our customers, 
our employees and our shareholders.”
Iain Conn
Chief Executive  Group Results
Resilient financial performance in a challenging 
environment. Adjusted earnings per share of  
17 .2p, down 4%.
Adjusted operating cash flow up 2% to £2,253 million. 
9% reduction in net debt to £4,747 million. 
Post-tax exceptional items of £1,846 million  
primarily as a result of falling commodity prices.
Group robust in a low commodity price environment 
(flat real $35/bbl Brent oil, 35p/th UK NBP gas,  
£35/MWh UK power prices) with sources and uses  
of cash flow more than balanced over 2016–2018.
Confident in delivery of at least 3%–5% per annum 
adjusted operating cash flow growth from a 2015 
baseline adjusted for the low commodity price 
environment 
(i)
. 2016 adjusted operating cash  
flow expected to exceed £2 billion.
Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in  
a full year dividend of 12.0p and dividend cover of  
1.4 times. Delivery of progressive future dividend 
tied to confidence in underlying operating cash flow.
Strategy implementation on track with growth focus 
on customer-facing activities; adjusted operating 
profit from energy and services businesses up  
19% in 2015. E&P free cash flow positive in 2015.
£750 million per annum by 2020 cost efficiency 
programme underpinned in our plans; £200 million 
of savings expected in 2016.
OVERVIEW
GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Year ended 31 December 2015
2014 
(restated*) Change
Revenue £28.0bn £29.4bn (5)%
Adjusted operating profit £1,459m £1,657m (12)%
Adjusted effective tax rate 26% 30% (4)ppt
Adjusted earnings £863m £903m (4)%
Adjusted basic earnings per 
share (EPS) 17.2p 18.0p (4)%
Full year dividend per share 12.0p 13.5p (11)%
Adjusted operating cash flow £2,253m £2,201m 2%
Return on average capital 
employed 11% 11% 0ppt
Group operating costs £3,039m £2,903m 5%
Group net investment £855m £829m 3%
Group net debt £4,747m £5,196m (9)%
Statutory operating loss £(857)m £(1,137)m nm
Statutory loss for the year 
attributable to shareholders £(747)m £(1,012)m nm
Net exceptional items after tax 
included in statutory loss £(1,846)m £(1,161)m nm
Basic earnings per share (14.9)p (20.2)p nm
GROUP KEY OPERATIONAL  
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Change
Total recordable injury frequency 
rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 1.10 1.00 10%
Total customer account holdings 
(ii) 
(year end, ’000) 28,433 29,035 (2)%
Total customer gas consumption 
(mmth) 12,177 12,354 (1)%
Total customer electricity 
consumption (TWh) 151.5 156.8 (3)%
Group direct headcount 
(iii)
 
(year end) 39,348 37,734 4%
(i) The low commodity price environment assumes flat real prices of $35/bbl Brent oil, 
35p/th UK NBP gas and £35/MWh UK power.
(ii) 2014 British Gas residential services product holdings have been restated to  
include 41,000 holdings following data assurance activity of our analytical systems.
(iii) Group direct headcount excludes contractors, agency and outsourced staff.
STRATEGIC REPORT
01  Group Results and  
Performance Summary
02  Chairman’s Statement
05  Chief Executive’s Statement
10  How We Create Value
12  Our Businesses
14   Our Focus for Long-Term 
Growth
20  Key Performance Indicators
22  How We Do Business
28  Business Review
34  Group Financial Review
38   Our Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
GOVERNANCE
44  Board of Directors
46  Senior Executives
47   Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance Report
63  Remuneration Report
80   Independent Auditors’ 
Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88  Group Income Statement
89   Group Statement of  
Comprehensive Income
89   Group Statement of 
Changes in Equity
90  Group Balance Sheet
91   Group Cash Flow Statement
92   Notes to the Financial 
Statements
1 69  C omp a n y S t a t e m e n t  
of Changes in Equity
170  Company Balance Sheet
171  Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
181  Gas and Liquids Reserves
182  Five Year Summary
183   Ofgem Consolidated  
Segmental Statement
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION 
194  Shareholder Information
1 98  Glossary
CONTENTS
Disclaimer
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, 
or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect  
to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc. These statements  
and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on 
circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause 
actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these 
forward-looking statements and forecasts. 
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult 
an independent financial adviser.
Designed and produced by 
 
This report is printed on recycled silk papers made from 100% 
pre and post-consumer waste. The paper mills are based in the 
European Union and manufacture papers independently audited 
and certified by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC
®
) and 
accredited to the Environmental Management System 14001. 
Printed by CPI Colour Limited ISO14001, FSC
®
 certified and 
CarbonNeutral
®
. Group Results
Resilient financial performance in a challenging 
environment. Adjusted earnings per share of  
17 .2p, down 4%.
Adjusted operating cash flow up 2% to £2,253 million. 
9% reduction in net debt to £4,747 million. 
Post-tax exceptional items of £1,846 million  
primarily as a result of falling commodity prices.
Group robust in a low commodity price environment 
(flat real $35/bbl Brent oil, 35p/th UK NBP gas,  
£35/MWh UK power prices) with sources and uses  
of cash flow more than balanced over 2016–2018.
Confident in delivery of at least 3%–5% per annum 
adjusted operating cash flow growth from a 2015 
baseline adjusted for the low commodity price 
environment 
(i)
. 2016 adjusted operating cash  
flow expected to exceed £2 billion.
Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in  
a full year dividend of 12.0p and dividend cover of  
1.4 times. Delivery of progressive future dividend 
tied to confidence in underlying operating cash flow.
Strategy implementation on track with growth focus 
on customer-facing activities; adjusted operating 
profit from energy and services businesses up  
19% in 2015. E&P free cash flow positive in 2015.
£750 million per annum by 2020 cost efficiency 
programme underpinned in our plans; £200 million 
of savings expected in 2016.
OVERVIEW
GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Year ended 31 December 2015
2014 
(restated*) Change
Revenue £28.0bn £29.4bn (5)%
Adjusted operating profit £1,459m £1,657m (12)%
Adjusted effective tax rate 26% 30% (4)ppt
Adjusted earnings £863m £903m (4)%
Adjusted basic earnings per 
share (EPS) 17.2p 18.0p (4)%
Full year dividend per share 12.0p 13.5p (11)%
Adjusted operating cash flow £2,253m £2,201m 2%
Return on average capital 
employed 11% 11% 0ppt
Group operating costs £3,039m £2,903m 5%
Group net investment £855m £829m 3%
Group net debt £4,747m £5,196m (9)%
Statutory operating loss £(857)m £(1,137)m nm
Statutory loss for the year 
attributable to shareholders £(747)m £(1,012)m nm
Net exceptional items after tax 
included in statutory loss £(1,846)m £(1,161)m nm
Basic earnings per share (14.9)p (20.2)p nm
GROUP KEY OPERATIONAL  
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Change
Total recordable injury frequency 
rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 1.10 1.00 10%
Total customer account holdings 
(ii) 
(year end, ’000) 28,433 29,035 (2)%
Total customer gas consumption 
(mmth) 12,177 12,354 (1)%
Total customer electricity 
consumption (TWh) 151.5 156.8 (3)%
Group direct headcount 
(iii)
 
(year end) 39,348 37,734 4%
(i) The low commodity price environment assumes flat real prices of $35/bbl Brent oil, 
35p/th UK NBP gas and £35/MWh UK power.
(ii) 2014 British Gas residential services product holdings have been restated to  
include 41,000 holdings following data assurance activity of our analytical systems.
(iii) Group direct headcount excludes contractors, agency and outsourced staff.
STRATEGIC REPORT
01  Group Results and  
Performance Summary
02  Chairman’s Statement
05  Chief Executive’s Statement
10  How We Create Value
12  Our Businesses
14   Our Focus for Long-Term 
Growth
20  Key Performance Indicators
22  How We Do Business
28  Business Review
34  Group Financial Review
38   Our Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
GOVERNANCE
44  Board of Directors
46  Senior Executives
47   Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance Report
63  Remuneration Report
80   Independent Auditors’ 
Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88  Group Income Statement
89   Group Statement of  
Comprehensive Income
89   Group Statement of 
Changes in Equity
90  Group Balance Sheet
91   Group Cash Flow Statement
92   Notes to the Financial 
Statements
1 69  C omp a n y S t a t e m e n t  
of Changes in Equity
170  Company Balance Sheet
171  Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
181  Gas and Liquids Reserves
182  Five Year Summary
183   Ofgem Consolidated  
Segmental Statement
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION 
194  Shareholder Information
1 98  Glossary
CONTENTS
Disclaimer
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, 
or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect  
to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc. These statements  
and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on 
circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause 
actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these 
forward-looking statements and forecasts. 
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult 
an independent financial adviser.
Designed and produced by 
 
This report is printed on recycled silk papers made from 100% 
pre and post-consumer waste. The paper mills are based in the 
European Union and manufacture papers independently audited 
and certified by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC
®
) and 
accredited to the Environmental Management System 14001. 
Printed by CPI Colour Limited ISO14001, FSC
®
 certified and 
CarbonNeutral
®
. Group Performance Summary
• Conclusions of strategic review announced in July 2015, with 
Centrica’s purpose defined as providing energy and services  
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers; strategy 
implementation on track.
• Execution of strategy underpinned by comprehensive 
implementation plans across all businesses and functions. New 
organisational model, segments and business units announced, 
with defined KPIs and metrics to measure success.
 – Group will report in line with the new reporting segments for 
the first time at the 2016 Interim Results.
• Focus for growth on distinctive customer-facing activities of 
Energy Supply & Services, Connected Home, Distributed 
Energy & Power and Energy Marketing & Trading.
 – Significant improvement in performance in North America 
with operating profit more than doubling compared to 2014. 
Growth in margins in Direct Energy Business and increased 
product bundling and differentiated offers in Direct Energy 
Residential.
 – Improved customer service and higher net promoter score 
(NPS) in UK residential energy and services. Weak result  
from British Gas Business but operational issues now  
largely rectified.
 – Focus on competitive pricing – the only major UK residential 
energy supplier to make three reductions to household gas 
bills since the start of 2015, saving British Gas customers 
almost £100 per year on average. 
 – Existing Connected Home and Distributed Energy & Power 
capabilities brought together under new business units,  
with good early progress made. 
• Exploration & Production (E&P) and central power generation 
portfolios being actively refocused in line with strategy.
 – E&P focused on creating value in current price environment 
through cost improvement and capital discipline.
 – E&P capital expenditure reduced to around £500 million  
in 2016; flexibility to reduce expenditure further in 2017  
and 2018 if current low price environment is sustained.
 – Post-tax impairments and provisions of £1,477 million on  
E&P assets and £485 million on power assets, reflecting  
the end-year commodity price environment.
 – Announced disposal of the GLID wind farms in February 
2016, in line with strategy to exit wind power generation.
• £750 million cost efficiency programme underpinned and  
on track to be completed by 2020. 
 – 2,000 role reductions already announced. Reduction  
in direct headcount of 3,000 roles expected in 2016. 
 – £200 million of savings expected to be delivered in 2016;  
on track to deliver two-thirds or £500 million per annum  
by the end of 2018. 
*Restatement details
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted effective tax rate, adjusted 
basic and adjusted diluted earnings and adjusted basic and 
adjusted diluted earnings per share include fair value depreciation 
related to our investments in Venture and Nuclear. Prior year 
comparators have been restated accordingly.
Unless otherwise stated, all references to operating profit or loss, 
taxation, cash flow, earnings and earnings per share throughout  
the announcement are adjusted figures, reconciled to their statutory 
equivalents in the Group Financial Review on pages 34 to 37 .
Adjusted earnings
£863m £28.0bn
Revenue
12.0p
Dividend per share
2013 £1,333m*
£1,322m*
2014  £903m*
2012
2015  £863m
2013 17.0p
16.4p
2014  13.5p
2012
2015  12.0p
2013 £26.6bn
£23.9bn
2014  £29.4bn
2012
2015  £28.0bn
IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGY
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
01 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Group has delivered a resilient 
performance for 2015, during what proved 
to be an incredibly challenging period for 
both the energy sector and the global 
economy. These results, the first full  
year under Iain Conn’s leadership,  
are a testimony to the resilience of our 
businesses, particularly those that are 
customer facing, and the dedication and 
hard work of our employees. 
STRATEGIC REVIEW
In July 2015, we announced the results  
of the Group’s strategic review. This review 
was largely driven by changing external 
factors and the Board’s decision to question 
whether we had the right strategy and mix 
of businesses to take advantage of future 
opportunities. As a Board, we fundamentally 
reassessed our strategy and the direction 
we wanted to take the Group. 
In February 2015, we took the tough but 
necessary decision to cut the dividend, 
having reduced capital investment.  
This was a further reason to review the 
Group’s strategic direction so that we  
could move into the next phase with 
confidence and certainty.
Our review concluded that Centrica is first 
and foremost a customer-facing business. 
We are an energy and services company 
and our purpose is to deliver energy and 
services to satisfy the changing needs of 
our customers. 
The outcome of the review requires a 
change to our portfolio mix with our growth 
areas focused on our customer-facing 
businesses and a reduced scale in gas and 
oil E&P to a level which will still allow us to 
participate effectively in that market, 
Chairman’s Statement 
Rick Haythornthwaite, Chairman
“ Centrica is first and foremost a customer-facing 
business. We are an energy and services company 
and our purpose is to deliver energy and services  
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers. ” 
 S e r v ing o u r 
customers  
for over  
200 years... 
1812–1948 1973 1986
Gas Light & Coke 
Company formed
British Gas Corporation 
established
British Gas privatised
The Gas Light & Coke Company, 
formed by Frederick Winsor, was 
incorporated by Royal Charter in 
1812. In 1948, the Gas & Coal Act 
nationalised the industry merging 
over 1,000 privately owned and 
municipal companies into 12 area 
gas boards.
The Gas Council is abolished 
following the introduction of the 
Gas Act in 1972 and British Gas 
Corporation is established in 
1973. The corporation is 
responsible for the development 
and maintenance of the supply  
of gas to Great Britain.
British Gas Corporation is privatised 
and British Gas plc is formed. The 
‘Tell Sid’ campaign is launched 
allowing customers to buy a stake  
in British Gas. Ofgas, the forerunner 
of Ofgem, is created to regulate the 
gas industry.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
02 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 1997 2000 2002–2003
Centrica plc formed Direct Energy acquired  Rough storage facility 
secured
Centrica is formed when British 
Gas plc is demerged into two 
separate companies; Centrica plc 
and BG plc. Centrica maintains 
the British Gas brand in the UK.
Centrica’s acquisition of Direct 
Energy marks a major step  
in international expansion.  
Direct Energy is the largest 
unregulated retailer of natural 
gas in North America.
Centrica acquired the Rough 
offshore gas storage facility  
off the East Yorkshire coast.  
This is the largest gas storage 
facility in the UK, holding the 
majority of the UK’s current 
storage capacity.
diversify our cash flows and help us to 
manage risk by contributing to the strength 
of our balance sheet. Although we are 
making significant investment now, the 
benefits from these changes will be realised 
over the next three to five years.
21
ST
 CENTURY ENERGY COMPANY
We believe in operating transparently, 
treating employees fairly and linking reward 
to performance. These principles are not 
only the ‘right thing to do’ but make good 
business sense too. 
We also believe that we have a duty  
to make a positive contribution to the 
communities in which we operate. In the  
UK alone, Centrica supports 174,000 jobs 
and 6,000 companies supplying goods  
and services through our supply chain.  
In addition, we provide opportunities for 
training and apprenticeships to upskill  
and motivate our workforce. 
Within the energy sector, we face particular 
challenges around sustainability:
• heightened expectations for support to 
be given to those who are most affected 
by the additional costs of carbon 
reduction targets; 
• prioritising technologies of lowest cost 
and least regret; and
• setting simple cost-effective 
decarbonisation targets.
The Board is engaged in understanding the 
potential of new technology and big data  
in our sector and the role that leadership 
can play in exploiting new opportunities  
and guarding against new risks. In order  
to succeed in the 21
st
 century, we will need 
to focus our energies on building trust, 
  
being nimble in our formulation of strategy 
and attracting new talent to Centrica who 
can provide us with competitive advantage. 
Crucially, we will need to do this while 
maintaining our aim to deliver long-term 
shareholder value through both returns and 
growth. These goals are neither easy nor 
will they be achieved overnight but they  
are an essential element of our journey  
to transform Centrica. 
BOARD CHANGES IN 2015
At the start of the year, Iain Conn was 
appointed as the Group’s Chief Executive 
and he has shown that his breadth of 
knowledge and commitment to customers 
and safety make him ideally suited to  
lead Centrica in the next phase of its 
development. He has made a significant 
contribution in leading the Group’s strategic 
review and has underpinned the outcome 
with comprehensive implementation plans. 
During the year, both Carlos Pascual and 
Steve Pusey joined the Board as Non-
Executive Directors. Carlos’ experience  
in international energy geopolitics and 
economic and commercial development 
has enhanced the Board’s global 
perspective and he has brought strong 
challenge to the strategic review. Steve’s 
considerable international experience as a 
senior customer-facing business technology 
leader has provided a new dimension to our 
Board’s discussions and undoubtedly this 
helps us develop our thinking in respect  
of our innovative offerings to customers. 
Mark Hodges, Executive Director and Chief 
Executive, Energy Supply & Services,  
UK & Ireland also joined the Board in 2015.  
Mark has substantial experience of running a 
major UK customer-facing business and has 
a strong track record in improving customer 
service, increasing performance and driving 
growth through innovation. Mark is well 
placed to lead the business in this next 
phase and our customer-facing businesses 
are already benefiting significantly from his 
capabilities. Jeff Bell, who was appointed as 
interim Group Chief Financial Officer, has 
been confirmed in post. Jeff brings extensive 
experience in driving financial performance 
and has a strong track record in developing 
and leading finance teams both in the UK 
and in North America having joined the 
Group in 2002. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
FRAMEWORK
During 2015, the Board undertook a 
fundamental review of the Group’s principal 
risks and its corporate governance 
framework and considered the primary 
roles of the Board’s Committees and  
their membership. A new Committee was 
convened, the Safety, Health, Environment, 
Security and Ethics Committee (SHESEC), 
under the chairmanship of Mike Linn.  
Its purpose is to ensure the effective 
management of risks in respect of people: 
engagement, culture and behaviours; 
sourcing and supplier management;  
health, safety, environment and security; 
information systems security; and legal, 
regulatory and ethical standards 
compliance. There is further discussion  
on the corporate governance framework 
and individual Committee reports in the 
Directors’ and Corporate Governance 
Report starting on page 47.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
03 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION BOARD EVALUATION
Centrica has for many years conducted a 
thorough review of Board process, practice 
and culture on an annual basis with the 
input of an external facilitator at least once 
every three years. The Board considers 
such annual reviews as an essential part  
of good corporate governance. In 2015,  
we assessed our effectiveness internally 
building on the findings from the 2014 
external exercise. We focused on our 
progress against our improvement agenda 
and new reflections in the light of our 
evolving context and composition. This is 
discussed further in our Directors’ and 
Corporate Governance Report on page 50. 
DIVERSITY
Centrica continues to support diversity in  
all its forms, from the top of our organisation 
down. We believe that a mixed, diverse 
workforce is best able to engage with  
our customers and society. We know  
that diversity drives better insight and 
understanding of customers, leads to better 
innovations and itself attracts diverse talent. 
More information on our diversity agenda 
can be found on page 50. 
OUTLOOK
For 2016, continued weaknesses in 
commodity prices will provide challenges for 
the Group. However, I am confident in the 
Group’s resilience against this backdrop. 
The Group will continue to engage actively 
in discussions on energy policy in the UK, 
Europe and North America in the interests 
of our customers and stakeholders.
The clear outcome of the 2015 UK general 
election has provided greater political 
certainty. The Competition and Markets 
Authority (CMA) investigation into the UK 
energy market is ongoing and we welcomed 
this wide-ranging review and the possibility 
that it will have a constructive influence  
on competition in the sector.
The Group is underpinned by our 
competitive advantage including our strong 
market share in the geographies we operate 
in, good brands and deep energy services 
capability. Building on these strengths, our 
strategic direction involves less reliance on 
upstream and more investment in sources 
of differentiation in Energy Services, 
Connected Home, Distributed Energy & 
Power (DE&P) and Energy Marketing & 
Trading (EM&T). 
Looking ahead, our people and our 
technologies are what will make us 
distinctive, giving us the competitive 
advantage to not only respond to the 
changing global energy sector but to win  
for our customers. For these reasons,  
I believe this is an exciting time for Centrica. 
Rick Haythornthwaite
Chairman
18 February 2016
“  Our strategic direction involves 
less reliance on upstream and 
more investment in sources  
of differentiation in Energy 
Services, Connected Home, 
Distributed Energy & Power and 
Energy Marketing & Trading. ” 
2009 2013 2014 2015
Centrica expands  
in the North Sea  
and into nuclear
Energy Marketing  
business of Hess 
Corporation acquired
Bord Gáis Energy  
acquired
AlertMe and Panoramic 
Power acquired
Centrica acquired Venture 
Production to become a  
leading operator of mature and 
orphaned gas assets in the UK 
continental shelf and acquires a 
20% interest in British Energy’s 
nuclear fleet of power stations 
from EDF.
Direct Energy acquired the 
Energy Marketing business of 
Hess Corporation. This made 
Direct Energy the largest business 
gas supplier on the US East 
Coast and the second largest 
business power supplier in the  
US retail markets.
Centrica acquired Bord Gáis 
Energy, a vertically integrated 
energy supply business in the 
adjacent market of the Republic 
of Ireland from Bord Gáis Éireann, 
the state-owned energy company.
British Gas completed the 
acquisition of AlertMe,  
a UK-based connected home 
company. Direct Energy also 
acquired Panoramic Power, a 
leading provider of device-level 
energy management solutions.
READ MORE IN OUR BUSINESSES ON PAGE 12. 
Chairman’s Statement continued
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
04 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT OVERVIEW
2015 provided a very challenging 
environment for Centrica. Commodity 
prices continued to fall during the year, 
creating major challenges for our E&P  
and nuclear power businesses. However, 
Centrica delivered a resilient financial 
performance against this backdrop, with 
increased adjusted operating cash flow and 
a 9% reduction in net debt in the year. In 
addition, the actions we have taken since 
the start of 2015 on the dividend, capital 
expenditure and costs mean the Group is 
robust in this much lower oil and gas price 
environment, and our current projections 
indicate we can more than balance sources 
and uses of cash flow out to 2018 at flat  
real commodity prices of $35/bbl Brent oil, 
35p/th UK NBP gas and £35/MWh  
UK power. 
In July, we announced the conclusions of 
our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic 
review. We concluded that Centrica’s 
strength lies in being a customer-facing 
energy and services business. This is  
where we have distinctive positions and 
capabilities and where we can make the 
biggest difference and contribution going 
forward, for our customers, our employees 
and our shareholders. 
Our purpose – to provide energy and 
services to satisfy the changing needs  
of our customers – provides a clear future 
direction for the Group. Everything we  
do will be in support of this purpose, as  
we position Centrica to deliver returns  
and growth.
Chief Executive’s  
Statement
“ We have a clear strategy for delivering growth  
and returns built around the customer and I am 
encouraged by the progress we have made. ”
Iain Conn, Chief Executive
Key events  
in 2015...
January
British Gas and Bord Gáis 
Energy announce price cuts
British Gas announced a 5% 
reduction in Standard and  
Fix & Fall household gas tariffs 
benefiting 6.8 million customers. 
Bord Gáis Energy announced  
it would cut the unit rate of gas  
by 3.5% and the unit rate of 
electricity by 2.5%. 
February
Strategic review 
announced
Centrica announced a 
fundamental strategic review  
of the Group, largely driven  
by changing external factors 
and the Board’s decision  
to question whether we had  
the right strategy and mix of 
businesses to take advantage 
of future opportunities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
05 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Chief Executive’s Statement continued
We remain confident we can deliver at least 
3–5% per annum operating cash flow 
growth at flat real commodity prices and  
are committed to delivering a progressive 
dividend in line with the sustainable 
operating cash flow growth of the Group.  
I am encouraged with the progress we  
have made since July, as we develop our 
customer-facing platforms for growth and 
we deliver on our major cost efficiency 
programme, which is now underpinned in 
our business plans. Implementation of the 
strategy is on track, I remain excited about 
this next phase and continue to believe that 
Centrica has all the components necessary 
to deliver a powerful investor proposition 
– one of returns and growth. 
2015 PERFORMANCE 
Safety and compliance remain our top 
priority. In safety, we experienced a slight 
degradation in personal safety performance. 
We also experienced one Tier 1 process 
safety incident during the year and we are 
focused on improving our performance in 
this area. In regulatory compliance, we  
have had constructive interactions with our 
principal regulators and have continued  
to contribute to the CMA investigation into 
the functioning of the UK energy market.
Overall operational performance was solid 
during the year. Customer service levels 
improved in the UK, with residential 
complaints down 18% and a higher NPS.  
In UK residential energy supply, the number  
of accounts was down by less than 1% in  
a highly competitive market, while we were 
the only major UK energy supplier to reduce 
residential gas tariffs twice in 2015, by a 
total of 10%. In North America, extreme 
cold weather in the first half of the year was 
handled well, while we delivered increased 
margins and growth in margin under 
contract in Direct Energy Business. E&P 
production and nuclear generation volumes 
were strong. However, as previously 
reported we did face issues following the 
migration of customer accounts and 
associated data onto a new billing and 
customer relationship management system 
from multiple legacy systems in British Gas 
Business. This resulted in temporary 
increases in operating costs to help resolve 
the issues and an increase in debt 
balances, while the number of customer 
accounts reduced over the year. Reflecting 
these factors, our UK business energy 
supply and services division reported  
an operating loss in 2015.
Given the above, and the low commodity 
price environment, Group adjusted 
operating profit fell by 12% compared to 
2014, to £1,459 million, although profit from 
our customer-facing energy and services 
businesses was up 19%. The Group tax 
rate of 26% was lower than in 2014, 
reflecting a reduced proportion of profit 
from the heavily-taxed E&P business. As a 
result, Group adjusted earnings only fell by 
4% compared to last year, to £863 million, 
and adjusted earnings per share of 17.2p. 
These figures now include fair value 
depreciation related to our investments in 
Venture and Nuclear, a change in definition 
we announced in our December 2015 
Trading Update. The 2015 final proposed 
dividend per share of 8.43p is in line with 
last year, taking the 2015 full year dividend 
to 12.0p. 
We also incurred pre-tax impairments and 
onerous provisions on E&P and power 
generation assets of £2,358 million, 
resulting in total post-tax exceptional items 
of £1,846 million. These impairments reset 
the Group’s balance sheet to reflect the 
current commodity price environment. 
CASH FLOW RESILIENCE 
We made good progress during the  
year in our actions to improve cash flows 
and strengthen the Group’s financial 
position. Adjusted operating cash flow  
of £2,253 million was up 2% compared  
to 2014, with increased cash flow from our 
customer-facing businesses offsetting the 
impact of lower wholesale prices on E&P. 
We took action to reduce capital expenditure 
to just over £1 billion, including two small 
acquisitions. Combined with our decision to 
re-base the dividend in February 2015, the 
introduction of a scrip dividend alternative, 
and some divestment proceeds, net debt 
fell by 9% or £449 million to £4.7 billion. 
Reflecting our focus on costs and capital 
discipline, our E&P business was free cash 
flow positive in 2015. 
The steep falls in wholesale commodity 
prices will continue to have a material 
impact on the operating cash flows from  
our E&P and central power generation 
businesses in 2016 and beyond, if  
current levels persist. However, our 
customer-facing businesses are delivering 
resilient cash flows and benefits from our 
cost efficiency programme are starting  
to be realised. If current low wholesale 
prices continue beyond 2016, we have  
the flexibility to reduce our E&P capital 
expenditure further to the bottom end  
of our £400 million– £600 million range.  
As a result, we currently project that our 
sources and uses of cash flow will remain 
more than balanced over the period 
2016–2018, even if flat real wholesale oil, 
gas and power prices remain at low levels 
of $35/bbl Brent oil, 35p/th UK NBP  
gas and £35/MWh UK power. 
March
Direct Energy in  
ground breaking  
loyalty programme
Direct Energy became a 
participating member of Plenti, 
the first of its kind US-based 
coalition loyalty programme. The 
programme offers customers the 
opportunity to earn promotional 
points for signing up for qualifying 
energy plans enhancing Direct 
Energy’s customer proposition.
April
Dedicated to serving 
customers
British Gas dedicated an 
additional £50 million investment 
over three years, demonstrating 
its commitment to customer 
service excellence.
May
Centrica extends gas 
supply contracts
Centrica extended contracts with 
Statoil and Gazprom Marketing 
and Trading. The separate deals 
will meet the gas needs of nine 
million British homes every year.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
06 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT We remain confident in delivering at least 
3-5% per annum operating cash flow 
growth at flat real prices from a 2015 
baseline adjusted for current prices. 
Combined with more than balanced 
sources and uses of cash flow in this 
environment, our focus remains to deliver  
a progressive dividend in line with operating 
cash flow growth.
PROVIDING ENERGY AND SERVICES TO 
SATISFY THE CHANGING NEEDS OF 
OUR CUSTOMERS
Our customer-facing businesses are a 
source of competitive advantage given our 
distinctive positions and capabilities, and 
these businesses will be our focus areas for 
growth. As we set out in July, we expect to 
invest an additional £1.5 billion of operating 
and capital resources into these growth 
areas – Energy Supply & Services, 
Connected Home, DE&P and EM&T – over 
the next five years. Implementation of our 
strategy is on track and we have made some 
material early progress in all of these areas.
In Energy Supply & Services:
• We are focused on competitive pricing for 
all our customers and have made three UK 
residential gas price reductions since the 
start of 2015, saving British Gas customers 
almost £100 per year on average. 
• We continue to develop our bundled 
energy and services propositions for 
residential customers in North America, 
with 46% of energy customer acquisitions 
in 2015 also taking a services protection 
plan or smart thermostat, up from 11%  
in 2014.
• We increased our number of energy 
accounts in the Republic of Ireland, the 
first growth in accounts for a number of 
years, as we focus on increasing our 
market share.
• We launched our new simpler ‘Homecare’ 
services product range in the UK and 
have plans to launch propositions which 
appeal to new customer segments, 
including on-demand and landlords,  
in 2016.
• We have now installed more than two 
million residential smart meters in the  
UK and expect to install over one million  
in 2016, allowing us to provide more 
customers with accurate bills and 
improving customer engagement.
In Connected Home:
• We have established a new international 
business unit, bringing together existing 
expertise in the UK and North America, 
including capabilities gained through the 
AlertMe acquisition in March 2015.
• We have now sold over 300,000 smart 
thermostats in the UK, having launched 
the next generation of our Hive Active 
Heating
TM
 product in the second half of 
the year, and have sold nearly 200,000 
smart thermostats in North America. We 
continue to develop plans to launch Hive 
products outside of the UK and Republic 
of Ireland in 2016.
• In early 2016 we launched a range of  
new connected home products in the  
UK, including the Hive Active Plug,  
Hive Window or Door Sensor and Hive 
Motion Sensor.
In Distributed Energy & Power:
• We have established a new international 
business unit and are looking to increase 
the number of customer relationships  
we have for distributed energy activity  
in the UK and North America from over 
1,000 currently.
• We completed the acquisition of 
Panoramic Power, a leading provider  
of device-level energy management 
solutions, providing our DE&P business 
with leading capabilities in energy 
management technology and data 
science expertise, and enabling us to 
enhance our offerings to Commercial & 
Industrial (C&I) customers.
In Energy Marketing & Trading:
• We continue to build our capability and 
completed a number of ‘free on board’ 
(FOB) liquefied natural gas (LNG) cargoes 
in 2015 and have secured further cargoes 
which are scheduled for delivery in 2016.
• We expect to take delivery of the first 
cargo under our US export contract  
with Cheniere in late 2018 or early 2019, 
following a positive final investment 
decision on the fifth train of their Sabine 
Pass LNG facility in Louisiana in June.
REFOCUSING OUR E&P AND POWER 
BUSINESSES
As part of our strategic review, we also 
clarified the role of E&P in the portfolio –  
to provide diversity of cash flows and the 
balance sheet strength that goes with this. 
We are targeting a stable business that 
produces between 40–50mmboe of gas 
and oil per annum and requires between 
£400 million – £600 million of capital to  
fulfil this role. This compares to gas and  
oil production and capital expenditure  
levels respectively of 79mmboe and 
£728 million in 2015 and 80mmboe  
and £1,086 million in 2014. 
As a result of capital discipline and cost 
efficiency programmes, E&P was free cash 
flow positive in 2015 despite the current low 
wholesale price environment. In the near 
term, at current depressed wholesale prices 
July
British Gas cuts prices 
again
British Gas announced its second 
gas price reduction in six months 
bringing the average total savings 
in 2015 to £72 for British Gas 
customers. The price cut benefits 
6.9 million British Gas customers 
on Standard and Fix & Fall tariffs.
Conclusion of the 
strategic review 
The review identifies a clear 
direction for the business.  
Growth ambitions will focus  
on customer-facing activities. 
Sources of competitive advantage 
include strong market shares, 
good brands and deep energy 
services capability.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
07 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Chief Executive’s Statement continued
we will only invest in new E&P developments 
if the Group’s cash flows can support the 
investment and the projects indicate good 
returns over a range of price environments. 
We currently expect to invest around 
£500 million in 2016, reflecting expenditure 
on existing in-flight projects such as Cygnus 
and Maria. However, in the absence of a 
recovery in oil and gas prices, we could 
potentially make further reductions to the 
levels of E&P capital expenditure.
We will also be pursuing further cost 
reductions. We now expect cash production 
costs to be 15%, or £150 million, lower in 
2016 when compared to 2014. This is 
£50 million lower than the levels previously 
announced. We will explore all options to 
strengthen our E&P business. 
Our E&P focus is on the UK, Netherlands 
and Norway, and as such we continue to 
review options to release capital from our 
Trinidad and Tobago assets, while we now 
consider our positions in Canada to be 
non-core. We continue to work with our 
Canadian partners, Qatar Petroleum, as  
we seek ways to maximise value from our 
existing position. 
In central power generation, we are in the 
process of rationalising our thermal power 
generation portfolio with a view to 
simplification and cost reduction, while 
retaining low-cost optionality. Our focus for 
growth is on peaking units and distributed 
generation. We continue to view our 
participation in nuclear power as a financial 
investment, while in wind power generation 
we announced in July that we intend to 
dispose of our interests in assets, while 
continuing to participate to a limited degree 
through power purchase agreements (PPA). 
In February 2016, we announced we were 
disposing of our 50% interest in the Glens  
of Foudland, Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind 
farms, with our net share of proceeds 
expected to be approximately £115 million. 
This disposal forms part of our divestment 
programme, under which we expect to 
realise £0.5 billion – £1 billion of proceeds 
from the sale of E&P and wind assets by  
the end of 2017. 
COST EFFICIENCY
We announced as part of the strategic 
review conclusions that we are targeting 
£750 million per annum of like-for-like cost 
efficiencies from operating costs and 
controllable cost of goods, to be delivered 
over the next five years. We expect to 
achieve this from a 2015 controllable cost 
base of around £5 billion, before inflation, 
one-off investment to achieve the savings, 
the costs of installing smart meters and 
additional investment in growth areas. After 
inflation, we still expect like-for-like operating 
costs to reduce by around £300 million by 
2020, and after additional operating costs  
to deliver incremental gross margin in the 
growth areas of services, Connected Home, 
DE&P and EM&T, we would expect total 
nominal operating costs in 2020 to be  
no higher than their 2015 level. We also 
announced that the programme would 
result in a reduction in like-for-like 
headcount of around 6,000 roles by 2020, 
with around half expected to come from 
redundancy and half from natural attrition.
The £750 million programme is now 
underpinned in our business plans. We 
remain on track to achieve the savings  
and have already made a number of 
restructuring announcements across the 
Group, which will result in the reduction of 
around 2,000 roles. We expect to achieve  
a reduction in direct headcount of around 
3,000 by the end of 2016, excluding the 
impact of increased headcount in smart 
metering and in growth areas such as our 
Connected Home business. We have also 
made good progress in delivering savings 
from our third party cost base, with a 
number of initiatives ongoing. As a result, 
we expect to deliver £200 million of 
annualised savings in 2016 and we are on 
track to achieve two-thirds, or £500 million, 
of the savings by 2018. 
ORGANISING AROUND OUR 
CUSTOMERS
In January 2016, we announced 
fundamental changes to the way that 
Centrica will be organised, to support 
delivery of our strategy. Centrica has 
historically operated as a holding company 
for a number of different and largely 
self-contained businesses, each of which 
had its own organisation and way of doing 
things. This model made it harder for us  
to work together across businesses, share 
ideas and best practice, and meant we 
have not been taking advantage of 
Centrica’s scale as an international energy 
and services company.
We have therefore moved to establish a 
single group of international businesses and 
have created eleven business units.  
We have combined our energy and services 
activities around our residential and 
business customer segments and a 
common operating model, with the creation 
of UK Home, UK Business, North America 
Home, North America Business and Ireland 
business units. This will allow us to more 
effectively deliver products and services 
which respond to changing customer needs 
at a competitive price. The Home and 
Business units in both the UK and North 
America will be supported by common 
operating functions of Field Operations  
and Customer Operations, while our new 
Connected Home and DE&P business  
units will also leverage Home and Business 
respectively to sell their products. 
EM&T will continue to provide services to 
the other businesses, while E&P, Nuclear 
August
Smart meter landmark
British Gas announced that 
1.5 million smart meters have 
been installed in UK homes. 
Smart meters put an end to 
estimated bills, giving customers 
greater understanding and control 
of their energy consumption.
September
Bord Gáis Energy cuts 
prices again
Bord Gáis Energy announced its 
second price cut in 2015. Bord 
Gáis Energy customers unit rate 
of gas was cut by a further 2.5% 
and the unit rate of electricity by  
a further 2.0%.
October
New well at York field
Drilling began for a new well at 
the York field that will tap into an 
additional 20 billion cubic feet of 
gas, enough to heat half a million 
UK homes for a year. Gas from 
the field is processed at 
Easington by Centrica Storage. 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
08 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT and Centrica Storage will all be run as 
separate business units. All business units 
will be supported by nine Group functions, 
specifically Finance, Human Resources, 
Corporate Affairs, HSES (Health, Safety, 
Environment & Security), Information 
Services, Technology & Engineering,  
Group Marketing, Procurement and Legal, 
Regulatory & Compliance. These changes 
will allow Centrica to leverage its scale  
and operate in a more efficient, effective 
and joined-up way, allowing us to serve  
our customers more effectively and 
efficiently while contributing to underlying 
cash flow growth.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS  
AND NEW SEGMENTS
The execution of our strategy is now 
underpinned by comprehensive 
implementation plans across all businesses 
and functions. We have also now defined 
the key performance indicators (KPIs) 
against which we will measure success in 
delivering our strategy, both at a Group and 
business unit level. The KPIs for our energy 
and services businesses are consistent 
across geographies, in line with the 
establishment of a common operating 
model, while the KPIs for all business units 
are intended to provide an appropriate 
balance of growth and efficiency metrics. 
Details of these KPIs can be found at 
centrica.com/performance. We intend to 
report these KPIs in each half year and full 
year results announcement, starting at our 
Interim Results in July 2016. 
In addition, new reporting segments are  
in place, effective from 1 January 2016, 
aligned to the new strategy and the way  
we now run the business. These will also  
be reported against for the first time at our 
Interim Results in July 2016. Details of the 
new segments can be found on page 13. 
COMPETITION AND MARKETS 
AUTHORITY INVESTIGATION
The CMA investigation into the UK energy 
market is ongoing and the Provisional 
Decision on Remedies is now expected  
in March 2016, with the final report due  
in June 2016. This follows the publication  
of the CMA’s provisional findings and notice  
of possible remedies in July 2015. We have 
contributed constructively to the process 
and improved customer trust in the 
functioning of the energy market is 
something we would welcome. 
We have expressed concerns over some  
of the CMA’s provisional findings and 
proposals including the potential 
introduction of a transitional ‘safeguard 
regulated tariff’. We also expressed 
concerns regarding their analysis of 
profitability and returns. As part of our 
response to the CMA we suggested an 
alternative to the ‘safeguard regulated tariff’, 
the ending of evergreen tariffs. As long  
as this is implemented appropriately, we 
believe it will improve engagement by 
providing customers with a regular prompt 
to review their energy tariff, addressing the 
concerns the CMA may have around 
customer engagement without the need for 
a regulated tariff. We will continue to engage 
with the CMA as their process comes to  
a conclusion over the coming months.
2016 OUTLOOK AND SUMMARY
The lower commodity price environment  
will inevitably continue to have an impact  
on the earnings and operating cash flow 
from our E&P and central power generation 
businesses. However, with our focus on 
cash flow growth and delivery of our 
£750 million cost efficiency programme,  
we currently expect to deliver adjusted 
operating cash flow in excess of £2 billion  
in 2016.
In summary, Centrica has produced  
a resilient performance in 2015 and  
the actions we have taken leave us  
well positioned to handle the current 
environment, with sources and uses  
of cash flow more than balanced at  
current wholesale commodity prices.  
With a strategy developed around the 
customer, we have a clear purpose and 
direction. Implementation of the strategy  
is on track and I am pleased with the 
progress we have made to date. I am 
confident in our ability to deliver our target 
of at least 3–5% growth in operating cash 
flow per annum at flat real commodity 
prices, underpinning a progressive  
dividend policy and delivering shareholder 
value through returns and growth. 
Iain Conn
Chief Executive
18 February 2016
November
Major investment at 
gas-fired South Humber 
Bank power station
Centrica confirmed a £63 million 
investment at South Humber 
Bank gas-fired power station, 
securing the future of the site  
up to 2027. The power station  
is capable of producing enough 
electricity to meet the needs  
of over one million UK homes.
December
Growth in Connected 
Home
Connected Home confirmed 
sales of over 250,000 smart 
thermostats in the UK to the end 
of 2015. Three million customers 
in the UK, North America and  
the Republic of Ireland also now 
have access to our analytics  
and insight products.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
09 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION How We 
Create Value
We are an energy  
and services company. 
Everything we do is 
focused on satisfying 
the changing needs  
of our customers. 
OUR PURPOSE OUR STRATEGY
Long-term growth
• Energy Supply & Services
• Distributed Energy & Power (DE&P)
• Connected Home
• Energy Marketing & Trading (EM&T)
Cash flow and balance sheet strength
• Exploration & Production (E&P)
• Central Power Generation
• Centrica Storage
SEE PAGES 14 TO 19 FOR MORE DETAIL ON OUR STRATEGY AND 
PAGES 38 TO 42 FOR INFORMATION ON HOW OUR RISKS ARE MANAGED.
OUR ORGANISATIONAL MODEL
Underpinning how we create value is our new operating model which  
is aligned to our strategy and our focus on customer-facing businesses.
 Business unit 
 Operating function 
 Group function
Group functions
Common operating model
Distributed Energy & Power
Connected Home
Energy Marketing & Trading
(i) Centrica Storage is operated as a separate ring-fenced entity.
Nuclear E&P Centrica 
Storage 
(i)
North 
America 
Home
North 
America 
Business
Field operations
Customer operations
Ireland UK 
Home
UK 
Business
Field operations
Customer operations
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE CREATE VALUE Serving our customers is what we are 
known for, what we are good at and 
where we have distinctive capabilities.
Our customer-facing businesses are  
a source of competitive advantage, 
given our distinctive positions and 
capabilities, and these businesses will 
be our focus areas for growth. These 
areas will receive additional operating 
and capital resources of approximately 
£1.5 billion over the next five years.
WITH OUR PRIMARY FOCUS ON
• Safety, compliance and conduct
• Customer satisfaction and operational excellence
• Cash flow growth and strategic momentum
• Cost efficiency and simplification
• People and building capability
OUR LONG-TERM  
FINANCIAL GOALS
Deliver long-term 
shareholder value 
through returns  
and growth.
DELIVERING OUR LONG-TERM FINANCIAL GOALS  
THROUGH A CLEAR FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK
THROUGH THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OUR STRATEGY  
WE WILL REALISE OUR GOALS TO BECOME
A trusted corporate citizen
An employer of choice
A 21
st
 century energy company
Targets
Operating cash flow (OCF)
Dividend
Controllable costs
Capital reinvestment 
Credit rating
Return on average capital 
employed (post-tax)
Metrics
• 3% to 5% growth per annum
• Progressive in line with OCF
• Cost growth < inflation
• Investment < 70% of OCF 
• Limited to £1 billion per annum in 2016/2017
• Strong investment grade
• 10% to 12% 
OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
11 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION An integrated energy company, participating 
throughout the energy value chain.
OUR BUSINESSES IN 2015 OUR GROUP STRATEGIC REVIEW
Centrica Storage
Centrica Storage’s Rough gas storage 
facility is the largest in the UK.
Adjusted operating profit  
£809m
2014: £823m
Adjusted operating profit 
£328m
2014: £150m
Adjusted operating profit 
£30m
2014: £7m
Adjusted operating profit  
£255m
2014: £648m*
*Restated – see page 1 for details.
Adjusted operating profit 
£37m
2014: £29m
British Gas
British Gas is the UK’s leading energy 
supplier and offers a comprehensive range 
of services from boiler installation and 
maintenance to plumbing and drains.
Our strategic review carried  
out in 2015 concluded that 
Centrica’s strengths lie in being 
a customer-facing business.
Our focus is to deliver for  
the changing needs of our 
customers, by continuing to 
develop our existing services 
and by accessing new strategic 
opportunities.
We are reducing the scale  
of our E&P business to a 
sustainable level which will allow 
us to participate effectively, 
diversify our cash flows and  
help us to manage risk by 
contributing to the strength  
of our balance sheet.
Direct Energy
Direct Energy is one of the largest retail 
providers of electricity, natural gas and 
home services across North America.
Bord Gáis Energy
Bord Gáis Energy is a leading supplier 
of energy in the Republic of Ireland.
Centrica Energy
Centrica is one of the top gas 
producers on the UK continental shelf.
READ MORE ABOUT HOW WE CREATE VALUE 
ON PAGES 10 AND 11.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR 2015 PERFORMANCE IN THE BUSINESS REVIEW ON PAGES 28 TO 33.
British Gas £12,303m
Direct Energy £10,587m
Bord Gáis Energy £733m
Centrica Energy £4,242m
Centrica Storage £106m
Breakdown by operating revenue Breakdown by adjusted operating proﬁt
British Gas £809m
Direct Energy £328m
Bord Gáis Energy £30m
Centrica Energy £255m
Centrica Storage £37m
Our Businesses
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
12 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESSES A customer-facing energy and services  
company for the 21
st
 century.
OUR GROUP STRATEGIC REVIEW
Energy Supply & Services
Supplying energy and services to residential and business customers in the 
UK, the Republic of Ireland and North America through our new business 
segments: UK Home; UK Business; Ireland; North America Home; and  
North America Business.
Energy Marketing & Trading
Operating in UK and European energy markets we trade in energy  
produced both inside and outside the business. EM&T is the trading  
arm of Centrica and provides the route to market for our production  
and power generation operations.
Connected Home
Our Hive smart thermostat and other products and services help  
our customers manage their energy use in the UK, the Republic of Ireland 
and North America. We plan to build a global business providing new and 
innovative solutions for consumers across the world.
Centrica Storage
We intend to hold our Rough gas storage facility to ensure it fulfils its role  
as the main strategic storage asset for the UK.
Exploration & Production
Targeting production of between 40–50mmboe per year focused  
on the North Sea and East Irish Sea.
Central Power Generation
We are rationalising our thermal power generation portfolio with a view  
to simplification and cost reduction while retaining low cost optionality.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR NEW BUSINESSES ON PAGES 14 TO 19.
 
Strong customer-facing brands 
and distinctive capabilities.
OUR FUTURE BUSINESSES OUR BRANDS
Distributed Energy & Power
Our vision is to provide large scale C&I consumers with the ability to use 
energy more intelligently, giving customers tools to generate and manage  
their energy usage.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
13 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Supplying 
energy and 
providing 
distinctive 
and leading 
services
Our focus for long-term growth
1
Energy Supply & Services
UK & IRELAND
Our energy supply businesses will continue to be a  
key contributor to Group cash flow. In the UK, given  
a highly competitive market, our focus for growth will 
be through significantly improved cost efficiency and 
customer service to underpin better retention levels. 
We expect these to offset the impacts of competitive 
intensity and reducing consumption. By leveraging our 
capability to innovate and compete, we believe that  
we can offer compelling propositions to customers.
In services, we are building on our capability in service 
delivery to develop new propositions to appeal to new 
customer segments.
In the Republic of Ireland we will look to increase 
our share of electricity supply and energy services 
facilitated by a market more recently deregulated 
than the UK.
14 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 NORTH AMERICA
Our North American customer-facing businesses  
are an important part of the Group and we see 
opportunities to increase market share. In residential 
energy supply, we are focused on developing a more 
sustainable business model through the development 
of improved bundled propositions, greater focus on 
customer mix and achieving better retention levels.  
In business energy supply, the acquisition of Hess 
Energy Marketing in 2013 has provided us with a 
market leading position and a strong base from which 
to deliver sustainable returns over the long term.
In our North American services business we are the 
US market leader, albeit with a small market share in  
a very fragmented market, and believe there is strong 
potential for growth from the wide range of products 
we are able to offer. 
15 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2
Distributed Energy & Power
Distributed energy, including energy efficiency, flexible 
generation and new technologies, is an activity which, 
alongside energy management and optimisation,  
we expect to provide significant growth potential for 
Centrica in the long term. This activity will be targeted 
at commercial and industrial (C&I) customers in all the 
geographies in which we operate. Although building 
up our capability in this area will require additional 
investment, many of the skills associated with 
distributed energy already exist in the Group.
We have a good starting position and this is an 
attractive opportunity for Centrica. We expect to invest 
up to £700 million of additional operating and capital 
resources in this area over the next five years.
Focusing on 
distributed 
energy offerings
Our focus for long-term growth
16
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Investing  
in Smart 
technologies 
in the home
3
Connected Home
We believe that our Connected Home offerings will 
become increasingly important, with propositions 
linked to our core energy and services products in  
the UK, the Republic of Ireland and North America. 
These propositions will help to underpin better 
retention levels as well as provide growth opportunities 
in their own right. 
We already have products in the market under our 
Hive brand and have built high quality end-to-end 
capability in this area, with operating platform design 
and operation, hardware and software development, 
data analytics, installation and maintenance. Given 
these capabilities, the scale of our existing customer 
relationships and our ability to directly support 
customers through our national network of engineers 
and technicians, we will be able to compete effectively  
in this space. 
To drive growth, we are investing £500 million in 
operating costs and capital expenditure in our 
Connected Home activities over the next five years. 
17 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Building our 
international 
capability  
in energy  
marketing  
and trading
Our focus for long-term growth
4
Energy Marketing & Trading
EM&T provides a good opportunity for growth and is 
an area where we already have strong capabilities.  
In LNG, the first commercial delivery under our US gas 
export contract with Cheniere is expected in late 2018 
or early 2019 and we have been actively building both 
our capability and market presence in LNG. 
We will also continue to expand our route to market 
services and to utilise our knowledge of European 
energy markets to benefit from trading and 
optimisation activity. 
We expect to invest an additional £150 million of 
operating costs and capital expenditure in this area 
over the next five years. 
18
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Supplying energy 
and providing cash 
flow and balance 
sheet strength
Exploration & Production
The role of Exploration & Production (E&P) in the 
portfolio is to provide cash flow and balance sheet 
strength. We have determined that a stable E&P 
business which produces around 40–50mmboe  
per annum, and requires £400 million to £600 million 
of capital expenditure each year, is sufficient to fulfil 
this role. This compares to a business which produced 
75-80mmboe and incurred capital expenditure  
of around £1.1 billion in both 2013 and 2014 as  
we sought to grow E&P.
We will focus our E&P activity on the North Sea and 
East Irish Sea, where we are material enough to play  
a major role in the UK and Netherlands as well as 
having the capability and presence in Norway to allow 
us to access additional value opportunities.
Centrica Storage
Our offshore gas storage asset, Rough, is the largest 
in the UK. We do not see it as a growth option in  
the current environment and will focus on safety, 
compliance and efficiency of the asset. We will 
continue to work with the UK Government on any 
changes necessary to ensure Rough fulfils its role  
as a strategic asset for UK energy security.
Central Power Generation
In thermal power, we will continue to operate our existing 
small gas-fired fleet, maximising optimisation activity and 
seeking opportunities to make investments in improving 
the fleet where economics allow. We will maintain a 
watching brief as the capacity market evolves, and will 
retain sufficient capability to enable us to continue to 
manage power assets in the future. However, we will not 
increase our emphasis on central thermal generation, 
preferring to seek opportunities in peaking units and 
distributed generation. Additionally, we intend to continue 
to dispose of our interests in wind generation. 
Our participation in nuclear power generation is an 
attractive financial investment but provides limited 
strategic optionality for the Group.
19 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 We monitor our performance  
by measuring and tracking  
key performance indicators (KPIs).
Financial key performance indicators
Key Performance 
Indicators
READ MORE IN THE 
REMUNERATION REPORT  
ON PAGE 64.
READ MORE IN THE 
REMUNERATION REPORT  
ON PAGES 63 AND 70.
CENTRICA.COM/CRASSURANCE.
 
Adjusted operating 
profit
Operating profit is our 
key measure for financial 
performance. For 
remuneration purposes, 
operating profit is adjusted 
to a post-tax basis and by 
a charge on capital to set 
the economic profit 
performance targets.
With the impact of continued 
falls in wholesale oil and gas 
prices only partially offset  
by higher profit in our 
customer-facing businesses, 
adjusted operating profit  
was down 12%.
Link to reward
Short and long-term incentive 
Adjusted operating profit
£1,459m
2013 £2,586m*
2014  £1,657m*
2015  £1 ,459m
*  Restated – see page 1 for details.
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
Adjusted EPS
17.2p
2013 25.9p*
2014  18.0p*
2015  17 .2p
*  Restated – see page 1 for details.
Link to reward
Short and long-term incentive
TSR indices (unaudited)
80
100
1 20
1 40
160
12
Centrica return index
FTSE 100 return index
Source: Datastream 
13 14 15
Link to reward in 2015
The performance of these 
KPIs is linked to the 
remuneration arrangements 
for Executive Directors. 
For 2016
The primary long-term 
financial goal for the Group 
is now adjusted operating 
cash flow (AOCF) growth. 
AOCF is now the basis of 
the Annual Incentive Plan 
(AIP) financial measure. 
Non-financial KPIs
Deloitte LLP review 
selected non-financial  
KPIs and provide limited 
assurance using the 
International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 
ISAE 3000 (Revised). The 
full assurance statement 
and Basis of Reporting are 
available online.
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share (EPS)
EPS is an industry standard 
determining corporate 
profitability for shareholders. 
EPS is adjusted to reflect 
better the performance  
of the business. 
Reflecting the lower adjusted 
operating profit, partially offset 
by a lower tax rate due to 
lower profits from the 
highly-taxed E&P business, 
adjusted basic EPS was  
down 4%. 
Total shareholder 
return (TSR)
The Board believes that  
TSR is a valuable KPI to 
assess the Company’s 
performance in the delivery  
of shareholder value.
Centrica underperformed the 
FTSE 100 return index over 
the three-year period ending 
in 2015 by 12.5%.
(i) Unit has been updated from 100,000 hours 
worked to better align with industry 
standards.
(ii) Restated to align with the updated unit.
(iii) British Gas and Direct Energy NPS is not 
comparable due to different methodologies.
(iv) Restated due to changes in methodology 
which now focuses on experiences at the  
end of key customer journeys.
(v) Data is not comparable with 2014 or 2015 
due to changes in methodology.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
20 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Lost time injury 
frequency rate (LTIFR)
We prioritise safety because it 
spans all of our activities, from 
working in customer homes 
to securing energy offshore. 
In 2015, our LTIFR rose by 
21% to 0.34 per 200,000 
hours worked
(i)
 (high 
performance zone). 
We are working hard to 
reduce the occurrence of 
these injuries by delivering 
new leadership training and 
embedding a stronger health 
and safety culture among 
our people.
Non-financial key performance indicators
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked
0.34
2013
(ii)
 0.22
2014
(ii)
 0.28
2015  0.34
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
Employee engagement
4.84 out of 6
2013 4.81
2014  4.79
2015  4.84
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
NPS
British Gas
+4
2013
(v)
 +15
2014
(iv)
  -4
2015  
+4
Direct Energy
+37
2013 +40
2014  +38
2015  +37
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
Significant events
1
2014 and 2013: 0
Link to reward
Short and long-term incentive
TSR indices (unaudited)
80
100
1 20
1 40
160
12
Centrica return index
FTSE 100 return index
Source: Datastream 
13 14 15
Customer  
satisfaction
Everything we do is focused 
on satisfying the changing 
needs of our customers.  
To measure customer 
satisfaction we use net 
promoter scores (NPS)
(iii)
.
NPS for British Gas increased  
to +4 (median performance 
zone) in 2015. The rise was 
mainly due to service 
improvements in key customer 
journeys as well as competitive 
price reductions.
NPS for Direct Energy 
declined slightly to +37  
(high performance zone).
Process  
safety
Process safety is a key focus 
where we source, generate 
and store energy so that we 
can prevent potential major 
incidents, such as fires and 
explosions.
One significant process safety 
event occurred in 2015 (high 
performance zone). The event 
resulted in the permanent 
disablement of a contractor.
We have created a three-year 
process safety improvement 
plan that will strengthen 
employee leadership and 
capability alongside enhancing 
asset management and 
assurance processes.
Employee 
engagement
Creating a great place to work, 
that motivates and enables 
our people to fulfil their 
potential, is a key driver of 
employee engagement and 
being an employer of choice. 
To achieve this, our people 
provide feedback which helps 
us understand what we are 
doing well and where we 
need to improve. 
In 2015, our employee 
engagement score increased 
slightly to 4.84 out of 6 
(median performance zone). 
This is our highest result  
to date and remains above 
average compared to peer 
companies.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
21 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION As a leading energy and services company with more 
than 200 years of experience, we are well positioned 
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers. 
T o deliver this purpose, we must continue to improve 
and evolve how we do business. We are building 
stronger relationships with key stakeholders that  
help us become a better corporate citizen and an 
employer of choice, with the capabilities necessary 
for delivering an excellent service in a safe and 
responsible way. We are also making an important 
contribution to address big issues in society related 
to energy: from energy pricing and vulnerability to 
energy security and climate change.
By improving how we do business, we will better 
adapt to the challenges and opportunities that arise 
in the rapidly-changing world of energy and build 
trustworthiness in our business and sector. Not only 
will this secure our long-term sustainable growth,  
it will define us as a 21
st
 century energy and services 
company acting for, and on behalf of, our current  
and future customers. 
How We Do Business
EXPLORE MORE ABOUT HOW WE DO BUSINESS  
AT CENTRICA.COM/CR.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS 22 Strengthening 
relationships for a 
better energy future
Quality relationships with key 
stakeholders help evolve how we  
do business and determines our  
long-term success.
PRIORITISING SAFETY 
Ensuring the safety of our people, 
customers and communities is our top 
priority. Focus on safety also makes us  
a stronger, more productive business for 
meeting our customers’ needs. 
All our engineers undergo training to reduce 
safety risks in customer homes. Despite 
this, 46 incidents such as trips and falls 
occurred compared with 29 in 2014. In 
2016, we will re-focus our approach to 
customer safety and introduce improved 
working practices that reduce risk for  
our customers.
Our lost time injury frequency rate for 
employees increased from 0.28 per 
200,000 hours worked in 2014 to 0.34
(i)
. 
Our total recordable injury frequency rate 
also rose to 1.10 per 200,000 hours worked 
against 1.00 in 2014
(i)
. 
Across exploration and production, we 
received three Improvement Notices from 
the UK Health and Safety Executive and 
experienced one significant process safety 
event in Canada, which led to a contractor 
being disabled following exposure to liquid 
nitrogen while filling a storage tank. This 
was up from one Improvement Notice and 
zero significant process safety events in 
2014. Eight high potential events that could 
have resulted in a serious incident also 
occurred in 2015. Process safety therefore 
remains a major focus and we have  
created a three-year improvement plan  
that will strengthen employee leadership 
and capability alongside enhancing asset 
management and assurance processes. 
DEVELOPING SKILLS 
We must secure skills that satisfy our 
customers’ changing needs while helping 
our people fulfil their potential. 
During 2015, British Gas invested 
£24.5 million in training 9,000 engineers 
and 1,200 apprentices. We additionally 
improved the skills of over 20 apprentices 
in exploration, production and power 
alongside 70 people on the graduate 
programme. Following a successful pilot, 
Direct Energy will train 100 new technicians 
in 2016 through our partnership with a local 
technical school. 
In order to retain and reward our skilled 
workforce, we are determined to provide fair 
remuneration. That is why in 2015, we made 
the commitment to pay at least the Living 
Wage to our people located in the UK.
IMPROVING CUSTOMER SERVICE 
Customers are at the heart of our business 
and we recognise the need to strengthen 
our relationship with them by improving  
our service. 
British Gas is investing an additional  
£50 million between 2015 and 2017  
to deliver a better service for residential 
consumers which will enhance customer 
service systems, increase resourcing by 
around 10% and deliver extra training to  
call centre advisers. More than 350 advisers 
have already been recruited, while training 
rose 24% towards our aim of 30% more 
training days by the end of 2016 compared 
to 2013. This brings the average monthly 
training hours per person to 14, up from  
11 in 2014. 
Meanwhile, service levels for business 
customers were lower than planned 
following issues relating to the migration  
to new customer service systems. We are, 
however, beginning to see improvements 
that are expected to continue in 2016.
In North America, Direct Energy increased 
overall training per person from 10 hours  
in 2014, to 12 hours on average each 
month. Furthermore, new call centre 
advisers underwent training to increase 
call-handling efficiency. 
Over time, these investments should help 
reduce complaints and improve satisfaction. 
Our net promoter score (NPS)
(ii)
 which 
measures satisfaction, increased in British 
Gas to +4 from -4
(iii)
 in 2014. Direct Energy 
NPS declined from +38 in 2014, to +37. 
EMBEDDING ETHICS 
To create sustainable business success and 
value in society, it is vital we have a strong 
moral compass underpinning all of our 
relationships and activities. 
Our Business Principles set out the ethical 
standards we expect and in 2016, we will 
evolve our approach to ethics to ensure  
we obtain the highest levels of conduct  
and compliance. 
We also work with suppliers to uphold 
ethical, social and environmental standards 
in the products and services we buy. This 
reduces risk while increasing transparency and 
reliability in our supply chain. In 2015, 46 
potentially higher risk suppliers completed 
assessment on these issues, resulting in  
an average supplier risk score of 54 (low 
risk). This is better than the multi-industry 
average of 42 (medium risk) and marks  
an improvement from 51 (low risk) in 2014. 
Where suppliers receive a medium or high 
risk rating, we collaborate to raise standards 
by creating corrective action plans. 
British Gas invested 
£24.5 million in training  
9,000 engineers and  
1,200 apprentices.
(i) Unit has been updated from 100,000 hours worked to 
better align with industry standards. 2014 performance 
has been restated to align with the updated unit. 
(ii) British Gas and Direct Energy NPS is not comparable 
due to different methodologies.
(iii) Restated due to changes in methodology which 
now focuses on experiences at the end of key 
customer journeys.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
23 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Supporting changing 
customer needs 
Energy can be complex but we are 
making it easier to understand and 
control, while ensuring support for  
those most in need.
(i) Based on Department of Energy & Climate Change 
quarterly statistics, September 2015.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE
1.9 million vulnerable  
customer households  
were helped in the UK.
Providing competitive prices
We regularly review our energy prices to 
ensure they remain competitive. In the UK 
since November 2014, wholesale gas prices  
have reduced by 41% but as most of our 
energy is bought in advance to help protect 
customers from pricing volatility, our cost of 
gas has reduced by 24%. Wholesale energy 
costs make up 40% of the average British 
Gas residential dual fuel bill and was offset 
to some extent by other rising external 
costs, such as distribution charges 
alongside social and environmental taxes. 
British Gas was, however, able to reduce 
household gas prices three times since  
the start of 2015 and was the only major 
supplier to do so. The average residential 
dual fuel bill was cut by 14%, bringing the 
average daily charge for energy to around 
£3.14. Our post-tax profit margin for our  
UK residential customers was 5.6% in 2015. 
To help reduce bills, we continued to 
advocate for a more cost-effective UK 
energy policy. This included engagement 
with government on our Energy Choices 
report, which outlines alternative pathways 
by prioritising lower cost technologies, 
setting cost-effective carbon targets while 
maintaining support for vulnerable people. 
Investing for smarter energy use 
With the most customers in the UK, British 
Gas is leading the mandatory smart meter 
roll-out, having installed 2.5 million in 
homes and businesses since 2009. This  
is around 70% of all smart meters installed 
in the UK
(i)
. Smart meters enable accurate 
billing and help customers explore their 
energy use and costs in real-time, allowing 
for more informed choices that can reduce 
bills. As a result, we are prioritising the 
roll-out to our vulnerable customers. 
Using smart meter data, Direct Energy was 
able to launch North America’s first online 
energy insights dashboard, ‘Direct Your 
Energy’. Similar to British Gas’ ‘my energy’ 
tool, energy use is shown by categories  
such as appliance and compares it to 
similar households, highlighting where 
savings might be made. 
Hive is also a powerful tool for giving greater 
control over energy. Over 300,000 smart 
thermostats have been sold in the UK to 
control heating and hot water remotely, with 
58% of Hive users saying it has helped save 
money on their energy bills. Hive is now 
available in the Republic of Ireland while  
a new family of products including smart 
plugs, lights and sensors, are being 
introduced throughout 2016, enabling more 
of the home to be controlled via an app. 
We have also sold nearly 200,000 smart 
thermostats in North America, helping 
Direct Energy customers save up to 20%  
on their energy bills.
To further develop our leadership 
capabilities in cutting-edge products, we 
acquired AlertMe, an energy management 
and services company and have 
established a global Connected Home 
business in which we will invest £500 million 
over the next five years. Panoramic Power 
were also acquired to lead the future 
development of wireless sensors that 
identify ways businesses can reduce 
operating costs.
Helping those who need support
Over 3,000 customers in North America were 
supported through our Neighbor-to-Neighbor 
bill assistance programme in Texas, while  
1.9 million vulnerable customer households 
were helped in the UK. 
Our mandatory contributions in the UK 
included one-off payments of £140 to over 
650,000 vulnerable customers as part of  
the Warm Home Discount scheme. Through  
the delivery of energy efficiency products via 
ECO, those most in need will also save an 
estimated £400 million on their energy bills. 
£11.6 million in mandatory contributions  
for customers and non-customers were 
additionally made to the independent 
charity, the British Gas Energy Trust. This 
assisted over 24,500 people with household 
debt advice and grants as well as funding 
debt advisers at organisations like Shelter, 
British Gas’ strategic charity partner.
Through partnership with National Energy 
Action, we also developed targeted fuel 
poverty strategies for communities across 
the UK. 
Overall, we spent more than £220 million 
supporting those most in need during 2015, 
mainly through mandatory government 
programmes in the UK. 
OUR PROGRESS
Every household receives energy bills but 
not enough people understand their costs 
or how to reduce them. At the same time, 
changing and challenging financial 
circumstances mean some people 
struggle to pay for their energy. 
We offer competitively priced tariffs to  
win and retain customers while providing 
innovative products and services that satisfy 
their changing needs. This gives customers 
greater understanding and control over 
energy, helping them use less of what we 
sell and lower their energy bills. 
We also recognise our role to help 
government support vulnerable people  
with their energy needs. We are working 
across sectors and have formed strategic 
partnerships that deliver invaluable debt 
advice and financial support for those  
who need it most. 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
24 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS Securing energy  
to fuel society
The world of energy is changing and  
we must adapt to it by sourcing and 
optimising energy supplies that satisfy  
the changing needs of our customers.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE
OUR PROGRESS
Energy is an enabler of society’s progress 
and global demand for it is expected to rise 
by nearly a third by 2040
(i)
. With millions of 
people increasingly reliant on energy, we 
have an ongoing responsibility to source, 
generate and supply competitively priced 
energy for our customers. 
We must evolve how we do this to create 
stronger energy propositions that meet the 
needs of our customers, the environment 
and makes us a more resilient business. 
Gas remains an important part of our 
strategy because it is one of the most 
affordable energy sources for heating 
homes and running businesses, is the 
lowest carbon fossil fuel and backs-up 
intermittent renewable energy. 
We continue to be a sizeable producer  
of gas and oil. We are, however, reducing  
the scale of our oil and gas E&P business  
to reflect the conclusions of our strategic 
review to rebalance the Group’s investments 
in favour of our customer-facing activities.
We will continue to concentrate on serving 
our customers’ energy needs by expanding 
trading capabilities while taking a leading 
role in creating a new model for generating 
and supplying energy through our new 
global DE&P business. 
Together with our innovative products and 
services (see page 24), this approach will 
improve energy security by diversifying 
supply and reducing demand.
Evolving our energy supply 
In 2015, we produced 78.6mmboe of  
gas and oil. We increased our focus on 
purchasing more competitive and diverse 
energy supplies on the global market.  
In 2016 and beyond, we will concentrate  
on significantly growing our presence in 
LNG which is forecast to account for a 
growing share of the world’s energy mix. 
The development of natural gas from shale 
could also strengthen energy security in the 
UK and throughout 2015, we continued to 
explore its potential through our 25% stake 
in the Bowland exploration licence operated 
by Cuadrilla Resources. Despite plans to 
mitigate possible adverse impacts on the 
local community such as noise and traffic, 
planning consent was refused in July. Our 
partners have since appealed the decision 
and we await the outcome in 2016.
Alternatives to fossil fuels are important  
as we transition to a lower carbon future. 
We hold a 20% stake in the UK’s existing 
nuclear power fleet and while we have been 
pivotal in shaping the UK’s wind industry 
through our role as an early developer, we 
have taken the decision to sell our 245MW 
wind farm capacity by the end of 2017. 
Owning and operating wind farms no  
longer fit with our customer-focused 
strategy which is why we will instead 
continue to be an enabler of other 
operators’ wind projects, committing to  
take electricity through a limited number  
of PPAs. 
To reduce risks associated with increased 
energy trading, particularly in respect of 
LNG, PPAs and entry into new markets, we 
have sought to maintain rigorous controls  
in contracting to ensure future partners 
meet the legal standards we expect.
At the end of 2015, our overall commitment 
to secure gas and power for customers 
totalled over £50 billion.
We have taken the decision  
to sell our 245MW wind farm 
capacity. 
Revolutionising energy supply 
We have established a new global DE&P 
business and expect to invest £700 million 
over the next five years to revolutionise the 
traditional, centralised way of generating 
and supplying energy.
We will give large scale energy users such 
as businesses and hospitals, the ability  
to take control of their energy and use it 
more intelligently to reduce, generate and 
manage it themselves. DE&P will bring 
together flexible, local generation with 
storage and renewable technologies 
alongside energy efficiency measures  
and smart building management systems. 
All of these technologies will be managed 
from a smart energy control centre to help 
keep costs and carbon emissions as low  
as possible.
DE&P will also develop new propositions 
and technologies that reduce demand on 
the grid and reward customers with lower 
bills for shifting use away from peak times. 
Together with battery storage and smarter 
grids, this will help energy use become 
more efficient, reduce consumption and 
improve future energy security.
(i) International Energy Agency, 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
25 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Reducing carbon 
emissions to combat 
climate change 
Fossil fuels contribute to climate change 
so we are helping customers reduce 
their carbon footprint while driving down 
emissions across our business. 
Our carbon emissions
2015 2014
Total carbon emissions 4,393,016tCO2e 5,587,885tCO2e
(ii)
Scope 1 4,272,477tCO2e 5,452,079tCO2e
(ii)
Scope 2 120,539tCO2e 135,806tCO2e
(ii)
Total carbon intensity by revenue 157tCO2e/£m 190tCO2e/£m
We report on an equity basis with practices drawn from WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, IPIECA’s Petroleum 
Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Defra’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE
OUR PROGRESS
Energy is essential to the lives of individuals, 
families and businesses but we recognise 
that fossil fuels are also the biggest 
contributor to climate change; one of 
society’s greatest global challenges. 
We fully support climate change targets 
set at a national and international level by 
helping customers cut carbon emissions 
from their energy consumption alongside 
those generated by our business. 
With over 90% of our carbon emissions 
coming from customers, empowering them 
to reduce emissions is vital. We are well 
placed to do this through market-leading 
products and services that give customers 
greater choice and control over their energy. 
Our commitment to disclose and effectively 
manage risks related to climate change 
were again recognised in 2015 by CDP , an 
international non-governmental organisation 
(NGO), who ranked Centrica as a leader  
in disclosure and awarded us a ‘B’ for 
performance
(i)
. This was down from an ‘A’ 
the previous year, due mainly to reduced low 
carbon nuclear and renewable generation. 
Enabling customers to cut carbon
Our expected £1.2 billion investment over 
the next five years in Connected Home 
(see page 24) and DE&P (see page 25), can 
help our customers lower their emissions 
through greater insights and control over 
how they use and generate energy. 
Cost-effective energy efficiency measures 
such as insulation, are also delivered as part 
of ECO. During 2015, we installed 149,000 
measures through ECO which will generate 
lifetime savings of 2.8mtCO2e. 
Furthermore, we help customers reduce 
reliance on fossil fuels by investing in 
alternative energy sources. Solar energy  
is growing in North America and during 
2015, Direct Energy installed solar panels  
in 2,164 homes and businesses, generating  
28MWp. This was up from 19MWp the 
previous year, following the acquisition of 
residential solar capabilities in July 2014. 
In the UK, British Gas exited residential 
solar due to challenging market conditions 
and will now focus on large scale solar for 
businesses. Combined, installations rose 
from 7MWp to 34MWp across 697 UK 
homes and businesses.
Balancing demand on the grid also reduces 
impact from fossil fuels because less energy 
needs to be generated to meet peak 
demand. In 2015, Direct Energy launched 
Reduce Your Use Rewards where 
customers save 5% on their bill by lowering 
usage during a peak event. In 2016, British 
Gas expects to roll-out its own Time-of-Use 
tariff to reduce consumption at peak hours. 
In total, we calculate that we have helped 
our UK customers save over 22mtCO2e 
since 2008, the majority of which was 
through mandated government schemes. 
Reducing our own emissions
We now emit nearly 70% less carbon for 
every pound of revenue raised than in 2010, 
having gradually shifted away from being  
a large scale energy producer. 
Our UK fuel mix of power sold %
Gas 
Nuclear 
Renewable 
 
Coal 
Other 
33
31
23
11
2
In 2015, the carbon intensity of our power 
generation fell by 24% to 117gCO2/kWh. 
This surpasses our target of 260gCO2/kWh 
by 2020, largely due to reduced gas 
generation, stronger nuclear generation  
and divestments made in 2014. We have 
now revised our target to 200gCO2/kWh  
by 2020, which better reflects our business. 
The carbon intensity of all power sold to 
our UK customers during 2014/15, was 
one of the lowest among major UK energy 
suppliers at 240gCO2/kWh; well below the 
UK average of 360gCO2/kWh
(iii)
. 
Meanwhile, the internal carbon footprint  
of our core business was 79,096tCO2e.  
This meant we exceeded our target to 
reduce emissions by 20% since 2007, 
achieving a total reduction of 27%.
(i) Based on 2014 data. 
(ii) Restated due to availability of improved data. 
(iii) ElectricityInfo.org.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
26 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS Our view on taxation
OUR APPROACH
Wherever we do business in the world we 
take great care to ensure we fully comply 
with all of our obligations to pay or collect 
taxes and to meet local reporting and 
disclosure requirements.
We fully disclose information on ownership, 
transactions and financing structures to the 
relevant tax authorities. Our cross-border 
tax reporting reflects the underlying 
commercial reality of our business.
We ensure that income and costs, 
including costs of financing operations, 
are appropriately recognised on a fair and 
sustainable basis across all countries where 
the Group has a business presence. We 
understand that this is not an exact science 
and we engage openly with tax authorities 
to explain our approach.
UK tax charge
UK cash tax paid
Mainland Europe tax charge
Mainland Europe cash tax paid
North America tax charge
North America cash tax paid
Tax charge v. cash tax by country
2015 £m
98
121
130
106
106
74
TAXES PAID IN THE UK
We maintain a transparent and constructive 
relationship with HMRC in the UK. This 
includes regular, open dialogue on issues 
of significance to HMRC and Centrica. 
Our relationship with fiscal authorities in 
other countries where we do business 
is conducted on the same principles.
We carefully manage the tax risks and costs 
inherent in every commercial transaction, in 
the same way as any other cost. However, 
we do not enter into artificial arrangements 
in order to avoid taxation nor to defeat the 
stated purpose of tax legislation.
We actively engage in consultation with 
government on tax policy where we believe 
we are in a position as a Group to provide 
valuable commercial insight.
TAXES PAID OUTSIDE THE UK
Outside the UK the Group’s businesses 
are subject to corporate income tax rates 
in excess of the UK Corporation Tax Rate 
(see below).
A more detailed explanation of the way the 
Group’s tax liability is calculated and the 
timing of cash payments is provided on our 
website at centrica.com/responsibletax.
Statutory tax rates on profits
Group activities %
UK supply of energy and services 20
UK oil and gas production 50/75
Norway oil and gas production 78
Netherlands oil and gas production 50
United States supply of energy 
and services 35
Canada supply of energy and 
services and oil and gas production 26
Republic of Ireland supply  
of energy and services 12.5
As at December 2015.
FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE TAX CHARGE  
IS SET OUT IN NOTE 9.
The Group takes its obligations to pay  
and collect the correct amount of tax very 
seriously. Responsibility for tax governance 
and strategy lies with the Group Chief 
Financial Officer, with the oversight of  
the Board and the Audit Committee. 
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
Breakdown of UK adjusted tax charge 
£m
120 100 80 60 40 20 0
Adjusted UK
tax charge
Deferred taxes and
associates taxes
2015 taxes to be 
repaid in 2016
2014 taxes paid 
in 2015
Taxes paid 
in 2015
74
(47)
66
28
121
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
27 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Business Review
This review reports on our performance 
during 2015 under the business unit  
reporting structure in place at the time.  
In January 2016, we announced fundamental 
changes to the way that Centrica will be 
organised. Our new reporting segments, 
aligned to support the delivery of our 
strategy, are set out on page 13.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR BUSINESS UNIT  
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ON  
CENTRICA.COM/PERFORMANCE.
28 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 British Gas operating profit fell 2% in  
2015, with an operating loss in British Gas 
Business (BGB) caused by issues resulting 
from the implementation of a new billing and 
customer relationship management (CRM) 
system mostly offset by an increase in 
British Gas Residential (BGR) operating 
profit, with consumption returning to more 
normal levels following a mild 2014. In a 
competitive environment we are focused on 
delivering increased efficiencies, improved 
customer service and innovative customer 
propositions across British Gas.
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Improving our levels of customer service  
is a key focus and in April we announced  
we were dedicating a further £50 million  
of resources over three years in serving our 
residential energy customers, to help achieve 
our goal of delivering excellent service. We 
completed recruitment of more than 350 
additional customer service agents by the 
end of September, which enabled us to 
provide resilient service levels in the fourth 
quarter and our residential energy contact 
centre NPS increased by nine points over 
2015, to +28. In Services, our engineer NPS 
increased to a record high of +70 for the 
year. Our nationwide network of around 
8,000 highly trained service engineers with 
trusted access to customers’ homes remains 
a competitive advantage for British Gas. We 
have also seen a consistent improvement 
during 2015 in our brand reputation.
Providing customers with the tools to 
interact and engage through digital channels 
is increasingly important, to improve 
customer satisfaction and to help reduce 
costs, and we are focused on transforming 
the digital customer experience. We have 
made good progress in developing our 
digital platforms and during the year we 
launched a new simplified ‘homemove’ 
customer journey, which has helped 
increase retention of customers moving 
home by 23 percentage points.
British Gas: Residential energy accounts 
14.7m
2014: 14.8m
CONNECTED HOME, INNOVATION 
AND SMART METERING
Innovative customer offerings, including 
connected home products, are increasingly 
important to improve customer satisfaction 
and retention. We have established a 
significant position in connected homes in 
the UK and in March 2015 we completed 
the acquisition of AlertMe, the provider of 
the technical platform that underpins our 
existing connected home activity, including 
our ‘in-house’ developed Hive smart 
thermostat. The acquisition means  
Centrica has ownership and control  
over a scalable technology platform, 
software development capability and  
data analytics, to enable us to provide  
a full end-to-end customer experience. 
In July 2015, we launched Hive Active 
Heating
TM
 2, the next generation of our 
smart thermostat. We have now sold over 
300,000 smart thermostats in the UK, 
providing us with the largest installed  
base of connected thermostats. Around 
80% of Hive customers say they have 
recommended the product, and 42%  
of Hive customers who also have one of  
our energy or services products say they 
feel more positive about British Gas as a 
result. In early 2016, we launched a range  
of connected home products in the UK, 
including Hive Window or Door sensor,  
Hive Active Plug
TM
 and Hive Motion Sensors. 
We have a strong development pipeline  
of further innovative products planned  
for 2016, including Hive Active Lights and 
our ‘connected boiler’, which is currently  
on commercial trial. 
Smart meters will bring significant benefits 
to customers, including an end to estimated 
bills, greater ability to monitor and reduce 
consumption and simpler and faster 
switching between suppliers, helping to 
improve trust in the UK energy industry.  
We have now installed more than two  
million residential smart meters in the  
UK, significantly more than any of our 
competitors, as we scale the business to 
ensure we are fully mobilised for delivery  
of the mandated roll-out by 2020. We are 
currently trialling smart meters to our 
pre-payment customers, with around 
50,000 customers participating in the trial 
and a full commercial launch is planned for 
the second half of 2016. Over 800,000 of 
our smart meter customers now regularly 
receive our unique smart energy report, ‘my 
energy’, which provides a comprehensive 
analysis of their energy consumption.  
The report is helping to improve levels  
of customer satisfaction and the overall 
perception of British Gas, with a +21 NPS 
improvement for customers engaging with 
the report. We are also trialling ‘my energy 
live’ which allows customers to access 
many of the in-home display functions  
on their smart phone or tablet device. 
BRITISH GAS RESIDENTIAL
British Gas Residential operating profit 
increased, reflecting a 5% increase in 
average gas consumption despite the 
warmest December on record, with more 
normal UK temperatures on average in the 
year compared to a mild 2014. In addition, 
costs associated with delivery of the ECO 
programme were lower, predominantly 
reflecting improved efficiency and the 
phasing of expenditure on the programme 
as we accelerated delivery in 2014 to ensure 
we met our obligations under Phase 1 of  
the programme. We have helped nearly 
500,000 households under the ECO 
programme to date. 
Our residential energy customer accounts 
fell by less than 1% over the year, in a 
competitive market environment. We are 
adapting to the changing market with 
competitive fixed price and collective switch 
offerings and our fixed-price Sainsbury’s 
tariff delivered particularly strong sales, 
generating new to brand customers. In 
February 2016, we announced a further cut 
in our residential gas prices, becoming the 
only major UK energy supplier to cut prices 
three times since the start of 2015. The 
average British Gas customer bill is around 
£100 less now than at the start of 2015.
BRITISH GAS SERVICES
The sales environment remains challenging 
for our UK services business, with a 
continued shift in customer demand 
towards cheaper on-demand and home 
emergency products. Against this 
backdrop, we are focused on improving 
sales performance through enhancing the 
online journey and the development of new 
propositions to better meet this changing 
customer demand. In the fourth quarter  
of 2015 we launched our new, simpler 
‘Homecare’ product range and although 
accounts declined during the second half  
of 2015, the net rate of loss was reduced 
compared to the first half. The market for 
central heating installations is also proving 
challenging, with market demand changing 
towards simpler and faster installations. 
British Gas
British Gas: Operating profit
£809m
2014: £823m
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
29 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Reflecting this, in the second half of 2015 
we launched new propositions, such as 
‘straight swaps’, targeted at these  
customer segments.
British Gas Services operating profit fell  
by 5%, with the impact of lower contract 
holdings partly offset by a continued focus 
on cost management. Costs are a key  
area of focus and we are committed to 
managing our cost base to improve 
efficiency and effectiveness. In support  
of this, we made changes to our defined 
benefit pension schemes, resulting in  
a £23 million credit.
BRITISH GAS BUSINESS
British Gas Business was affected by  
issues following the migration of customer 
accounts and associated data onto a  
new billing and CRM system from multiple 
legacy systems, which had a significant 
impact on customer service, including 
difficulties in producing timely customer 
bills. To help resolve these issues we 
recruited additional resource and customer 
service levels have begun to improve. 
Complaints in the second half were down 
9% compared to the first half of the year, 
while unresolved complaints fell by 50%  
in comparison to the peak in early 2015. 
All our business customer accounts have 
been migrated onto the new system and 
billing performance is now better than 
under the old legacy system, with cash 
collection continuing to be a key area of 
focus. The new system is enabling us to 
digitise the customer journey, allowing us  
to target further improvements in customer 
service at reduced cost.
The number of business energy supply 
points fell by 11% during 2015, with our 
focus on resolving the billing issues for 
existing customers limiting the opportunity 
for new sales in a competitive market. In 
addition, the business incurred temporary 
increases in operating costs to help resolve 
the system issues and an increase in the 
bad debt charge. As a result, the business 
reported an operating loss in the year.
Business services and distributed energy 
are key sources of differentiation and will 
help us retain existing customers and 
acquire new ones, as well as providing 
growth opportunities in their own right. We 
have good capabilities in this space, and will 
continue to develop propositions for our C&I 
customers through the newly established 
Distributed Energy & Power business unit.
Direct Energy: Residential energy accounts
3.0m
2014: 3.3m
Direct Energy: Operating profit
£328m
2014: £150m
Direct Energy
Direct Energy delivered significantly higher 
operating profit than in 2014. Much colder 
than normal weather at the start of 2015 
benefited the business, as a more stable 
physical infrastructure, in addition to market 
redesign and management action meant  
we did not see a repeat of the additional 
network system charges resulting from the 
polar vortex in 2014. Although this benefit 
was partially offset by un-seasonally warm 
weather in the fourth quarter of 2015. In 
addition, our C&I business benefited from 
higher unit margins on contracts sold in 
prior years and our residential energy 
business benefited from acquiring higher 
consuming customers. However, the 
services business reported an operating 
loss, primarily due to ongoing investments 
in residential solar.
In November, we announced we were 
combining our residential energy and 
services activities, organising the business 
around our customer segments. This will 
allow us to develop a more sustainable 
residential business, improving commercial 
performance and delivering cost efficiency. 
We also made good progress in building the 
Direct Energy brand across North America. 
During the year we joined a range of 
well-known brands to launch Plenti, the  
first United States-based coalition loyalty 
programme, and we re-launched our Direct 
Energy and First Choice Power brands in 
residential energy. 
DIRECT ENERGY BUSINESS 
Direct Energy Business reported a 
significant increase in operating profit in 
2015, even after taking into account the 
absence of the one-off Polar Vortex costs  
in 2014. This reflects higher margins on 
contracts sold from 2014 onwards, lower 
amortisation costs related to the Hess 
Energy Marketing acquisition and a more 
balanced business between power and 
gas. In addition, natural gas pipeline and 
storage capacity contracts were utilised  
to deliver strong optimisation performance 
during periods of cold weather in the first 
quarter of the year. 
Overall gas and electricity volumes delivered 
to customers were slightly down compared 
to 2014 due to a warm December. However, 
Direct Energy maintained its position as  
the largest C&I gas supplier and the second 
largest C&I power supplier in the United 
States. Unit margins on new C&I gas and 
power sales have remained broadly at the 
levels achieved in 2014, with increased 
margins on power sales and lower margins 
on gas sales.
During 2015 we continued to enhance our 
online customer experience, through the 
launch of ‘MyAccount’. This online platform 
simplifies online bill payment and account 
management. We are currently experiencing 
over 14,500 ‘MyAccount’ log-ins each month.
We continue to look for opportunities  
to enhance our offerings to our C&I 
customers. Through our relationship with 
SolarCity, we completed a number of 
commercial solar installations for customers 
across the US. In November, we completed 
the acquisition of Panoramic Power with 
whom we have had a successful 
partnership since 2014. The acquisition 
provides Centrica with leading capabilities 
in energy management technology and 
data science expertise, with around 25,000 
sensors deployed across 700 sites in 30 
countries, and enables us to offer enhanced 
and innovative propositions to customers 
which allow them to better understand  
their energy consumption. It will also help 
advance our Distributed Energy & Power 
offering in North America. 
British Gas continued
Business Review 
continued
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
30 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECT ENERGY RESIDENTIAL
Direct Energy Residential operating profit 
increased in 2015. This predominantly 
reflects the absence of polar vortex costs 
incurred in 2014. 
The number of customer accounts declined 
by 223,000, reflecting competitive market 
pressures in the US North East and the 
continued impact of the Energy Consumer 
Protection Act (ECPA) in Ontario. Against 
this backdrop, we continue to build our 
capabilities to deliver enhanced and 
innovative customer propositions, including 
the bundling of energy and services 
products as we aim to retain and attract  
the highest value customers. In 2015,  
46% of residential customers acquired also  
took a services protection plan or smart 
thermostat, up from 11% in 2014. We  
also began to execute on our strategy of 
attracting higher consuming customers. 
We continue to offer innovative products 
and have now sold nearly 200,000 smart 
thermostats in North America, enabling  
our customers to reduce and better control 
their energy consumption. Our ‘Direct Your 
Energy’ insight tool, launched in July 2015, 
allows customers to itemise their energy 
usage by major household appliance.  
In addition, we launched ‘Reduce Your  
Use Rewards’ which incentivises customers 
to use less energy in peak demand periods.  
In July 2015, we launched ‘Direct Your  
Plan’, a personalised service enabling 
residential customers to build their own 
energy plan from a number of options such 
as length of contract, energy type, energy 
efficiency tools, reward programmes and 
home services. 
Bord Gáis Energy
Bord Gáis Energy performed strongly in 
2015, ahead of its acquisition case, and 
reported an operating profit of £30 million  
in the first full reporting year since its 
acquisition in June 2014. Employee 
engagement has remained high since the 
acquisition. Having introduced a more robust 
procedure for measuring contact NPS in  
the first quarter, we recorded an overall 
NPS of +16 for the year including an NPS  
of +66 in our boiler servicing department.
Bord Gáis Energy was the first energy 
provider to announce price reductions in  
the Republic of Ireland in both January and 
September 2015, with residential gas and 
electricity price cuts totalling 6% and 4.5% 
respectively. These reductions positioned us 
with the cheapest standard dual fuel offering 
amongst our major competitors. Reflecting 
this, the business returned to residential 
energy account growth in both gas and 
electricity, the first time this has grown since 
2011, while the number of multi-product 
customers increased by 30% during 2015. 
In addition, the number of business energy 
service supply points also increased by  
16% to 36,000 in the year. 
Bord Gáis Energy is also leveraging 
Centrica’s expertise in deregulated energy 
markets, having launched the first residential 
fixed price tariff in the Republic of Ireland 
and also introduced Hive Active Heating
TM
. 
Early take up has been positive. 
In power generation, our flexible 445MW 
Whitegate gas-fired station operated ahead 
of expectations and delivered high reliability, 
protecting our customers from power price 
volatility during peak times in a highly 
vertically integrated market. 
Bord Gáis Energy: Operating profit
£30m
2014: £7m
 Our Energy Supply & Services 
businesses in the UK and North 
America will share a common 
operating model and be 
supported by common 
operating functions.
We remain focused on delivering high  
levels of customer service and in 2015  
our ‘right first time’ metric increased by  
10 percentage points. We also continue to 
drive digital customer interactions, helping 
improve the customer experience and 
reducing costs, and 21% of new customer 
acquisitions in 2015 were obtained  
through digital channels, an increase of  
2 percentage points in comparison to 2014. 
Cost efficiency is also a key focus and in 
2015 we delivered a 2% year-on-year 
reduction in residential energy ‘cost to  
serve’ per customer.
DIRECT ENERGY SERVICES
Direct Energy Services reported an 
operating loss of £34 million in 2015, 
compared to a £4 million like-for-like 
operating profit in 2014, which excludes the 
contribution from the Ontario home services 
business, which was sold in October 2014. 
The loss in 2015 reflects an accelerated 
investment in Direct Energy Solar. 
We continue to grow our services annuity 
business and the number of contract 
relationships across North America 
increased by 12% and is now over one 
million. During the year we re-priced our 
protection plan offerings to better reflect the 
costs and risks associated with the portfolio 
of product offerings, while maintaining a 
competitive offer to our customers. Our 
residential new construction business 
performed well, as did our franchise 
operations as we expanded our reach  
to 78 new locations and now serve 650  
in total. The combining of our residential 
activities into DE Home will help us to 
achieve our goal of building long-term 
customer relationships.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
31 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Centrica Energy
Centrica Energy: Operating profit
£255m
2014: £648m*
* Restated – see page 1 for details.
Centrica Energy: UK power generated
19.3TWh
2014: 22.1TWh
Centrica Energy delivered good operational 
performance in 2015, with higher than 
planned levels of E&P production and 
nuclear generation. However, the business 
reported a significantly reduced operating 
profit and recognised post-tax impairments 
and onerous provisions totalling £1,950 
million on E&P and power generation 
assets, predominantly reflecting the impact 
of falling wholesale commodity prices, 
spark spreads and forecast capacity 
auction prices. Against this backdrop we 
made significant progress in repositioning 
the business, achieving reductions in both 
E&P cash production costs and capital 
expenditure, and the E&P business was  
free cash flow positive in the year. 
GAS
Our E&P business delivered good 
production performance, with total gas and 
liquids production down 1% to 78.6mmboe. 
Gas production was down 3% and liquids 
production was up 7%.
In Europe, total production was down  
1%. Norwegian production increased by 
16% reflecting consistently high production 
from Kvitebjorn and Statfjord and a first 
contribution from the large-scale Valemon 
project in the North Sea, which came 
on-stream in January 2015. UK and 
Netherlands production decreased by  
14%, reflecting the natural decline of 
producing fields and an extended 
maintenance shutdown at Morecambe. 
In the Americas, total production decreased 
2%, with the benefit from new wells 
acquired and drilled in Canada in 2014 
largely offsetting natural decline in the 
portfolio. Trinidad and Tobago production 
was down 5% compared to 2014. 
We have made significant progress in 
refocusing our E&P business. A number  
of initiatives have enabled us to deliver cost 
efficiencies, including management action  
to renegotiate contractor rates, headcount 
reductions in support roles and working with 
licence partners and operators to deliver 
savings. European unit cash production 
costs were down 6% compared to 2014.  
In the Americas, unit cash production costs 
reduced by 13%, in part reflecting reduced 
Canadian royalties as a result of lower North 
American gas prices. We have increased 
our target reduction in lifting and other cash 
production costs in 2016 to 15%, or 
£150 million, compared to 2014.
Organic capital expenditure in 2015 was 
£728 million, 33% lower than in 2014. This 
included spend on the large-scale Cygnus 
project, which is expected to achieve first 
gas in the first half of 2016. In the current 
price environment we have acted to 
minimise other capital expenditure, including 
exploration. We are focusing on maintaining 
and optimising production from our assets 
and on completing committed development 
projects. These projects include Cygnus and 
Maria, on which we took a final investment 
decision during 2015 and which is due to 
produce first oil in 2018. We expect capital 
expenditure to be around £500 million  
in 2016. Centrica Energy’s proven and 
probable (2P) reserves of 528mmboe at the 
end of 2015 were 10% lower than in 2014, 
with positive revisions to reserves in Norway 
and Canada partially offsetting the impact  
of production during the year.
Our gas midstream business delivered a 
strong trading performance in the second 
half of the year, including recognising a 
£24 million gain following the settlement  
of a disputed long-term gas field contract. 
This more than offset a first half operating 
loss, following the optimisation of a number 
of flexible gas contracts for value during  
a period of falling prices in 2014, with a 
consequential impact on 2015. In LNG,  
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(FERC) issued authorisation in April 2015  
to allow Sabine Pass Liquefaction LLC  
to construct and operate the fifth train 
expansion at their LNG facility in Louisiana. 
At the end of June 2015 the project received 
a Non-Free Trade Agreement licence from 
the Department of Energy (DOE), and with  
a positive final investment decision now 
having been made on the project Centrica 
expects to take delivery of its first cargo 
under its US export contract in late 2018  
or in 2019. We continue to increase our 
capabilities and presence in global LNG and 
have completed a number of FOB cargoes, 
including our first delivery to South America, 
and have secured further cargoes scheduled 
for delivery in 2016.
Overall, Gas operating profit fell 73%, 
predominantly reflecting lower achieved oil 
and gas prices and a reduced contribution 
from the gas midstream business. We also 
recognised exceptional post-tax impairments 
of £1,477 million relating to our E&P assets, 
as a result of declining oil and gas prices.
POWER
Our share of nuclear power generation  
for the year was up 8%, reflecting good 
reliability from the fleet. The four reactors  
at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool power stations 
were all operational in the year, albeit at 
reduced load, having been temporarily 
shut-down in the second half of 2014 
following the identification of an issue on 
one boiler spine at Heysham 1 in 2014.  
A programme of cooling modifications  
was successfully implemented during 2015,  
and temperature restrictions have now been 
lifted. This means that three of the reactors 
can now reach 100% output, with further 
work planned in 2016 at Heysham 1 to 
increase power.
Business Review 
continued
 We have clarified the role of 
E&P in the portfolio – to 
provide diversity of cash flows 
and balance sheet strength.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
32 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Centrica Storage
Centrica Storage: Operating profit
£37m
2014: £29m
Seasonal gas price spreads fell to 
historically low levels over the second half of 
2015, with an abundance of flexible supply 
across Europe, and they remain at these 
low levels creating a challenging outlook for 
the Rough asset. It was announced in April 
2015 that all SBUs for the 2015/16 storage 
year had been sold at 21.1p, only marginally 
higher than the 20.0p achieved in 2014/15, 
which was the lowest SBU price since 
Centrica acquired the Rough asset in 2003. 
In March 2015, Centrica Storage 
announced that during a routine inspection 
of Rough a potential technical issue had 
been discovered. As a result, we decided  
to limit the maximum operating pressure of 
the Rough wells to 3,000 psi, the equivalent 
of limiting the stock in the Rough asset  
to 29-32TWh. The highest level reached in 
2014 was 41.1TWh. Reflecting the reduced 
maximum operating pressure, Centrica 
Storage has reduced the number of SBUs  
it will sell for the 2016/17 storage year to 
340 million, from 455 million in 2015/16,  
and in February 2016 announced that it  
had sold over 80% of this lower capacity.  
It is anticipated that the limitation will remain 
in place at least until the testing and 
verification works are completed between 
September 2016 and December 2016. 
In thermal power generation, market spark 
spreads and our plant’s load factors 
remained low during the year. Gas-fired 
volumes were down 37%, which also 
reflects an unplanned outage at Langage in 
the first half. In December 2015, the second 
UK power capacity auction took place for 
2019/20 capacity, clearing at £18.0/kW/
year. Our Humber and Langage plants were 
successful in the auction, as were all the 
nuclear reactors in which we have a 20% 
equity interest. Humber and Langage 
remain core assets, alongside Brigg, which 
is now operating as a distributed energy 
asset and Peterborough, where we have  
the potential to make a similar conversion. 
Killingholme will close in March 2016 once 
its Supplemental Balancing Reserve (SBR) 
contract ends, while Barry will only continue 
to operate if profitability can be secured in 
short-term flexibility markets.
Our wind assets delivered increased  
wind yields but generation volumes fell  
by 3%, reflecting the disposal of our share  
in the Barrow offshore wind farm in 
December 2014.
Total Power operating profit increased by 
40%. Nuclear profit was up, with the higher 
volumes and good cost management more 
than offsetting the impact of lower market 
power prices. The operating loss from our 
gas-fired fleet was broadly flat. Renewables 
profit increased, with 2014 including net 
negative one-off impacts of £17 million 
resulting from development project  
write-downs partially offset by profits on 
disposal. Midstream profit was lower in 
comparison to a strong performance in 2014. 
We also recognised an exceptional post-tax 
impairment of £372 million relating to our 
nuclear investment and £101 million relating 
to our Spalding contract asset, which 
includes an onerous contract provision of 
£70 million. These arose primarily as a result 
of declining baseload power, clean spark 
spread and forecast capacity auction prices.
In July 2015 Centrica Storage received 
consent from the Oil and Gas Authority  
to increase the reservoir size of Rough  
by 4.5TWh. As a result, the capacity of 
Rough has been partially recovered and  
a proportion of the cushion gas associated 
with this was sold in the second half of the 
year. Operating profit was slightly higher  
in 2015 than in 2014, with the sale of this 
cushion gas more than offsetting the 
negative impact of the pressure limitation  
on Rough. 
In September 2015, the CMA announced  
a consultation on the Rough Undertakings, 
following a request from Centrica Storage  
in light of the operating pressure limitations 
of the Rough wells. The final report is 
expected in April 2016.
Against a challenging external environment, 
Centrica Storage has completed a 
reorganisation of the business, allowing it  
to focus on health and safety, efficiency and 
cost control, while maintaining the integrity 
of the ageing Rough asset. 
 We do not see Storage as a 
growth option in the current 
environment.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
33 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group Financial  
Review
Group revenue Adjusted operating profit
£28.0bn £1,459m
2014: £29.4bn 2014: £1,657m (restated)
Adjusted effective tax rate Adjusted earnings
26% £863m
2014: 30% 2014: £903m (restated)
Adjusted basic EPS Dividend per share
17.2p 12.0p
2014: 18.0p (restated) 2014: 13.5p
Adjusted operating  
cash flow
Net debt
£2,253m £4,747m
2014: £2,201m 2014: £5,196m
Statutory loss Basic earnings per share
£(747)m (14.9)p
2014: £(1,012)m 2014: (20.2)p
GROUP REVENUE
Group revenue decreased by 5% to £28.0 
billion (2014: £29.4 billion). British Gas gross 
revenue fell 4% to £12.4 billion, primarily as 
a result of lower average sales prices 
reflecting the lower price environment and  
a lower number of business energy supply 
points. Direct Energy gross revenue fell by 
11%, also reflecting the impact of lower gas 
prices on energy unit tariffs, and the impact 
of the disposal of the Ontario home services 
business in October 2014. Bord Gáis 
Energy gross revenue increased by 87% 
reflecting 12 months of ownership in 2015 
compared to six months in 2014. Centrica 
Energy gross revenue fell by 6%, primarily 
reflecting lower achieved prices in the 
current commodity environment, partially 
offset by increased midstream revenue. 
Centrica Storage gross revenue increased 
by 5% with the sale of cushion gas more 
than offsetting the impact of lower seasonal 
gas price spreads and reduced capacity at 
the Rough asset.
OPERATING PROFIT
All profit and earnings figures now include 
fair value depreciation related to our 
Strategic Investments in Venture and 
Nuclear, which was previously excluded 
from adjusted measures. Throughout the 
statement, reference is made to a number 
of different profit measures, which are 
shown on page 35.
Total adjusted operating profit fell 12%. 
British Gas operating profit fell 2%. Within 
this, residential energy supply operating 
profit increased, reflecting higher gas 
volumes due to more normal weather 
conditions, and lower costs, including those 
associated with delivery of the ECO 
programme. Residential services profit fell 
by 5%, with the impact of lower accounts 
and inflationary cost increases partially 
offset by cost efficiency measures, including 
a £23 million one-time credit relating to the 
implementation of a Pension Increase 
Exchange (PIE) for our defined benefit 
scheme members. Business energy supply 
and services reported an operating loss, 
primarily reflecting a higher bad debt charge 
and temporary additional operating costs 
relating to the implementation of a new 
billing and CRM system.
Centrica has delivered a resilient financial 
performance, with solid 2015 adjusted 
earnings despite the challenge of falling 
wholesale oil and gas prices.
34 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Operating profit
Year ended 31 December Notes
Business
 performance
£m
Exceptional
 items and
certain 
re-measurements
£m
2015
 Statutory 
result
£m
Business
 performance
£m
Exceptional
 items and
 certain 
re-measurements
£m
2014*
 Statutory 
result
£m
Adjusted operating profit
British Gas 809 823
Direct Energy 328 150
Bord Gáis Energy 30 7
Centrica Energy 255 648
Centrica Storage 37 29
Total adjusted operating profit 4(c) 1,459 1,657
Interest and taxation on joint ventures and 
associates 4(c) (61) (89)
Group operating profit/(loss) 4(c) 1,398 (2,255) (857) 1,568 (2,705) (1,137)
Net finance cost 8 (279) – (279) (266) – (266)
Taxation 9 (286) 538 252 (375) 773 398
Profit/(loss) for the year 833 (1,717) (884) 927 (1,932) (1,005)
Attributable to non-controlling interests 30 (24)
Adjusted earnings 863 903
Group finance charge and tax
Year ended 31 December
UK
£m
Non-UK
£m
2015
Total 
£m
UK
£m
Non-UK
£m
2014*
Total 
£m
Adjusted operating profit 1,057 402 1,459 1,196 461 1,657
Share of joint ventures’/associates’ interest (53) – (53) (62) – (62)
Net finance cost (156) (123) (279) (152) (114) (266)
Adjusted profit before taxation 848 279 1,127 982 347 1,329
Taxation on profit 74 212 286 125 250 375
Share of joint ventures’/associates’ taxation 8 – 8 27 – 27
Adjusted tax charge 82 212 294 152 250 402
Adjusted effective tax rate 10% 76% 26% 15% 72% 30%
* Restated – see page 1 for details.
Direct Energy operating profit increased 
significantly, with no repeat of additional 
polar vortex related costs incurred in 2014 
and the realisation of higher margins on 
business energy supply contracts. This 
more than offset an operating loss in Direct 
Energy Services, as a result of the sale  
in 2014 of the Ontario home services 
business and additional costs related  
to accelerated investment in our solar 
business. Bord Gáis Energy made an 
operating profit of £30 million in the first  
full year since its acquisition. 
Centrica Energy operating profit fell by 61%. 
Gas operating profit fell 73%, predominantly 
reflecting the impact of lower commodity 
prices. Power profitability increased by  
40% with higher output from the nuclear 
fleet, the absence of net one-off negative 
impacts of £17 million on renewables in 
2014 and a reduced loss on gas-fired  
assets due to a lower depreciation charge 
reflecting prior year impairments. Centrica 
Storage operating profit increased by 28%, 
predominantly reflecting additional revenue 
from the sale of cushion gas. 
GROUP FINANCE CHARGE AND TAX
Net finance costs increased slightly to  
£279 million (2014: £266 million), reflecting  
a higher interest cost on bonds following the 
issuance of £1 billion equivalent of hybrid 
securities. The taxation charge reduced to 
£286 million (2014: £375 million) and after 
taking account of tax on joint ventures  
and associates the adjusted tax charge  
was £294 million (2014: £402 million). The 
resultant adjusted effective tax rate for the 
Group was 26% (2014: 30%), predominantly 
reflecting a shift in the mix of profit towards 
the lower taxed downstream businesses. 
An effective tax rate calculation, showing 
the UK and non-UK components, is  
shown below:
35 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Financial Review continued
Adjusted operating cash flow
Year ended 31 December
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net cash flow from operating activities 2,197 1,217
Add back/(deduct):  
Net margin and cash collateral (inflow)/outflow 
(i)
(282) 640
Payments relating to exceptional charges 81 125
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 180 138
Defined benefit deficit pension payment 77 81
Adjusted operating cash flow 2,253 2,201
(i) Net margin and cash collateral (inflow)/outflow includes the reversal of collateral amounts posted when the related derivative contract settles.
GROUP EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND
Reflecting all of the above, profit for the year 
fell to £833 million (2014: £927 million) and 
after adjusting for losses attributable to  
non-controlling interests, adjusted earnings  
were £863 million (2014: £903 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS) 
was 17.2p (2014: 18.0p). 
The statutory loss attributable to 
shareholders for the period was £747 million 
(2014: loss of £1,012 million). The reconciling 
items between Group profit for the period 
from business performance and statutory 
profit are related to exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements. The change 
compared to 2014 is principally due to  
a net gain from certain re-measurements  
of £129 million compared to a net loss  
of £771 million in 2014, partially offset by 
higher post-tax exceptional charges of 
£1,846 million (2014: £1,161 million). The 
Group reported a statutory basic EPS  
loss of 14.9p (2014: loss of 20.2p).
In addition to the interim dividend of 3.57p 
per share, we propose a final dividend  
of 8.43p, giving a total ordinary dividend  
of 12.0p for the year (2014: 13.5p).
GROUP CASH FLOW, NET DEBT  
AND BALANCE SHEET
Group operating cash flow before 
movements in working capital fell to 
£2,324 million (2014: £2,726 million). After 
working capital adjustments, tax and 
payments relating to exceptional charges, 
net cash flow from operating activities was 
£2,197 million (2014: £1,217 million). Adjusted 
operating cash flow, reconciled to operating 
cash flow in the table above, was up 2%,  
to £2,253 million (2014: £2,201 million).
The net cash outflow from investing  
activities decreased to £611 million (2014: 
£651 million), with lower organic capital 
expenditure broadly offsetting reduced 
proceeds from disposals.
The net cash outflow from financing 
activities was £1,331 million (2014: £663 
million). The impact of lower cash dividends 
resulting from our decision to rebase the 
dividend by 30% and high take-up of our 
scrip dividend alternative, combined with  
no repurchase of shares, was more than 
offset by the impact of a net repayment of 
borrowings of £650 million compared to  
net inflow from borrowings of £793 million  
in 2014.
Reflecting all of the above, the Group’s net 
debt at the end of 2015 fell to £4,747 million 
(2014: £5,196 million), which includes cash 
collateral posted or received in support of 
wholesale energy procurement.
During the year net assets decreased to 
£1,342 million (2014: £3,071 million) primarily 
reflecting the statutory loss in the year.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
On 17 March 2015, the Group gained control 
of AlertMe, a UK-based connected homes 
business that provides innovative energy 
management products and services. Prior  
to this date, the Group held an interest in  
the company and under this transaction 
acquired the remaining share capital.  
The purchase consideration, net of cash 
received for the previously held interest,  
was £44 million.
On 30 November 2015, the Group acquired 
Panoramic Power, a leading provider of 
device-level energy management solutions 
for a net purchase consideration of 
$64 million (£42 million). 
Further details on acquisitions, plus details 
of assets purchased, disposals and disposal 
groups are included in notes 4(f) and 12.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Net exceptional pre-tax charges of  
£2,358 million were incurred during the  
year (2014: £1,597 million). 
The Group recognised a pre-tax impairment 
charge of £1,865 million (post-tax £1,396 
million) on a number of E&P production 
assets, reflecting declining wholesale gas 
and oil prices.
On power assets, the Group recognised  
a pre-tax impairment charge of £31 million 
and an onerous power procurement 
provision of £70 million relating to our 
finance leased UK gas-fired power station, 
reflecting declining forecast capacity market 
auction prices and clean spark spreads. 
The Group also recognised a further pre-tax 
onerous contract provision of £20 million for 
the Direct Energy wind power procurement 
arrangement. In addition, the Group 
recognised a pre-tax impairment charge  
of £372 million on its nuclear investment  
due to declining forecast power prices  
and capacity market auction prices.
Taxation on these charges generated a 
credit of £477 million (2014: £436 million), 
and combined with a reduction in net 
deferred tax liabilities of £116 million related 
to the effect of a change in UK tax rates  
and an £81 million impairment charge on 
E&P deferred tax assets which are no 
longer expected to be recoverable against 
future tax profits, meant that exceptional 
post-tax charges totalled £1,846 million 
(2014: £1,161 million).
36 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS
The Group enters into a number of  
forward energy trades to protect and 
optimise the value of its underlying 
production, generation, storage and 
transportation assets (and similar capacity 
or off-take contracts), as well as to meet the 
future needs of our customers. A number  
of these arrangements are considered to  
be derivative financial instruments and are 
required to be fair-valued under IAS 39. The 
Group has shown the fair value adjustments 
on these commodity derivative trades 
separately as certain re-measurements,  
as they do not reflect the underlying 
performance of the business because they 
are economically related to our upstream 
assets, capacity/off-take contracts or 
downstream demand, which are typically 
not fair valued. The operating loss in the 
statutory results includes a net pre-tax  
gain of £103 million (2014: net loss  
of £1,108 million) relating to these  
re-measurements. The Group recognises 
the realised gains and losses on these 
contracts in business performance  
when the underlying transaction occurs. 
The profits arising from the physical 
purchase and sale of commodities during 
the year, which reflect the prices in the 
underlying contracts, are not impacted  
by these re-measurements. See note 7  
for further details.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE  
SHEET DATE 
On 5 February 2016, Centrica and its joint 
venture partner announced the joint sale  
of the Glens of Foudland, Lynn and  
Inner Dowsing (GLID) wind farms. After 
repayment of debt associated with GLID 
and other costs, Centrica’s net share of  
the sales proceeds will be approximately 
£115 million, which exceeds the carrying 
value of the disposed assets. It is 
anticipated that the transaction will be 
completed during March 2016.
Further details of events after the balance 
sheet are described in note 26.
RISKS AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties 
are set out on pages 38 to 42. Details of 
how the Group has managed financial risks 
such as liquidity and credit risk are set out  
in note S3. Details on the Group’s capital 
management processes are provided under 
sources of finance in note 24(a). 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
UK listed companies are required to comply 
with the European regulation to report 
consolidated financial statements in 
conformity with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union. The Group’s specific 
accounting measures, including changes of 
accounting presentation and selected key 
sources of estimation uncertainty, are 
explained in notes 1, 2 and 3.
“ Operating cash flow has been strong and  
with capital discipline this has allowed the  
Group to reduce net debt. ”
37 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Principal Risks  
and Uncertainties
A summary of our principal risks  
and uncertainties which may impact  
the delivery of our strategic priorities  
is shown below. 
A summary of our principal risks and uncertainties 
(i)
Strategic risks Risk climate (ii)
1 Strategy delivery
 
Increased risk
2 External market environment
 
Increased risk
3 Political and regulatory intervention
 
No change in risk
4 Brand, trust and perception
 
No change in risk
5 Business planning, forecasting  
and performance
 
No change in risk
Operational risks Risk climate (ii)
6 Customer service
 
No change in risk
7 People
 
Increased risk
8 Change management
 
Increased risk
9 Asset development, availability  
and performance
 
No change in risk
10 Sourcing and supplier management
 
No change in risk
11 Health, safety, environment  
and security
 
No change in risk
12 Information systems and security
 
No change in risk
Compliance risks Risk climate (ii)
13 Legal, regulatory and ethical 
standards compliance
 
Decreased risk
Financial risks Risk climate (ii)
14 Financial market
 
Increased risk
15 Credit and liquidity
 
Increased risk
16 Financial processing and reporting
 
No change in risk
(i) This list is not exhaustive and items are not prioritised.
(ii) The risk rating is based on our current understanding of our risk environment,  
but may change over time as our business and the operating environment  
continue to evolve.
38 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In 2015, we reviewed the design of our  
risk universe to ensure a more consistent 
and comprehensive approach to risk 
identification.
This provides an overarching framework, 
which includes processes for identifying, 
achieving and managing principal risks  
to the achievement of our strategic priorities. 
These processes are reinforced through 
regular performance management and are 
subject to internal and external review.
READ MORE IN OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REPORT ON PAGE 55.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities
1 Strategy delivery
Failure to deliver 
Centrica strategy.
The Group is being reorganised to achieve 
the strategic objectives announced in 2015. 
The delivery of this strategy creates additional 
uncertainties, including in relation to growth  
of new businesses, the achievement of 
disposals and the realisation of substantial 
cost efficiencies.
• Delivery of the strategy is the primary objective of the Board and 
Executive who are directly engaged in regular progress reviews.
• The Board approves the Group annual plan setting the strategic 
direction.
• We have a clear financial framework to ensure capital is allocated  
in line with strategy and towards projects best able to deliver expected 
business benefits.
• Where necessary, experienced leaders have been identified and 
appointed to ensure the delivery of the critical strategic goals.
• Strategic definition is provided through clear delegated targets 
embedded in business plans.
2 External market 
environment
Changes and events  
in the external market 
or environment that 
could impact delivery 
of Centrica’s strategy.
Customer behaviour, downstream competitive 
positions and upstream operational results 
are impacted by: improved energy efficiency, 
competitor activity, climate change, 
commodity price movement, long-term 
weather patterns and the general  
economic outlook. 
• Regular analysis undertaken on commodity price fundamentals  
and their potential impact on business plans and expectations.
• Strategic discussions focused in 2015 on a broad range of external 
scenarios and sensitivities to underpin the viability of the strategic 
review.
• Clarity provided during 2015 on the strategic desire for an integrated 
business operating across the value chain, providing a balanced  
risk portfolio.
• Investments in businesses such as Connected Home in response  
to changing external trends and requirements. 
• We support climate change targets set at a national and international  
level by driving down carbon emissions across our business as well 
as giving customers greater control over their energy through 
innovative and energy efficient products and services.
3 Political and 
regulatory 
intervention
Changes, intervention 
or a failure to influence 
change to the political 
or regulatory 
landscape.
We are subject to oversight by a range of 
political and regulatory bodies. UK regulators 
continue to impose significant obligations  
to implement carbon reduction measures  
and energy affordability. We await the final 
outcome of the CMA investigation into the 
energy markets in the UK and the implications 
for our businesses.
• Constructive and regular engagement with regulatory bodies such  
as the CMA, with a clear commitment to an open, transparent and 
competitive UK energy market that provides choice for consumers. 
• The Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee 
(SHESEC) has oversight of regulatory risk, in addition to the 
discussions within the Board.
• Work with regulators to find a better approach to intervention that 
agrees clear targets against which we can demonstrate progress.
• Consistent engagement with political parties to bring about 
agreement on critical areas in energy policy.
4 Brand, trust and 
perception
Competitive 
positioning and 
protection of the 
Centrica and 
subsidiary brands.
Our customers are critical to our business 
and are at the heart of our strategy. To grow 
and evolve our business we must protect and 
develop our brand, building trust across a 
wide range of stakeholders.
• NPS and other customer service and brand metrics regularly reviewed 
by Executive Committee and the Board.
• Focus on providing affordable energy and excellent service through  
a fair and simplified transparent offering.
• Seek to protect the most vulnerable households through financial 
advice and aid. 
• Engage with stakeholders to understand their views and identify 
solutions to help reduce bills and improve transparency.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
39 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
Principal risks and uncertainties
Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities
5 Business planning, 
forecasting and 
performance
Business planning, 
forecasting, risk 
management and 
achievement of 
anticipated benefits.
We prioritise how we use our resources 
based on our business plans and forecasts. 
Failure to accurately plan and forecast could
result in suboptimal decisions and may 
impact expected benefits.
• Planning processes revised to underpin the strategic objectives  
for 2016 and beyond, as well as to support the shape of the future  
operating model.
• Board and Executive Committee directly engaged in constructive 
challenge of the planning, forecasting and risk management 
processes.
• Direct interaction between the strategy, fundamentals, planning  
and finance teams in arriving at forecasts and plans.
• Performance review process designed to provide challenge and  
a forum for discussion of critical uncertainties in the business  
planning processes.
6 Customer service
Failure to provide good 
quality customer 
service.
The delivery of high quality customer service 
is central to our business strategy. With the 
entry of new competitors to the market, 
customers are increasingly likely to switch 
supplier if they face an unacceptable 
customer experience. We must remain at  
the forefront of technological development  
to provide choice and efficiency.
• Providing the optimal service to our customers is discussed regularly 
at both Board and Executive Committee meetings.
• Where we are known to have experienced issues, such as the service 
to our British Gas Business customers, we have ensured a full and 
focused response.
• Commitment to continually strengthen our controls for customer 
service and complaints management.
• Increased investment in Connected Home to give customers greater 
visibility, control and engagement over their energy usage. 
7 People
Attraction, retention, 
and succession of the 
right people with the 
right skills in the right 
role at the right time.
The change in our business model means 
attracting and retaining the right skills to meet 
evolving priorities is critical. Similarly, 
maintaining industrial relations across our 
businesses becomes more challenging, given 
our announced level of job losses. Insufficient 
capability and capacity in senior management 
and key skills will limit our ability to grow and 
execute our strategy at the speed required.
• People Committee established at the executive level to provide focus 
on the key talent challenges.
• Board level consideration of values, culture and succession matters.
• Clearly defined people strategy, based on organisational capability 
and requirements, culture and engagement, equality and wellbeing, 
talent development, training and reward and recognition. 
• Active engagement with trade unions on restructuring and issues that 
could impact terms and conditions, with clear and open processes  
to promote an environment of trust and honesty.
• Annual employee engagement survey to identify what we are doing 
well and where we need to improve.
8 Change 
management
Execution of change 
programmes and 
business restructuring.
The scale of change planned in our business 
is significant. Any substantial delay or 
challenge experienced with the organisational 
restructuring, system implementation or 
growth of new businesses could adversely 
affect stakeholder expectations. At the same 
time we must maintain our systems of internal 
control throughout the change.
• Monthly Executive Committee review of the strategy implementation 
and required change programmes, allow for the open discussion  
of emerging risks and control requirements.
• Progress and issues reported to and discussed by the Board.
• Appointment of a senior executive in 2015 to lead the transformation 
programme bringing focused attention on benefits realisation, risk 
prioritisation and milestone tracking. 
• Focused on our people throughout the change, recognising the  
need for appropriate capability to be built across the organisation.
• Established forums for sharing of good practice as we seek to 
standardise and simplify the business model.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
40 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Principal risks and uncertainties
Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities
9 Asset 
development, 
availability and 
performance
Investment, 
development and 
integrity of operated 
and non-operated 
assets.
Failure to invest in the maintenance and 
development of our assets could result  
in underperformance, assets being out  
of service or significant safety issues.  
The Company must have confidence in  
its operational integrity and ability to perform 
and deliver in line with objectives.
• The Board takes a direct interest in the oversight of our significant  
assets and in ensuring we have the highest operational standards.
• Group-wide minimum standards applied to all assets, whether 
operated or non-operated, in order to have confidence in their 
integrity.
• Clarity on future direction of E&P assets provided through the 
strategic review underpinning our continued commitment to  
this sector.
• Capital allocation and investment decisions governed through  
the Investment Committee chaired by the Chief Executive.
10 Sourcing 
and supplier 
management
Dependency on and 
management of third 
parties to deliver the 
products and services 
for which they have 
been contracted to  
the agreed time,  
cost and quality. 
Across our business operations we rely on 
services provided by third parties. These 
include outsourced activities and third party 
infrastructure as well as operating 
responsibility in some assets. As with  
any contractual relationship there are no 
guarantees that suppliers will always 
comply with legal, regulatory or corporate 
responsibility requirements.
• Board level oversight is provided through the SHESEC, with the 
executive level Ethics & Compliance Committee also focused  
on this area.
• All suppliers are required to sign up to our ‘Responsible Procurement’ 
policies and procedures.
• Financial health risk and anti-bribery and corruption due diligence and 
monitoring is implemented in supplier selection and contract renewal 
processes.
• Corporate responsibility processes in place for procurement  
of all goods and services.
11 Health, safety, 
environment and 
security (HSES)
HSES hazards and 
regulations associated 
with Centrica’s 
operations.
Our operations have the potential to result in 
personal, environmental or operational harm. 
Significant HSES events could also have 
regulatory, legal, financial, and reputational 
impacts that would adversely affect some  
or all of our brands and businesses.
• HSES is considered to be of upmost significance to the Group and 
receives Board level oversight through the dedicated SHESEC. 
• Specific HSES executive level committee also established, chaired  
by the Chief Executive on a monthly basis.
• Strengthening of the second line of defence assurance capability,  
to provide independent assessments of the controls and processes  
in place to manage these risks, to ensure they remain effective and 
continue to develop. 
• Investment in capability development and awareness activities to 
ensure we maintain safe operating practices in all our businesses. 
• Regular evaluation of security intelligence, operating procedures, crisis 
management and business continuity plans, to provide assurance  
of our capability to respond rapidly and appropriately to any incident.
12 Information 
systems and 
security
Effectiveness, 
availability, integrity 
and security of IT 
systems and data 
essential for Centrica’s 
operations.
Our substantial customer base and strategic 
requirement to be at the forefront of 
technology development, means that it is 
critical our technology is robust, our systems 
are secure and our data protected. Sensitive 
data faces the threat of misappropriation from 
hackers, viruses and other sources, including 
disaffected employees.
• Information systems and cyber security received substantial Board level 
focus during 2015 and remain a continued focus for the SHESEC.
• Detection and investigation of threats and incidents were prioritised, 
through further investment in 2015 and by engaging with key 
technology partners and suppliers.
• Increased focus on employee awareness and training in relation to 
sensitive data and digital information.
• Policies over new technology development reviewed and tested 
regularly.
• Collaborative working with other parties across the energy industry and 
within the wider public and private sectors to share threat information.
• Evaluation and testing of cyber security crisis management and wider 
business continuity plans.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
41 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties
Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities
13 Legal, regulatory 
and ethical 
standards 
compliance
Compliance with legal, 
regulatory and ethical 
requirements.
Our operations are the subject of intense 
regulatory focus and we seek to deliver the 
highest standards in compliance and ethical 
conduct. We recognise any real or perceived 
failure to follow our global Business Principles 
or comply with legal or regulatory obligations 
would undermine trust in our business. 
Non-compliance could also result in fines  
and other penalties.
• SHESEC established in 2015 to provide Board level oversight of this 
risk, alongside the executive level Ethics & Compliance Committee. 
The Disclosure Committee will review all external regulatory 
announcements. 
• The Chairman is directly responsible for promoting high ethical 
standards and best practice in corporate governance and ensures  
the effective contribution of all Directors. 
• Experienced Group Ethics and Compliance Officer appointed in 2016 
to bring additional strength and focus.
• Group Business Principles govern how we conduct our affairs. 
Managers are required to declare that they will uphold these principles 
on an annual basis to ensure that we remain a responsible and fully 
compliant business.
• Speak Up process in place to enable employees to raise and report 
any concerns.
14 Financial market
Exposure to market 
movements, including 
commodity prices and 
volumes, inflation, 
interest rates and 
currency fluctuations.
Our financial performance and price 
competitiveness is dependent upon our 
ability to manage exposure to wholesale 
commodity prices for gas, oil, coal, carbon 
and power, interest rates for our long-term 
borrowing, fluctuations in various foreign 
currencies and environmental factors. 
• Audit Committee reviews, assesses and challenges the effectiveness 
of the governance and control mechanisms within EM&T.
• Group Financial Risk Management Committee meets monthly  
to review Group financial exposures and assess compliance with  
risk limits.
• Governance and controls exist to manage liquidity and funding 
exposures.
• Active hedging programmes in place to mitigate exposure to 
commodity and financial market volatility.
15 Credit and liquidity
Management of 
counterparty 
exposures and funding 
uncertainties.
The seasonal nature of our business, 
contractual obligations, pension and 
decommissioning funding and margin cash 
arrangements associated with certain 
wholesale commodity contracts, have a 
significant impact on our liquidity. Certain 
events and activities may have a direct impact 
on our credit, ratings and liquidity, which could 
increase the cost of, and access to, financing.
• Significant committed facilities are maintained with sufficient cash 
held on deposit to meet fluctuations as they arise.
• A regular assessment of available resources is made including that 
required to support the viability and going concern assumptions 
within this report.
• Counterparty exposures are restricted by setting credit limits for each 
counterparty, where possible by reference to published credit ratings. 
• Wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and 
treasury positions are managed in accordance with Group policy.
16 Financial 
processing and 
reporting
Accuracy and 
completeness of 
internal and external 
financial information.
We must be able to maintain robust financial 
systems and produce accurate financial 
statements that adequately disclose all 
applicable accounting policies. This obligation 
includes maintaining processes to avoid 
misstatement through fraud or error. The 
confidence of our investor and regulatory 
stakeholders is reliant on the continued 
integrity of our financial public reporting.
• Audit Committee maintains close oversight of the financial policies 
and procedures within clearly defined guidelines.
• Processes in place provide assurance over the completeness and 
accuracy of our public financial reporting, with monitoring and internal 
audit activity designed to identify any misstatements or errors.
• We maintain an effective working relationship with our external 
auditors and value their insight and recommendations.
Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
42 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES During the year the Board 
conducted a comprehensive 
review of the Board and 
Committees’ governance 
framework against the Group’s 
identified principal risks.
 
Corporate 
Governance
44 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
46 SENIOR EXECUTIVES
47  DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REPORT
63 REMUNERATION REPORT
80  INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
43 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Board of Directors
Full biographies can be found at centrica.com
RICK HAYTHORNTHWAITE
Chairman
Rick joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director on 14 October 2013. He was 
appointed Chairman of the Board on 
1 January 2014 and is Chairman of the 
Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience
Rick has a wealth of knowledge in the 
energy industry and has significant board 
experience, both as an executive and 
non-executive. He led the rescue of Invensys 
from 2001 to 2005 and the defence, 
turnaround and subsequent sale of Blue 
Circle Industries from 1997 to 2001. He has 
served on the boards of Network Rail as 
chairman and Cookson, Lafarge, ICI and 
Land Securities as non-executive director.
External appointments
Chairman of the global board of  
MasterCard Incorporated, QIO Technologies 
and Arc International.
IAIN CONN 
Chief Executive
Iain was appointed Chief Executive on  
1 January 2015 and is Chairman of the 
Disclosure Committee.
Skills and experience 
Iain has a wealth of experience heading 
customer-facing businesses and brands. 
He possesses a deep understanding of  
the energy sector built up over a lifetime  
in the industry with a commitment to 
customers and safety. Iain was previously 
chief executive, downstream, BP’s refining 
and marketing division from 2007 to 2014. 
Iain was a board member of BP for 10 
years from 2004 and has previously held  
a number of senior roles throughout BP.
External appointments 
Non-executive director of BT Group plc. 
 N
 D
MARK HANAFIN 
Group Executive Director and 
Chief Executive, Energy Production, 
Trading and Distributed Energy
Mark joined the Board on 14 July 2008.
Skills and experience
Mark has senior management experience 
across the energy value chain from E&P 
through to product sales. He has excellent 
midstream and trading credentials as well  
as a strong track record in developing supply 
and marketing businesses. Before joining 
Centrica, Mark spent 21 years with Royal 
Dutch Shell.
External appointments
Non-executive director of EDF Energy 
Nuclear Generation Group Limited.
 MA RK H O DG E S
Group Executive Director and Chief 
Executive, Energy Supply & Services, 
UK & Ireland
Mark joined the Board on 1 June 2015.
Skills and experience
Mark brings a strong understanding of the 
UK consumer market and a track record 
in improving business performance. He 
is experienced in working in a regulated 
environment, driving significant improvements 
in customer service and efficiency, ‘offer 
innovation’, major IT and change projects. 
Mark was group chief executive officer of 
Towergate Partnership and prior to this he 
spent over 20 years with Norwich Union and 
Aviva plc holding a variety of finance, planning 
and strategy roles including sitting on both 
the executive committee and Aviva plc board.
LESLEY KNOX
Non-Executive Director
Lesley joined the Board on 1 January 2012 and 
is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience
Lesley brings a wealth of strategic and financial 
experience across a range of businesses to the 
Board and she is an experienced remuneration 
committee chair. She was previously with British 
Linen Bank and was a founder director of British 
Linen Advisers. Lesley was senior non-executive 
director of Hays Plc and also spent 15 years 
with Kleinwort Benson.
External appointments
Non-executive director of SABMiller plc, 
trustee of the Grosvenor Estate and chairman 
of Grosvenor Group Limited, Chairman  
of Design Dundee Limited and a trustee of  
The National Life Story Collection and  
National Galleries Scotland.
A N R
JEFF BELL 
Group Chief Financial Officer
Jeff was appointed Group Chief 
Financial Officer and joined the Board 
on 1 August 2015.
Skills and experience
Jeff has a broad range of finance 
experience. He joined the Group’s Direct 
Energy business in Toronto in 2002 where 
he held various senior finance positions 
before moving to the Company’s head 
office in 2008 to support the Group Chief 
Executive and to lead the Group Strategy 
team. In 2011 he was appointed Director  
of Corporate Finance. Prior to Centrica, Jeff 
worked in Toronto for both KPMG, where  
he qualified as a chartered accountant,  
and the Boston Consulting Group.
MARGHERITA DELLA VALLE 
Non-Executive Director
Margherita joined the Board on 1 January 
2011 and is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee.
Skills and experience
Margherita brings considerable corporate 
finance and accounting experience and  
has a sound background in marketing. She 
was chief financial officer for Vodafone’s 
European region from April 2007 to October 
2010 and chief financial officer of Vodafone 
Italy from 2004 to 2007. Previously she 
worked for Omnitel Pronto Italia in Italy and 
held various consumer marketing positions 
in business analytics and customer base 
management prior to moving to finance.
External appointments
Deputy Group CFO of Vodafone Group plc, 
a member of HM Treasury’s Financial 
Management Review Board of 
HM Government and a trustee of the 
Vodafone Foundation.
 D
 A  S N R
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
44 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MIKE LINN 
Non-Executive Director
Mike joined the Board on 1 June 2013  
and is Chairman of the SHESEC.
Skills and experience
Mike has considerable experience in the 
energy sector, particularly exploration and 
production and the US market. He founded 
and was previously chairman, chief 
executive officer and president of LINN 
Energy, LLC.
External appointments
Non-executive director of LINN Energy,  
LLC, non-executive board member of 
Nabors Industries, Blackstone Minerals 
Company, LP and Western Refining 
Logistics and senior advisor to Quantum 
Energy Partners. Member of the National 
Petroleum Council and inducted into the  
All American Wildcatters.
IAN MEAKINS 
Senior Independent Director
Ian joined the Board on 1 October 2010  
and is Senior Independent Director.
Skills and experience
Ian has broad general management  
and board experience and considerable 
knowledge of managing businesses  
with strong brands. Ian is currently chief 
executive officer of Wolseley plc and was, 
until April 2009, chief executive of Travelex 
Holdings Ltd. He was chief executive officer 
of Alliance UniChem plc until its merger with 
Boots in July 2006 and between 2000 and 
2004 he was president, european major 
markets and global supply for Diageo plc.
External appointments
Group chief executive officer of Wolseley 
plc. It has been announced that Ian is 
expected to retire from Wolseley plc on 
31 August 2016.
 N R  S
 A N R
CARLOS PASCUAL 
Non-Executive Director
Carlos joined the Board on 1 January 2015.
Skills and experience
Carlos has held a number of senior positions 
in the energy industry and is a senior leader 
in energy geopolitics and economic and 
commercial development. Between 2011 
and 2014 Carlos established and directed 
the US State Department’s Energy 
Resource Bureau. Until August 2014 Carlos 
was special envoy and coordinator for 
international energy affairs, acting as senior 
adviser to the US Secretary of State on 
energy issues. He has also served as  
US ambassador in Mexico and Ukraine.
External appointments
Non-resident senior fellow at the Centre on 
Global Energy Policy, Columbia University 
and senior vice president of IHS Inc.
STEVE PUSEY 
Non-Executive Director
Steve joined the Board on 1 April 2015.
Skills and experience
Steve has a wealth of international 
experience as a senior customer- 
facing business technology leader.  
He has considerable experience in the 
telecommunications industry in both  
the wireline and wireless sectors and  
in business applications and solutions. 
Steve has worked for Vodafone, Nortel  
and British Telecom and is a graduate  
of the Advanced Management Program  
at Harvard University.
External appointments
Non-executive director of FireEye, Inc.  
and ARM Holdings plc.
 N R   S
 A N S
 A
  
Audit 
Committee
 D
  
Disclosure 
Committee
 N
  
Nominations 
Committee
 R
  
Remuneration 
Committee
 S
  
Safety, Health, 
Environment, 
Security  
and Ethics 
Committee 
  
Denotes 
Committee 
Chairman
Rick Haythornthwaite
Mark Hanafin
Ian Meakins
Iain Conn
Mark Hodges
Carlos Pascual
Jeff Bell
Lesley Knox
Steve Pusey
Margherita Della Valle
Mike Linn
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
45 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Chris Cox
Senior Executives
Full biographies can be found at centrica.com
CHARLES CAMERON
Director of Technology 
& Engineering
Charles was appointed Director of 
Technology & Engineering on 
1 January 2016.
Skills and experience
Charles has extensive technology and 
engineering experience and has held 
corporate roles in marketing, planning and 
M&A. Before joining Centrica he was head 
of technology, downstream at BP plc and 
was a member of the downstream 
executive team. 
Prior to his time at BP, Charles spent 23 
years with the French Institute of Petroleum 
and their catalyst, technology licensing and 
engineering service business, Axens. 
CHRIS COX
Managing Director, Exploration 
& Production
Chris was appointed Managing Director, 
Exploration & Production on 1 February 
2016.
Skills and experience
Chris has extensive experience in global oil 
and gas upstream activities. Since 2006 
and prior to his appointment with Centrica, 
he held a number of senior roles at BG 
Group plc and was latterly the executive 
vice president, BG Advance and a member 
of the group executive team. Prior to his 
time at BG Group plc, Chris was with 
Amerada Hess and Chevron Corporation.
GRANT DAWSON
Group General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
Grant was appointed Group General 
Counsel & Company Secretary in 
February 1997.
Skills and experience
Grant joined British Gas plc in October  
1996 and has been Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary of Centrica plc  
since the demerger of British Gas plc on 
17 February 1997. He was called to the Bar 
in 1982 and has spent most of his career  
in industry joining the legal department of 
Racal Electronics plc in 1984 and then STC 
plc as legal adviser in 1986 until they were 
taken over in 1991 by Northern Telecom 
Limited. Between 1991 and 1996, he was 
the associate general counsel for Nortel  
in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
BADAR KHAN
Chief Executive, Energy Supply 
& Services, North America
Badar was appointed President and CEO, 
Direct Energy on 1 April 2013.
Skills and experience
Badar has extensive expertise in both 
upstream and customer-facing energy 
businesses. Prior to his appointment as 
President and CEO, Direct Energy, he was 
President, Upstream and Trading of Direct 
Energy. Prior to joining Centrica in 2003, he 
was a senior officer of a private retail energy 
company in the US and a management 
consultant with Deloitte.
JILL SHEDDEN
Group HR Director
Jill was appointed Group Director,  
Human Resources on 1 July 2011.
Skills and experience
Jill joined British Gas plc as a graduate  
in 1988 and has since held a wide range  
of roles across the Group. Prior to her 
appointment as Group HR Director,  
Jill was HR Director for Centrica Energy  
and was previously HR Director for  
British Gas Business and HR Director  
for British Gas Energy. 
 D
Grant Dawson
Badar Khan
Jill Shedden
Charles Cameron
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
46 GOVERNANCE SENIOR EXECUTIVES Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance Report
Dear Shareholder
Board governance
As Chairman of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
and Corporate Governance Report which sets out how we promote 
good corporate governance principles, the work of the Centrica 
Board and its Committees and our approach to risk management 
and internal control. Taken together, these define our approach, 
which underpins our firm commitment to ensuring that Centrica 
operates to the highest standards of corporate governance. 
The Group relies on a robust governance framework to support  
the organisation (see page 53) and responsibility for its delivery  
lies with the Board. The Board is accountable to shareholders and 
remains committed to developing good shareholder engagement  
in accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code). We detail how we comply with the Code on  
page 48.
We took the opportunity in 2015 to review our governance structure 
and, by aligning it with our identified principal risks, we enhanced 
the Board’s governance and oversight. One output of this exercise 
was the establishment of a new Board Committee, the Safety, 
Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee (SHESEC). 
This report is intended to provide shareholders with a good 
understanding of how the Group is managed, how the Board and 
its Committees are organised and how these contribute to a robust 
framework of governance. The importance of our governance 
framework in ensuring the continuing success of Centrica and the 
delivery of long-term sustainable value creation for all of Centrica’s 
stakeholders is recognised. I firmly believe that good corporate 
governance is an important enabler to the success and reputation 
of the Group and provides the framework for the way in which  
we conduct our business and deliver our strategic objectives. 
Appointments and succession
As I highlighted in my Chairman’s Statement, during the year we 
have seen a number of Board changes notably welcoming Iain 
Conn on to the Board as Chief Executive and Carlos Pascual 
and Steve Pusey were appointed as Non-Executive Directors. 
We also appointed Ian Meakins as our Senior Independent Director. 
During the year, Jeff Bell, our Interim Group Chief Financial Officer, 
was confirmed in post and Mark Hodges was appointed as an 
Executive Director. Both Jeff and Mark have been appointed to the 
Executive Committee and bring with them a wealth of experience 
reflecting their respective careers to date. 
I look forward to working with my fellow Directors in driving 
excellence in governance both in the boardroom and throughout 
the Group. 
We took the opportunity to review our 
governance structure. By aligning it with  
our identified principal risks, we enhanced 
the Board’s governance and oversight. 
“ Good corporate governance is an important 
enabler to the success and reputation of the 
Group and provides the framework for the way 
in which we conduct our business and deliver 
our strategic objectives. ”
Board evaluation
The Board considers that its own continuing effectiveness is vital  
to the Group delivering its strategic objectives. Towards the end 
of the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its own 
performance against a number of changes on the Board which 
I have already outlined. In accordance with the requirements  
of the Code, we undertook an internally facilitated assessment  
and the findings provided a clear agenda for Board development. 
More detail can be found on page 50. We expect to hold 
an external review of the effectiveness of the Board and its 
Committees next year.
The Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report that follows 
has been prepared in order to provide shareholders with a 
comprehensive understanding of Centrica’s governance framework 
and to meet the requirements of the Code, the Listing Rules and the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules. I trust you will find it informative.
Rick Haythornthwaite
Chairman
18 February 2016
Rick Haythornthwaite, Chairman
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
47 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report continued
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
We are required to measure ourselves for the year under review 
against the standards of the Code. A copy of the Code is available 
at frc.org.uk. This report sets out how the Company applied the 
principles of the Code and the extent to which the Company 
complied with the Code in the year to 31 December 2015. The 
Board confirms that up to the date of this report, the Company  
has continued to comply with the provisions of the Code. 
A summary of our governance profile, highlighting our compliance 
with key areas of the Code, is set out above. 
THE BOARD
The Board believes that good corporate governance is central  
to contributing to Centrica’s performance. A clearly defined 
framework of roles, responsibilities and delegated authorities is  
in place and this supports the Board’s aim to deliver sustainable 
growth for the benefit of shareholders, employees and customers. 
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association (Articles), which are available on the Company’s 
website. The Articles may be amended by special resolution.  
In addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under 
legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006 (the Act).
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for  
its approval which is reviewed annually to ensure best practice.  
A summary is shown below and the full schedule is available  
on our website. The Board also delegates other matters to  
Board Committees and management as appropriate.
The Board is responsible for:
• the development of strategy and major policies;
• the Groups’s customers and our services to them;
• the Group’s corporate governance and systems of risk 
management and internal control;
• reviewing performance;
• approving interim dividend payments and recommending final 
dividend payments;
• approving the annual operating plan, Financial Statements and 
major acquisitions and disposals;
• the Group’s corporate responsibility arrangements including 
customer services, health, safety and environmental matters; and
• the appointment and removal of Directors and the 
Company Secretary.
As part of its responsibilities, the Board approves and monitors  
the development of the Group’s strategy. During 2015, the Board 
undertook a strategic review of the Group’s businesses and 
portfolio. This led to an announcement on 30 July 2015 outlining  
a revised business model and strategic priorities.
Key strategic considerations of the review included:
• the outlook and sources of growth for global gas markets,  
and the UK and US energy markets; 
• a review of the portfolio mix and capital intensity and the 
recommended portfolio direction based on identified 
growth options; 
• optimising operating capability and efficiency in support  
of the revised strategy; and 
• the Group’s financial framework.
For more information on the outcome of the strategic review  
see page 12.
BOARD LEADERSHIP
Board meetings
The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year. 
In 2015, the Board met 10 times. Further information on topics 
considered by the Board in 2015 are detailed on page 53.
Board Directors 
We have sought to ensure we have a balanced Board where individual 
merit and relevance are the key entry requirements but collectively we 
have an appropriate mix of diversity and skills to ensure constructive 
debate and thoughtful decision making. In addition, we believe it is 
important to maintain a blend within the Non-Executive group where 
some are in full-time executive employment and others are pursuing  
a non-executive portfolio career path. 
A balance of Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive 
Directors on our Board promotes thorough debate and 
consideration of the important issues facing Centrica and the 
Group’s performance. At present, there are a total of 11 Directors, 
of whom four are Executive and six are Non-Executive, in addition 
to our Chairman. This represents more than half the Board, which 
satisfies the requirements of the Code.
All of our Non-Executive Directors are considered to be 
independent and free from any business interest which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement. In addition, 
all of our Non-Executive Directors have assured the Board that they 
remain committed to their respective roles and, having considered 
these assurances, the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive 
Director is able to dedicate the necessary amount of time to  
the Company’s affairs. Our Non-Executive Directors are members 
of various committees of the Board, which are the Audit, the 
Nominations, the Remuneration and the Safety, Health, 
Environment, Security and Ethics Committees.
During the year the Non-Executive Directors, including the 
Chairman, met independently of management. In addition, 
the Senior Independent Director met with the independent 
Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman to 
appraise the Chairman’s performance.
BOARD CONSTITUTION
Governance profile
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive 
are split and are set out in their respective job 
descriptions.
Senior Independent Director 
Ian Meakins is our Senior Independent 
Director.
Financial experience 
The chair of the Audit Committee is deemed to 
have recent, relevant financial experience. 
Independence
Almost two-thirds of our Board is made up of 
independent Non-Executive Directors, including 
the Chairman.
Compliance 
The Company complied with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code in 2015.
centrica.com
For further information on our Board and our 
corporate governance framework, please refer 
to our website.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
48 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the 
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is responsible 
for advising the Board through the Chairman on corporate 
governance matters. They are also able to seek independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense in respect of 
their duties.
The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for 
reappointment at each AGM.
Details of the Directors of the Company are set out with their 
biographies on pages 44 and 45. Information on remuneration  
and share interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on 
pages 63 to 79. Details relating to Directors’ service contracts  
Board composition and roles
Chairman Rick Haythornthwaite Responsible for the leadership and management of the Board. In doing so, he is 
responsible for promoting high ethical standards, ensuring the effective contribution of 
all Directors and, with support from the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, 
best practice in corporate governance.
Chief Executive Iain Conn Responsible for the executive leadership and day-to-day management of the Company, 
to ensure the delivery of the strategy agreed by the Board.
Group Chief Financial 
Officer
Jeff Bell Responsible for providing strategic financial leadership of the Company and day-to-day 
management of the finance function.
Independent 
Non-Executive 
Directors
Margherita Della Valle,  
Lesley Knox, Mike Linn,  
Carlos Pascual, Steve Pusey
Responsible for contributing sound judgement and objectivity to the Board’s deliberations 
and overall decision-making process, providing constructive challenge and monitoring 
the Executive Directors’ delivery of the strategy within the Board’s risk and 
governance structure.
Senior Independent 
Director
Ian Meakins Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as a trusted intermediary for the 
other Directors, as well as shareholders, as required.
Group Executive 
Directors
Mark Hanafin, Mark Hodges Responsible for executive leadership and day-to-day management of relevant business 
units in support of the Chief Executive and the delivery of the strategy agreed by 
the Board.
Appointments
During the year under review, there were a number of changes  
to the Board. As announced in December 2014, Ian Meakins 
succeeded Mary Francis to become the Company’s Senior 
Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2015.
Iain Conn was appointed as a Director of the Company and 
became Chief Executive on 1 January 2015. In addition, Carlos 
Pascual and Steve Pusey were appointed as Directors of the 
Company with effect from 1 January 2015 and 1 April 2015 
respectively. Jeff Bell, our Interim Group Chief Financial Officer,  
was confirmed in post on 1 August 2015 and Mark Hodges was 
appointed as a Director with effect from 1 June 2015. 
or letters of appointment, in the case of Non-Executive Directors, 
are set out in the remuneration policy that was approved by 
shareholders on 27 April 2015. The full remuneration policy can  
be found on our website.
Copies of Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment 
for the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by 
shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours  
at the Company’s registered office.
In line with best practice, the roles of our Chairman and Chief 
Executive are separate, formalised in writing and have been 
approved by the Board. A summary of these and other roles  
is shown in the table below.
Recruitment 
A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during the 
selection and subsequent appointment of each new Director to  
the Board, which is led by the Chairman. The recruitment process 
conducted for the appointment of Carlos Pascual and Steve Pusey 
was in line with this approach. 
The Committee appointed several executive search agents to assist 
in the search for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The 
agents engaged included Russell Reynolds Associates, The Zygos 
Partnership, JCA Group and Spencer Stuart. 
The Committee considered the candidates against the objective 
criteria set out in the profile, having due regard for the benefits  
of Board diversity.
None of the executive search agents listed above provide any other 
services to the Company.
Recruitment process
Identify Board 
appointment requirement
Stage 01
Formal Board approval
Stage 05
Recommendation to  
the Board by the 
Nominations Committee
Stage 04
Nominations sub-
committee conducts 
interviews
Stage 03
Appoint executive search 
agents. Shortlist 
candidates
Stage 02
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
49 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board evaluation
Our policy over many years has been to conduct a thorough review 
of Board process, practice and culture on an annual basis with the 
input of an external facilitator at least once every three years. The 
Board considers the annual review of the Board, its Committees 
and Directors as an essential part of good corporate governance. 
On each occasion, the Board has received positive reports and  
has adopted recommendations to improve Board, Committee  
and individual Director performance.
Recognising that it could take some time for the new Board to 
‘settle’, we undertook an internal Board review in 2015, which  
is set out in the diagram below:
Internal Board review
November 2015
The completion of Board questionnaires on governance, management 
and best practice benchmarks; our progress against our improvement 
agenda; and reflections and insights in response to the Board’s evolving 
context and composition.
February 2016
Consideration by the Board of the final report on the results of the survey.
January 2016
Interviews between the Chairman and each Director to explore  
thematic areas and specific points raised in the survey, as well as to peer 
review individual Director performance.
March 2016
Feedback meetings on the peer review results.
Stage 01
Stage 02
Stage 03
Stage 04
A complementary exercise was conducted in parallel with the  
Board review process, to develop and articulate a Board Charter  
to redefine our role and purpose; the skills, values and culture 
necessary to deliver that role and purpose; our journey to enhance 
our effectiveness; and the key areas of focus for 2016. We intend to 
use the Board Charter to contribute to the development of our Board 
and serve as a framework for our 2016 Board evaluation exercise.
Each Committee chair led their own separate internal Committee 
review for 2015, the results of which, including progress against  
the findings of the 2014 external evaluations, were considered  
at their respective meetings in February 2016.
The Chairman’s evaluation was conducted by Ian Meakins,  
the Senior Independent Director, and reported to the Board  
in February 2016.
Balance and independence of the Board 
As part of the evaluation process, the Board considers the balance 
of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure  
the Board and Committees effectively discharge their duties  
and responsibilities. As part of its annual review of corporate 
governance, the Board considered the independence of each 
Non-Executive Director, other than the Chairman, against the 
criteria in the Code and determined that each Non-Executive 
Director remained independent. It is important that the Directors 
have a varied range of skills and experience to ensure they can 
exercise their independent judgement on issues of strategy, 
performance and resources. 
Board diversity
Centrica is committed to the merits of diversity in all its forms at 
Board level and throughout the Group. As at 31 December 2015, 
18% (two Directors) of the Board were women, this was driven by 
Board changes that took place at the end of 2014 reducing this 
from 33% (three Directors) at the same point in 2014. Centrica is 
committed to maintaining its current level of women on the Board 
and would increase the percentage if the skills, experience and 
knowledge of the individual were appropriate and in keeping  
with the needs of the business.
Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report continued
Tenure %
0–3 years – 7 directors
3–6 years – 3 directors
6–9 years – 1 director
9+ years – 0 directors 
64
27
9
Nationality %
UK – 7 directors
North America – 3 directors
Mainland Europe – 1 director
Rest of the World – 0 directors
9
64
27
Breakdown by gender (%)
Board Other  
employees
2015 Male
2015 Female
2014 Male
2014 Female
18
82
33
67
27
73
73
27
29
71
70
30
Senior 
Management
Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors
Executive  36.3%
Non-Executive  63.6%
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
50 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Employee and senior management diversity
Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where 
decisions are based on individual ability and potential in relation  
to the business’ needs. We are committed to promoting equal 
opportunities and diversity as part of creating an inclusive working 
environment that attracts and retains the best people and that 
enables everyone in Centrica to fulfil their potential. Individuals  
are treated in a non-discriminatory manner at all stages of their 
employment, including recruitment and selection, reward, training 
and development, promotion and career development. By 
delivering on our commitment to diversity and inclusion (D&I)  
we are able to:
• attract a diverse range of talent which we believe is the ‘fuel’  
for the company of the future;
• create an inclusive environment so that everyone can bring  
their ‘whole self’ to work, to be themselves, have their voice 
heard and contribute to innovation and ideas; and
• ensure people receive career opportunities based on merit  
so that we have the right people in the right jobs.
At senior management level, 27% are women, whilst 29%  
of employees, excluding the Board and senior management,  
are women as indicated in the charts on the previous page.  
Our senior management level includes categories of employees  
as defined in the Act. During the year, Centrica was recognised  
for our commitment to D&I by a number of awards for our  
policies promoting and supporting carers, older workers and 
family-friendly practices. 
Centrica has various programmes taking place relating to diversity 
in all its forms. These include coaching and mentoring and our 
participation in the 30% Club’s cross-company, cross-sector 
mentoring scheme for mid-career women who will benefit from 
mentoring at the current stage of their career. In partnership with 
Mars and Vodafone, we launched HitReturn, a new UK programme 
in the Thames Valley area for senior professionals who have taken  
a career break as either a parent or a carer. The 12-week paid 
‘return-ship’ offers the opportunity to work on professional 
assignments and get expert coaching from people who have  
also returned to work after some time out. Centrica is working with 
the Women’s Business Council which makes recommendations  
to UK government and businesses on how women’s contribution  
to growth can be optimised. 
The power of our employee networks, which include the 
Women’s Network, Carers Network, Parents Network and Lesbian, 
Gay, Bi-Sexual & Transgender Network, drives us to become a 
truly diverse organisation, giving us that sense of energy that 
comes from having a broader group of people contributing to 
ideas and issues across our organisation. Via our annual employee 
survey, we have established a D&I index that sets a baseline for 
our organisation that over time we will be able to measure 
ourselves against.
We fully support the Government’s intention to introduce measures 
in the future to require companies to report on the gender pay gap, 
as we believe that transparent reporting drives positive intervention 
within organisations. 
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
Directors’ attendance
All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant 
Committee meetings. Details of attendance by Directors at Board 
and Committee meetings during 2015 are set out in the table 
below. Where a Director was not in attendance, this was due to 
other prior work commitments. Directors who were unable to 
attend specific Board or Committee meetings reviewed the relevant 
papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board 
or Committee, as appropriate. In addition, any Director who is 
unable to attend a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the 
minutes of that meeting for their reference. 
Board and Committee meetings and attendance during the year 
(i)
  Board 
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration  
Committee
Safety, Health, 
Environment, 
Security and 
Ethics 
Committee 
(SHESEC) (ii)
Rick Haythornthwaite 10/10 N/A 5/5 4/4 N/A
Iain Conn 10/10 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Jeff Bell 3/3 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Margherita Della Valle 10/10 4/4 5/5 6/6 2/2
Mark Hanafin 10/10 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Mark Hodges 6/6 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Lesley Knox 9/10 4/4 5/5 6/6 N/A
Mike Linn 8/10 2/3 4/5 4/6 2/2
Ian Meakins 9/10 4/4 4/5 5/6 N/A
Carlos Pascual 10/10 3/3 5/5 6/6 2/2
Steve Pusey 6/7 2/3 2/3 N/A 2/2
(i) Following the review of the Board and Committee governance, membership of the Committees was revised.
(ii) SHESEC was established on 28 July 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
51 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report continued
Induction
All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive 
induction programme tailored to meet their individual needs. The 
Chairman and Group General Counsel & Company Secretary are 
responsible for delivering an effective induction programme for 
newly appointed Directors.
The Group General Counsel & Company Secretary oversees the 
schedule of briefings and meetings that would be most beneficial  
to ensure an effective induction following each appointment. As a 
result, tailored induction programmes were designed for Iain Conn, 
Mark Hodges, Carlos Pascual and Steve Pusey. These included 
briefings from members of the Executive team on key areas of  
the business including the internal audit function, an overview  
of the Group’s risk management processes, the key risks facing  
the business, site visits and a briefing in respect of the corporate 
governance framework within Centrica.
Case studies of Director inductions
Executive Non-Executive
Mark Hodges, Group Executive Director  
and Chief Executive, Energy Supply & 
Services, UK & Ireland
Carlos Pascual, Non-Executive Director
“ An invaluable part of my induction 
programme has been meeting 
passionate individuals on site 
visits who are committed to 
delivering for our customers. ”
“ My induction programme has 
been detailed and engaging, 
providing me with the 
opportunity to meet with staff  
on the ground and gain a deeper 
understanding of the Group’s 
operations as well as visiting a 
number of sites. ”
Experience and strengths • Strong understanding of the UK consumer market
• Expertise in driving significant improvements in 
customer service 
• A solid track record of improving business 
performance
• Experience of working in a regulated environment
• Senior leader in energy geopolitics 
• Non-resident senior fellow, Center on Global Energy 
Policy, Columbia University
Focus areas • Meet senior management across the Group 
• Learn more about British Gas 
• Learn more about Centrica and our businesses
• Understand the UK corporate governance 
environment 
• Meet senior management across the Group
Overview of induction programme • Health and safety responsibilities training 
• Meetings with British Gas Leadership Team
• Accompanied a British Gas service engineer  
on home visits around Norwich
• Site visits to British Gas offices in Cardiff,  
Leicester and Oxford
• Met shareholders and advisers at the 2015 AGM
• Site visit to Connected Home, London
• Meeting with a selection of journalists
• Health and safety responsibilities training 
• Met with the Group General Counsel & Company 
Secretary on UK corporate governance 
• Accompanied a Direct Energy technician on home 
visits around Houston 
• Meetings with senior management including  
the Chief Executive, Head of Internal Audit,  
Risk & Controls and Group Director, HSES
• Site visits to solar installation, Colonia, New Jersey 
and to a significant client of Direct Energy Business
• Met shareholders and advisers at the 2015 AGM
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
52 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Review of the Board and Committee 
governance structure 
During the year, the Board conducted a comprehensive review 
of the Board and Committees’ governance framework against 
the Group’s identified principal risks. These risks are discussed 
in our Principle Risks and Uncertainties on page 38. The review 
concluded that these principal risks would primarily be the 
responsibility of the Board, Audit Committee and, a new 
committee, the Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics 
Committee (SHESEC). Oversight of the systems of internal 
controls and risk structure of the Group would remain with 
the Audit Committee. As part of this review, the Group’s Corporate 
Responsibility Committee ceased and its duties addressed either 
by the Board itself, particularly in respect of customers, or by 
the SHESEC.
As a result, the membership of each of the Committees was 
reviewed and the Matters Reserved for the Board and the terms  
of reference of each Committee were revised accordingly and are 
available on our website.
The independent Non-Executive Directors are members of the 
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and SHESEC Committees.  
The Committees are supported in the same way as the Board  
in order to ensure information flows in a timely, accurate and 
complete manner.
Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Directors 
and the Chairman of each Committee provides regular updates  
to the Board.
The responsibilities of each Board Committee, its membership  
and the key issues considered by each one during 2015 are set  
out in the Committee reports beginning on page 54.
Delegated authority
As part of the review into the Board Committee’s governance 
structure, revisions were made to the delegations of authority  
given to the Chief Executive, which he in turn is able to further 
sub-delegate to his executive team. The Chief Executive is required 
to establish an executive governance structure including an 
Executive Committee that has responsibility for strategy portfolio 
and planning, performance management of the Group as a whole, 
people and capability, communications and alignment and risk 
management. 
Board programme
During the year, Directors considered regular updates and 
presentations as part of the Board programme on changes and 
developments to the business and to the legislative and regulatory 
environments in which the Group operates. In particular, the Board 
was briefed on the following key issues during 2015:
• The Group Strategic Review
• Direct Energy Strategic Review
• Developments in the Competition and Markets Authority’s 
investigation into the energy market
• Investor feedback
• Customers and the provision of Energy and Services to them
• British Gas smart metering roll-out
• Update on health, safety, environment and security
• Information security with a particular focus on cyber risk
• Review of the Board governance structure
• Company law, corporate governance, reporting and 
remuneration reporting developments
Ongoing training and development
Ongoing training and development is also provided to all 
Directors, as agreed with the Chairman and supported by the 
executive management.
Conflicts of interest
The Act and the Articles require the Board to consider any potential 
conflicts of interest. The Board considers and, if appropriate, 
authorises each Director’s reported actual and potential conflicts  
of interest regularly. The conflicts of interest register is reviewed at 
least annually by the Board. Each Director abstains from approving 
their own reported potential conflicts. The Board operates a policy 
to identify and, where appropriate, manage potential conflicts of 
interest for Directors. The Board monitors the status of each conflict 
and has put in place a protocol that a Director shall abstain from 
involvement in any decision process relating to their specific conflict. 
BOARD GOVERNANCE
Board governance structure
Board of Directors
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Safety, Health, 
Environment, 
Security and 
Ethics Committee
Disclosure 
Committee
Chief Executive
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
53 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE
Members
• Margherita Della Valle  
(Chairman)
• Lesley Knox
• Ian Meakins
• Steve Pusey
Areas of focus and training
An annual schedule of training is designed to provide the 
Committee members with practical training and insight into specific 
areas of interest. In 2015, there were two training sessions focused 
on understanding and assessing risks in commodity trading and 
the trade lifecycle, including a visit to the trading floor to experience 
front office gas trading. 
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee: 
• to support the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in effective 
governance of the Company’s financial reporting, internal 
controls and risk management;
• to provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report 
and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides all the necessary information for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy;
• monitoring and reviewing the operation and effectiveness of  
the Group’s internal audit function, including its strategic focus, 
activities, plans and resources; 
• the appointment and, if required, the removal of the  
Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Controls;
• managing the relationship with the Group’s external auditors  
on behalf of the Board including the policy on the award of 
non-audit services;
• to conduct a tender for the external audit contract at least every 
10 years and make appointment recommendations to the Board;
• to consider and review legal and regulatory compliance issues, 
specifically in relation to financial reporting and controls, and, 
together with the SHESEC, maintain oversight of the 
arrangements in place for the management of statutory and 
regulatory compliance in areas such as financial crime; and
• to establish and oversee whistleblowing and fraud prevention 
arrangements within the Group.
Key issues considered by the Audit Committee:
• review of the 2014 preliminary results, the 2014 Annual Report 
and Accounts and 2015 half-year results and Interim Report;
• consideration of updates to the Code and its application to the 
2015 Annual Report and Accounts including complying with  
new provisions relating to the robust assessment of risks and  
the viability statement;
• full consideration of the key judgements and financial reporting 
matters in 2015;
• assessment of the effectiveness of the system of risk 
management and internal controls;
• review and approval of audit and non-audit fees;
• consideration and recommendation that the Annual Report  
and Accounts, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable;
• review of effectiveness of external auditors (PwC);
• review of Group Assurance Report and Group Compliance 
Report;
• consideration of adherence across the Group with regulatory and 
compliance requirements, including the undertakings in respect 
of Centrica Storage;
• review of internal audit activity;
• consideration of whether the judgements, estimates and 
assumptions used in the presentation of the Financial Statements 
were reasonable and consistent; and
• regular updates of cases reported to the Company’s ‘Speak Up’ 
helpline.
Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report continued
This report aims to provide you with insight into the workings  
and activities of the Committee during 2015, outlining how the 
Committee discharges its duty in providing oversight of financial 
reporting and related controls, the types of issues considered 
during the year and the key judgements reached. 
Following the establishment of the SHESEC, the Committee’s  
terms of reference and its interaction with the SHESEC were 
reviewed. Joint meetings with the SHESEC were scheduled  
for thematic areas of mutual interest to both Committees. 
Compliance with the revised Code, including the additional 
requirements introduced in 2014 in relation to risk management 
and the viability statement, is set out on page 62.
Role of the Committee
The role of the Committee is primarily to assist the Board in fulfilling 
its corporate governance obligations in relation to the Group’s 
financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems  
as well as providing oversight of the internal audit function and  
the external auditors. 
Membership and attendance
Margherita Della Valle, as Deputy Group CFO of Vodafone Group 
plc, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant 
financial experience as required by the Code. Carlos Pascual and 
Steve Pusey were appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2015 
and 1 April 2015, respectively. Carlos Pascual stood down as a 
member of the Committee following the review of the Board and 
Committee governance structure in July 2015. Each member of 
the Committee is an independent Non-Executive Director who 
has a wide range of relevant business experience. Further details 
regarding the Directors’ skills and experience can be found in their 
biographies on page 44. The Board is satisfied that the Committee 
has the resources and expertise to fulfil its responsibilities. 
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman of  
the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer,  
the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and the  
Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Controls, none of whom do so as  
of right. Other senior executives will attend as required to provide  
information on matters being discussed which fall into their area of 
responsibility. The external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(PwC), also attend each meeting. The Committee meets individually 
with the external auditors, the Group Chief Financial Officer and the 
Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Controls at each meeting without 
Executives present.
Margherita Della Valle, 
Committee Chairman
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
54 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Risk management and internal controls
Internal audit
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing  
the operation and effectiveness of the Group’s internal  
audit function, including its strategic focus, activities, plans  
and resources. The appointment and removal of the  
Head of Internal Audit, Risk & Controls is also a matter for  
the Committee.
The Group’s internal audit three-year plan for the period 2016 to 
2018 was approved by the Committee in 2015, which was primarily 
risk-based and also focused on the assurance of core processes. 
The Committee also reviewed staffing levels and qualifications to 
ensure these were appropriate and adequate for the delivery of 
the plan.
During the year, the Committee received regular reports 
summarising the findings from the Group’s internal audit function’s 
work and action plans to resolve any highlighted areas. The 
Committee monitored the progress of the most significant action 
plans to ensure these were completed satisfactorily.
The Board’s review of the system of risk management 
and internal controls
Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates 
throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal controls 
and compliance with the Group’s Business Principles and policies 
are assessed. Self-certification is completed both at the half year 
and full year. The results of the annual process, together with the 
conclusions of the internal reviews by internal audit, inform the 
annual assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of risk 
management and internal controls performed by the Audit 
Committee in 2015. 
External auditors
The Committee manages the relationship with the Group’s external 
auditors on behalf of the Board. The Committee considers annually 
the scope, fee, performance and independence of the external 
auditors as well as whether a formal tender process is required. 
PwC were reappointed auditors of the Group at the AGM held  
in April 2015. 
The Board considers it of prime importance that the external 
auditors remain independent and objective and as a safeguard 
against this being compromised, the Committee implemented and 
monitors a policy on the independence of external auditors. This 
policy details the process for the appointment of the external 
auditors, the tendering policy, the provision of non-audit services, 
the setting of audit fees and the rotation of audit partner and staff. 
There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the 
Group’s choice of external auditors.
Effectiveness and independence of the external auditors
To assess the effectiveness and independence of the external 
auditors, the Committee carried out an assessment of PwC. This 
included a review of the report issued by the audit quality review 
team regarding PwC and an internal questionnaire completed  
by Committee members and relevant members of management  
on their views of PwC’s performance. The questionnaire covered  
a review of the audit partner and team, the audit scope and 
approach, audit plan execution, auditor independence and 
objectivity and robustness of the challenge of management. 
The feedback received was reviewed by management and 
reported to the Committee and the Board.
In addition, to ensure the independence of the external auditors 
and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK & 
Ireland) 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting 
Practices Board and as a matter of best practice, PwC have 
confirmed their independence as auditors of the Company, in a 
letter addressed to the Directors. Together with PwC’s confirmation 
and report on their approach to audit quality and transparency,  
the Committee concluded that PwC demonstrated appropriate 
qualifications and expertise and remained independent of the 
Group and that the audit process was effective.
Non-audit fees 
In order to preserve the independence of the external auditor, the 
Committee is responsible for the policy on the award of non-audit 
services to the external auditors. A copy of this policy is available 
on our website. The award of non-audit work, within permitted 
categories, is subject to pre-clearance by the Committee, should 
the fees in a given year exceed a specified threshold. All significant 
non-audit work is tendered and where PwC were appointed, it  
was considered that their skills and experience made them the 
most appropriate supplier of the work. Significant engagements 
undertaken during 2015 included tax compliance and advice  
on corporate finance support for acquisitions and disposals.  
On a quarterly basis, the Committee is provided with reports  
of all non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors  
and a full breakdown of non-audit fees incurred. A summary  
of fees paid to the external auditors is set out in note S9 to the 
Financial Statements.
Appointment of the external auditors
PwC have been the external auditor of the Group since the 
demerger of Centrica in 1997. As in past years, at the Committee’s 
request, and following PwC’s review of the prior year audit, they 
presented a formal audit plan and fee proposal for 2015. Following 
a full review and having given full consideration to the performance 
and independence of the external auditors, the Committee has 
recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint PwC  
be proposed at the 2016 AGM and the Board has accepted and 
endorsed this recommendation. In accordance with the Code,  
the Group expects to perform an audit tender in 2016 for the  
2017 year-end audit, which will coincide with the next audit  
partner rotation.
Audit information
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of  
the Annual Report and Accounts confirms that, so far as they are 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which PwC are 
unaware and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have 
taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that PwC are aware of that information.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
55 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2015 Audit Committee reviews and conclusions 
Impairment of goodwill, upstream gas and oil assets, 
power generation assets and storage facility assets 
The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the 
carrying amounts of its assets are recoverable. These judgements include 
primarily the achievement of Board approved business plans, long-term 
projected cash flows, generation and production levels (including reserve 
estimates) and macroeconomic assumptions such as the growth and 
discount rates and long-term commodity and capacity market auction 
prices used in the valuation process. In the forecasts, where forward  
market prices are not available, prices are determined based on internal 
model inputs. 
The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the carrying and 
recoverable value of the assets and the key judgements and estimates 
used. At the year-end it concluded pre-tax impairments of Centrica Energy 
upstream gas and oil assets of £1,865 million relating to the UK, Dutch and 
Norwegian gas and oil assets (£1,514 million, including £510 million of 
goodwill), Canadian upstream assets (£309 million, including £99 million  
of goodwill) and Trinidad and Tobago gas assets (£42 million) were required, 
primarily due to declining market gas and oil prices. Reductions in baseload 
power prices and forecast capacity market auction prices, have led the 
Committee to conclude pre-tax impairments of the Group’s power assets 
were also required. These related to its finance leased UK gas-fired power 
station of £31 million and the Nuclear investment (in associate) of 
£372 million. The Committee reviewed the recoverable amount of all other 
significant balance sheet assets and concluded they had recoverable 
values in excess of the carrying value and were not impaired. The external 
auditors held discussions with the Committee on the key judgements and 
assumptions used in the impairment tests and provided their own analytical 
report. Further detail on impairments arising and the assumptions used in 
determining the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 7 and S2 on 
pages 105 to 107 , 140 and 141.
Presentation of certain re-measurements and 
exceptional items 
The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business 
performance column of the Group Income Statement. To be able to  
provide this clearly and with consistent presentation, the effects of certain 
re-measurements of financial instruments and exceptional items are 
reported separately in a different column in the Group Income Statement.
In prior years the Committee received training on the classification of 
exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income 
statement. The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the 
judgements regarding the appropriate presentation of items as certain 
re-measurements and exceptional items. The Committee considered the 
size, nature and incidence of these items and concluded that separate 
disclosure of these items was appropriate in the Financial Statements. 
Exceptional items include the upstream asset impairments in the UK, 
the Netherlands, Norway, North America and Trinidad and Tobago, 
impairment of the Group’s investment in associate (Nuclear) and of its 
finance leased UK gas-fired power station asset, along with additional 
onerous contract provisions predominantly in relation to the tolling contract 
of the finance leased UK gas-fired power station. Further detail is provided 
in note 7 on page 105.
Downstream revenue recognition
The Group’s revenue for energy supply activities includes an estimate of 
energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading 
and an estimated year-end meter reading. It is estimated through the  
billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customer by 
customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts and 
the differences between actual meter readings being returned and system 
estimates. An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to 
materially affect the ultimate economic benefits which will flow to the Group, 
including bill cancellation and re-bill rates. To the extent that the economic 
benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, revenue is not recognised.
The Committee has reviewed and held discussions with the external 
auditors on the level of provisions made during the year. The implementation 
of a new billing system in British Gas Business in 2014 meant that the 
determination of the appropriate level of unbilled revenue and of bad debt 
provisions last year required more judgement than in previous years. During 
2015 unbilled revenue assessments have returned to pre-implementation 
levels however, the review of bad debt provisioning has continued to require 
more judgement. The Committee has reviewed management reports 
detailing these judgements and concluded that the level of provision is 
adequate. Further detail of accrued energy income and provision for credit 
loss is provided in note 17 on pages 119 and 120. 
Determination of long-term commodity prices 
Long-term commodity price forecasts are derived using valuation 
techniques based on available external data. A significant number of 
judgements and assumptions are used in deriving future commodity 
curves. These forecasts are benchmarked against other third-party 
forecasts and are approved by the Group’s Executive Committee. The 
long-term commodity price forecasts are used in determining the fair  
values of derivative financial instruments in North America and Europe. 
They are also a key input in the Group’s impairment valuation testing. 
The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the key 
developments during the year and a summary of price changes and drivers. 
The Committee also reviewed the proposed valuation commodity curves 
versus those of external third parties. The external auditors also provided 
detailed reporting and held discussions with the Committee on the  
potential impact of changes in the commodity curves. More detail on the 
assumptions used in determining fair valuations is provided in note S6  
on pages 153 to 155. Sensitivities of the asset impairment tests to changes  
in price forecasts are provided in note 7 on pages 105 to 107 .
Onerous contracts 
The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering whether the 
unavoidable costs of meeting specific obligations exceed the associated 
future net benefits. During the period, a new onerous contract provision 
was established for further unavoidable costs under the tolling contract  
for its finance leased UK gas-fired power station. An assessment of the 
economic benefits which partially offset these costs is based on forecast 
production profiles, forward prices for power, gas and carbon and forecast 
capacity market auctions and forecast operating and capital expenditure. 
A review and discussion of provisions with management was undertaken  
by the Committee and by the external auditors, including the utilisation and 
release of existing provisions and any new provisions made during the year. 
The Committee reviewed management reports detailing the key 
judgements and estimates used, including the discount rate assumptions 
used. Further detail on provisions and the assumptions used in determining 
the value is provided in notes 7 and 21 on pages 105, 107 and 123.
Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report continued
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
56 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Key judgements and financial reporting matters in 2015 Audit Committee reviews and conclusions 
Pensions
The cost, assets and liabilities associated with providing benefits under 
defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each of the Group’s 
schemes. Judgement is required in setting the key assumptions used for 
the actuarial valuation which determines the ultimate cost of providing 
post-employment benefits, especially given the length of the Group’s 
expected liabilities. 
The Committee reviewed and approved the key assumptions and 
disclosures in the Financial Statements. Independent actuaries are 
consulted on the appropriateness of the assumptions and discussions  
are held with the external auditors. Further details on pensions are set  
out in note 22 on pages 124 to 128.
Going concern and liquidity risk
The Group experiences significant movements in its liquidity position  
due primarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash.  
To mitigate this risk the Group holds cash on deposit and maintains 
significant committed facilities. The Group regularly prepares an 
assessment detailing these available resources to support the going 
concern assumption in preparing the Financial Statements. 
The Committee reviewed management’s funding forecasts and sensitivity 
analysis and the impact of various possible adverse events including 
significant commodity price movements and credit rating downgrades.  
The Committee also reviewed the forecast liquidity position of the Group in 
the context of the borrowing constraints under the Articles of Association, 
including the analysis considering the remote scenario of borrowing 
restrictions remaining in place after the Company’s AGM on 18 April 2016. 
The external auditors also provided detailed reporting and held discussions 
with the Committee. Following the review, the Committee recommended to 
the Board the adoption of the going concern statement in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2015. Further details on sources of finance are set out in note 
24 on page 131 and in the Going Concern section of the Directors’ and 
Corporate Governance Report on page 62.
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement
The Group is required to prepare an annual regulatory statement 
(Consolidated Segmental Statement (‘CSS’)) for Ofgem which breaks down 
our licensed activities for the financial year into a generation, domestic and 
non-domestic and electricity and gas result. The CSS is reconciled to our 
externally reported IFRS Annual Report and Accounts. The Group 
publishes the CSS at the same time as our full year Annual Report and 
Accounts and the CSS is independently audited. In preparing the CSS, 
judgement is required in the allocation of non-specific costs between 
domestic and non-domestic and electricity and gas and the distinction 
between licensed and non-licensed activities.
The Committee reviewed the CSS and the key judgements and disclosures 
made in its preparation. The external auditor also provided a detailed report 
and held discussions with the Committee. The full CSS and the independent 
audit opinion approved by the Committee for publication are set out on 
pages 183 to 193.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
57 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
Members 
• Rick Haythornthwaite (Chairman)
• Margherita Della Valle 
• Lesley Knox
• Mike Linn
• Ian Meakins
• Carlos Pascual
• Steve Pusey
SAFETY, HEALTH,  
ENVIRONMENT, SECURITY  
AND ETHICS COMMITTEE  
(SHESEC)
Members
• Mike Linn (Chairman)
• Margherita Della Valle
• Carlos Pascual
• Steve Pusey
2015 was a busy year for the Nominations Committee. We  
reviewed the succession plans in place for the Board and the 
Executive. We also considered and appointed Steve Pusey as  
a Non-Executive Director and Mark Hodges and Jeff Bell to 
Executive Director positions on the Board. 
Role of the Committee
The Committee ensures there is a formal and appropriate 
procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.  
The Committee is responsible for leading this process and making 
recommendations to the Board. 
Membership and attendance
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board who is  
an independent Non-Executive Director. Carlos Pascual and 
Steve Pusey were appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2015 
and 1 April 2015, respectively. During the year, the Chief Executive 
and the Group HR Director attended Committee meetings at which 
matters related to succession planning for senior management 
were considered. 
Each member of the Committee is an independent Non-Executive 
Director who has a wide range of relevant business experience. 
Further details regarding the Directors’ skills and experience can  
be found in their biographies on page 44. 
Key issues reviewed by the Nominations Committee:
• review of Committee membership;
• the appointments of Jeff Bell, Mark Hodges and Steve Pusey;
• consideration of exposure to loss of key personnel;
• succession planning for the Group Chief Financial Officer;
• succession planning for the Managing Director, British Gas;
• succession planning for the Senior Independent Director and 
the Non-Executive Directors; and
• a review of the skills of each of the Directors and the 
independence of each of the independent Non-Executive 
Directors prior to the 2015 AGM and recommendation that  
each of them be subject to re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report continued
In July 2015, following the review of the Board and Committee 
governance structure, the Board took the decision to convene 
a new Committee, the Safety, Health, Environment, Security 
and Ethics Committee (SHESEC) to focus on specific principal 
risks identified by the Group. At the same time, the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee ceased, its duties being addressed 
either by the Board or by the SHESEC in the revised governance 
framework.
The SHESEC met for the first time in September 2015 where it 
spent time formalising its forward agenda to ensure its focus was 
aligned with those principal risks considered to have a greater 
impact potentially on the Group in the short to medium term. 
Understandably this will be an iterative process and a full year’s 
review of the Committee’s activities will be reported in the 2016 
Annual Report and Accounts.
Role of the Committee
The Committee has non-executive responsibility for the oversight of 
the adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls 
and risk management systems in respect of certain principal risks 
identified by the Group. These are as follows and the Committee  
will be considering each one in terms of their ethical and compliance 
implications: 
• People: engagement, culture and behaviours;
• Sourcing and supplier management;
• Health, Safety, Environment and Security; and
• Legal and Regulatory matters.
Membership and attendance
The Committee is chaired by Mike Linn, an independent  
Non-Executive Director. The Board has determined that each 
member of the Committee is independent. During the year, the 
Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive regularly attended 
Committee meetings. 
Key issues reviewed by the Safety, Health, Environment, 
Security and Ethics Committee:
• developing the priority risk focus for the Committee’s forward; 
agenda programme;
• cyber and data security; and
• health and safety matters relating to asset integrity.
Rick Haythornthwaite, 
Committee Chairman
Mike Linn,
Committee Chairman
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
58 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE
Members 
• Iain Conn (Chairman)
 
• Jeff Bell 
• Grant Dawson 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Members 
• Lesley Knox (Chairman)
• Margherita Della Valle
• Mike Linn 
• Ian Meakins
• Carlos Pascual
Set out below are the key governance features of the Remuneration 
Committee. The Remuneration Report can be found on page 63, 
which contains more detail on the main areas of focus for the 
Committee in 2015. 
Role of the Committee
The role of the Committee is to determine and make 
recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy for  
the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Company’s 
Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Membership and attendance
The Committee is chaired by Lesley Knox, an independent 
Non-Executive Director. Carlos Pascual was appointed to the 
Committee on 1 January 2015. Rick Haythornthwaite and 
Steve Pusey stood down as members of the Committee  
following the review of the Board and Committee governance 
structure in July 2015. The Board has determined that each 
member of the Committee is independent. No Director is  
involved in the determination of, or votes on, any matters relating  
to his or her own remuneration. Meetings of the Committee are 
attended by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive,  
the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and the  
Group HR Director.
Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee:
• determine total individual remuneration packages and terms  
and conditions for the Board and senior executives;
• approve the design of, and determine targets for, any 
performance related pay schemes for the Executive Committee 
and approve the total annual and long-term incentive plan (LTIP)
payments; 
• review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by  
the Board and the Company’s shareholders; and
• prepare and recommend to the Board for approval each year  
a report on remuneration policy and a separate report on the 
implementation of the policy in the last financial year.
Key issues reviewed by the Remuneration Committee:
• the rules of three new share plans, including the LTIP for 
Executive Directors;
• the new remuneration policy, following shareholder consultation;
• the approval of incentive targets for the awards made in 2015, 
and pay and incentive awards granted to Executive Directors  
and Executive Committee members in the year;
• the approval of the terms of appointment for two new Executive 
Directors and one Executive Committee member;
• developments and trends in executive remuneration with the 
independent external remuneration committee adviser; and
• input to and approval of the individual performance conditions  
for the Chief Executive recruitment awards and evaluation of  
the achievement against the targets set.
Role of the Committee
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for the implementation 
and monitoring of systems and controls in respect of the 
management and disclosure of inside information and for ensuring 
that regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, 
prospectuses and other documents issued by the Company 
comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements. 
At each Executive Committee meeting, transactions or events  
must be considered against the disclosure obligations of the 
Company and whether any matter was considered to be 
price sensitive.
Membership and attendance 
The Committee is chaired by Iain Conn, the Chief Executive.  
Iain Conn was appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2015.
Responsibilities of the Disclosure Committee:
• a review of the preliminary results announcement, the interim 
management statement, the half-year results and the trading 
statements; 
• consideration of the release of regulatory and industry 
announcements; 
• key management changes; and 
• announcements in respect of specific projects.
Key issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee:
• stock exchange announcements about customer pricing;
• the proposed final dividend and the final preliminary results 
announcement;
• the interim management statement, the trading update and 
approval of the final draft of the announcements; and
• the interim dividend and the announcement in respect of both  
the interim results for the six months to 30 June 2015 and  
the outcome of the strategic review.
Iain Conn,  
Committee Chairman
Lesley Knox,  
Committee Chairman
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
59 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
The Directors submit their Annual Report and Accounts for 
Centrica plc, together with the consolidated financial statements of 
the Centrica group of companies, for the year ended 31 December 
2015. The directors’ report required under the Companies Act 
2006 comprises this Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the How We Do Business 
section for disclosure of our greenhouse gas emissions in the 
Strategic Report.
The management report required under Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 4.1.5R comprises the Strategic Report, (which 
includes the risks relating to our business), Shareholder Information 
and details of acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during 
the year in note 12. This Directors’ and Corporate Governance 
Report fulfills the requirements of the corporate governance 
statement required under Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7.2.1.
Future developments
A description of future developments can be found in the  
Strategic Report. A description of the Group’s exposure and 
management of risks is provided in the Strategic Report on  
pages 38 to 42.
Results and dividends
The Group’s results and performance summary for the year are set 
out on page 1. Dividends paid and proposed are set out in note 11 
to the Financial Statements on page 111.
Financial instruments
Full details of the Group’s financial instruments can be found in 
notes 19, S3 and S6 on pages 121, 148 and 154 respectively.
Articles of Association (Articles)
The Company’s Articles were adopted at the 2010 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). They may only be amended by a special resolution 
of the Shareholders. A resolution will be put forward to 
shareholders at the 2016 AGM to propose making amendments  
to the Articles. Full details are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Directors
The names of the Directors who held office during the year are  
set out on pages 44 and 45.
Details of the authority, role and powers of Directors are set  
out within this Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed 
of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors and 
members of the Executive Committee. Qualifying third-party 
indemnity provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Act) were  
in force during the year ended 31 December 2015 and remain in 
force. The Company also maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance for its Directors and officers.
Employment policies
Employee involvement
We remain committed to employee involvement throughout the 
business. Employees are kept well informed of the performance 
and strategy of the Group through personal briefings, regular 
meetings, email and broadcasts by the Chief Executive and 
members of the Board at key points in the year.
The Company’s all-employee share schemes are a long-established 
and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging and 
supporting employee share ownership. In the UK we offer both 
Sharesave, HMRC’s Save as You Earn Scheme, and the Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) with good levels of take-up across the Group. 
Currently, 57% of eligible UK employees participate in Sharesave 
and 36% of eligible UK employees participate in the SIP. Details of 
both schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 69.
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy 
from recruitment and selection, through training and development, 
performance reviews and promotion to retirement. It is our policy to 
promote an environment free from discrimination, harassment and 
victimisation, where everyone receives equal treatment regardless 
of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital 
status, sexual orientation or religion. All decisions relating to 
employment practices will be objective, free from bias and based 
solely upon work criteria and individual merit. 
Employees with disabilities
It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair 
consideration for all vacancies. During the year, we continued to 
demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people with 
disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria, and endeavour to  
retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled  
during employment. 
Human rights
As an international company we have a responsibility and are 
committed to uphold and protect the human rights of individuals 
working for us in the communities and societies where we operate. 
We take steps to ensure that our people working in countries with  
a high risk to human rights are safeguarded, as set out in our 
Business Principles and Human Rights Policy. We also recognise 
the opportunity we have to contribute positively to global efforts  
to ensure human rights are understood and observed.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining  
an effective investor relations and communication programme.  
The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of 
shareholder views on a number of key matters affecting the Group 
and receives formal investor feedback regularly.
In 2015, Centrica’s shareholder engagement programme included:
• formal presentations for the announcement of the  
Group’s 2014 preliminary and 2015 interim results; 
• meetings between the Chief Executive and  
Group Chief Financial Officer and the Company’s  
major shareholders during the year;
• meetings between the Chief Executive and the Company’s  
major shareholders, as part of his induction process;
• the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meeting with  
a number of the Company’s major shareholders during the  
year to discuss the Company’s remuneration arrangements; 
• the Chairman and Senior Independent Director meeting with 
major institutional shareholders in order to gain a first-hand 
understanding of their concerns and key issues and provide 
regular updates of these to the Board; and
• a meeting with our largest investors and leading proxy advisers 
to provide insight into the key focus and considerations of the 
Board and its Committees and a better understanding of the 
governance measures operating across the business.
The Company’s AGM provides all shareholders with the 
opportunity to develop further their understanding of the Company. 
Shareholders can ask questions of the full Board on the matters 
put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and Accounts and 
the running of the Company generally. The Company intends to 
send the Notice of AGM and any related papers to shareholders at 
least 20 working days before the meeting. All Directors, including 
Committee Chairmen, are in attendance at the AGM to take 
questions, unless unforeseen circumstances arise.
Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report continued
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
60 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT At the AGM, the Chairman and the Chief Executive present  
a review of the Group’s business. A poll is conducted on each 
resolution at all Company general meetings. All shareholders  
have the opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed 
resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post. Following  
the AGM, the voting results for each resolution are published  
and are available on our website.
Ian Meakins, the Senior Independent Director, is available to 
shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal 
channels has failed to resolve.
Our website contains up-to-date information for shareholders and 
other interested parties including annual reports, shareholder 
circulars, share price information, news releases, presentations to 
the investment community and information on shareholder services.
Material shareholdings
At 31 December 2015, Centrica had received notification of the 
following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure & 
Transparency Rules:
31 December 2015
Ordinary 
shares
% of share 
capital
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 244,065,649 4.91%
Invesco Limited 251,354,895 4.99%
Schroders plc 248,775,761 5.00%
Schroders Investment Management Limited 289,823,318 5.72%
In the period 31 December 2015 to 18 February 2016, Invesco 
Limited have disclosed, in accordance with these rules, an increase 
and a subsequent decrease, in their shareholding to 4.99%, 
253,431,126 ordinary shares.
Political donations
Centrica’s political donations policy states that Centrica operates 
on a politically neutral basis. No donations were made by the Group 
for political purposes during the year. However, in accordance with 
the Federal Election Campaign Act, Direct Energy has authorised 
the establishment of a Political Action Committee (PAC), to facilitate 
voluntary political contributions by its US employees. The PAC is 
not controlled by Centrica and contributions from the fund are 
determined by a governing board of PAC members. Participation  
in the PAC is voluntary for eligible employees. In 2015, contributions 
to the PAC by employees amounted to $62,126.50. The PAC made 
19 political donations totalling $11,000.
Significant agreements – change of control
The following are significant agreements to which the Company  
is party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a 
change of control in the Company following a takeover bid:
• as part of the demerger in 1997, BG Group plc (which is a 
separately listed company and not a part of the Centrica Group) 
assigned ownership of the British Gas trademarks and related 
logos to Centrica for use in Great Britain. BG Group plc has  
the right to call for a reassignment of this intellectual property  
if control of Centrica is acquired by a third party; and
• in 2009, Centrica entered into certain transactions with EDF 
Group in relation to an investment in the former British Energy 
Group, which owned and operated a fleet of nuclear power 
stations in the UK. The transactions include rights for EDF Group 
and Centrica to offtake power from these nuclear power stations. 
As part of the arrangements, on a change of control of Centrica, 
the Group loses its right to participate on the boards of the 
companies in which it has invested. Furthermore, where the 
acquirer is not located in certain specified countries, EDF Group  
is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments to EDF Group.
Related party transactions
Related party transactions are set out in note S8 to the Financial 
Statements.
Events after the balance sheet date
Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 26  
to the Financial Statements.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4R
The Company is required to disclose certain information under 
Listing Rule 9.8.4R in the Directors’ Report or advise where such 
relevant information is contained. The other information that may  
be relevant to the Directors’ Report can be found in the following 
sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
Information Location in  
Annual Report
Page(s)
Directors’ 
compensation
Remuneration Report 63 to 79
Capitalised interest 
(borrowing costs)
Financial Statements 107 , note 8
Details of long-term 
incentive schemes
Remuneration Report 68
Share capital
The Company has a single share class which is divided into 
ordinary shares of 6
14/
81 pence each. The Company was authorised 
at the 2015 AGM to allot up to 1,656,357,416 ordinary shares as 
permitted by the Act. As at 31 December 2015, the Company  
had not allotted any shares under this authority. A renewal of this 
authority will be proposed at the 2016 AGM. The Company’s 
issued share capital as at 31 December 2015, together with  
details of shares issued during the year, is set out in note 25  
to the Financial Statements.
Rights attaching to shares
Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote. Further 
information on the voting and other rights of shareholders is  
set out in the Articles and in explanatory notes which accompany 
notices of general meetings, all of which are available on  
our website. 
Repurchase of shares
As permitted by the Articles, the Company obtained shareholder 
authority at the 2015 AGM to purchase its own shares up to a 
maximum of 496,907,224 ordinary shares. The minimum which 
must be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value and the 
maximum price is the higher of (i) an amount equal to 105% of the 
average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share of 
the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily 
Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the 
day on which the share is contracted to be purchased and (ii) an 
amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent 
trade of an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock 
Exchange Trading System, in each case, exclusive of expenses. 
As at 31 December 2015, 58,705,016 shares were held as treasury 
shares. These shares held in treasury represent 1.2% of the 
Company’s issued share capital. Dividends are waived in respect  
of shares held in the treasury share account.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
61 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shares held in employee benefit trusts
The Centrica plc Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) is used to purchase 
shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees,  
in connection with the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme,  
the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Scheme.  
The Centrica plc Share Incentive Plan Trust (SIP Trust) is used  
to purchase shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of 
employees, in connection with the SIP. Both the Trustees of the 
EBT and the SIP, in accordance with best practice, have agreed not 
to vote any unallocated shares held in the EBT or SIP at any general 
meeting and dividends are waived in respect of these shares. In 
respect of allocated shares in both the EBT and the SIP Trust, the 
Trustees shall vote in accordance with participants’ instructions.  
In the absence of any instruction, the Trustees shall not vote.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely  
to affect its future development, performance and position are  
set out in the Chief Executive’s Statement on pages 5 to 9 and  
the Business Review on pages 28 to 37.
The Directors have considered the implications on going concern 
and viability for the Group following the significant declines in 
commodity prices and resulting asset impairments during the year. 
Under the terms of the Articles of Association (Articles) the Group’s 
borrowings are currently restricted to the higher of £5 billion and 
three times its adjusted capital and reserves. Whilst preparing the 
Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors became aware that, 
predominantly due to the impairments and the resulting reduction in 
capital and reserves, the Group’s borrowings limit under the Articles 
would reduce to £5 billion from the date of approval of these audited 
Financial Statements. There will, therefore, be a technical breach of 
Article 94. Consequently, the Directors are proposing a resolution  
at the AGM to amend the Articles to increase the limit on the 
Company’s borrowing powers. They consider that the resolution  
to be proposed is in the best interests of shareholders and are 
therefore confident that the resolution will be passed. 
The Directors have reviewed the implications of this technical 
breach, including evaluating the Group’s liquidity position and 
availability of cash resources. This analysis also considered the 
remote scenario of restrictions continuing after the Company’s 
AGM. Following this review, the Directors continue to have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group as a 
whole have adequate resources to meet their financial obligations 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Directors continue  
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial 
Statements. Further details of the Group’s liquidity position and 
going concern review are provided in notes 24 and S3 to the 
Financial Statements.
Viability statement
In accordance with provisions C.2.1 and C.2.2. of the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the 
prospects for the Group and confirm that they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its 
liabilities, as they fall due, over a period of at least three years.
The Group has a strong position in its chosen markets, with strong 
brands, a highly skilled customer-facing workforce and reliable 
operations. There are a number of risks, detailed on pages 38  
to 42, that could have a significant impact on the financial 
performance of the Group including commodity prices, energy 
demand driven in part by weather, customer numbers and the 
evolving regulatory landscape. A number of risks, particularly 
commodity prices, could change significantly over both the short, 
medium and longer term. Taking account of the principal risks, the 
Group’s current position and risk mitigation, the Board consider 
three years as the most suitable timeframe to form a reasonable 
expectation as to the Group’s longer term viability.
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The Directors, who are named on pages 44 and 45, are 
responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, the Strategic Report and the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements 
for each financial year. Accordingly, the Directors have prepared  
the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European 
Union (EU) and the Company Financial Statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law).  
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and  
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these 
Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable  
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and 
Company Financial Statements respectively; and 
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time  
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the 
Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2015, 
when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess  
the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: 
• the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group; 
• the Strategic Report contained on pages 1 to 42 together with 
the Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report on pages 47  
to 62, includes a fair review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the Group, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces; 
• as outlined on page 55, there is no relevant audit information  
of which PwC are unaware; and
• they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as  
a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Grant Dawson
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary
18 February 2016
Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report continued
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
62 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OVERVIEW
In April 2015, we asked shareholders to approve our new 
Remuneration Policy as well as the new Long Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP) for Executive Directors (Executives). We were pleased to 
receive votes in support from over 91% of our shareholders for  
both of these resolutions. We believe the new policy represents  
a simpler remuneration structure for our Executives and better 
alignment with the strategic direction of the Group. Overall 
maximum remuneration has been reduced and the stretching 
financial and non-financial targets reflect the key performance 
indicators (KPIs) that have been set for the business.
The remuneration structure has been designed with a large 
proportion of awards being delivered in shares which have holding 
periods of up to five years. Malus and clawback apply to both  
cash and share awards. In addition, Executives have a minimum 
shareholding requirement of 200% of gross salary and all vested 
shares will be held until this level has been reached. 
As set out in the Chief Executive’s statement, the primary long-term 
financial goal for the Group is now adjusted operating cash flow 
(AOCF) growth. In order to ensure continued alignment of Executive 
remuneration, the Committee believes that AOCF should be the 
basis of the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) financial measure. After 
consulting with a number of key shareholders who indicated strong 
support, the Committee decided to exercise its discretion and set 
an AOCF related target for 2016. A summary of the Remuneration 
Policy is provided over pages 66 to 71 revised only to reflect  
this amendment. 
We were disappointed that the vote in favour of our 2015 
remuneration report was just under 67%. Having undertaken 
consultation before and after the AGM we understand that some 
shareholders had concerns about the one-off recruitment awards 
granted to our new Chief Executive, as compensation for the 
forfeiture of unvested long-term incentive plan awards from his 
previous employer. Specifically, the concerns related to the 
qualitative nature of the performance conditions and whether the 
awards were necessary. The Committee considered the need  
for the awards very carefully during the recruitment process and 
concluded that it was absolutely necessary to include the awards 
in the offer in order to secure the Board’s strongly preferred 
candidate in the face of significant competition. In setting 
performance conditions for the awards the Committee was  
mindful of reinforcing the initial priorities it had set for the new  
Chief Executive and committed to full and transparent disclosure  
of achievement against the Board’s expectations. Set out in detail 
on page 75 of this report is the Committee’s assessment of 
performance against the targets that were set in respect of the  
first tranche of shares. As the recruitment award was made in  
April 2015 and comprised a fixed number of shares, the value  
at vesting will have decreased in line with our share price, 
demonstrating alignment of interest between the Chief Executive 
and our shareholders. 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHANGES
There were a number of Executive Director changes during the 
year. Remuneration for all new Executives has been set in line  
with our approved policy and has been disclosed at the time  
of appointment. 
Remuneration Report
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the Remuneration Committee’s 
report for 2015.
“ A large proportion of awards are delivered  
in shares which have holding periods of up  
to five years. ”
Lesley Knox, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Iain Conn was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January and 
Mark Hodges was appointed as Group Executive Director and 
Chief Executive, Energy Supply & Services, UK & Ireland, in June. 
We appointed Jeff Bell as Group Chief Financial Officer in August. 
The remuneration summary and report this year cover the 
remuneration received by these three new Executives, for the  
time they served on the Board, as well as Mark Hanafin and our 
Non-Executive Directors.
PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR
The summary over the following two pages includes targets and 
outcomes relating to the year as well as total remuneration received 
in respect of 2015. 
Although Group adjusted operating profit decreased compared  
with the previous year, this was against a challenging environment 
with further falls in wholesale gas and power prices during the year. 
Weak performance in British Gas Business and Direct Energy 
Services was offset by good results elsewhere in the Group  
which, together with a strong contribution from Bord Gáis Energy 
contributed to an increase in total downstream operating profit  
of 19%. As a result, Group financial performance under the AIP  
was a fraction ahead of target. 
Despite solid performance against our non-financial KPIs across 
the three-year performance period ending with 2015, as the Group 
economic profit target under both the Long Term Incentive Scheme 
and the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme was not met, there 
will be no payouts in 2016 for the Executives under either of the 
long-term incentive plans.
Lesley Knox
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
18 February 2016
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
63 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group EP
EPS
Non-ﬁnancial KPIs
Jeff Bell %
16
14
9
70
Group EP
EPS
Non-ﬁnancial KPIs
Mark Hanaﬁn %
20
17
12
63
Group operating proﬁt
Strategic objectives
Mark Hodges %
37.5
62.5
38
25
Group operating proﬁt
Strategic objectives
Jeff Bell %
37.5
62.5
38
12.5
Group operating proﬁt
Strategic objectives
Mark Hanaﬁn %
37.5
62.5
38
20
37.5
62.5
38
25
Group operating proﬁt
Strategic objectives
Iain Conn %
Remuneration Summary for 2015
SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PERFORMANCE 2015
The charts below set out the measures and their weighting (inner circle) and the performance achieved against the maximum (outer circle) 
for both the short-term (Annual Incentive Plan) and long-term (Long Term Incentive Scheme and Deferred and Matching Share Scheme) 
incentive arrangements operated during the year.
Short-term incentive targets
Group financial performance – adjusted operating profit (excluding the restatement of fair value depreciation because the targets were set 
before the decision to change the definition – see note 2 on page 93 for more details) of £1,511 million was required for target 
achievement and £1,586 million for maximum. Individual strategic objectives – achievement against strategic objectives aligned to the 
Group’s strategic priorities, measured in line with the Group’s performance management process.
Long-term incentive targets
Performance against Economic Profit (EP), Earnings per Share 
(EPS) and non-financial KPIs was measured over a three-year 
period ending with 2015. In addition, a positive or negative  
TSR multiplier is applied to any vesting outcome.
The EP and EPS performance targets have not been achieved. 
Performance against the non-financial KPI dashboard across the 
three-year period was strong, however, as a result of the EP target 
not being met, the non-financial KPI portion of the LTIS award will 
not vest.
None of the long-term incentive plans ending with the 2015 
performance year will vest and therefore there will be no payout 
in 2016. Full details of the performance outcomes are set out on 
pages 73 and 74. 
Strategic objectives included 
a particular focus on safety, 
compliance and conduct 
across the Group; analysis  
of the risk universe and  
the creation of plans to 
strengthen the system  
of internal control; 
strengthening external 
relationships, particularly  
with investors, regulators, 
media and government  
and executing a response  
to the low commodity  
price environment.
Strategic objectives included 
significant input to the  
Group strategic review; 
development of the Group 
financial framework and 
associated investor 
communications; delivery  
of the 2015 plan; risk 
management and risk 
appetite review; reshaping 
Group Procurement and 
raising a new Hybrid Bond.
Strategic objectives included 
safety performance and 
reliability of operations; 
long-term supply deals; E&P 
production and operating 
response to low commodity 
price environment; asset 
integrity; CCGT strategy; 
delivery of midstream trading 
plan and development of 
distributed energy strategy.
Strategic objectives included 
a full review of British Gas 
strategy including 
development of the future 
operating model; focus  
on safety, conduct and 
regulatory practice;  
increasing NPS; the Group’s 
response to the CMA 
investigation and creating 
near term efficiency 
opportunities.
GOVERNANCE  REMUNERATION REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
64 MAXIMUM TOTAL REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITY AND TOTAL REMUNERATION RECEIVED IN 2015
The chart below sets out the total remuneration received for the year for each Executive Director on the Board for all or part of 2015, 
prepared on the same basis as the single figure for total remuneration table set out on page 72. In addition, for comparison purposes,  
the chart provides an indication of minimum, on-target and maximum total remuneration opportunity, prepared on the same basis.
2015 CASH FLOW DISTRIBUTION TO STAKEHOLDERS
The Committee monitors the relationship between the Directors’ total remuneration and cash outflows to other stakeholders.  
As demonstrated by the chart below, the Directors’ aggregate total remuneration for the year equates to 0.05% (2014: 0.1%)  
of the Group’s operating cash flow.
Data to be supplied
2015 %
To staff 
To government 
To shareholders 
Investing activities 
To Directors 
0.05
35
22
9
34
2014 %
To staff 
To government 
To shareholders 
Investing activities 
To Directors 
0.1
30
28
19
23
A further c.£400 million of 
investment was funded from 
borrowing and other sources 
rather than from operating 
cash flows and £420 million 
was returned to shareholders 
through the share repurchase 
programme.
(i)
(i) Achievement against the performance conditions set for the ﬁrst tranche of the recruitment award is disclosed on page 75. 
(ii) Jeff Bell was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2015.
(iii) Mark Hodges was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2015.
0 1,000 2,000 3,000
£000
4,000 5,000 6,000 8,000 7,000
Minimum 
total pay
Opportunity
Iain 
Conn
Jeff 
Bell (ii)
Mark 
Hanaﬁn
Mark 
Hodges (iii)
2015 Actual
Opportunity
2015 Actual
Opportunity
2014 Actual
2015 Actual
Opportunity
2015 Actual
Fixed remuneration
Short-term incentive
Long-term incentive
Recruitment award
Minimum total pay On-target total pay Maximum total pay
Minimum 
total pay
On-target total pay Maximum total pay
On-target total pay Maximum total pay
Minimum 
total pay
On-target total pay Maximum total pay
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
65 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Remuneration Policy
Set out over the following pages is a summary of the Remuneration 
Policy that was approved by shareholders on 27 April 2015. The full 
Remuneration Policy can be found at centrica.com. 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The Committee believes that the remuneration arrangements are 
completely aligned with the Executives’ underlying commitment to 
act in the best interests of sustainable shareholder value creation, 
whilst ensuring behaviours remain consistent with the governance 
and values of the business.
Key objectives of reward framework
The Policy aims to deliver a remuneration package:
• to attract and retain high calibre Executives in a challenging and 
competitive business environment;
• that delivers an appropriate balance between fixed and variable 
compensation for each Executive;
• that places a strong emphasis on performance, both the short 
term and long term;
• strongly aligned to the achievement of strategic objectives  
and the delivery of sustainable value to shareholders; and
• that seeks to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement  
of performance targets.
Reward framework
The core design of the total remuneration framework for Executives 
ensures that a substantial portion of the maximum opportunity is 
dependent upon performance as indicated in the chart below.  
Total remuneration comprises fixed pay and variable performance 
related pay, which is further divided into short-term incentive (with  
a one-year performance period) and long-term incentive (with a 
three-year performance period).
Short-term incentives relate to awards under the Annual Incentive 
Plan (AIP) which is described on page 67. Long-term incentives 
relate to awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which  
is described on page 68.
KPIs have been selected that align with our purpose: to deliver 
energy and services to satisfy the changing needs of our 
customers, and also support our long-term financial goals.  
In addition, our underlying principles of operating safely and  
with an engaged workforce are included.
The KPIs, set out in detail on pages 20 and 21, influence the design 
and underpin the selection of performance criteria used within the 
incentive arrangements as demonstrated in the KPIs and incentives 
table below. If overall performance is not deemed satisfactory, the 
award for any year may be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion  
of the Committee.
In addition, Executives are subject to a minimum shareholding 
guideline. Under the LTIP there are mandatory holding periods  
of three to five years from grant or award date, to provide further 
alignment with the returns to our shareholders.
Remuneration principles
• The potential maximum remuneration that Executives could 
receive is a key consideration when agreeing the level of base 
pay and the performance related elements of the remuneration 
package;
• the Committee takes account of, and is sensitive to, shareholder 
views, market changes, skills availability, competitive pressure 
and/or the economic climate when considering Executive 
remuneration. In so doing, the Committee follows similar 
principles that apply when remuneration is considered for  
all other employees within the Group; and
• benchmarking against UK cross-industry comparator 
organisations of similar size and complexity is used to assist  
the Committee in evaluating market movement and the relative 
competitive position of Executive remuneration to ensure that 
packages offered support the attraction and retention of high 
calibre individuals.
 
KPIs and incentives
KPI Incentive link
Adjusted operating cash flow (AOCF) AIP primary financial measure
Adjusted operating profit LTIP economic profit three-year measure
Adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS) LTIP EPS growth measure
Total shareholder return (TSR) AIP deferred share investment and minimum shareholding requirement
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard
Process safety LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard
Customer satisfaction LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard
Employee engagement LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard
0%
Fixed 
remuneration
Short-term
incentive
Long-term
incentive
Cash Shares
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
GOVERNANCE  REMUNERATION REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
66 Remuneration Policy table
The table below sets out the Remuneration Policy that was approved at the AGM on 27 April 2015 and applies to Executives.
Purpose and  
link to strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance 
measures
Base pay/salary
Reflects the scope 
and responsibility  
of the role and the 
skills and 
experience of the 
individual.
Salaries are set at  
a level sufficient to 
allow the Company 
to compete for 
international talent 
and to recruit, 
motivate and retain 
individuals of the 
correct calibre to 
execute our 
strategy.
Base salaries are reviewed annually, taking account of 
performance, market conditions and pay in the Group 
as a whole. Changes are usually effective from 1 April 
each year. 
This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
Ordinarily, base salary increases 
in percentage terms will be in 
line with increases awarded to 
other employees of the Group. 
Increases may be made above 
this level to take account of 
individual circumstances such 
as a change in responsibility, 
progression in the role or a 
significant increase in the scale 
or size of the role.
The base salary for an Executive 
will not exceed £1 million per 
annum.
This is consistent with the 
previously approved policy.
Not applicable.
Short-term  
incentive plan
Designed to reward 
the delivery of key 
strategic priorities 
for the year.
These priorities 
position the Group 
for strong short-term 
financial 
performance, in 
service of longer-
term strategic goals.
The AIP is a new plan and together with the new 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) replaces the previous 
Annual Incentive Scheme (AIS), Deferred and Matching 
Share Scheme (DMSS) and Long Term Incentive 
Scheme (LTIS).
The AIP is designed to incentivise and reward the 
achievement of demanding financial and individual 
strategically aligned performance objectives.
Following measurement of the performance outcome, 
half of the AIP award is paid in cash. The other half is 
required to be deferred into shares, two-thirds of which 
are released after three years and the remaining third 
after four years. Dividends are payable on the shares 
during the restricted period.
If overall business performance is not deemed 
satisfactory, an individual’s AIP payment for the year 
may be reduced or forfeited, at the discretion of the 
Committee.
Malus and clawback apply to the cash and share 
awards (see policy table notes on page 70).
Maximum of 200% of base 
salary.
Half the maximum is payable  
for on-target performance.  
The minimum award is 0%.
The maximum was 180% of 
base salary under the previously 
approved policy.
The 20% of base salary 
increase in maximum 
opportunity is offset by the  
80% of base salary reduction  
in maximum long-term  
incentive opportunity and  
longer deferral periods.
Up to 75% of base 
salary based on 
individual strategic 
objectives aligned 
to the Group’s 
strategic priorities, 
with the remainder 
based on adjusted 
operating cash flow 
(for 2016 onwards) 
and adjusted 
operating profit 
adjusted for 
movements in tax 
and capital 
employed (for 2015). 
Assessed over  
one financial year.
Up to 72% of base 
salary was based 
on individual 
strategic objectives 
under the 
previously 
approved policy.
AIP timeline
Year 5 Year 4 Year 3 Award date Year 1 Year 2
Performance period
Performance period
Period subject to  
malus/clawback
Period subject to clawback
Period subject to malus
Period subject  
to clawback
50% awarded in shares 2/3 of shares released 1/3 of shares released
50% paid in cash
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
67 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Purpose and  
link to strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance 
measures
Long-term 
incentive plan
Assists with 
Executive retention 
and incentivises an 
appropriate balance 
between short-term 
performance and 
long-term value 
creation for 
shareholders.
Encourages 
sustainable high 
performance.
Provides a direct link 
between 
remuneration and 
KPIs, reinforcing  
the desire for 
sustainable high 
performance over 
the long term.
The new LTIP simplifies the previous long-term 
incentive arrangements which were delivered under 
two separate schemes. 
LTIP awards are granted to Executives each year 
based on a percentage of base salary at the point  
of award. Shares vest at the end of a three-year 
performance period, depending on the achievement 
against the Company performance targets, but are not 
released until the fifth anniversary of the award date.
LTIP awards are usually delivered as conditional shares 
which vest at the end of the three-year performance 
period. Awards may also be granted as nil-cost 
options with a seven-year exercise period. It is a 
requirement of the LTIP that the net shares are held  
for a further two years following the vesting date. 
Malus applies to the shares during the three-year 
performance period and clawback applies to the 
shares during the two-year retention period (see  
policy table notes on page 70).
Dividend equivalents are calculated at the end of the 
performance period on any conditional LTIP share 
awards or nil-cost options. Dividend equivalents are 
paid as additional shares or as cash.
If overall performance is not deemed satisfactory,  
the award for any year may be reduced or forfeited,  
at the discretion of the Committee.
Maximum of 300% of base 
salary plus dividend equivalents. 
The minimum vesting level 
is 0%.
The maximum was 380%  
of base salary plus dividend 
equivalents under the previously 
approved policy.
One-third based  
on EPS over the 
three-year 
performance 
period. 
One-third based  
on absolute 
aggregate EP  
over the three-year 
performance 
period.
One-third based  
on non-financial 
KPI dashboard.
Where 
performance falls 
between stated 
points, vesting is 
calculated on a 
straight-line basis.
The weighting to 
non-financial KPIs 
has marginally 
increased from 
30% to 33.3% 
compared with the 
long-term incentive 
arrangements in 
the previously 
approved policy. 
This reflects the 
Committee’s view  
of the appropriate 
balance between 
financial and 
non-financial 
measures at 
two-thirds/one-third 
respectively.
Remuneration Policy continued
LTIP timeline
Year 5 Year 4 Year 3 Award date Year 1 Year 2
Period subject to clawback Period subject to malus
Three-year performance period Two-year holding period
Performance tested and award vests Shares released Award granted
GOVERNANCE  REMUNERATION REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
68 Purpose and  
link to strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum opportunity Performance 
measures
Pension
Positioned to 
provide a 
competitive 
post-retirement 
benefit, in a way that 
manages the overall 
cost to the 
Company.
Incoming Executives are entitled to participate  
in a Company money purchase pension arrangement 
or to take a fixed salary supplement (calculated as  
a percentage of base salary, which is excluded from 
any bonus calculation) in lieu of pension entitlement.
The Group’s policy is not to offer defined benefit 
arrangements to new employees at any level, unless 
this is specifically required by applicable legislation  
or an existing contractual agreement.
This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
30% salary supplement for  
Chief Executive and 25%  
salary supplement for all  
other Executives.
This is consistent with the 
previously approved policy.
Not applicable.
Executives employed prior to 2013 are entitled to 
participate in a Centrica pension arrangement or to receive 
a fixed salary supplement in lieu of pension entitlement 
in accordance with the terms of their contracts.
Mark Hanafin is entitled to receive a salary supplement 
equal to 40% of his base salary in lieu of pension or  
to participate in a Company money purchase pension 
arrangement.
We would continue to honour defined benefit pension 
arrangements in the event of an individual being 
promoted to the Board who retains a contractual 
entitlement to such a pension benefit.
This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
40% salary supplement for 
Executives employed prior 
to 2013.
This is consistent with the 
previously approved policy.
Benefits
Positioned to ensure 
competitiveness 
with market 
practice.
The Group offers Executives a range of benefits 
including some or all of:
• a company-provided car and fuel, or a cash 
allowance in lieu; 
• life assurance and personal accident insurance;
• health and medical insurance for the Executive  
and their dependants; 
• health screening; and
• a contribution towards financial planning advice. 
This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
Cash allowance in lieu of  
company car – £22,000 
per annum.
The benefit in kind value of  
other benefits will not exceed  
5% of base salary.
This is consistent with the 
previously approved policy.
Not applicable.
Relocation and 
expatriate 
assistance
To enable the Group 
to recruit or promote 
the right individual 
into a role, to retain 
key skills and to 
provide career 
opportunities.
Assistance may include (but is not limited to) removal 
and other relocation costs, housing or temporary 
accommodation, education, home leave, repatriation 
and tax equalisation.
This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
Maximum of 100% of  
base salary.
This is consistent with the 
previously approved policy.
Not applicable.
All-employee  
share plans
Provide an 
opportunity for 
employees to 
voluntarily invest in 
the Company.
UK-based Executives are entitled to participate in the 
HMRC-approved Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan 
(SIP) on the same terms as all other eligible employees. 
The Sharesave plan offers a three or five-year savings 
period, with up to a 20% discount to the market value 
of the shares at the point of grant. 
The SIP currently offers partnership and matching shares. 
Dividends paid on SIP shares may be reinvested in  
the plan.
This is consistent with the previously approved policy.
Maximum contribution limits  
are set by legislation. Levels  
of participation allowed by the 
Board are within these limits 
and apply to all participants. 
The SIP currently awards one 
free matching share for every 
two partnership shares 
purchased, up to a maximum of 
22 matching shares per month, 
although the plan allows for 
higher levels of matching award. 
This is consistent with the 
previously approved policy.
Not applicable.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
69 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Policy table notes
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that 
they are not in line with the Remuneration Policy set out above, 
where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy 
came into effect, at a time when the relevant individual was  
not an Executive of the Company or, in the opinion of the 
Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the 
individual becoming an Executive of the Company. For these 
purposes payments include the amounts paid in order to satisfy 
awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award 
over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time 
the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy  
set out above (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or 
administrative purposes or to take account of a change in 
legislation) without obtaining shareholder approval for that 
amendment.
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS APPLYING TO EXECUTIVES
Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme (CUPS)
All registered scheme benefits are subject to HMRC guidelines 
and the Lifetime Allowance. 
The CUPS defined contribution (DC) section provides benefits 
for individuals not eligible to join the CUPS defined benefit (DB) 
section and for whom registered scheme benefits are expected 
to exceed the Lifetime Allowance. The CUPS DC section is 
offered as a direct alternative to a cash salary supplement.
The CUPS DB section was closed to new members in  
October 2002. 
CUPS is unfunded but the benefits are secured by a charge 
over certain Centrica assets. An appropriate provision in 
respect of the accrued value of these benefits has been made 
in the Company’s balance sheet.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS)
EPS is the Company’s basic earnings per share adjusted  
for exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
Adjusted operating cash flow (AOCF)
AOCF is the net cash flow from operating activities (which 
includes taxes paid) adjusted to include dividends received and 
to exclude payments relating to exceptional charges, pension 
deficit contributions and collateral cash flows.
Economic profit (EP)
EP is adjusted operating profit (after share of joint venture interest) 
less a tax charge based on the tax rate relevant to the different 
business segments and after deduction of a capital charge.  
The capital charge is calculated as capital employed multiplied  
by the Group’s weighted average cost of capital.
Where appropriate, expenditure on assets (and related costs) that 
are not yet in use (pre-productive capital) is excluded from capital 
employed. 
Non-financial KPI dashboard
The non-financial KPI dashboard is designed to reward sustained 
high performance over the entire three-year performance period. 
The equally weighted measures are:
• lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR);
• significant process safety event;
• British Gas net promoter score (NPS); 
• Direct Energy NPS; and
• employee engagement.
Employee engagement survey data is collected by an external 
provider and compared against an independent benchmark 
database.
Deloitte LLP review selected non-financial KPIs, providing limited 
assurance using the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). The full assurance statement, 
together with the Basis of Reporting, are available at Centrica.com/
CRassurance.
For each measure, three performance zones have been established, 
represented by the following indicators:
 High performance zone
 Median performance zone
 Low performance zone 
MALUS AND CLAWBACK
The Committee can apply malus (ie reduce the number of shares  
in respect of which an award vests) or delay the vesting of awards  
if it considers it appropriate where a participant has engaged in 
gross misconduct or displayed inappropriate management 
behaviour which fails to reflect the governance and values of the 
business or where the results for any period have been restated  
or appear inaccurate or misleading.
Where an award has vested, the resulting shares will generally be 
held for a period during which they may be subject to clawback  
in the event that the Committee determines that one or more of  
the circumstances above has occurred.
Remuneration Policy continued
GOVERNANCE  REMUNERATION REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
70 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Remuneration Policy
Centrica’s policy on Non-Executive Directors’ (Non-Executives) fees takes into account the need to attract high quality individuals, their 
responsibilities, time commitment and market practice.
Terms of appointment
Non-Executives, including the Chairman, do not have service contracts. Their appointments are subject to Letters of Appointment and  
the Articles of Association. 
Remuneration Policy table 
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation Maximum 
opportunity
Performance 
measures
Chairman and Non-Executive 
Director fees
Sufficient level to secure the 
services of individuals 
possessing the skills, 
knowledge and experience to 
support and oversee the 
Executive Directors in their 
execution of the Board’s 
approved strategies and 
operational plans.
The fee levels for the Chairman are reviewed every two 
years by the Remuneration Committee. 
The fee levels of the Non-Executives are reviewed every two 
years by the Executive Committee. 
Non-Executives are paid a base fee for their services. Where 
individuals serve as Chairman of a Committee of the Board, 
additional fees are payable. The Senior Independent 
Director also receives an additional fee.
Fee levels from 1 January 2016:
Base fee £72,500 per annum.
The following additional fees apply:
• Chairman of Audit Committee – £25,000 per annum;
• Chairman of Remuneration Committee – £20,000 
per annum;
• Chairman of Safety, Health, Environment, Security  
and Ethics Committee – £20,000 per annum; and
• Senior Independent Director – £20,000 per annum.
Fee levels from May 2010 to 31 December 2015:
Base fee £65,000 per annum.
The following additional fees applied:
• Chairman of Audit Committee – £23,000 per annum;
• Chairman of Remuneration Committee – £20,000 
per annum;
• Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee – 
£20,000 per annum; 
• Chairman of Safety, Health, Environment, Security  
and Ethics Committee (established July 2015) – £20,000 
per annum; and
• Senior Independent Director – £20,000 per annum.
The Company reserves the right to pay a Committee 
membership fee in addition to the base fees.
Non-Executives are able to use 50% of their fees, after 
appropriate payroll withholdings, to purchase Centrica 
shares. Dealing commission and stamp duty is paid by  
the Non-Executive. 
The Non-Executives, including the Chairman, do not 
participate in any of the Company’s share schemes, 
incentive plans or pension schemes.
Non-Executives will be reimbursed for business expenses 
relating to the performance of their duties including travel, 
accommodation and subsistence. In certain circumstances 
these, or other incidental items, may be considered a 
‘benefit in kind’ and if so may be grossed up for any tax due.
The maximum 
level of fees 
payable to 
Non-Executives, 
in aggregate, is 
set out in the 
Articles of 
Association.
Not applicable.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
71 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION IN 2015
This report sets out information on the remuneration of the Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
Single figure for total remuneration (audited)
£000 
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Salary/
fees
Salary/
fees
Bonus
(cash)
Bonus
(cash)
Bonus
(deferred)
Bonus
(deferred)
 (xi)
Benefits
 (xi)
Benefits
(xii)
LTIPs
(xiii)
LTIPs
(restated)
(xiv)
Recruit-
ment
award
Recruit-
ment
award
(xv)(xvi)
Pension Pension Total
Total
(restated)
Executives
Iain Conn
(i)
925 – 581 – 581 – 29 – – – 616 – 277 – 3,009 –
Jeff Bell
(ii)
229 – 116 – 116 – 10 – – – – – 58 – 529 –
Mark Hanafin 621 606 361 – 361 432 24 25 – 660 – – 249 265 1,616 1,988
Mark Hodges
(iii)
365 – 230 – 230 – 20 – – – – – 91 – 936 –
Sam Laidlaw
(iv)
– 967 – 592 – – – 61 – 1,234 – – – 418 – 3,272
Nick Luff 
(v)
– 407 – – – – – 28 – – – – – 187 – 622
Chris Weston
(vi)
– 605 – – – – – 46 – – – – – 166 – 817 
6,090 6,699
Non-
Executives
Rick 
Haythornthwaite 495 495 – – – – – – – – – – – – 495 495 
Margherita 
Della Valle 88 88 – – – – – – – – – – – – 88 88 
Lesley Knox 85 85 – – – – – – – – – – – – 85 85 
Mike Linn 73 65 – – – – – – – – – – – – 73 65 
Ian Meakins 85 65 – – – – – – – – – – – – 85 65 
Carlos Pascual
(vii)
65 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 65 –
Steve Pusey
(viii)
49 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 49 –
Mary Francis
(ix)
– 105 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 105 
Paul Rayner
(x)
– 65 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 65 
940 968 
Total 7,030 7,667
(i) Iain Conn was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2015.
(ii) Jeff Bell was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 August 2015.
(iii) Mark Hodges was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 June 2015.
(iv) Sam Laidlaw retired from Centrica on 31 December 2014.
(v) Nick Luff resigned as an Executive Director on 31 August 2014.
(vi) Chris Weston resigned as an Executive Director on 30 December 2014.
(vii) Carlos Pascual was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2015.
(viii) Steve Pusey was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2015.
(ix) Mary Francis resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2014.
(x) Paul Rayner resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2014.
(xi) Taxable benefits include car allowance, health and medical, financial planning advice and long service awards. Non taxable benefits include matching shares received under the Share 
Incentive Plan and the gain from any options exercised under the HMRC-approved Sharesave plan. 
(xii) The long-term incentives include the value of the LTIS and DMSS matching awards due to vest in April 2016, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2015. 
The performance targets have not been met and these awards therefore will not vest. Details of the performance outcome are set out on pages 73 and 74.
(xiii) The long-term incentives vesting in respect of 2014 have been recalculated based on the share price on the date of vest which was 257p. The previous disclosure in the 2014 single 
figure table used an estimated share price.
(xiv) The recruitment award shares vesting in April 2016 have been valued to calculate an estimated payout using the share price at 31 December 2015 which was 218p. The value of the 
estimated dividend equivalent shares has been included.
(xv) Notional contributions to the CUPS DC scheme for Mark Hanafin and Jeff Bell (less an allowance for CPI inflation of 2.7% in 2014 and 1.3% in 2015) have been included in this table as  
if CUPS DC were a cash balance scheme. Jeff Bell joined the scheme on 1 August 2015 and the figure shown above represents the notional accumulated value of his CUPS DC benefits 
as at 31 December 2015.
(xvi) Iain Conn and Mark Hodges are entitled to receive a salary supplement of 30% and 25% of base pay respectively. 
Base salary/fees
Base salaries for Executives were reviewed on 1 April 2015 and will be reviewed during the course of 2016 as part of the normal 
annual cycle.
Mark Hanafin’s base salary increased by 2.46% to £625,000 (the previous increase of 2.52% was in April 2014). The salaries for Iain Conn 
(£925,000), Jeff Bell (£550,000) and Mark Hodges (£625,000) were set during the year for their new appointments to the Centrica Board 
and were disclosed accordingly.
Base fees for Non-Executives were reviewed in November 2015 and were increased on 1 January 2016 from £65,000 to £72,500 per 
annum. The additional fee for the Chairman of the Audit Committee was also increased from £23,000 to £25,000 per annum. The 
increases were in line with the Remuneration Policy. Prior to this increase, Non-Executives’ fees had been at the same level since 2010.
Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report
GOVERNANCE  REMUNERATION REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
72 Bonus (AIP)
The performance targets for the 2015 AIP are set out in the Remuneration Summary. The charts on page 64 under short-term incentive 
targets indicate the extent of achievement for each Executive receiving a payment relating to 2015, for each component of the AIP.
Pension 
Jeff Bell is entitled to receive a salary supplement of 25% of base pay or participate in the CUPS DC Scheme. As Mark Hanafin was 
an Executive prior to 2013, he is entitled to receive a salary supplement of 40% of base pay or participate in the CUPS DC Scheme. 
During the year, they both participated in the CUPS DC Scheme and received an unfunded promise equal to 25% and 40%  
of base pay respectively. Iain Conn and Mark Hodges elected to receive salary supplements and these are included in the single figure  
for total remuneration table on page 72.
Notional contributions to the CUPS DC Scheme have been included in the single figure for total remuneration table as if it was a cash 
balance scheme and therefore notional investment returns for the year have been included. The notional pension fund balances are 
disclosed below.
Pension benefits earned by Directors in the CUPS DC Scheme (audited)
CUPS DC Scheme
(i)
Total notional
pension fund
as at 
31 December 
2015
£
Total notional
 pension fund
as at 
31 December
2014
£
Jeff Bell 57,600 –
Mark Hanafin 818,860 562,121
(i) The retirement age for the CUPS DC Scheme is 62.
Long-term incentive plans vesting in 2016
Performance conditions
The performance conditions relating to the LTIS awards vesting in 2016 are set out below, together with an explanation of the 
achievement against these performance conditions.
Vesting criteria Performance conditions over three-year period
35% on EPS
(i)
 growth against RPI growth Full vesting for EPS growth exceeding RPI growth by 30%
Zero vesting if EPS growth does not exceed RPI growth by 9%
Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% between 
these points
35% on absolute aggregate EP Full vesting for aggregate EP of £3,400 million
Zero vesting if aggregate EP is below £2,600 million
Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% between 
these points
30% on non-financial KPI dashboard As disclosed on page 74
Positive/negative multiplier on TSR performance  
against the FTSE 100 Index
0.667 multiplier for Index -7% per annum and 1.5 multiplier for Index +7% per 
annum, subject to a cap at the face value of the award. Where performance falls 
between stated points, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis
(i) EPS is the Group’s adjusted basic earnings per share.
Performance outcome
Earnings per share (EPS)
EPS growth during the three-year period ending with 2015 did not exceed RPI growth by 9%. Consequently, the EPS portion of the  
2013 LTIS award will not vest.
Economic Profit (EP)
Aggregate EP achieved during the three-year period ending with 2015 was £2,194 million when compared to a threshold level of 
£2,600 million and a maximum level of £3,400 million. Consequently, the EP portion of the 2013 LTIS awards, and the DMSS matching 
awards, will not vest. 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
73 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report continued
Long-term incentive plans vesting in 2016 (continued)
LTIS non-financial KPI dashboard
For each measure three performance zones have been established, represented by the indicators below. Throughout each three-year 
performance period, for each median performance zone outcome, 5% of the KPI shares will be forfeited and for each low performance 
zone outcome, 10% of the KPI shares will be forfeited. 
 High performance zone
 Median performance zone
 Low performance zone
The non-financial KPI results in 2013, 2014 and 2015 are as follows:
Performance period – LTIS awards granted
in 2013 and due to vest in 2016
Measure
Year 1
2013
Year 2
2014
Year 3
2015
Lost time injury  
frequency rate (LTIFR)
Significant process 
safety event
British Gas net promoter 
score (NPS)
(i)
Direct Energy NPS
Employee engagement
Performance period – LTIS awards granted
in 2014 and due to vest in 2017
Measure
Year 1
2014
Year 2
2015
Year 3
2016
Lost time injury  
frequency rate (LTIFR)
Significant process 
safety event
British Gas net promoter 
score (NPS)
(i)
Direct Energy NPS
Employee engagement
Performance against the non-financial KPI dashboard for the 
three-year period ending with 2015 resulted in 70% of the KPI 
portion of the 2013 LTIS award becoming eligible for vesting.
As a result of the EP performance target not being met for the 
three-year period ending with 2015, the KPI portion of the 2013 
LTIS award will not vest. There will therefore be no payout under  
the LTIS in 2016. 
KPI performance under the LTIP
Set out below is the achievement against the KPI dashboard for the 
first year of measurement for LTIP awards granted in 2015.
Performance period – LTIP awards granted 
in 2015 and due to vest in 2018
Measure
Year 1
2015
Year 2
2016
Year 3
2017
Lost time injury  
frequency rate (LTIFR)
Significant process 
safety event
British Gas net promoter 
score (NPS)
(i)
Direct Energy NPS
Employee engagement
(i) In 2015, British Gas NPS methodology changed to focus on experiences at the end  
of key customer journeys. This new methodology will therefore be used going forward 
under LTIP and our actual performance can be viewed on pages 20 and 21. The outgoing 
methodology based on contact and brand scores will continue to be used under LTIS.  
In 2015, performance under the outgoing methodology was +28 (high performance 
zone), up from +23 (median performance zone) in 2014.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR KPIs ON PAGES 20 AND 21.
GOVERNANCE  REMUNERATION REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
74 Conditional awards granted to the Chief Executive in 2015 (audited)
(i)
Number
of shares
(ii)
Value of  
shares  
at grant 
£000
(iii) 
Estimated
value of shares 
vesting
£000
Vesting/
release date
Iain Conn 359,112 925 616 April 2016
Iain Conn 718,223 1,850 N/A April 2017/18
(i) In accordance with the Company’s approved recruitment policy the awards above were granted to Iain Conn for the forfeiture of existing unvested long-term incentive awards in the 
form of conditional Centrica shares. The vesting of both awards is subject to the achievement of personal strategic objectives, which are summarised below.
(ii) The share price used to calculate the number of shares granted was 257.58p, being the average closing share price over five business days immediately preceding the grant date  
of 1 April 2015. 
(iii) The shares have been valued to calculate an estimated payout using the share price at 31 December 2015 which was 218p. The value of the estimated dividend equivalent shares has 
been included.
Performance achievement
The Committee has determined that in respect of the first award, 
Iain Conn has achieved both the strategy and organisational 
structure objectives specified for 2015. With regard to the strategy 
objective, a deep and fundamental review of Centrica’s strategy  
has been conducted and a clear purpose and strategic direction 
has been established. The strategy addresses all the key issues 
raised by the Board and by investors and enables Centrica to 
deliver growth and returns. Following its communication, the 
strategy has been well received. Investors support the overall 
strategic direction. Other external stakeholders, such as media, 
government and regulators, understand the strategy and support 
its focus on customers. Internally, the strategic review process was 
conducted in a way to drive alignment and buy-in of the leadership. 
Its conclusions, whilst inevitably raising some uncertainty, are a  
source of excitement and momentum for the business.
With regard to the organisational structure objective, a full review  
of the organisational structure, processes and systems has  
been conducted. Fundamental changes have been agreed and 
implemented which are necessary to deliver the strategy and 
success of Centrica. New business units and operating units  
have been introduced. The role of the Corporate Centre and  
Group Functions has been clarified, and decisions have been  
taken on group functional design. New Executive Committees of 
the CEC have been established to mirror new Board Committees  
and the risk universe, and areas of improvement of management 
systems have been identified and plans established. To start to  
shift the culture in line with the goal of ‘One Centrica’, new ways  
of working have been agreed and Group priorities clarified. Finally, 
a very significant cost efficiency prize of £750 million has been 
identified and organisation design has been mapped to this.
In light of these activities, the Committee is satisfied that Iain Conn 
has met the expectations of the Board as set out in the 2015 
objectives and as a result 75% (the ‘on-target’ level) of the first 
tranche of the recruitment award will vest. The value of the award  
at vesting will be lower than that announced when the award was 
made due to the reduction in the share price. The Committee is 
satisfied that this reflects appropriate alignment between the 
interests of the Chief Executive and those of shareholders. 
The Committee will ensure that a further detailed disclosure will  
be made next year in respect of the second award of shares which 
is due to vest in 2017. 
In accordance with the Company’s approved recruitment 
policy and as previously announced, the Committee agreed to 
provide compensation to Iain Conn for the forfeiture of existing 
unvested long-term incentive awards in the form of conditional 
Centrica shares.
Two awards of conditional shares were granted to Iain Conn in  
April 2015, the first with a face value equal to £925,000 vesting on 
the first anniversary of the award date and the second with a face 
value equal to £1,850,000 vesting on the second anniversary of  
the award date and released in April 2018. In accordance with the 
minimum shareholding guidelines, any shares released (following 
the sale of sufficient shares to cover the income tax and National 
Insurance contributions due on vesting) will be held until his 
shareholding is above the minimum guideline for Executives. 
The vesting of both awards is subject to the achievement of 
personal strategic objectives. Three-quarters of each award will 
vest if the Committee is satisfied that Iain Conn’s performance, in 
relation to the objectives set, has at least matched the expectations 
of the Board. Each award may vest in full if the Committee 
considers his performance to have significantly exceeded 
expectations. If the Committee considers his performance to have 
been below expectations, the shares will not vest and the award 
will be forfeit.
In reviewing Iain Conn’s performance, the Committee stated that  
it would consider progress against the following objectives:
• strategy: to establish a sustainable growth strategy for Centrica 
that is attractive to and earns the support of all key stakeholders 
(expected by end Q3 2015);
• organisational structure: to consider organisational structure, 
processes, systems, culture and costs and effect any change 
deemed appropriate (expected by end Q4 2015);
• capability: to ensure that all the capabilities crucial to the success 
of the growth strategy have robust development plans that can 
be delivered at a pace commensurate with competitive demands 
(expected by end Q2 2016); and
• reputation: to build relationships with society necessary to 
achieve a demonstrable improvement in the external belief in 
Centrica as a consumer-centric company, UK national leader, 
influential in Europe and North America and a responsible market 
participant (expected by end Q4 2016).
These measures are in addition to but complement the objectives 
set in respect of the AIP.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
75 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LTIP awards granted in 2015 (audited)
Number
of shares
(i) (ii)
Value 
£000 Vesting date
Iain Conn 943,012 2,470 May 2018
Mark Hanafin 637,170 1,669 May 2018
Mark Hodges 637,170 1,669 May 2018
Jeff Bell
 (iii)
546,398 1,469 August 2018
(i) Awards were made in 2015 to Executives based on a value of 267% of salary. The performance conditions relating to these awards are set out below. 
(ii) The share price used to calculate the number of shares granted was 261.9p, being the average closing share price over five business days immediately preceding the grant date  
of 6 May 2015. 
(iii)  The share price used to calculated the number of shares granted to Jeff Bell was 268.76p, being the average closing share price over the five business days immediately preceding  
the grant date of 7 August 2015.
LTIP performance conditions for awards granted in 2015
Vesting criteria Performance conditions over three-year period
1/4 based on EPS growth over  
2016 and 2017 (with 2015 as the base year)
Full vesting for EPS growth of 16% or more
Zero vesting if EPS growth does not exceed 6%
Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 0% and 100% between these points
3/8 based on absolute aggregate  
EP over the 3-year period 2015-2017
Full vesting for aggregate EP of £3,500 million
Zero vesting if aggregate EP is below £1,500 million
Vesting will increase on a straight-line basis between 0% and 100% between these points
3/8 based on non-financial KPI dashboard 
over the 3-year period 2015-17
As disclosed on page 74
LTIP timeline
Release Award
Vesting of shares based  
on performance
2015 2016 2017
Performance period
2015 2018 2019
Holding period
2020
DMSS matching awards granted in 2015 (audited)
(i) (ii)
Number
of shares
(iii)
Value 
£000 Vesting date
Mark Hanafin 362,878 915 April 2018
(i) DMSS matching awards for UK-based Executives are delivered as nil-cost options at the end of the performance period and the options remain exercisable for seven years. 
(ii) The DMSS matching award granted in 2015 will vest subject to absolute EP performance over the three-year performance period for the portfolio of business units that Mark is 
responsible for: minimum £75 million and maximum £150 million provides one or two matching shares respectively. Where performance falls between these points, vesting is calculated 
on a straight-line basis.
(iii) The share price used to calculate the number of shares granted was 252.15p, being the share price at which the corresponding deferred shares were purchased in the open market  
on 1 April 2015.
DMSS timeline
Release
Mandatory deferral
Cash
Voluntary deferral
Performance period 2014 2015
Performance Total AIS
Converted to shares and 
matched and deferred
Three-year deferral 
(2015–2017)
Two-year  
holding period
2020
Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report continued
GOVERNANCE  REMUNERATION REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
76 Directors’ interests in shares (number of shares) (audited)
The table below shows the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of the Directors who held office during the year together  
with the minimum shareholding guideline for the Executives, which is 200% of salary, and the achievement against the guideline. 
Also included (but not included as part of the minimum shareholder guideline calculation) are details of shares owned by the Executives 
that are subject to continued service, unvested share awards that are subject to company performance conditions and fully vested 
unexercised nil-cost share options. 
Executives have a period of five years from appointment to the Board, or any material change in the minimum shareholding requirement,  
to meet the guideline.
(i)
Shares 
owned 
outright as at 
31 December
2014
(i)
Shares 
owned 
outright as at 
31 December
2015
Minimum 
shareholding
 guideline 
(% of salary)
Achievement
as at 
31 December
 2015
(% of salary)
(ii)
Shares 
owned 
(subject to
 continued 
service) as at
31 December
 2015
(iii)
Unvested share
 awards subject 
to company 
performance
conditions (incl 
awards granted in 
2015) as at 
31 December
 2015
Fully vested 
unexercised 
options as at 
31 December 
2015
Executives      
Iain Conn
(iv)
– 140,812 200 33 – 2,020,347 –
Jeff Bell
(v)
– 87,910 200 35 221,068 717,247 –
Mark Hanafin
(vi)
244,578 363,863 200 127 136,821 2,010,120 215,261
Mark Hodges
(vii)
– 320 200 0 110 637,170 –
Non-Executives 
Rick Haythornthwaite 32,500 33,476 – – – – –
Margherita Della Valle 14,944 24,653 – – – – –
Lesley Knox 12,348 14,427 – – – – –
Mike Linn 42,575 42,575 – – – – –
Ian Meakins 11,724 21,535 – – – – –
Carlos Pascual – – – – – – –
Steve Pusey – 21,570 – – – – –
(i) These shares are owned outright by the Director or a connected person and they are not subject to continued service or performance conditions.
(ii) Shares owned subject to continued service are DMSS deferred awards, SIP matching shares that have not yet been held for the 3 year holding period and for Jeff Bell, shares that  
were awarded in 2014 and 2015 under the Share Award Scheme and the On Track Incentive Plan, before he was appointed to the Board.
(iii) Shares and options that are subject to the achievement of long-term performance conditions are the awards granted under the LTIS in 2013 and 2014, matching awards granted  
under the DMSS in 2013 and 2014, recruitment awards granted to Iain Conn and include all awards granted in 2015 which are disclosed elsewhere in this Remuneration Report.
(iv) Following the release and allotment of shares in April 2016, it is estimated that Iain Conn will hold shares with a value equal to 131% of salary.
(v) Following the release and allotment of shares in April 2016, it is estimated that Jeff Bell will hold shares with a value equal to 94% of salary.
(vi) Following the release and allotment of shares in April 2016, it is estimated that Mark Hanafin will hold shares with a value equal to 179% of salary.
(vii) Following the allotment of shares in April 2016, it is estimated that Mark Hodges will hold shares with a value equal to 45% of salary.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
77 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Fees received for external appointments of Executive 
Directors
In 2015, Iain Conn received £97,500 as a non-executive director  
of BT Group plc.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table sets out the amounts paid under the share 
repurchase programme, in dividends and staff and employee costs 
for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015.
2015
£m
2014
£m
% 
Change
Share repurchase
 
– 420 -100
Dividends 387 864 -55
Staff and employee costs
(i)
2,126 1,927 10
(i) Staff and employee costs are as per note 5 of the Group Income Statement.
Payments for loss of office
During 2015, there were no payments made for loss of office.
Funding of share schemes in 2015
During 2015, treasury shares were used to satisfy the release of 
shares or exercise of options under DMSS, LTIS, Executive Share 
Option Scheme (ESOS, under which the last options were granted 
in 2006), Share Award Scheme (SAS, a conditional share plan for 
Centrica employees below the executive level), Sharesave and the 
matching shares in SIP and the North American Employee Share 
Purchase Program (NA ESPP). Market purchased shares, held in 
trust, were used to satisfy outstanding allocations under DMSS 
(deferred and investment shares), the Restricted Share Scheme 
and the On Track Incentive Plan (conditional share plans for 
Centrica employees below the executive level), the Deferred Bonus 
Plan (a plan for International Upstream employees below the 
executive level). At 31 December 2015, 58,705,016 shares were 
held in treasury (2014: 76,860,164), following the share repurchase 
programme throughout 2013 and 2014.
Advice to the Remuneration Committee
The membership of the Remuneration Committee during 2015  
is set out in the Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report  
on page 59.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Group HR Director,  
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and  
Deputy Group HR Director & Group Head of Reward are  
normally invited to attend each Committee meeting and provide 
advice and guidance to the Committee, other than in respect  
of their own remuneration. 
The Committee also has access to detailed external information 
and research on market data and trends from independent 
consultants. Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) was appointed by the 
Committee in 2011, following a competitive tender process,  
as independent external adviser. Deloitte provided advice and  
support to the Committee on shareholder voting levels, executive 
remuneration and corporate governance developments, fee 
benchmarking and best practice disclosure during 2015. The  
fees for the advice, including preparation for and attendance at 
Remuneration Committee meetings, amounted to £23,750.
Deloitte has also provided advice to Centrica globally during 2015 
in the areas of employment taxes, share schemes, pensions, 
corporate finance, management consulting and internal audit.
In addition, Deloitte was appointed by the Company in 2014 to 
provide a TSR monitoring and reporting service. The fees for  
TSR reports provided to the Committee on completion of the LTIS 
performance cycles during 2015 amounted to £1,200. Deloitte also 
provided quarterly TSR reports and updates to the Company which 
were used to keep the general LTIS population regularly updated 
with TSR performance. 
Percentage change in Chief Executive’s remuneration 
compared with other employees
The table below shows the percentage change in base pay/salary, 
taxable benefits and bonus (annual incentive) payments between 
2014 (relating to Sam Laidlaw, the former Chief Executive) and  
2015 (for Iain Conn, the current Chief Executive), compared with a 
comparator group of UK employees, over the same period of time.
Chief Executive
% change
Employees
% change
Salary and fees -4.88 2.71
Taxable benefits -52.12 0.64
Annual incentive -1.85 8.11
The comparator group includes management and technical  
or specialist employees based in the UK in Level 2 to Level 5 
(where Level 1 is the Chief Executive). The employees selected 
have been employed in their role throughout 2014 and 2015 to  
give a meaningful comparison. The group has been chosen as the 
employees have a remuneration package with a similar structure 
to the Chief Executive, including base salary, benefits and 
annual bonus.
Pay for performance
The table below shows the Chief Executive’s total remuneration 
over the last seven years and the achieved annual variable and 
long-term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the plan 
maximum.
Year
Chief Executive
single figure 
of total
remuneration
£000
Annual bonus 
payout
against max
 opportunity
%
Long-term
incentive
vesting against
max opportunity
%
Iain Conn
2015 3,009 63 0
Sam Laidlaw
2014 3,272 34 35
2013 2,235 50 0
2012 5,709 61 67
2011 5,047 50 59
2010 5,322 91 62
2009 4,627 92 73
The performance graph below shows Centrica’s TSR performance 
against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index over the seven-year 
period to 31 December 2015. The FTSE 100 Index has been 
chosen as it is an index of similar sized companies and Centrica 
has been a constituent member throughout the period.
Total return indices – Centrica and FTSE 100
Centrica return index
Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2015 Dec 2014
100
200
180
160
140
120
Source: Datastream
FTSE 100 return index FTSE 100 return index
Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report continued
GOVERNANCE  REMUNERATION REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
78 IMPLEMENTATION IN THE NEXT FINANCIAL YEAR
No changes to the policy are anticipated in 2016 save for the 
amendment to the AIP financial target from an adjusted operating 
profit basis to an adjusted operating cash flow basis, as noted in 
the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s statement on page 63.
Awards will be granted in line with the limits set out in the policy 
table. Performance measures and targets for the long-term 
incentive plan align with the Group’s new strategy and therefore  
will remain unchanged. 
Adjusted operating cash flow targets are considered commercially 
sensitive until the year end and will therefore be disclosed 
retrospectively in the Remuneration Report for the year in question.
Base salaries for Executives will be reviewed during the course of 
2016 as part of the normal annual cycle. No changes to pensions 
or benefits are anticipated.
Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed and new fee levels 
apply from 1 January 2016, as disclosed on page 72.
CHANGES SINCE 1 JANUARY 2016
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
During the period from 1 January 2016 to 18 February 2016,  
Mark Hanafin acquired 188 shares and Mark Hodges acquired  
188 shares through the SIP.
The Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board  
of Directors and signed on its behalf.
Grant Dawson
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary
18 February 2016
The Committee is satisfied with the performance of Deloitte and 
has determined that it is not necessary to seek a tender for the 
services currently provided. 
The Committee takes into account the Remuneration Consultants 
Group’s Code of Conduct when dealing with its advisers. The 
Committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the year 
was objective and independent and that the provision of those other 
services by Deloitte in no way compromises their independence.
2015 VOTING
At the AGM held on 27 April 2015, shareholders approved the 
Remuneration Policy and the Directors’ Annual Remuneration 
Report for the year ended 31 December 2014. Below are the 
results in respect of the resolutions, which required a simple 
majority (of 50%) of the votes cast to be in favour in order for  
the resolutions to be passed:
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Votes for % Votes against %
3,102,582,374 91.62 283,889,125 8.38
16,276,123 votes were withheld.
Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report
Votes for % Votes against %
2,238,563,698 66.9 1,107,409,157 33.1
56,779,501 votes were withheld.
A full schedule in respect of shareholder voting on the above and  
all resolutions at the 2015 AGM is available at centrica.com.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
79 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards, comprising FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’, 
and applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future 
events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also 
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, 
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the 
Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due 
to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as ‘areas of focus’ on page 81. We have also set out how 
we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to 
provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any 
comments we make on the results of our procedures should be 
read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified 
by our audit. 
Our audit approach – Overview 
Areas of focus
Audit scope
Materiality
Materiality
• Overall Group materiality: 
£78 million which 
represents 5% of 3 year 
average pre-tax profit 
adjusted for exceptional 
items and certain 
re-measurements as 
defined in the financial 
statements.
Audit scope
• We conducted our audit 
work across the Group’s 
locations including the UK, 
the Republic of Ireland, 
The Netherlands, Norway, 
the US and Canada;
• Senior members of 
the Group audit team 
performed site visits 
across the Group’s 
locations. This included 
Direct Energy in Houston, 
the Exploration & 
Production business in 
Norway and the significant 
parts of the UK business 
including British Gas and 
Centrica Energy; and
• Taken together, the 
territories and functions 
where we performed our 
audit work accounted for 
94% of Group revenues 
and 77% of Group profit 
before tax. We also 
performed specific audit 
procedures on the 
business units not 
included in the scope 
of the audit where they 
contained material 
financial balances.
Areas of focus
Our areas of focus 
comprised:
• Impairment assessment;
• Valuation of derivative 
transactions in commodity 
trading;
• Presentation of 
exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements;
• Onerous contracts;
• Downstream revenue 
recognition;
• Pensions; and
• Going concern.
Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the members of Centrica plc
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• Centrica plc’s Group financial statements and Company financial 
statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view  
of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2015 and of the Group’s profit and cash flows  
for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union;
• the Company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards  
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report 
and Accounts (the ‘Annual Report’), comprise:
• the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015;
• the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015;
• the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement  
of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
• the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended;
• the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; 
• the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year  
then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
80 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Impairment assessment 
The Group has £4.6 billion of property, plant and equipment, the majority 
of which relates to gas production and storage assets and power 
generation assets; £1.8 billion of intangible assets and £2.0 billion of 
goodwill, arising predominantly from historical acquisitions in Centrica 
Energy Exploration & Production in Europe.
Impairment assessments of these assets require significant judgement 
and there is the risk that valuation of the assets may be incorrect and 
any potential impairment charge miscalculated.
The value of Centrica’s assets is supported by either value in use 
calculations, which are based on future cash flow forecasts or fair 
value less costs of disposal. Market conditions in 2015 have been very 
challenging. Falling forecast oil and gas prices have had a significant 
impact on the Exploration & Production business and outages and falling 
power prices have put pressure on power generation. These unfavourable 
macro-economic factors have heightened the possibility of a decline in 
the assets’ value in use and fair values. As a result, taking account of 
declining oil, gas and power prices and expected future performance,  
the Directors have determined that certain Exploration & Production 
assets and power generation assets, including the associated goodwill, 
are impaired.
This has resulted in a total pre-tax impairment charge of £1,004 million 
being recognised in relation to the UK, The Netherlands and Norwegian 
gas and oil assets, £210 million being recognised on Canadian 
Exploration & Production assets and £42 million in relation to gas assets 
in Trinidad and Tobago. A further impairment charge of £609 million was 
recognised in relation to goodwill.
Also, in assessing their value in use, as a result of the significant fall  
in spark spreads and low capacity markets, the Group has recognised  
a pre-tax impairment charge of £31 million in relation to the assets held 
under a finance lease on the Spalding power station. The Group also 
recognised a pre-tax impairment charge of £372 million on its nuclear 
investment, due to declining forecasts of base load power prices and 
capacity market auction prices.
Impairment indicators were identified for the Storage facility following 
operational issues and declining market spreads. No impairment 
charge was recorded; however, the model remains highly sensitive 
to key assumptions.
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews  
and conclusions and notes 3, 7, 13, 15 and S2 in the financial statements.
We assessed and challenged the impairment analysis prepared by the 
Directors as outlined below.
With regard to the overall impairment assessments performed by the 
Directors, we evaluated the design of internal controls in place to check 
that the Group’s assets are valued appropriately including those controls 
in place to determine any asset impairments or impairment reversals. 
We also reviewed the assets not assessed by management for 
impairment indicators and no indicators were identified. 
We evaluated the Directors’ assumptions and estimates used to 
determine the recoverable value of the gas production and storage 
assets, power generation assets, intangible assets, and goodwill. 
This includes those relating to operating cost forecasts and expected 
production profiles. We tested these assumptions by reference to 
third party documentation where available, such as commodity price 
forecasts, and consultation with operational management. We used 
PwC valuation specialists to help us assess the commodity prices 
and discount rates used by the Directors. We benchmarked these to 
external data and challenged the assumptions based on our knowledge 
of the Group and its industry. In addition we tested management’s 
sensitivity and stress test scenarios and found they had applied 
appropriate judgement.
With regard to both the international Exploration & Production assets 
and power generation assets, we focused on the Directors’ assertion 
that the fall in forecast commodity prices has been the key driver  
of impairment. We did this through discussions with management to 
understand the basis of their forecasts, comparing them to available 
industry data, including price and consumption, and performing 
sensitivity analysis on their assessments. We also challenged the 
Directors on the assessment of exceptional ‘one-off’ drivers, such as 
commodity prices, that have impacted value as opposed to operational 
issues incurred in the normal course of business. 
We challenged the key assumptions used in each impairment model 
and performed sensitivity analysis around key drivers of cash flow 
forecasts, including output volumes, commodity prices, operating  
costs and expected life of assets. 
Based on our analysis and the analysis performed by our valuations 
team, we did not identify any material issues with the valuation of 
international Exploration & Production, storage, power generation  
assets and goodwill, the accuracy of the impairment charges and  
the disclosures in the financial statements.
Valuation of derivative transactions in 
commodity trading
The Group enters into a number of forward energy trades to help protect 
and optimise the value of its underlying production and storage assets, 
power generation assets, and transportation assets, as well as to meet 
the future energy and supply needs of customers.
Certain of these arrangements are accounted for as derivative financial 
instruments and are recorded at fair value.
Judgement is required in valuing these derivative contracts, particularly 
where the life of the contract is beyond the liquid market period. The fair 
value calculation requires bespoke models to be used that are specific  
to the derivative and, as such, we gave particular focus to the valuation  
of derivative contracts at the balance sheet date.
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews  
and conclusions and notes 2 and 7 in the financial statements.
We assessed the overall commodity trading process, including internal 
risk management procedures and the system and controls around 
origination and maintenance of complete and accurate information 
relating to derivative contracts. We found the controls in place over  
this process to be operating effectively and therefore placed reliance  
on these controls in our testing.
We tested the valuation of derivative contracts at the year-end date 
which require the use of management valuation models. Our audit 
procedures focused on the integrity of these valuation models and the 
incorporation of the contract terms and the key assumptions, including 
future price assumptions and discount rates. We verified input prices 
into the system and recalculated valuations for a sample of derivatives, 
as well as performing sensitivity analyses for more complex derivatives. 
Our testing identified that the models used to value the contracts were 
appropriate and we did not identify any material issues over the 
valuation of derivative transactions.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
81 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Presentation of exceptional items and certain  
re-measurements
The middle column of the income statement represents exceptional items 
and certain re-measurements. In the current year there is a total pre-tax 
exceptional charge of £2,358 million and a £103 million pre-tax gain 
relating to net re-measurements included within operating profit.
Exceptional items
The exceptional items are expected to be non-recurring and are disclosed 
separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence. The current year 
pre-tax charge comprises a £1,865 million impairment of Exploration 
& Production assets, a £121 million impairment of UK power generation 
assets and provisions for onerous power procurement contracts and a 
£372 million impairment of nuclear assets. The charge is offset by 
a £512 million tax credit comprising the net of taxation on exceptional 
items of £477 million, an impairment charge of Exploration & Production 
deferred tax assets of £81 million and a £116 million credit arising from  
the change of UK tax rates. 
The appropriate classification of exceptional items involves subjective 
judgement by management including whether the item is truly exceptional 
and non-recurring. Our focus was on testing that the presentation and 
disclosure of these items is materially correct.
Certain re-measurements (as defined in the 
financial statements)
Certain re-measurements, which resulted in pre-tax gains totalling 
£103 million, relate to the fair valuing of forward energy trades as 
described above in our area of focus on the valuation of derivative 
transactions in commodity trading. There are two main types of trades:
• Optimisation trades – It is the Directors’ view that movements in the fair 
value of optimisation trades do not reflect the underlying performance 
of the business because they are economically related to parts of 
the business which are not fair valued, for example Exploration & 
Production Assets or downstream demand. As such these trades are 
only reflected in business performance when the underlying transaction 
or asset impacts profit or loss.
• Speculative trading is entered into for the purpose of making profit. 
Therefore all fair value movements associated with it are disclosed  
as part of underlying business performance.
Our focus was on testing the correct classification of optimisation and 
speculative trades.
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews  
and conclusions and notes 2 and 7 in the financial statements.
For each of the material exceptional items we considered Directors’ 
analyses of why they were determined to be exceptional and performed 
our own, independent assessment by looking, primarily, at the nature  
of the items. The detailed work we performed on the exceptional items 
relating to the impairment charges, which is the most significant item,  
is described on page 81.
For certain re-measurements we audited the principles management use 
to determine whether a trade should be recognised as part of business 
performance or presented separately. We evaluated whether the agreed 
principles had been applied consistently by testing that a sample of the 
trades have been presented correctly as own-use or speculative trading.
Based on the work performed we did not identify any material issues with 
the presentation, classification or disclosure of exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements.
Onerous contracts
The Group enters into a number of significant and complex contracts, 
for example, forward gas purchase contracts and metering contracts. 
Macro-economic factors, such as forecast commodity price, can have a 
significant impact on the profitability of these contracts, and therefore the 
Directors make an assessment as to whether the impact of such factors 
has resulted in contracts becoming onerous.
A new onerous contract provision of £70 million has been recognised for 
the Spalding power station tolling agreement subsequent to the recording 
of an impairment. The Directors’ existing assessment of expected costs 
in relation to the Rijnmond tolling contract, European gas transportation 
contracts and Direct Energy wind farm power purchase agreements 
remains materially unchanged.
Our focus on onerous contracts was assessing whether material onerous 
contracts have been identified and that the valuation of any provision is 
materially correct.
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and 
conclusions and notes 3 and 21 in the financial statements.
We tested the identification and completeness of onerous contracts 
through discussions with management, examination of board minutes, 
obtaining and reading the new significant contracts during the year  
and testing management’s assumptions for a sample of contracts.
We tested the valuation of the onerous contract provisions by evaluating 
whether appropriate judgements and assumptions had been applied  
in determining the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation and the 
estimate of the expected benefits to be received under the contract.
The Spalding power station tolling agreement was identified as onerous 
as the contractual outflows exceed the forecast future economic benefit 
in the period to September 2021 due to the decline during 2015 in spark 
spread forecasts together with updated operating cost forecasts. We 
have evaluated the cash flow model used by management to value the 
contract and are satisfied with management’s approach to modelling 
and the assumptions underpinning the cash flows. 
Independent Auditors’ Report continued
GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
82 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Downstream revenue recognition
The accuracy of the recognition of energy services revenue within British 
Gas, Direct Energy and Bord Gáis and its presentation in the income 
statement is dependent on complex estimation methodologies/algorithms 
used to assess the amount of energy supplied to customers between the 
date of the last meter reading and the year end (unread). Unread gas and 
electricity comprises both billed and unbilled revenue. The specific risk 
over unread revenue is the accuracy of the estimation. Where an unread 
estimate is billed this gives the customer opportunity to challenge the 
amount which when applicable can lead to the correction of estimates. 
Where unread estimates are unbilled there are risks over accuracy, 
recoverability and therefore correct recognition in the income statement 
and balance sheet.
Furthermore, migration issues arising from the implementation of a new 
billing system in British Gas Business in 2014 have resulted in the need for 
management to perform additional levels of review over revenue and debt 
including judgements over the level of provisioning. 
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and 
conclusions and notes 3 and 4 in the financial statements.
In order to test the accuracy of the unread billed and unbilled revenue 
at British Gas and Bord Gáis, we assessed the IT general controls, 
system application controls and management controls in relation to 
the revenue and billing systems. Our testing found that the IT general 
controls and system application controls were sufficient to enable us  
to place reliance on the controls for the year end audit. In Direct Energy 
our testing found that certain manual controls were sufficient to enable 
us to obtain some audit evidence from the operation of manual controls 
for the year-end audit.
Given the relatively short time period between the end of the financial 
year and the audit, the majority of unbilled revenue as at 31 December 
remained unbilled and uncollected. We therefore focused our 
substantive testing on the manual processes over revenue recognition, 
assessing the appropriateness of the estimation methodologies and  
the level of subsequent true-ups to actual bills raised. We also tested  
the reconciliation of unbilled reports to the general ledger at the year 
end. Where manual adjustments were made to the unbilled revenue we 
challenged the basis of the adjustments made, the source of the data 
used and the consistency of the adjustments with prior years to confirm 
we were comfortable with the adjustments.
In assessing the methodology used to derive the unbilled revenue at the 
balance sheet date and testing the performance of historical billing and 
collections, we did not identify any material issues with the recognition  
of unbilled revenue.
With regard to the implementation of the new billing system in British 
Gas Business we increased our scope of work in order to assess the 
impact of the migration of customers to the new system, specifically on 
revenue, debt and debt provisioning. This included testing the revenue 
adjustments, recoverability of debt and additional procedures over the 
debt provision at year end. 
Based on our work we did not identify any material misstatements with 
downstream revenue recognition.
Pensions
The Group has a net defined benefit pension liability of £119 million, 
consisting of a £6,642 million asset, offset by a £6,761 million liability.
The assumptions used in valuing the pension liability are both 
judgemental and sensitive to change. For example, a 0.25% increase/
decrease in the discount rate has a 6% impact on the scheme liabilities. 
As a result there is a risk that a small change in the judgements used will 
have a significant impact on the valuation of the pension liability. As such 
our area of focus was on the assumptions used in calculating the liability.
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews and 
conclusions and notes 3 and 22 in the financial statements.
We compared the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of 
the pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks. We have 
an internally developed range of acceptable discount rates for valuing 
pension liabilities, which is based on our view of various economic 
indicators. While our range is, itself, subjective, the discount rate 
assumption lies in the middle of our range of expected assumptions 
and is reasonable for accounting purposes.
Based on the work performed, we did not identify any material issues 
over the assumptions used in valuing the pension liability.
Going concern
Under Article 94 of the Articles of Association (‘Articles’), the Group’s 
borrowings are currently restricted to the higher of £5 billion and three 
times its adjusted capital and reserves. 
Whilst preparing the Annual Report, the Group became aware that, 
predominantly due to the impairments noted above and the resulting 
reduction in capital and reserves, the Group’s borrowing limit under the 
Articles would be restricted to £5 billion from the date of approval of 
these financial statements. There will therefore be a technical breach 
of Article 94. 
As a result of this, our focus was on the Directors’ evaluation of the 
Group’s liquidity position and availability of cash reserves over the period 
of the going concern assessment, including the scenario of restrictions 
continuing after the Company’s AGM. 
Refer to pages 56 and 57 for details on the Audit Committee reviews  
and conclusions and notes 24 and S3 in the financial statements.
We assessed management’s liquidity analysis and downside 
sensitivities, including the scenario of borrowing restrictions continuing 
after the Company’s AGM.
Based on the work performed which included assessing management’s 
analysis above and review of legal advice, including discussion with 
external legal advisors and having considered the possible actions 
available to management, we did not identify any material issues in 
relation to the Company’s and Group’s assessment of going concern. 
We also evaluated the disclosures provided in the Annual Report 
in relation to going concern and we were satisfied that these 
are appropriate.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
83 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic 
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group is structured along three business lines being 
International Upstream, International Downstream and Centrica 
Storage, each made up of different business units. The Group 
financial statements are a consolidation of these business lines 
and comprise the Group’s operating businesses and centralised 
functions.
Accordingly, based on size and risk characteristics, we performed 
a full scope audit of the financial information for the following 
business units: British Gas Business, British Gas Residential, 
Direct Energy, Centrica Energy Exploration & Production  
and Centrica Energy Midstream.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we 
determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the 
audit work at those business units to conclude whether sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our 
opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Across the Group, the Group team involvement comprised of site 
visits, conference calls, review of component auditor work papers, 
attendance at component audit clearance meetings and other 
forms of communication as considered necessary. Members of 
the Group team are also directly involved in the component audits 
of British Gas and Centrica Energy. In addition, senior members of 
the Group audit team performed a number of site visits throughout 
the year to Direct Energy in Houston and the Exploration & 
Production business in Norway.
Taken together, the business units where we performed our audit 
work accounted for 94% of Group revenues and 77% of Group 
profit before tax. We also performed specific audit procedures 
on the business units not included in the scope of the audit where 
they contained material financial balances.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to 
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent 
of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line 
items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, 
both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group 
materiality
£78 million (2014: £101 million).
How we determined it
5% of 3-year average pre-tax profit 
adjusted for exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements.
Rationale for benchmark 
applied
The Group materiality benchmark 
has been calculated as 5% of profit 
from continuing operations, 
adjusted to exclude the effect of 
volatility on underlying performance 
from disclosed exceptional items 
and certain re-measurements. 
These items have impacted the 
Centrica income statement on  
a non-recurring basis and to a 
quantitatively material degree. To 
eliminate further volatility in trading 
performance, a 3-year average on 
the same benchmark was used in 
calculating the overall materiality. 
Component materiality
For each business unit in our audit 
scope, we allocated a materiality 
that is less than our overall Group 
materiality. The range of materiality 
allocated across business units was 
£10 million to £60 million. Certain 
business units were audited to a 
local statutory audit materiality 
that was also less than our overall 
Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £10 million (2014: 
£10 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in  
our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ 
statement, set out on page 62, in relation to going concern. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we 
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation 
to the Directors’ statement about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. We have nothing material to  
add or to draw attention to. 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that 
the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in 
operation and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least 
one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As 
part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the 
going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future 
events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not 
a guarantee as to the Group’s and the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Independent Auditors’ Report continued
GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
84 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the Strategic Report and the Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal 
requirements. 
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit,  
we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance Report. We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our 
audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report.
• the statement given by the Directors on page 62, in accordance with provision C.1.1 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), that they consider the Annual 
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
• the section of the Annual Report on pages 56 and 57, as required by provision C.3.8 
of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report.
The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the  
solvency or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material 
to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• the Directors’ confirmation on page 62 of the Annual Report, in accordance with 
provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to add or to draw 
attention to.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they 
are being managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to add or to draw 
attention to.
• the Directors’ explanation on page 62 of the Annual Report, in accordance with 
provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the 
Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be 
appropriate and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 
due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to add or to draw 
attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group and the Directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less in 
scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors’ process supporting their statements; checking 
that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
85 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 2006 
opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of 
the Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report relating to ten 
further provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement set out on page 62, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report  
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes  
an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
Directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance Report, we consider whether those reports include  
the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements. 
Charles Bowman 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
18 February 2016
Independent Auditors’ Report continued
GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
86 88 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
92 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
General information
92 1  Summary of significant new accounting policies  
and reporting changes
93 2 Centrica specific accounting measures 
94 3  Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainty
Group Income Statement (including Dividends)
97 4 Segmental analysis
103 5 Costs of operations
104 6  Share of results of joint ventures and associates
105 7  Exceptional items and certain re-measurements
107 8 Net finance cost
108 9 Taxation
110 10 Earnings per ordinary share
111 11 Dividends
Group Balance Sheet
112 12 Acquisitions and disposals
114 13 Property, plant and equipment
115 14 Interests in joint ventures and associates
116 15 Other intangible assets and goodwill
118 16 Deferred tax liabilities and assets
119 17 Trade and other receivables
120 18 Inventories
120 19 Derivative financial instruments
122 20 Trade and other payables
123 21 Provisions for other liabilities and charges
124 22 Post retirement benefits
128 23 Commitments and contingencies
Capital structure and financing
131 24 Sources of finance
133 25 Share capital
Post-balance sheet events
134 26 Events after the balance sheet date
135 Supplementary information
135 S1 General information
135 S2 Summary of significant accounting policies
145 S3 Financial risk management
151 S4 Other equity
152 S5 Hedge accounting
153 S6 Fair value of financial instruments
156 S7 Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts
157 S8 Related party transactions
157 S9 Auditors’ remuneration
158 S10 Related undertakings
169 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
170 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
171  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
181 GAS AND LIQUIDS RESERVES (UNAUDITED)
182 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY (UNAUDITED) 
183  OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT
Financial 
Statements
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
87 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Group Income Statement 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
88 
 2015 2014
Year ended 31 December Notes 
Business
performance
 £m 
Exceptional 
items and certain 
re-measurements 
£m 
Results for
 the year
 £m  
Business 
 performance 
 £m 
Exceptional
 items and certain
 re-measurements
 £m 
Results for
 the year
 £m 
Group revenue 4(b) 27,971 – 27,971 29,408 –29,408
Cost of sales before exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements 5 (23,734) – (23,734)(25,043) –(25,043)
Re-measurement of energy contracts 7 – 116 116 – (1,134) (1,134)
Cost of sales 5 (23,734) 116 (23,618) (25,043) (1,134) (26,177)
Gross profit  4,237 116 4,353 4,365 (1,134) 3,231
Operating costs before exceptional items 5 (3,039) – (3,039) (2,903) – (2,903)
Exceptional items – impairments 7 – (2,268) (2,268) – (1,938) (1,938)
Exceptional items – onerous provisions 7 – (90) (90) – – –
Exceptional items – gains on disposals 7 – – – – 341 341
Operating costs 5 (3,039) (2,358) (5,397) (2,903) (1,597) (4,500)
Share of profits of joint ventures and associates, 
net of interest and taxation 6, 7 200 (13) 187 106 26 132
Group operating loss 4(c) 1,398 (2,255) (857) 1,568 (2,705) (1,137)
Financing costs 8 (334) – (334) (318) – (318)
Investment income 8 55 – 55 52 – 52
Net finance cost  (279) – (279) (266) – (266)
Loss before taxation  1,119 (2,255) (1,136) 1,302 (2,705) (1,403)
Taxation on loss  7, 9 (286) 538 252 (375) 773 398
Loss for the year  833 (1,717) (884) 927 (1,932) (1,005)
Attributable to:   
Owners of the parent  863 (1,610) (747) 903 (1,915) (1,012)
Non-controlling interests  (30) (107) (137) 24 (17) 7
   
Earnings per ordinary share  
  Pence    Pence 
Basic 10 (14.9) (20.2)
Diluted 10 (14.9) (20.2)
Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 11 3.57 5.10
Final dividend proposed per ordinary share 11 8.43 8.40
The notes on pages 92 to 168 form part of these Financial Statements.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
89 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
89
Year ended 31 December Notes 
2015 
£m  
2014
£m 
Loss for the year  (884) (1,005)
Other comprehensive income/(loss):  
Items that will be or have been recycled to the Group Income Statement:  
Gains on revaluation of available-for-sale securities, net of taxation S4 5 4
  
Net gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges S4 20 (44)
Transferred to income and expense on cash flow hedges S4 (12) 46
Transferred to assets and liabilities on cash flow hedges S4 7 6
Taxation on cash flow hedges S4 (6) (1)
  9 7
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations   (256) (165)
Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of joint ventures and associates, net of taxation S4 3 (15)
  (239) (169)
Items that will not be recycled to the Group Income Statement:  
Net actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes S4 (321) (83)
Exchange gain on translation of actuarial reserve S4 3 –
Taxation on net actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes S4 50 18
  (268) (65)
Reversal of revaluation reserve, net of taxation and exchange differences S4 – (10)
Share of other comprehensive (loss)/income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxation S4 (8) 21
Other comprehensive loss net of taxation  (515) (223)
Total comprehensive loss for the year  (1,399) (1,228)
Attributable to:  
Owners of the parent  (1,227) (1,234)
Non-controlling interests S10 (172) 6
 
Group Statement of Changes in Equity 
 
 
 
Share 
capital 
(note 25) 
£m 
Share
 premium
£m 
Retained
 earnings
 £m 
Other
 equity
 (note S4)
 £m 
Total 
 £m 
Non-controlling  
interests 
 (note S10) 
 £m 
Total
 equity
 £m 
1 January 2014 321 931 4,255 (315) 5,192 65 5,257
Total comprehensive (loss)/income – – (1,012) (222) (1,234) 6 (1,228)
Employee share schemes – – – 71 71 – 71
Purchase of treasury shares – – (2) (420) (422) – (422)
Cancellations of shares held in treasury (10) – (549) 559 – – –
Investment by non-controlling interests – – – – – 283 283
Distribution paid to non-controlling 
interests  – – – – – (18) (18)
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 11) – – (867) – (867) – (867)
Taxation on share-based payments – – – (5) (5) – (5)
31 December 2014 311 931 1,825 (332) 2,735 336 3,071
Total comprehensive loss – – (747) (480) (1,227) (172) (1,399)
Employee share schemes – – 2 58 60 – 60
Scrip dividend 6 204 – – 210 – 210
Dividends paid to equity holders (note 11) – – (598) – (598) – (598)
Taxation on share-based payments – – – (2) (2) – (2)
31 December 2015 317 1,135 482 (756) 1,178 164 1,342
The notes on pages 92 to 168 form part of these Financial Statements. 
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Group Balance Sheet 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
90 
31 December Notes 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Non-current assets  
Property, plant and equipment 13 4,629 6,377
Interests in joint ventures and associates 14 1,839 2,395
Other intangible assets 15 1,775 1,991
Goodwill 15 2,049 2,609
Deferred tax assets 16 497 354
Trade and other receivables 17 61 87
Derivative financial instruments 19 440 313
Retirement benefit assets 22(d) 91 185
Securities  24 233 263
  11,614 14,574
Current assets  
Trade and other receivables 17 4,905 6,226
Inventories 18 395 555
Derivative financial instruments 19 936 617
Current tax assets  126 88
Securities 24 11 11
Cash and cash equivalents 24 860 621
  7,233 8,118
Assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 12(b) 13 –
  7,246 8,118
Total assets  18,860 22,692
Current liabilities  
Derivative financial instruments 19 (1,460) (1,565)
Trade and other payables 20 (5,034) (5,667)
Current tax liabilities  (389) (348)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 21 (396) (395)
Financial liabilities 24 (475) (1,635)
  (7,754) (9,610)
Liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale 12(b) (46) –
  (7,800) (9,610)
Non-current liabilities  
Deferred tax liabilities 16 (98) (663)
Derivative financial instruments 19 (508) (588)
Trade and other payables 20 (70) (83)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 21 (2,839) (3,203)
Retirement benefit obligations 22(d) (210) (123)
Financial liabilities 24 (5,993) (5,351)
  (9,718) (10,011)
Total liabilities  (17,518) (19,621)
Net assets  1,342 3,071
Share capital 25 317 311
Share premium   1,135 931
Retained earnings  482 1,825
Other equity S4 (756) (332)
Total shareholders’ equity  1,178 2,735
Non-controlling interests S10 164 336
Total shareholders’ equity and non-controlling interests  1,342 3,071
The Financial Statements on pages 88 to 168, of which the notes on pages 92 to 168 form part, were approved and authorised for issue 
by the Board of Directors on 18 February 2016 and were signed below on its behalf by: 
Iain Conn  Jeff Bell 
Chief Executive  Group Chief Financial Officer 
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
91 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Group Cash Flow Statement 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
91
Year ended 31 December Notes 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Group operating loss including share of results of joint ventures and associates  (857) (1,137)
Less share of profit of joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 6 (187) (132)
Group operating loss before share of results of joint ventures and associates  (1,044) (1,269)
Add back/(deduct):  
Depreciation, amortisation, write-downs and impairments  3,482 3,288
Profit on disposals  (14) (372)
Decrease in provisions  (2) (37)
Defined benefit pension service cost and contributions  (131) (83)
Employee share scheme costs  45 39
Unrealised (gains)/losses arising from re-measurement of energy contracts   (12) 1,160
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital  2,324 2,726
Decrease in inventories  138 4
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables
 
  769 (631)
Decrease in trade and other payables   (604) (50)
Operating cash flows before payments relating to taxes, interest and exceptional charges  2,627 2,049
Taxes paid 9(d) (349) (707)
Payments relating to exceptional charges  (81) (125)
Net cash flow from operating activities   2,197 1,217
Purchase of businesses  (79) (131)
Sale of businesses   8 658
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 4(f) (970) (1,456)
Sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  9 17
Investments in joint ventures and associates  (13) (26)
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 14(a) 180 138
Repayments of loans to, and disposal of investments in, joint ventures and associates  190 109
Interest received  38 35
Sale of securities 24(c) 26 5
Net cash flow from investing activities  (611) (651)
Issue and surrender of ordinary share capital for share awards  28 32
Payments for own shares S4 (11) (7)
Purchase of treasury shares under share repurchase programme  – (422)
Investment by non-controlling interests S10 – 119
Distribution to non-controlling interests S10 – (18)
Financing interest paid   (311) (296)
Repayment of borrowings and finance leases 24(c) (1,650) (518)
Cash received from borrowings, net of linked deposit 24(c) 1,000 1,311
Equity dividends paid  (387) (864)
Net cash flow from financing activities  (1,331) (663)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  255 (97)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  621 719
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (16) (1)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  860 621
Included in the following line of the Group Balance Sheet:  
Cash and cash equivalents 24(c) 860 621
The notes on pages 92 to 168 form part of these Financial Statements. 
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
92 
Notes to the Financial Statements provide additional information 
required by statute, accounting standards or Listing  
Rules to explain a particular feature of the consolidated  
Financial Statements. 
The notes to these Financial Statements focus on areas that  
we feel are key to understanding our business. Additional 
information that we are required to disclose by accounting 
standards or regulation is disclosed in the Supplementary 
Information (notes S1 to S10).  
In addition, for clarity, each note begins with a simple 
introduction outlining its purpose.  
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT NEW ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
AND REPORTING CHANGES 
This section details new accounting standards, amendments 
and interpretations, whether these are effective in 2015 or later 
years, and if and how these are expected to impact the financial 
position and performance of the Group. 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
consolidated Financial Statements are set out below and in the 
Supplementary Information (note S2). Unless otherwise stated, these 
policies have been consistently applied to the years presented. 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
adopted by the European Union (EU) and therefore comply with 
Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006.  
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the 
historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, 
available-for-sale financial assets, financial instruments designated 
at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition, and the 
assets of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes that have 
been measured at fair value and the liabilities of the Group’s 
pension schemes that have been measured using the projected unit 
credit valuation method. The carrying values of recognised assets 
and liabilities that are hedged items in fair value hedges, and are 
otherwise carried at cost, are adjusted to record changes in the  
fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.  
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS,  
as adopted by the EU, requires the use of certain critical accounting 
estimates. It requires management to exercise its judgement in  
the processes of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The 
areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity and 
areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
consolidated Financial Statements are described in notes 2 and 3.  
(a) Standards, amendments and interpretations 
effective or adopted in 2015 
From 1 January 2015, the limited amendments arising from  
‘Annual Improvement Project 2011–2013’ are applicable, although 
their first time application does not have a material impact on the 
consolidated Group Financial Statements. 
(b) Standards and amendments that are issued but not 
yet applied by the Group 
The Group has not yet applied the following standards and 
amendments as these are not yet effective in the consolidated 
Group Financial Statements and remain subject to endorsement  
by the EU: 
● IFRS 9: ‘Financial instruments’. Effective from 1 January 2018; 
● IFRS 15: ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.  
The mandatory effective date has been amended from  
1 January 2017 to 1 January 2018; and 
● IFRS 16: ‘Leases’. Effective from 1 January 2019. 
The following standards and amendments are not yet effective 
in the consolidated Group Financial Statements but have been 
endorsed by the EU:  
● IAS 1: ‘Presentation of financial statements’ related to the 
disclosure initiative. Effective from 1 January 2016; 
● Amendment to IAS 16: ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and IAS 
38: ‘Intangible assets’ related to the clarification of acceptable 
methods of depreciation and amortisation. Effective from  
1 January 2016; 
● Amendment to IAS 19: ‘Employee benefits’ related to  
employee contributions to defined benefit plans. Effective  
from 1 January 2016; 
● Amendments to IFRS 11: ‘Joint arrangements’ related to  
the acquisition of interests in joint operations. Effective from  
1 January 2016; 
● Annual Improvement Project 2010–2012. Effective from  
1 January 2016; and 
● Annual Improvement Project 2012–2014. Effective from  
1 January 2016. 
The Directors do not anticipate that the application of the Annual 
Improvement Projects and the Amendments to IAS 1, IAS 16, IAS 
19 and IAS 38 will have a material impact on the amounts reported 
and disclosed. 
The amendment to IFRS 11 in relation to acquisitions of interests  
in joint operations, which will be effective in the 2016 consolidated 
Group Financial Statements, clarifies that an acquisition of a joint 
operation that meets the definition of a business is accounted for in 
accordance with IFRS 3: ‘Business combinations’. This will lead to  
a change to the Group’s current accounting policy for this type of 
acquisition. However, the amendment is only applicable prospectively 
for acquisitions on or after 1 January 2016 and therefore the 
accounting of acquisitions prior to this date will not be restated. 
In respect of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, management has started 
assessing the impact on the Group’s consolidated Financial 
Statements. Projects to oversee the implementation of these 
standards have commenced, however, at this stage it has not been 
practicable to quantify the full effect that these standards will have 
on the Group’s consolidated Financial Statements upon transition. 
Management’s preliminary assessment is that IFRS 9 will not have  
a material impact on the Group’s consolidated Financial Statements. 
The preliminary assessment indicates there will be limited changes  
in ‘classification and measurement’ of financial instruments given the 
nature of the Group’s financial instruments. Further detailed analysis 
across business units and geographies is in progress to determine 
the impact of the change from the ‘incurred credit loss’ model to  
the ‘expected credit loss’ model for ‘impairment’ and to determine 
whether additional items will be hedge accounted as a result of the 
simplifications to ‘hedge accounting’ in the standard. 
In relation to IFRS 15, management has identified a number of 
areas where further analysis is required. The areas of potential 
impact across International Downstream, International Upstream 
and Storage business segments include: 
● the identification of performance obligations within our contractual 
arrangements with customers for example ‘standing ready type 
obligations’ on energy supply contracts versus rights granted 
(‘options’) to customers to be provided goods or services (energy) 
in the future (for example buyer’s nominations rights related to 
Upstream sales contracts or residential and business customers 
rights to use energy in Downstream energy supply contracts);  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
93 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
93
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT NEW ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
AND REPORTING CHANGES 
● the assessment of when these arrangements create enforceable 
rights and obligations between the parties for example whether 
these arise at inception or at a later stage upon occurrence of 
contingent events for example when nominations are made (by 
the buyer or seller) or when residential and business customers 
use energy under energy supply contracts (especially in open-
ended arrangements); 
● the implications of bundled goods and services (for example 
where a customer is supplied energy at the same time as being 
party to a service arrangement) and of offering incentives (for 
example free goods) in light of conclusions on performance 
obligations and enforceable rights and obligations above; and  
● the assessment of the transaction price allocated to performance 
obligations (especially variable consideration) for long-term 
Downstream energy supply contracts or Upstream ‘life of  
field contracts’ particularly where the volume and the price  
are uncertain. 
It is not yet clear whether a change in the profile of revenue 
recognition will arise as a result of the application of the new 
standard. All business units have started reviewing their contractual 
arrangements to identify any further impacts of application from 
both a financial and accounting policy perspective. 
IFRS 16: ‘Leases’ was issued in January 2016 and will have  
a significant impact on the Group’s consolidated Financial 
Statements although, given the timing of the issue of this standard, 
at this stage it has not been practicable to quantify the full effect 
this standard will have on the Group’s consolidated Financial 
Statements upon transition. IFRS 16, with certain exceptions, 
requires the Group, where the Group is a lessee, to recognise  
right of use assets and lease liabilities for all leases, there no  
longer being a distinction between operating and finance leases  
for lessees. The definition of a lease has also been modified which 
may change those contracts the Group accounts for as leases. 
Finally, the profile of the Group Income Statement impact for items 
previously accounted for as operating leases is likely to change  
for the Group, where the Group is a lessee, with a higher periodic 
expense in the earlier periods of a lease. A project to oversee the 
implementation of this standard will be set up in due course. 
2. CENTRICA SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING MEASURES 
This section sets out the Group’s specific accounting measures
applied in the preparation of the consolidated Financial 
Statements. These measures enable the users of the accounts 
to understand the Group’s underlying and statutory business 
performance separately. 
Use of adjusted profit measures 
The Directors believe that reporting adjusted profit and adjusted 
earnings per share provides additional useful information on 
business performance and underlying trends. These measures  
are used for internal performance purposes. The adjusted 
measures in this report are not defined terms under IFRS and  
may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported  
by other companies.  
The measure of operating profit used by management to  
evaluate segment performance is adjusted operating profit. 
Adjusted operating profit is defined as operating profit before: 
● exceptional items; and 
● certain re-measurements; 
but including: 
● the Group’s share of the results from joint ventures and 
associates before interest and taxation.  
Note 4 contains an analysis of adjusted operating profit by segment 
and a reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to operating profit 
after exceptional items and certain re-measurements. Note 4 also 
details an analysis of adjusted operating profit after taxation by 
segment and a reconciliation to the statutory result for the year. 
Adjusted operating profit after taxation is defined as segment 
operating profit after taxation, before exceptional items and certain 
re-measurements. This includes the operating results of equity-
accounted interests, net of associated taxation, before interest  
and associated taxation. 
Adjusted earnings is defined as earnings before: 
● exceptional items net of taxation; and 
● certain re-measurements net of taxation. 
A reconciliation of earnings is provided in note 10.  
Restatement of adjusted profit measures 
During the period, the Directors have amended the definition  
of the adjusted profit measures. Previously, the Directors had 
identified two Strategic Investments, the 2009 acquisitions of 
Venture Production plc; the operating results of which are included 
in the ‘Centrica Energy – Gas’ segment, and the acquisition of a 
20% interest in Lake Acquisitions Limited (Nuclear) which owns  
the former British Energy Group nuclear power station fleet now 
operated by EDF; the results of which are included within the 
‘Centrica Energy – Power’ segment. The depreciation resulting  
from fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment (PP&E)  
on acquisition of these Strategic Investments was excluded  
from adjusted operating profit and, net of taxation, from adjusted 
earnings. Following the conclusion of the strategic review and the 
future role of the Exploration and Production (E&P) and Nuclear 
businesses, the Directors have decided to remove the adjustment 
for depreciation of fair value uplifts of PP&E acquired on Strategic 
Investments in the definition of adjusted operating profit and 
adjusted earnings. 
Accordingly, 2014 results have been restated and the impact  
is summarised in the table below. This table also quantifies the 
impact on current year results. 
Year ended 31 December 
Notes
impacted 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Centrica Energy – Gas adjusted  
operating profit 4(c) 5 (31)
Centrica Energy – Power adjusted  
operating profit 4(c) (57) (58)
Centrica Energy – Gas adjusted  
operating profit after taxation 4(c) 1 (12)
Centrica Energy – Power adjusted  
operating profit after taxation 4(c) (32) (47)
Centrica Energy – Power share of results  
of joint ventures and associates before 
interest and taxation 4(d) (57) (58)
Centrica Energy – Gas depreciation and 
impairment of property, plant and equipment 4(d) 5 (31)
Share of adjusted results of joint ventures 
and associates 6(b) (57) (58)
Adjusted earnings 10 (31) (59)
 
 
  
Earnings per ordinary share  
Pence Pence 
Earnings – adjusted basic 10 (0.6) (1.2)
Earnings – adjusted diluted 10 (0.6) (1.2)
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
94 
2. CENTRICA SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING MEASURES 
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 
The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the ‘business 
performance’ column of the Group Income Statement. To be able 
to provide readers with this clear and consistent presentation, the 
effects of ‘certain re-measurements’ of financial instruments, and 
‘exceptional items’, are reported in a different column in the Group 
Income Statement. 
The Group is an integrated energy business. This means that it 
utilises its knowledge and experience across the gas and power 
(and related commodity) value chains to make profits across the 
core markets in which it operates. As part of this strategy, the 
Group enters into a number of forward energy trades to protect  
and optimise the value of its underlying production, generation, 
storage and transportation assets (and similar capacity or off-take 
contracts), as well as to meet the future needs of our customers 
(downstream demand). These trades are designed to reduce the 
risk of holding such assets, contracts or downstream demand and 
are subject to strict risk limits and controls. 
Primarily because some of these trades include terms that permit 
net settlement (they are prohibited from being designated as ‘own 
use’), the rules within IAS 39: ‘Financial instruments: recognition 
and measurement’ require them to be individually fair valued. Fair 
value movements on these commodity derivative trades do not 
reflect the underlying performance of the business because they  
are economically related to our upstream assets, capacity/off-take 
contracts or downstream demand, which are typically not fair 
valued. Therefore, these certain re-measurements are reported 
separately and are subsequently reflected in business performance 
when the underlying transaction or asset impacts profit or loss. 
The arrangements discussed above and reflected as certain  
re-measurements are all managed separately from proprietary 
energy trading activities where trades are entered into speculatively 
for the purpose of making profits in their own right. These 
proprietary trades are included in the business performance  
column (in the results before certain re-measurements). 
Exceptional items are those items that are of a non-recurring  
nature and, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence. Again, to 
ensure the business performance column reflects the underlying 
results of the Group, these exceptional items are also reported in  
a separate column in the Group Income Statement. Items that  
may be considered exceptional in nature include disposals of 
businesses, business restructurings, significant onerous contract 
charges and asset write-downs/impairments. 
3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS  
AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY  
This section sets out the key areas of judgement and estimation 
that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised 
in the consolidated Financial Statements. 
(a) Critical judgements in applying the Group’s 
accounting policies 
Such key judgements include the following: 
● the presentation of selected items as exceptional  
(see notes 2 and 7); 
● the use of adjusted profit and adjusted earnings per  
share measures (see notes 2, 4 and 10); and 
● the classification of energy procurement contracts as  
derivative financial instruments and presentation as  
certain re-measurements (see notes 2, 7 and 19). 
In addition, management has made the following key judgements  
in applying the Group’s accounting policies that have the most 
significant effect on the Group’s Financial Statements: 
Wind farm disposals 
In recent years, the Group has partially disposed of some of its 
wind farm companies by selling 50% of the equity voting capital 
(and 50% of the shareholder loans where relevant) in, for example, 
GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited and Lincs Wind Farm Limited. 
Associated with some of these disposals, the Group contracted to 
purchase a large percentage of the output produced by the wind 
farms under arm’s length, 15-year off-take agreements. The  
Group also contracted to provide management, operational  
and transitional support services to these companies as directed  
by their boards (and shareholders). Shareholders’ agreements  
were put in place which include a number of reserved matters  
and provide for joint management of the major decisions of  
the companies.  
Accordingly, the Directors have judged that the partial disposals  
of equity interests constituted a loss of control as the Group was  
no longer able to exercise control over the relevant activities or 
operating and financial policies of these companies. Therefore, the 
remaining investments are equity accounted as investments in joint 
ventures (see notes 6 and 14) in accordance with IFRS 11 and IAS 
28 (Revised (2011)): ‘Investments in joint ventures and associates’. 
The Directors have also judged that the 15-year off-take 
agreements are not leasing arrangements. This is because the 
Group is not purchasing substantially all of the economic output of 
the wind farms. These contracts are considered to be outside the 
scope of IAS 39 apart from the embedded derivatives arising from 
the pricing terms which are marked to market separately. 
Leases – third-party power station tolling arrangements 
The Group has two long-term power station tolling contracts 
considered to be leases: (i) Spalding in the UK and (ii) Rijnmond in 
the Netherlands. The arrangements provide Centrica with the right 
to nominate 100% of the plant capacity for the duration of the 
contracts in return for a mix of capacity payments and operating 
payments based on plant availability.  
The Spalding contract runs until 2021 and Centrica holds an  
option to extend the tolling arrangement for a further eight years, 
exercisable by 30 September 2020. If extended, Centrica is granted 
an option to purchase the station at the end of this further period. 
The Directors have determined that the arrangement should be 
accounted for as a finance lease, as the lease term was judged to 
be substantially all of the economic life of the power station and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception date 
of the arrangement amounted to substantially all of the fair value of 
the power station at that time. 
Details of the interest charges, finance lease asset and finance 
lease payable are included in notes 8, 13 and 24 respectively. 
The Rijnmond contract runs until 2030 and Centrica does not have 
the right to extend the agreement or any option to purchase the 
plant. The Directors have determined that the arrangement should 
be accounted for as an operating lease, as the lease term was not 
judged to be substantially all of the economic life of the power 
station and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the 
inception date of the arrangement did not amount to substantially 
all of the fair value of the power station at that time. Details of the 
operating lease commitments are included in note 23. 
Business combinations and asset acquisitions  
Business combinations and acquisitions of associates and joint 
ventures require a fair value exercise to be undertaken to allocate 
the purchase price (cost) to the fair value of the acquired identifiable 
assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and goodwill.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
95 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
95
3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS  
AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 
As a result of the nature of fair value assessments in the energy 
industry, this purchase price allocation exercise requires subjective 
judgements based on a wide range of complex variables at a point 
in time. Management uses all available information to make the fair 
value determinations. 
During the year the Group has made two significant acquisitions: 
AlertMe and Panoramic Power. These acquisitions have been 
accounted for as business combinations as set out in note 12(a). 
Consolidation of the CQ Energy Canada Partnership 
The Suncor upstream acquisition in 2013 involved the formation  
of the CQ Energy Canada Partnership (CQECP) to acquire Suncor 
Energy’s North American oil and gas assets. CQECP is owned and 
funded by the Group and Qatar Petroleum International (QPI) on a 
60:40 basis. The partnership provides the Group with the ability to 
control the business plan and budgets and consequently the 
general operation of the assets. Accordingly, this arrangement has 
been assessed under IFRS 10: ‘Consolidated financial statements’ 
and the conclusion has been reached that the Group has power 
over the relevant activities of CQECP. This entity has been fully 
consolidated into the Group’s Financial Statements and QPI’s 
ownership share is represented as a non-controlling interest.  
Energy Company Obligation 
The Energy Company Obligation (ECO) order requires UK-licensed 
energy suppliers to improve the energy efficiency of domestic 
households from 1 January 2013. Targets are set in proportion to 
the size of historic customer bases. ECO phase 1 had a delivery 
date of 31 March 2015. ECO phase 2 must be delivered by  
31 March 2017. The Group continues to judge that it is not legally 
obligated by this order until 31 March 2017 for ECO phase 2. 
Accordingly, the costs of delivery are recognised as incurred,  
when cash is spent or unilateral commitments made, resulting in 
obligations that cannot be avoided. 
In prior periods, the Group had entered into a number of 
contractual arrangements and commitments, and issued a public 
statement to underline its commitment to deliver a specific 
proportion of the ECO requirements. Consequently, the Group’s 
result included the costs of these contractual arrangements and 
commitment obligations. 
Metering contracts  
The Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) has 
modified the UK gas and electricity supply licences requiring all 
domestic premises to be fitted with compliant smart meters for 
measuring energy consumption by 31 December 2020. The Group 
has a number of existing rental contracts for non-compliant meters 
that include penalty charges if these meters are removed from use 
before the end of their deemed useful lives. The Group considers 
that these contracts are not onerous until the meters have been 
physically removed from use and, therefore, only recognises a 
provision for penalty charges at this point. 
During 2015 as part of the smart meter roll-out, the Group has 
renewed meter rental arrangements with third-parties. The Group 
has assessed that these are not leases because it does not have 
the right to physically or operationally control the smart meters  
and other parties also take a significant amount of the output  
from the assets. 
(b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Revenue recognition – unread gas and electricity meters 
Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of 
energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter 
reading and the year end (unread). Unread gas and electricity 
comprises both billed and unbilled revenue. It is estimated through 
the billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a 
customer by customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, 
load forecasts and the differences between actual meter reads 
being returned and system estimates. Actual meter reads continue 
to be compared to system estimates between the balance sheet 
date and the finalisation of the accounts.  
An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to 
materially affect the ultimate economic benefits that will flow to  
the Group, including bill cancellation and re-bill rates. To the  
extent that the economic benefits are not expected to flow to the  
Group, the value of that revenue is not recognised. The judgements 
applied, and the assumptions underpinning these judgements,  
are considered to be appropriate. However, a change in  
these assumptions would have an impact on the amount  
of revenue recognised. 
Industry reconciliation process – cost of sales 
Industry reconciliation procedures are required as differences arise 
between the estimated quantity of gas and electricity the Group 
deems to have supplied and billed customers, and the estimated 
quantity industry system operators deem the individual suppliers, 
including the Group, to have supplied to customers. The difference 
in deemed supply is referred to as imbalance. The reconciliation 
procedures can result in either a higher or lower value of industry 
deemed supply than has been estimated as being supplied to 
customers by the Group, but in practice tends to result in a higher 
value of industry deemed supply. The Group reviews the difference 
to ascertain whether there is evidence that its estimate of amounts 
supplied to customers is inaccurate or whether the difference arises 
from other causes. The Group’s share of the resulting imbalance is 
included within commodity costs charged to cost of sales. 
Management estimates the level of recovery of imbalance which will 
be achieved either through subsequent customer billing or through 
developing industry settlement procedures. 
Decommissioning costs 
The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the  
producing lives of fields (including storage facility assets) is reviewed 
periodically and is based on reserves, price levels and technology at 
the balance sheet date. Provision is made for the estimated cost  
of decommissioning at the balance sheet date. The payment dates 
of total expected future decommissioning costs are uncertain and 
dependent on the lives of the facilities, but are currently anticipated 
to be incurred until 2066, with the majority of the costs expected to 
be paid between 2020 and 2040. 
Significant judgements and estimates are also made about the 
costs of decommissioning nuclear power stations and the costs of 
waste management and spent fuel. These estimates impact the 
carrying value of our Nuclear investment. Various arrangements and 
indemnities are in place with the Secretary of State with respect to 
these costs, as explained in note S2. 
Gas and liquids reserves 
The volume of proven and probable (2P) gas and liquids  
reserves is an estimate that affects the unit of production method  
of depreciating producing gas and liquids PP&E as well as being a 
significant estimate affecting decommissioning and impairment 
calculations. The factors impacting gas and liquids estimates, the 
process for estimating reserve quantities and reserve recognition is 
described on page 181. 
The impact of a change in estimated 2P reserves is dealt  
with prospectively by depreciating the remaining book value  
of producing assets over the expected future production. If  
2P reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings could  
be affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate  
write-down (impairment) of the asset’s book value.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
96 
3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY 
SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 
Determination of fair values – energy derivatives 
Fair values of energy derivatives are estimated by reference in part 
to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using 
valuation techniques. Quoted market prices considered for 
valuation purposes are the bid price for assets held and/or liabilities 
to be issued, or the offer price for assets to be acquired and/or 
liabilities held, although the mid-market price or another pricing 
convention may be used as a practical expedient (where typically 
used by other market participants). More detail on the assumptions 
used in determining fair valuations of energy derivatives is provided 
in note S6. 
Impairment of long-lived assets  
The Group has several material long-lived assets, which are 
assessed or tested for impairment at each reporting date in 
accordance with the Group’s accounting policy as described in 
note 7. The Group makes judgements and estimates in considering 
whether the carrying amounts of these assets or cash generating 
units (CGUs) are recoverable. The key assets that are subjected to 
impairment tests are upstream gas and oil assets, power 
generation assets, storage facility assets, Nuclear investment  
(20% economic interest accounted for as an investment in 
associate) and goodwill. 
Upstream gas and oil assets 
The recoverable amount of the Group’s gas and oil assets is 
determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be 
generated by the assets over their lives taking into account those 
assumptions that market participants would take into account when 
assessing fair value. The cash flows are derived from projected 
production profiles of each field, based predominantly on expected 
2P reserves and take into account forward prices for gas and 
liquids over the relevant period. Where forward market prices are 
not available, prices are determined based on internal model inputs.  
Further details of the assumptions used in determining the 
recoverable amounts and the impairments booked during the  
year are provided in note 7. 
Power generation assets 
The recoverable amount of the Group’s power generation assets is 
calculated by discounting the pre-tax cash flows expected to be 
generated by the assets and is dependent on views of forecast 
power generation and forecast power, gas, carbon and capacity 
prices (where applicable) and the timing and extent of capital 
expenditure. Where forward market prices are not available, prices 
are determined based on internal model inputs. Further details of 
the impairments booked during the year are provided in note 7. 
Storage facility assets 
The recoverable amount of our operational storage facilities is 
calculated by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to  
be generated by the assets based on predictions of seasonal gas 
price spreads and shorter-term price volatilities and the value from 
extracting cushion gas at the end of the field life less any related 
capital and operating expenditure. 
Nuclear investment 
The recoverable amount of the Nuclear investment is based on the 
value of the existing UK nuclear fleet operated by EDF. The existing 
fleet value is calculated by discounting post-tax cash flows derived 
from the stations based on forecast power generation and power 
prices, whilst taking account of planned outages and the possibility 
of life extensions. Further details of the impairments booked during 
the year are provided in note 7. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill does not generate independent cash flows and accordingly 
is allocated at inception to specific CGUs or groups of CGUs for 
impairment testing purposes. The recoverable amounts of these 
CGUs are derived from estimates of future cash flows (as described 
in the asset classes above) and hence the goodwill impairment tests 
are also subject to these key estimates. The results of these tests 
may then be verified by reference to external market valuation data. 
Further detail on impairments arising and the assumptions used in 
determining the recoverable amounts is provided in notes 7 and 15. 
Credit provisions for trade and other receivables  
The methodology for determining provisions for credit losses on 
trade and other receivables and the level of such provisions is set 
out in note 17. Although the provisions recognised are considered 
appropriate, the use of different assumptions or changes in 
economic conditions could lead to movements in the provisions 
and therefore impact the Group Income Statement. Following 
issues arising from the implementation of a new billing system  
in British Gas Business in 2014, management has exercised 
additional judgement regarding the appropriate level of provision  
for these trade receivables. Changes in these judgements could 
also lead to movements in the provisions and therefore impact  
the Group Income Statement. 
Pensions and other post employment benefits 
The cost of providing benefits under defined benefit schemes is 
determined separately for each of the Group’s schemes under the 
projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. Actuarial gains and 
losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. The 
key assumptions used for the actuarial valuation are based on the 
Group’s best estimate of the variables that will determine the 
ultimate cost of providing post employment benefits, on which 
further detail is provided in note 22. 
Provisions for onerous contracts 
The Group has entered into a number of commodity procurement 
and capacity contracts related to specific assets in the ordinary 
course of its business. Where the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
obligations under these contracts exceed the associated expected 
future net benefits, an onerous contract provision is recognised. 
The calculation of these provisions will involve the use of estimates. 
The key onerous provisions are as follows: 
Rijnmond power station operating lease  
The onerous provision is calculated by taking the unavoidable costs 
that will be incurred under the contract and deducting any 
estimated revenues. 
Spalding power station onerous contract provision 
During 2015, a new onerous contract provision has been calculated 
by taking the unavoidable costs that will be incurred under the 
contract, excluding those that are treated as minimum lease 
payments and included within the Group’s finance lease liability, 
less any estimated revenue. 
European gas transportation capacity contracts 
The onerous provision is calculated using capacity costs incurred 
under the contracts, less any predicted income. The provision 
calculation assumes that contracts for capacity in continental 
Europe are onerous but those that enable gas to be transported 
directly back into the UK may be necessary to achieve security of 
supply in the future. Therefore, no provision has been recognised 
relating to these latter contracts. 
Direct Energy wind farm power purchase agreements 
The onerous nature of the power purchase agreements is measured 
using estimates relating to wind forecasts, forward curves for energy 
prices, balancing costs and renewable energy certificates.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
97 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
97
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
The Group’s operating segments are those used internally by management to run the business and make decisions. The Group’s 
operating segments are based on products and services. The operating segments are also the Group’s reportable segments. The 
Group’s results are discussed in the Business Review (pages 28 to 33). 
(a) Segmental structure 
The types of products and services from which each reportable segment derived its revenues during the year are detailed below: 
Segment Description 
International Downstream  
British Gas: 
Residential energy supply 
 
The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in the UK. 
Residential services Installation, repair and maintenance of domestic central heating, plumbing and drains, gas 
appliances and kitchen appliances, including the provision of fixed-fee maintenance/ 
breakdown service and insurance contracts in the UK. 
Business energy supply and services The supply of gas and electricity and provision of energy-related services to business 
customers in the UK. 
Direct Energy: 
Residential energy supply 
 
The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in North America. 
Residential and business services Installation and maintenance of heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment, 
water heaters, solar power generating equipment and the provision of breakdown services, 
including the provision of fixed-fee maintenance/breakdown service and insurance contracts 
in North America. 
Business energy supply (i) The supply of gas, electricity and energy management solutions to commercial and 
industrial customers in North America; (ii) power generation; and (iii) procurement and trading 
activities in the North American wholesale energy markets. 
Bord Gáis Energy (i) The supply of gas, electricity and energy management solutions to residential, commercial 
and industrial customers; and (ii) power generation in the Republic of Ireland. 
International Upstream  
Centrica Energy: 
Gas 
 
Production, processing, trading and optimisation of gas and oil and the development of new 
fields to grow reserves. 
Power Generation, trading and optimisation of power from thermal, nuclear and wind sources.  
Centrica Storage Gas storage in the UK.   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
98 
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
(b) Revenue 
Gross segment revenue represents revenue generated from the sale of products and services to both third parties and to other 
reportable segments of the Group. Group revenue reflects only the sale of products and services to third parties. 
 
 2015 2014
Year ended 31 December 
Gross 
segment 
revenue 
£m 
Less 
inter-segment 
revenue 
£m 
Group
 revenue
 £m  
Gross 
 segment 
 revenue 
 £m 
Less
 inter-segment
 revenue
 £m 
Group
 revenue
 £m 
International Downstream  
Residential energy supply  8,249 (7) 8,242 8,328 (3) 8,325
Residential services  1,734 (136) 1,598 1,658 (156) 1,502
Business energy supply and services  2,463 – 2,463 2,981 (47) 2,934
British Gas 12,446 (143) 12,303 12,967 (206) 12,761
  
Residential energy supply 2,175 – 2,175 2,571 – 2,571
Residential and business services 480 – 480 523 – 523
Business energy supply 7,932 – 7,932 8,744 (6) 8,738
Direct Energy 10,587 – 10,587 11,838 (6) 11,832
  
Bord Gáis Energy 733 – 733 391 – 391
  
International Upstream  
Gas 3,525 (218) 3,307 3,644 (326) 3,318
Power  1,190 (255) 935 1,347 (343) 1,004
Centrica Energy 4,715 (473) 4,242 4,991 (669) 4,322
  
Centrica Storage 156 (50) 106 149 (47) 102
 28,637 (666) 27,971 30,336 (928) 29,408
 
The Group does not monitor and manage performance by geographic territory, but we provide below an analysis of revenue and 
certain non-current assets by geography. 
 
 
Revenue 
(based on location of customer) 
Non-current assets
(based on location of assets) (i) 
Year ended 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014  
£m 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
UK  15,654 15,880 6,281 8,132
North America 10,728 11,996 2,827 3,421
Norway 297 478 1,005 1,564
Rest of the world 1,292 1,054 179 255
 27,971 29,408 10,292 13,372
(i) Non-current assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, PP&E and interests in joint ventures and associates.   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
99 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
99
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
(c) Operating profit before and after taxation 
The measure of profit used by the Group is adjusted operating profit. Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional 
items and certain re-measurements. This includes results of equity-accounted interests before interest and taxation. 
This note also details adjusted operating profit after taxation. Both measures are reconciled to their statutory equivalents. 
 
 Adjusted operating profit/(loss)  
Adjusted operating profit/(loss)
after taxation (ii) 
Year ended 31 December 
2015
£m  
2014 
(restated) (i) 
£m  
2015 
 
£m  
2014
(restated) (i)
£m 
International Downstream   
Residential energy supply  574 439  461 344
Residential services  257 270  207 212
Business energy supply and services  (22) 114  (18) 91
British Gas 809 823  650 647
Residential energy supply 111 90  58 62
Residential and business services (34) 28  (22) 20
Business energy supply  251 32  151 17
Direct Energy 328 150  187 99
   
Bord Gáis Energy 30 7  24 3
International Upstream   
Gas 153 575  45 290
Power 
(iii)
 102 73  95 111
Centrica Energy 255 648  140 401
   
Centrica Storage 37 29  25 21
 1,459 1,657  1,026 1,171
Share of joint ventures’/associates’ interest and taxation (61) (89)  
Operating profit before exceptional items and certain  
re-measurements 1,398 1,568  
Exceptional items (note 7) (2,358) (1,597)  
Certain re-measurements included within gross profit (note 7) 116 (1,134)  
Certain re-measurements of associates’ energy contracts (net of taxation) 
(note 7) (13) 26  
Operating loss after exceptional items and certain  
re-measurements (857) (1,137)  
 
Year ended 31 December    
2015 
 
£m  
2014
(restated) (i)
£m 
Adjusted operating profit after taxation 
(ii)
    1,026 1,171
Impact of changes to UK corporation tax rates (note 9) 
(iv)
    46 (2)
Corporate and other taxation, and interest (net of taxation) 
(v)
    (239) (242)
Business performance profit for the year    833 927
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements (net of taxation) (note 7)   (1,717) (1,932)
Statutory loss for the year   (884) (1,005)
(i) Adjusted operating profit for 2014 has been restated following the Board’s decision to include the depreciation of fair value uplifts of fixed assets acquired on Strategic Investments in the 
definition of adjusted operating profit. See note 2 for further information. 
(ii) Segment operating profit after taxation includes loss of £27 million (2014: profit of £28 million) attributable to non-controlling interests. 
(iii) Power adjusted operating profit after taxation for 2014 includes a one-off deferred tax benefit of £44 million following a legal entity reorganisation. 
(iv) Includes £19 million (2014: nil) relating to equity accounted interests. 
(v) Includes joint ventures’/associates’ interest, net of associated taxation. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
100 
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
(d) Included within adjusted operating profit 
Presented below are certain items included within adjusted operating profit, including further details of impairments of property, plant 
and equipment and write-downs relating to exploration and evaluation assets. 
 
 
Share of results of joint
ventures and associates
before interest and taxation  
Depreciation and impairments of 
property, plant and equipment  
Amortisation, write-downs and 
impairments of intangibles 
Year ended 31 December 
2015
£m  
2014
(restated) (i)
£m  
2015
£m  
2014 
(restated) (i) 
£m  
2015 
 
£m  
2014
£m 
International Downstream    
Residential energy supply (1) (1) (26) (17)  (83) (57)
Residential services  – – (26) (27)  (9) (7)
Business energy supply and services  – – (3) (2)  (11) (8)
British Gas (1) (1) (55) (46)  (103) (72)
    
Residential energy supply – – (2) (1)  (34) (23)
Residential and business services – – (3) (3)  (8) (7)
Business energy supply – – (1) (1)  (47) (77)
Direct Energy – – (6) (5)  (89) (107)
    
Bord Gáis Energy – – (1) (1)  (6) (3)
    
International Upstream    
Gas – – (753) (840)  (92) (154)
Power 262 196 (34) (55)  (1) (2)
Centrica Energy 262 196 (787) (895)  (93) (156)
    
Centrica Storage – – (33) (34)  (1) –
Other 
(ii)
 – – (11) (12)  (13) (15)
 261 195 (893) (993)  (305) (353)
(i) Both the share of results of joint ventures and associates and the depreciation of property, plant and equipment have been restated for 2014. See note 2 for further information. 
(ii) The Other segment includes corporate functions, subsequently recharged. 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 
During 2015, a £4 million (2014: £34 million) impairment charge was recognised in the ‘Centrica Energy – Gas’ segment within business 
performance and a £3 million (2014: nil) impairment charge was recognised in the ‘Centrica Energy – Power’ segment within business 
performance. 
Write-downs of intangible assets 
During 2015, £71 million (2014: £135 million) of write-downs relating to exploration and evaluation assets were recognised in the ‘Centrica 
Energy – Gas’ segment within business performance.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
101 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
101
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
(e) Average capital employed 
Capital employed represents the investment required to operate each of the Group’s segments. Capital employed is used by the 
Group to calculate the return on capital employed for each of the Group’s segments. 
 
 2015 2014
Year ended 31 December 
Total average
 capital 
employed 
£m 
Pre-productive
 capital 
employed 
£m 
Productive 
capital 
employed 
£m  
Total average 
 capital 
 employed 
 £m 
Pre-productive 
capital 
employed
 £m 
Productive
 capital 
employed
 £m 
International Downstream  
Residential energy supply  245 – 245 (7) – (7)
Residential services  231 – 231 173 – 173
Business energy supply and services  736 – 736 428 – 428
British Gas 1,212 – 1,212 594 – 594
  
Residential energy supply  990 – 990 982 – 982
Residential and business services  262 – 262 333 – 333
Business energy supply  1,121 – 1,121 1,268 – 1,268
Direct Energy 2,373 – 2,373 2,583 – 2,583
  
Bord Gáis Energy 110 – 110 54 – 54
  
International Upstream  
Gas
 (i)
 3,071 (1,428) 1,643 3,761 (1,326) 2,435
Power  2,556 – 2,556 3,490 (24) 3,466
Centrica Energy 5,627 (1,428) 4,199 7,251 (1,350) 5,901
  
Centrica Storage 218 – 218 256 – 256
Total average segmental capital employed 9,540 (1,428) 8,112 10,738 (1,350) 9,388
(i) Capital employed includes £292 million (2014: £133 million) attributable to non-controlling interests. 
Reconciliation of total average segmental capital employed to net assets in the Group Balance Sheet 
Year ended 31 December 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Total average segmental capital employed 9,540 10,738
Add back/(deduct): 
Average intra-group, margin cash and cash balances 850 668
Effect of averaging  (2,137) (336)
Total segmental net operating assets at 31 December 8,253 11,070
(Deduct)/add back: 
Bank and other borrowings, finance lease obligations, securities and treasury derivatives (6,119) (6,641)
Certain derivative financial instruments including balances held by joint ventures/associates  (1,212) (1,302)
Corporate assets/(liabilities)  539 (118)
Net retirement benefit (liability)/asset (119) 62
Net assets in Group Balance Sheet 1,342 3,071 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
102 
4. SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS 
(f) Capital expenditure 
Capital expenditure represents additions, other than assets acquired as part of business combinations, to property, plant and 
equipment, and intangible assets. Capital expenditure has been reconciled to the related cash outflow. 
 
 
Capital expenditure on property, 
 plant and equipment (note 13)   
Capital expenditure on intangible
 assets other than goodwill (note 15) 
Year ended 31 December 
2015
£m  
2014 
£m  
2015 
£m  
2014
£m 
International Downstream    
Residential energy supply 22 28  367 348
Residential services 57 33  11 13
Business energy supply and services 1 1  170 166
British Gas 80 62  548 527
    
Residential energy supply – 24  10 24
Residential and business services 8 4  5 –
Business energy supply 7 3  153 84
Direct Energy 15 31  168 108
    
Bord Gáis Energy 2 2  5 3
    
International Upstream    
Gas 615 923  93 217
Power 11 62  18 67
Centrica Energy 626 985  111 284
    
Centrica Storage 32 21  1 2
Other
 (i)
 15 11  20 15
Capital expenditure  770 1,112  853 939
Capitalised borrowing costs (46) (45)  (2) (5)
Movements in payables and prepayments related to capital expenditure 7 3  5 (1)
Purchases of emissions allowances and renewable obligation certificates – –  (617) (547)
Net cash outflow 
(ii)
 731 1,070  239 386
(i) The Other segment relates to corporate assets. 
(ii) The £239 million (2014: £386 million) purchase of intangible assets includes £81 million (2014: £201 million) relating to exploration and evaluation of oil and gas assets.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
103 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
103
5. COSTS OF OPERATIONS  
This section details the types of costs the Group incurs and the number of employees in each of our operations. 
(a) Analysis of costs by nature 
2015 2014
Year ended 31 December 
Cost of 
sales
 
£m 
Operating
 costs
 
£m 
Total costs
 £m 
Cost of 
 sales 
(restated) (i) 
 £m 
Operating
 costs
 £m 
Total costs
(restated) (i)
 £m 
Transportation, distribution and metering costs (4,737) – (4,737)(4,347) – (4,347)
Commodity costs (15,239) – (15,239)(16,746) – (16,746)
Depreciation, amortisation, impairments and  
write-downs (841) (357) (1,198) (957) (392) (1,349)
Employee costs  (761) (1,310) (2,071) (709) (1,218) (1,927)
Impairment of trade receivables (note 17) – (259) (259) – (240) (240)
Other direct costs relating to the upstream businesses (722) (162) (884) (748) (108) (856)
Other direct costs relating to the downstream 
businesses (1,434) (951) (2,385)(1,536) (945) (2,481)
Total costs before exceptional items  
and certain re-measurements (23,734) (3,039) (26,773)(25,043) (2,903) (27,946)
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements (note 7) 116 (2,358) (2,242) (1,134) (1,597) (2,731)
Total costs (23,618) (5,397) (29,015)(26,177) (4,500) (30,677)
(i) Items within 2014 cost of sales have been reclassified in order to ensure consistency across the Group. 
(b) Employee costs 
(i)
 
Year ended 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Wages and salaries (1,768) (1,622)
Social security costs (155) (145)
Pension and other post employment benefits costs  (158) (167)
Share scheme costs (note S4) (45) (39)
 (2,126) (1,973)
Capitalised employee costs 55 46
Employee costs recognised in the Group Income Statement (2,071) (1,927)
(i) Details of Directors’ remuneration, share-based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 79 form part of these Financial Statements. Details of the 
remuneration of key management personnel are given in note S8. 
(c) Average number of employees during the year 
Year ended 31 December 
2015
Number 
2014
Number 
British Gas 29,864 28,814
Direct Energy 6,155 5,980
Bord Gáis Energy 
(i)
 306 151
Centrica Energy 2,231 2,280
Centrica Storage 292 305
 38,848 37,530
(i) Average employee numbers shown are based on 12-month averages. Average number of employees of Bord Gáis Energy in 2014 for the period from acquisition to the end of 2014 is 280.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
104 
6. SHARE OF RESULTS OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 
Share of results of joint ventures and associates represents the results of businesses where we exercise joint control or significant 
influence and generally have an equity holding of up to 50%. 
(a) Share of results of joint ventures and associates 
The Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates for the year ended 31 December 2015 principally arises from its interests in 
the following entities (reported in the Centrica Energy – Power segment): 
● Wind farms – GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited and Lincs Wind Farm Limited 
(i)
. 
● Nuclear – Lake Acquisitions Limited. 
Year ended 31 December 
Joint ventures
 Wind farms 
£m 
Associates
 Nuclear
 £m 
Other  
£m 
2015 
Total
 £m 
2014 
Total
 £m 
Income 996442 745 722
Expenses excluding certain re-measurements (65)(416)(3) (484) (527)
Certain re-measurements – (14) – (14) 25
 34 214 (1) 247 220
Interest paid (41) (12) – (53) (62)
Taxation excluding certain re-measurements 13 (21) – (8) (27)
Taxation on certain re-measurements – 1 – 1 1
Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures and 
associates 6 182 (1) 187 132
(i) As part of the finance arrangements entered into by GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited and Lincs Wind Farm Limited, the Group’s shares in these companies are secured in favour of third 
parties. The securities would only be enforced in the event that GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited or Lincs Wind Farm Limited default on any of their obligations under their respective  
finance arrangements. 
(b) Reconciliation of share of results of joint ventures and associates to share of adjusted results of joint ventures 
and associates 
Year ended 31 December 
Joint ventures
 Wind farms 
£m 
Associates
 Nuclear
 £m 
Other  
£m 
2015 
Total
 £m 
2014
(restated) (i)
Total
 £m 
Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures and associates 6 182 (1) 187 132
Certain re-measurements (net of taxation) – 13 – 13 (26)
Interest paid 41 12 – 53 62
Taxation (excluding taxation on certain re-measurements) (13) 21 – 8 27
Share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates 34 228 (1) 261 195
(i) The share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates for 2014 has been restated. See note 2 for further information. 
Further information on the Group’s investments in joint ventures and associates is provided in notes 14 and S10.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
105 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
105
7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS 
Exceptional items are those items that are of a non-recurring nature and, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed 
separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence. Items which may be considered exceptional in nature include disposals of 
businesses, business restructurings, significant onerous contract charges and asset write-downs.  
(a) Exceptional items 
Year ended 31 December 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Impairment of Centrica Energy exploration and production assets 
(i)
 (1,865) (1,189)
Impairment of UK power generation assets and provisions for onerous power procurement contracts 
(ii)
 (121) (535)
Impairment of Nuclear investment 
(iii)
 (372) (214)
Gain on disposal of Texas gas-fired power stations  – 219
Gain on disposal of Ontario home services business  – 122
Exceptional items included within Group operating loss (2,358) (1,597)
Taxation on exceptional items (note 9) 477 436
Impairment of Centrica Energy exploration and production deferred tax assets (note 9) 
(iv) 
(81) –
Effect of change in UK tax rates (note 9) 
(v)
 116 –
Net exceptional items after taxation (1,846) (1,161)
(i) Impairment of Centrica Energy exploration and production assets has been recognised predominantly due to declining gas and oil prices. The Group recognised a pre-tax impairment charge 
of £1,865 million (post-tax charge £1,396 million) in the ‘Centrica Energy – Gas’ segment, which included a pre-tax impairment charge of £42 million (post-tax charge £38 million) on the 
Trinidad and Tobago gas assets, a pre-tax impairment charge of £1,514 million (post-tax charge £1,082 million) on UK, Dutch and Norwegian gas and oil assets (including £510 million of 
goodwill) and a pre-tax impairment charge of £309 million (post-tax charge £276 million) on Canadian upstream assets (including £99 million of goodwill). Further details on how the 
recoverable amounts of fields are calculated on a fair value less cost of disposal (FVLCD) basis are provided below. The impairment charge for UK, Dutch and Norwegian gas assets is net of 
reversals of previous impairments totalling £16 million (post-tax credit £7 million) following revisions to decommissioning estimates. 
(ii) A pre-tax impairment charge of £31 million (post-tax charge of £31 million) has been recognised in the ‘Centrica Energy – Power’ segment in relation to its finance leased UK gas-fired power 
station, predominantly due to declining forecast capacity market auction prices and clean spark spread prices. A further £70 million charge (post-tax charge of £70 million) was recognised as 
an onerous power procurement contract for further unavoidable costs under this tolling contract for this UK gas-fired power station. A further onerous contract provision charge for the Direct 
Energy wind power procurement arrangement of £20 million (post-tax charge of £12 million) was also recognised. Further details on how the recoverable amount of the assets is calculated 
on a VIU basis are provided below. 
(iii) The Group recognised an impairment charge of £372 million (post-tax charge of £372 million) on its Nuclear investment within the ‘Centrica Energy – Power’ segment due to declining 
forecast power prices and capacity market auction prices. Further details on how the recoverable amount of the investment is calculated on a FVLCD basis are provided below. 
(iv) The Group recognised a re-measurement of £81 million on deferred tax assets related to Investment Allowances for its exploration and production assets that are no longer expected to be 
recoverable against future taxable profits due to declining gas and oil prices. 
(v) During the period, the UK supplementary charge was reduced from 32% to 20%, with effect from 1 January 2015 and the petroleum revenue tax (PRT) rate was reduced from 50% to 35% 
with effect from 1 January 2016. These changes have been substantively enacted by the reporting date and the reduction in net deferred tax liabilities has been recognised immediately as an 
exceptional tax credit. 
Certain re-measurements are the fair value movements on energy contracts entered into to meet the future needs of our customers or 
to sell the energy produced from our upstream assets. These contracts are economically related to our upstream assets, capacity/off-
take contracts or downstream demand, which are typically not fair valued, and are therefore separately identified in the current period 
and reflected in business performance in future periods when the underlying transaction or asset impacts the Group Income 
Statement.  
(b) Certain re-measurements 
Year ended 31 December 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts (note 2): 
Net gains/(losses) arising on delivery of contracts 973 (63)
Net losses arising on market price movements and new contracts (857) (1,071)
Net re-measurements included within gross profit 116 (1,134)
Net (losses)/gains arising on re-measurement of associates’ energy contracts (net of taxation) (13) 26
Net re-measurements included within Group operating loss 103 (1,108)
Taxation on certain re-measurements (note 9) 
(i)
 26 337
Net re-measurements after taxation 129 (771)
(i) Includes £20 million gain (2014: nil) due to the effect of change in UK tax rates. 
The Group is generally a net buyer of commodity; procuring gas and power for our customers. Following significant decreases in 
commodity prices, net losses arising on market price movements and new contracts of £857 million (2014: £1,071 million) have been 
recorded. 
(c) Impairment accounting policy, process and sensitivities  
The Group reviews the carrying amounts of goodwill, PP&E and intangible assets (with the exception of exploration assets – see note S2) 
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the recoverable amounts may be lower than their carrying 
amounts. Interests in joint ventures and associates are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment and tested for impairment where 
such an indicator arises. Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the 
recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs. The recoverable amount is the higher of VIU and FVLCD.   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
106 
7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS 
At inception, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs or groups of CGUs that expect to benefit from the business combination 
in which the goodwill arose. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. Any impairment is expensed immediately in the Group Income 
Statement. Any CGU impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then  
to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. 
VIU calculations have been used to determine recoverable amounts for all CGUs that include goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset 
balances with the exception of the impairment tests for the Centrica Energy – Upstream gas and oil CGUs, where FVLCD has been used. 
This methodology is deemed to be more appropriate for these CGUs as it is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from the underlying 
assets and is consistent with the approach taken by management to evaluate the economic value of the underlying assets. Subsequently, 
the specific, underlying Upstream gas and oil PP&E assets and, in addition, the Group’s associate investment in Nuclear and the Storage 
PP&E assets have also used the FVLCD impairment methodology. UK power generation assets have used the VIU impairment 
methodology. Further details of the approach and assumptions used in the VIU calculations are provided in note S2.  
FVLCD discount rate and cash-flow assumptions 
Centrica Energy – Gas – Upstream gas and oil production 
An impairment charge of £1,865 million (2014: £1,189 million) has been recorded within exceptional items for Centrica Energy exploration 
and production assets. The associated recoverable amounts (net of decommissioning costs) of £1,049 million are categorised within  
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. FVLCD is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the gas and 
oil production and development assets, net of associated selling costs, taking into account those assumptions that market participants 
would use in estimating fair value. Post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles of each field, taking into account 
forward prices for gas and liquids over the relevant period. Where forward market prices are not available, prices are determined based  
on internal model inputs. Note S6 provides additional detail on the active period of each of the commodity markets in which the Group 
operates. The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities  
of hydrocarbons, production costs, the contractual duration of the licence area and the selling price of the gas and liquids produced. As 
each field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the post-tax cash flows for each field are computed using 
individual economic models. Post-tax cash flows used in the FVLCD calculation for the first three years are based on the Group’s Board-
approved three-year business plans and, thereafter, are based on long-term production and cash flow forecasts, which management 
believes reflects the assumptions of a market participant.  
The future post-tax cash flows are discounted using a post-tax nominal discount rate of 9% (2014: 9%) to determine the FVLCD. The 
discount rate and inflation rate used in the FVLCD calculation are determined in the same manner as the rates used in the VIU calculations 
described in note S2, with the exception of the adjustment required to determine an equivalent pre-tax discount rate. 
The valuation of Centrica Energy – Gas goodwill is particularly sensitive to the price assumptions made in the impairment calculations.  
To illustrate this, the price assumptions for gas and oil have been varied by +/–10%. Changes in price generate different production 
profiles and in some cases the date that an asset ceases production. This has been considered in the sensitivity analysis. Otherwise,  
all other operating costs, life of field capital expenditure and abandonment expenditure assumptions remain unchanged. For exploration 
and production assets, an increase in gas and oil prices of 10% would reverse £327 million (2014: £142 million) of post-tax impairment 
charges of the underlying exploration and production assets. A reduction of 10% would give rise to further post-tax impairments of the 
underlying exploration and production assets of £245 million (2014: £254 million) and a further post-tax impairment of goodwill of  
£238 million (2014: £251 million) in the UK/Norway/Netherlands CGU. 
Centrica Energy – Power – Nuclear 
An impairment charge of £372 million (2014: £214 million) has been recorded within exceptional items for the Group’s associate investment  
in Nuclear. FVLCD is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the investment, net of associated 
selling costs, taking into account those assumptions that market participants would use in estimating fair value. Post-tax cash flows are 
derived from projected production profiles of the underlying nuclear power stations, planned and unplanned outage assumptions, operating 
cost assumptions and forward prices for power and forecast capacity market auction prices. Where forward market prices are not available, 
prices are determined based on internal model inputs. Note S6 provides additional detail of the active period of each of the commodity 
markets in which the Group operates. Post-tax cash flows used in the FVLCD calculations for the first three years are based on the Group’s 
Board-approved three-year business plans and, thereafter, are based on long-term production and cash flow forecasts.  
The future post-tax cash flows are discounted using a post-tax nominal discount rate of 8% (2014: 8%) to determine the FVLCD. The 
discount rate and inflation rate used in the FVLCD calculation are determined in the same manner as the rates used in the VIU calculations 
described in note S2, with the exception of the adjustment required to determine an equivalent pre-tax discount rate. 
The valuation of the Group’s investment in Nuclear, which is categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, is particularly sensitive  
to assumptions/variations in the power price. To illustrate this, sensitivities were performed at the year end to vary the power price 
assumptions in the Group’s internal valuation model by +/–10%. An increase in power prices of 10%, assuming all other assumptions 
remain constant, would result in the reversal of the impairment of £372 million (2014: £214 million) recorded at the year end and would 
potentially reverse £81 million of the prior year impairment (2014: provide headroom of £310 million). A reduction of 10% would give rise  
to a further impairment charge of £436 million (2014: £522 million). 
Storage 
No impairment charge has been recognised for the Group’s gas storage assets (2014: nil). However, there is limited headroom on the current 
impairment test. The impairment test is particularly sensitive to assumptions/variations in seasonal gas price spreads and to the resolution of 
the limitation of the maximum operating pressure of the storage asset. To illustrate the impact of price on the impairment analysis, sensitivities 
were performed at the year end to vary the gas spreads by +/-10%. An increase in gas spreads of 10%, assuming all other assumptions 
remain constant, increases the headroom to £116 million. A reduction of 10% would give rise to an impairment of £76 million.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
107 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
107
7. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS 
A change in the assumptions of the timing and extent of the return to maximum operating pressure could also significantly impact the 
impairment calculation and could result in a significant impairment in certain adverse scenarios. The current value of the Group’s gas 
storage fixed assets is £511 million (£260 million, net of the decommissioning provision and deferred tax). 
VIU discount rate and cash-flow assumptions 
Centrica Energy – Power – Upstream Power 
An impairment charge of £31 million (2014: £535 million) has been recorded within exceptional items for the UK gas-fired power stations 
with a further £70 million charge for an onerous power procurement contract provision. Since the unavoidable costs under this tolling 
contract exceed the recoverable amounts, the remaining fixed asset has been impaired. In 2014, the recoverable amounts were 
determined using VIU calculations, with future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax nominal discount rate of 7.4%. Cash inflows were 
based on forecast production profiles, forward prices for power, gas and carbon and forecast capacity market auction prices. Where 
forward market prices were not available, prices were determined based on internal model inputs. 
Cash outflows for operating and capital expenditure were based, for the first three years, on the Group’s Board-approved three-year 
business plans and, thereafter, were based on long-term production and cash flow forecasts. The calculation of the related onerous 
power station tolling contract is based on the same assumptions using a pre-tax nominal discount rate of 2.0%. 
8. NET FINANCE COST 
Financing costs mainly comprise interest on bonds, bank debt and commercial paper, the results of hedging activities used to manage 
foreign exchange and interest rate movements on the Group’s borrowings, and notional interest arising on discounting of 
decommissioning provisions. An element of financing cost is capitalised on qualifying projects.  
Investment income predominantly includes interest received on short-term investments in money market funds, bank deposits, 
government bonds and notional interest on pensions. 
 
2015  2014
Year ended 31 December 
Financing 
costs 
£m  
Investment 
income 
£m  
Total 
£m  
Financing  
costs  
£m  
Investment 
income 
£m  
Total 
£m 
Cost of servicing net debt   
Interest income – 50 50 –  46 46
Interest cost on bonds, bank loans and overdrafts 
(i)
 (289) – (289) (257)  – (257)
Interest cost on finance leases (15) – (15) (16)  – (16)
 (304) 50 (254) (273)  46 (227)
Net losses on revaluation 
(ii)
  (2) – (2) (14)  – (14)
Notional interest arising from discounting and other interest (76) 5 (71) (81)  6 (75)
 (382) 55 (327) (368)  52 (316)
Capitalised borrowing costs 
(iii)
 48 – 48 50  – 50
(Cost)/income (334) 55 (279) (318)  52 (266)
(i) During 2015 the Group increased its outstanding bond debt principal by €750 million and £450 million, and decreased it by ¥30 billion, €100 million, $70 million and £51 million. See note 24(d).  
(ii) Includes gains and losses on fair value hedges, movements in fair value of other derivatives primarily used to hedge foreign exchange exposure associated with inter-company loans, and 
foreign currency gains and losses on the translation of inter-company loans. 
(iii) Borrowing costs have been capitalised using an average rate of 4.2% (2014: 4.0%). Capitalised interest has attracted tax deductions totalling £14 million (2014: £13 million), with deferred tax 
liabilities being set up for the same amounts.  
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
108 
9. TAXATION 
The taxation note details the different tax charges and rates, including current and deferred tax arising in the Group. The current tax 
charge is the tax payable on this year’s taxable profits. This tax charge excludes taxation on the Group’s share of results of joint 
ventures and associates. Deferred tax represents the tax on differences between the accounting carrying values of assets and liabilities 
and their tax bases. These differences are temporary and are expected to unwind in the future. 
(a) Analysis of tax charge 
2015 2014
Year ended 31 December 
Business 
performance 
£m 
Exceptional
 items
and certain 
re-measurements 
£m 
Results for 
the year
 £m 
Business  
performance  
£m 
Exceptional 
items
 and certain 
re-measurements 
£m 
Results for 
the year
 £m 
Current tax  
UK corporation tax  (233) (75) (308) (186) – (186)
UK petroleum revenue tax (30) – (30) (53) – (53)
Non-UK tax 
(i)
 (206) – (206) (234) (130) (364)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – UK  198 – 198 86 – 86
Adjustments in respect of prior years – non-UK (24) – (24) 2 – 2
Total current tax (295) (75) (370) (385) (130) (515)
Deferred tax  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences – UK 91 274 365 109 538 647
UK petroleum revenue tax 46 11 57 (7) 8 1
Origination and reversal of temporary differences – non-UK 24 192 216 (6) 374 368
Change in tax rates 
(ii)
 27 136 163 (2) (17) (19)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – UK  (169) – (169) (72) – (72)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – non-UK (10) – (10) (12) – (12)
Total deferred tax 9 613 622 10 903 913
Total tax on loss 
(iii)
 (286) 538 252 (375) 773 398
(i) Non-UK tax on exceptional items and certain re-measurements arose on the gains on disposal of the Texas gas-fired power stations and Ontario home services business in 2014. 
(ii) During the period, the UK upstream Supplementary Charge was reduced from 32% to 20% with effect from 1 January 2015 and UK petroleum revenue tax from 50% to 35% with effect from 
1 January 2016. The consequential reduction in net deferred tax liabilities has been recognised within exceptional items, and includes a petroleum revenue tax charge of £33 million (2014: nil). 
(iii) Total tax on loss excludes taxation on the Group’s share of profits of joint ventures and associates. 
Tax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in note S4. The Group earns the majority of its profits in the UK. Most activities in the UK 
are subject to the standard rate for UK corporation tax, which from 1 April 2015 was 20% (2014: 21%). Upstream oil and gas production 
activities are taxed at a UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2014: 30%) plus a supplementary charge of 20% (2014: 32%) to give an overall 
rate of 50% (2014: 62%). In addition, certain upstream assets in the UK attract petroleum revenue tax (PRT) at 50% (2014: 50%) which is 
deductible against corporation tax, giving an overall effective rate of 75% (2014: 81%). Norwegian upstream profits are taxed at the 
standard rate of 27% (2014: 27%) plus a special tax of 51% (2014: 51%) resulting in an aggregate tax rate of 78% (2014: 78%). Profits 
earned in the US are taxed at a Federal rate of 35% (2014: 35%) together with state taxes at various rates dependent on the state. 
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those respective jurisdictions.  
On 26 October 2015, the UK Government substantively enacted Finance (No.2) Act 2015 which included reductions in the main UK 
corporation tax rate to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. At 31 December 2015, the relevant UK deferred tax assets 
and liabilities included in these Financial Statements were based on the reduced rates having regard to their reversal profiles. 
On 26 March 2015, the UK Government enacted Finance Act 2015 which included a reduction in the PRT rate to 35% from 1 January 
2016. Deferred PRT assets and liabilities were based on the reduced rate. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
109 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
109
9. TAXATION  
(b) Factors affecting the tax charge 
The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the 
loss before tax are as follows: 
2015 2014
Year ended 31 December 
Business 
performance 
£m 
Exceptional items
and certain 
re-measurements 
£m 
Results for 
the year
 £m 
Business  
performance  
£m 
Exceptional 
items
 and certain 
re-measurements 
£m 
Results for 
the year
 £m 
Loss before tax  1,119 (2,255) (1,136) 1,302 (2,705) (1,403)
Less: share of profits in joint ventures and associates,  
net of interest and taxation (200) 13 (187) (106) (26) (132)
Group loss before tax 919 (2,242) (1,323) 1,196 (2,731) (1,535)
Tax on loss at standard UK corporation tax  
rate of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%)  (186) 454 268 (257) 587 330
Effects of:  
Net expenses not deductible for tax purposes (103) (187) (290) (27) (219) (246)
Goodwill and investment impairments not deductible 
for tax purposes – (199) (199) – – –
Additional charges applicable to upstream profits 23 347 370 (59) 299 240
UK petroleum revenue tax rates 8 5 13 (23) 3 (20)
Non-UK tax rates 
(i)
 (45) 78 33 (14) 124 110
Movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets  (5) (96) (101) 3 (4) (1)
Changes to tax rates 
(ii)
 27 136 163 (2) (17) (19)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (5) – (5) 4 – 4
Taxation on loss for the year (286) 538 252 (375) 773 398
Less: movement in deferred tax (9) (613) (622) (10) (903) (913)
Total current tax (295) (75) (370) (385) (130) (515)
(i) Excludes additional non-UK tax applicable to upstream profits. 
(ii) Changes to tax rates on exceptional items and certain re-measurements includes a petroleum revenue tax charge of £33 million (2014: nil). 
(c) Factors that may affect future tax charges 
The Group’s effective tax rates are impacted by changes to the mix of activities and production across the territories in which it operates. 
Effective tax rates may also fluctuate where profits and losses cannot be offset for tax purposes. 
The Group’s UK profits earned away from gas and oil production will benefit from reduced rates of corporation tax in 2017 and beyond 
(19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020). UK gas and oil production profits will benefit from a 15 percentage point reduction to 
PRT from 1 January 2016. 
Profits from oil and gas production in the UK continue to be taxed at rates above the UK statutory rate and PRT will continue to be applied 
to certain upstream profits. The PRT borne is expected to decrease as production activity in the relevant fields declines over time. 
Income earned in territories outside the UK, notably in the US and Norway, is generally subject to higher effective rates of tax than the 
current UK statutory rate. 
In the medium term, the Group’s effective tax rate is expected to remain above the UK statutory rate.   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
110 
9. TAXATION  
(d) Relationship between current tax charge and taxes paid 
Year ended 31 December 
UK 
£m 
Non-UK 
£m 
2015 
£m 
UK  
£m 
Non-UK 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Current tax charge:  
Corporation tax 110 230 340 100 362 462
Petroleum revenue tax 30 – 30 53 – 53
 140 230 370 153 362 515
Taxes paid:  
Corporation tax 130 228 358 116 435 551
Petroleum revenue tax (9) – (9) 156 – 156
 121 228 349 272 435 707
Differences between current tax charged and taxes paid arose principally due to the following factors: 
● corporation tax payments are generally based on estimated profits, partly during the year and partly in the following year and cash  
tax balancing on agreement with tax authorities will also occur in future periods. Fluctuations in profits from year to year may  
therefore give rise to divergence between the charge for the current year and taxes paid; and 
● PRT payments are based on income realised in the preceding period, with subsequent adjustments to reflect actual profits. Variations in 
production from period to period may therefore lead to temporary differences between the tax charged and the tax paid. 
10. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE 
Earnings per share (EPS) is the amount of profit or loss attributable to each share. Basic EPS is the amount of profit or loss for the year 
divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted EPS includes the impact of outstanding share 
options.  
Basic loss per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the loss attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year of  
£747 million (2014: £1,012 million loss) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 5,011 million  
(2014: 5,022 million). The number of shares excludes 72 million ordinary shares (2014: 82 million), being the weighted average number  
of the Company’s own shares held in the employee share trust and treasury shares purchased by the Group as part of the share 
repurchase programme.  
The Directors believe that the presentation of adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share 
adjusted for certain re-measurements and exceptional items assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group, as 
explained in note 2.  
In 2014, the Group purchased 132.1 million ordinary shares of 6
14
⁄81 pence each. These shares represented 2.6% of the called up share 
capital as at 31 December 2014 and were purchased at an average price of £3.18 per share for a total consideration including expenses 
of £422 million. These shares were purchased as part of the £420 million share repurchase programme announced on 18 December 
2013; they are held as treasury shares and are deducted from equity unless they are cancelled (see note S4). No such shares were 
purchased in 2015. 
In addition to basic and adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, information is presented for diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per 
ordinary share. Under this presentation, no adjustments are made to the reported loss for either 2015 or 2014, however, the weighted 
average number of shares used as the denominator is adjusted for potentially dilutive ordinary shares. 
Weighted average number of shares 
Year ended 31 December 
2015 
Million 
shares 
2014 
Million 
shares 
Weighted average number of shares – basic 5,011 5,022
Dilutive impact of share-based payment schemes 
(i)
 38 27
Weighted average number of shares – diluted 5,049 5,049
(i) The dilutive impact of share-based payment schemes is included in the calculation of diluted EPS, unless it has the effect of increasing the profit or decreasing the loss attributable to each 
share. Therefore, these shares are excluded from the calculation of basic diluted EPS in 2015 and 2014.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
111 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
111
10. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE 
Basic to adjusted basic earnings per share reconciliation 
  
2015 
  
2014
(restated) (i) 
Year ended 31 December £m 
Pence per 
ordinary share £m 
Pence per
 ordinary share 
Loss – basic  (747) (14.9) (1,012) (20.2)
Net exceptional items after taxation (notes 2 and 7) 
(ii)
 1,739 34.7 1,144 22.8
Certain re-measurement (gains)/losses after taxation (notes 2 and 7) (129) (2.6) 771 15.4
Earnings – adjusted basic 
(i)
 863 17.2 903 18.0
  
Loss – diluted  (747) (14.9) (1,012) (20.2)
  
Earnings – adjusted diluted 
(i)
 863 17.1 903 17.9
(i) Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings and adjusted basic and adjusted diluted EPS have been restated; refer to note 2. 
(ii) Net exceptional loss after taxation of £1,846 million (2014: £1,161 million loss) is reduced by £107 million (2014: £17 million) for the purpose of calculating adjusted basic and adjusted diluted 
EPS. The adjustment reflects the share of net exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests. 
11. DIVIDENDS 
Dividends represent the cash return of profits to shareholders and are paid twice a year, in June and November. Dividends are paid as 
an amount per ordinary share held. The Group retains part of the profits generated to meet future investment plans or to fund share 
repurchase programmes. 
 
 2015  2014
 £m 
Pence per 
share 
Date of 
payment £m 
Pence per 
 share 
Date of 
payment 
Prior year final dividend  418 8.40 25 Jun 2015 610 12.08 11 Jun 2014
Interim dividend  180 3.57 26 Nov 2015 257 5.10 12 Nov 2014
 598 867  
The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.43 pence per ordinary share (totalling £427 million) for the year ended 31 December 2015. The 
dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 April 2016 and, subject to approval, will be 
paid on 23 June 2016 to those shareholders registered on 13 May 2016. 
On 19 February 2015, the Company announced its intention to offer a scrip dividend alternative to its shareholders commencing with the 
final 2014 dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
£176 million of the £418 million prior year final dividend was in the form of ordinary shares to shareholders opting in to the scrip dividend 
alternative. The market value per share at the date of payment was £2.57 per share resulting in the issue of 68 million new shares and 
£171 million being credited to the share premium account. 
Similarly £34 million of the £180 million interim dividend was taken as a scrip dividend. The market value per share at 26 November 2015 
was £2.28 resulting in the issue of 15 million new shares and £33 million of share premium. 
Despite the consolidated Group’s retained earnings being £482 million, the Group still has sufficient distributable reserves to pay dividends 
to its ultimate shareholders. Distributable reserves are calculated on an individual legal entity basis and the ultimate parent company, 
Centrica plc, currently has adequate levels of realised profits within its retained earnings to support dividend payments. Refer to the 
Centrica plc Company Balance Sheet on page 170. On an annual basis, the distributable reserve levels of the Group’s subsidiary 
undertakings are reviewed and dividends paid up the ownership chain to replenish Centrica plc’s reserve levels.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
112 
12. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 
(a) Business combinations 
During the period, the Group acquired AlertMe’s Hive technology and related research and development capabilities, and Panoramic 
Power’s energy management technology and related research and development business. The business combinations section details 
the consideration paid and/or payable, as well as the provisional fair values of the net assets acquired. 
The fair values are provisional unless stated otherwise. Note 3(a) sets out the assumptions used to derive the fair values. Goodwill 
recognised on these acquisitions is attributable to enhanced synergies, growth opportunities, the assembled workforce and technical 
goodwill from items such as deferred tax. 
AlertMe 
On 17 March 2015, the Group gained control of AlertMe, a UK-based business which provides innovative energy management products 
and services. Prior to this date, the Group held an interest in the company, which was previously accounted for as an investment in 
associate and under this transaction acquired the remaining share capital. The original stake was re-measured to its fair value at the 
acquisition date. A gain of £14 million was recognised in the Group Income Statement as a result of this re-measurement. The purchase 
consideration, net of cash received for the previously held interest, was £44 million excluding £4 million of cash acquired with the 
business. Goodwill of £46 million was recognised and is not tax deductible. The opening balance sheet includes an amount of £3 million 
related to the fair value of receivables, which also corresponds to their gross contractual amount. Separate from the consideration for the 
business, a payment of £4 million was made which has been recognised as post acquisition compensation expense and has been 
charged to operating costs before exceptional items in the Group Income Statement for the period ended 31 December 2015. 
The AlertMe business forms part of the British Gas – Residential energy supply segment. 
Panoramic Power 
On 30 November 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the equity of Panoramic Power, an Israeli-based business which develops energy 
efficiency solutions for business customers. This acquisition enhances the Group’s offering in terms of energy efficiency products and will 
initially be focused on Direct Energy Business’ existing markets, with the intention to extend this to other markets over time, as part of the 
Group’s new Distributed Energy & Power global business. The purchase consideration was US$64 million (£42 million), excluding  
US$5 million (£3 million) of cash acquired with the business. Goodwill of US$41 million (£27 million) was recognised and is not tax 
deductible. There were no material receivables recognised in the opening balance sheet as at the acquisition date. 
The Panoramic Power business forms part of the Direct Energy – Business energy supply segment.  
Acquisition-related costs of £5 million have been charged to operating costs before exceptional items in the Group Income Statement for 
the year ended 31 December 2015. 
Provisional fair value of the identifiable acquired assets and liabilities 
 
AlertMe 
 £m 
Panoramic Power 
£m 
Total
 £m 
Balance Sheet items  
Non-current assets 15 17 32
Current assets (including £7 million of cash and cash equivalents) 7 4 11
Current liabilities (7) (1) (8)
Non-current liabilities (3) (5) (8)
Net identifiable assets 12 15 27
Goodwill 46 27 73
Net assets acquired 58 42 100
Consideration comprises:  
Cash consideration transferred 44 42 86
Consideration to be received held in escrow (3) – (3)
Fair value of previously held interest 17 – 17
Total consideration transferred 58 42 100
  
Income Statement items  
Revenue recognised since the acquisition date in the Group Income Statement 
(i)
 9 – 
(ii)
9
Loss since the acquisition date in the Group Income Statement 
(i)
 (10) – 
(ii)
(10)
(i) Revenue and losses from business performance between the acquisition date and the balance sheet date, exclude exceptional items and certain re-measurements. 
(ii) Amounts not disclosed as not material with respect to the period ending 31 December 2015.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
113 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
113
12. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 
Pro forma information 
The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, as if the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, would show revenue  
of £27,974 million (compared to reported revenue of £27,971 million) and profit after taxation before exceptional items and certain  
re-measurements of £829 million (compared to reported profit after taxation of £833 million). This pro forma information includes the 
revenue and profits/losses made by the acquired businesses between the beginning of the financial year and the date of acquisition, not 
restated for accounting policy alignments and/or the impact of the fair value uplifts resulting from purchase accounting considerations. 
This pro forma aggregated information is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the 
acquisitions actually been made at the beginning of the year presented, or indicative of the future results of the combined Group. 
2014 business combinations – fair value updates 
There have been no significant updates during the measurement period to the fair values recognised for businesses acquired in 2014. 
Additional intangible assets of £2 million have been recognised in respect of the Astrum Solar acquisition with a corresponding reduction 
of £2 million in goodwill.  
(b) Assets and liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale 
Assets and associated liabilities that are expected to be recovered principally through a sale have been classified as held for sale and 
are presented separately on the face of the Group Balance Sheet.  
On 16 November 2015, a Sale and Purchase Agreement (SPA) was entered into with Apache Beryl Limited to divest the non-operated 
interests in Skene and Buckland for consideration of US$10 million (£7 million). This transaction is expected to complete in the first half of 
2016. The interests in Skene and Buckland are held within the ‘Centrica Energy – Gas’ segment. 
 £m 
Non-current assets 12
Current assets 1
Assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 13
Current liabilities (1)
Non-current liabilities (45)
Liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale (46)
Net liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale (33) Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
114 
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  
PP&E includes significant investment in power stations, gas production and gas storage assets. Once operational, all assets are 
depreciated over their useful economic lives. 
(a) Carrying amounts 
   2015  2014
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Plant, 
equipment 
and vehicles 
£m 
Power
generation
£m 
Gas 
production 
and storage
£m 
Total
£m 
Land and 
buildings
£m 
Plant, 
equipment 
and vehicles 
£m 
Power 
generation 
£m 
Gas 
production 
and storage
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost     
1 January  29 633 2,061 15,158 17,881 29 537 2,052 14,052 16,670
Additions and capitalised 
borrowing costs  
(notes 8 and 4(f)) 1 115 12 642 770 – 107 64 941 1,112
Acquisitions – – – – – – 1 30 40 71
Disposals/retirements 
(i)
 – (142) – (27) (169) – (9) (90) (8) (107)
Transfers 
(ii)
 – – – 32 32 – – 1 18 19
Transfers to disposal groups 
held for sale – – – (204) (204) – (5) – (105) (110)
Decommissioning liability 
revisions and additions  
(note 21) – – (1) (192) (193) – – 4 609 613
Exchange adjustments – (4) (2) (465) (471) – 2 – (389) (387)
31 December  30 602 2,070 14,944 17,646 29 633 2,061 15,158 17,881
Accumulated 
depreciation and 
impairment     
1 January  15 330 1,639 9,520 11,504 14 277 1,137 7,796 9,224
Charge for the year 1 76 31 778 886 1 65 55 838 959
Impairments – – 34 1,139 1,173 – – 532 1,130 1,662
Disposals/retirements 
(i)
 – (139) – (21) (160) – (6) (85) (5) (96)
Transfers – – – – – – – – (3) (3)
Transfers to disposal groups 
held for sale – – – (201) (201) – (5) – (95) (100)
Exchange adjustments – (5) – (180) (185) – (1) – (141) (142)
31 December  16 262 1,704 11,035 13,017 15 330 1,639 9,520 11,504
NBV at 31 December  14 340 366 3,909 4,629 14 303 422 5,638 6,377
(i) Included within plant, equipment and vehicles disposals are £133 million of gross assets which have been retired and have a net book value of zero. 
(ii) Transfers to/from other balance sheet accounts includes £32 million (2014: £18 million) transfers from intangible assets for exploration licences where the field is now being developed. 
(b) Assets in the course of construction included in above carrying amounts 
31 December 
2015
£m 
2014 
£m 
Plant, equipment and vehicles 53 101
Gas production and storage 1,245 1,136 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
115 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
115
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
(c) Assets held under finance leases and to which title was restricted included in above carrying amounts
2015 2014
Plant,
equipment and 
vehicles
£m 
Power
generation 
£m 
Gas 
production
and storage 
£m 
Total
£m 
Plant,
equipment 
and vehicles
£m 
Power 
generation  
£m 
Gas 
production
and storage 
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost at 1 January – 469 415 884 – 469 415 884
Additions 48 –– 48 –– – –
Cost at 31 December 48 469 415 932 – 469 415 884
Aggregate depreciation at 1 January – 435 394 829 – 257 390 647
Charge for the year 2 33 8 – 28 4 32
Impairments – 31 – 31 – 150 – 150
Aggregate depreciation at 
31 December 2 469 397 868 – 435 394 829
NBV at 31 December 46 – 18 64 – 34 21 55
14. INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES
Investments in joint ventures and associates represent businesses where we exercise joint control or significant influence and generally 
have an equity holding of up to 50%. These include investments in the existing EDF UK nuclear power station fleet and various UK 
wind farms. 
(a) Interests in joint ventures and associates
2015 2014
Investments in 
joint ventures 
and associates
£m 
Shareholder
loans 
£m 
Total
£m 
Investments in 
joint ventures 
and associates 
£m 
Shareholder
loans 
£m 
Total
£m 
1 January  2,045 350 2,395 2,259 399 2,658
Additions  13 – 13 24 24 48
Disposals (3) – (3) (24) – (24)
Decrease in shareholder loans – (190) (190) – (73) (73)
Share of profits for the year 187 – 187 132 – 132
Share of other comprehensive income (5) – (5) 6– 6
Impairment (note 7) (372) – (372) (214) – (214)
Dividends 
(i)
(186) – (186) (138) – (138)
31 December 1,679 160 1,839 2,045 350 2,395
(i) Included within dividends is a non-cash £6 million tax credit received in lieu of payment. 
(b) Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ assets and liabilities
2015 2014
31 December 
Joint ventures
Wind farms
£m 
Associates
Nuclear
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total
£m 
Total
£m 
Share of non-current assets 627 3,484 13 4,124 4,117
Share of current assets 86 573 1 660 699
713 4,057 14 4,784 4,816
Share of current liabilities (128) (177) (1) (306) (321)
Share of non-current liabilities (515) (1,685) (1) (2,201) (2,228)
(643) (1,862) (2) (2,507) (2,549)
Cumulative impairment – (586) – (586) (214)
Restricted interest on shareholder loan 
(i)
(12) – – (12) (8)
Share of net assets of joint ventures and associates 58 1,609 12 1,679 2,045
Shareholder loans 159 – 1 160 350
Interests in joint ventures and associates 217 1,609 13 1,839 2,395
Net (debt)/cash included in share of net assets (462) 62 (1) (401) (380)
(i) The Group restricted an element of interest received on the shareholder loan to Lincs Wind Farm Limited. 
Further information on the Group’s investments in joint ventures and associates is provided in notes 6 and S10.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
116 
15. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL 
The Group Balance Sheet contains significant intangible assets. Goodwill, customer relationships and brands arise when we acquire a 
business. Goodwill is attributable to enhanced geographical presence, cost savings, synergies, growth opportunities and technical 
goodwill from items such as deferred tax. Goodwill is not amortised but is assessed for recoverability each year. 
The Group uses European Union Allowances (EUAs) and Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) to satisfy its related obligations. 
Upstream exploration and evaluation expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset until development of the asset commences, at 
which point it is transferred to PP&E or is deemed to not be commercially viable and is written down. 
(a) Carrying amounts 
    2015  2014
 
Customer 
relation-
ships 
and 
brands 
£m 
Application 
software 
(i) 
£m 
EUAs 
and 
ROCs 
£m 
Exploration
and
evaluation
expenditure
£m 
Goodwill
£m 
Total
£m 
Customer 
relation-
ships
and
brands
£m 
Application
software
(i)
£m 
EUAs 
and 
ROCs 
£m 
Exploration 
and 
evaluation 
expenditure 
£m 
Goodwill
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost      
1 January  654 1,505 260 562 2,736 5,717 593 1,346 179 566 2,862 5,546
Additions and capitalised 
borrowing costs  
(notes 8 and 4(f)) 2 153 617 81 – 853 – 191 547 201 – 939
Acquisitions 
(ii)
 – 32 2 – 71 105 44 – 1 1 16 62
Disposals/retirements 
and surrenders 
(iii)
 – (307) (585) (3) – (895) (3) (3) (473) – – (479)
Write-downs – – – (71) – (71) – – – (135) – (135)
Transfers 
(iv)
 – – – (32) – (32) – (32) – (20) (154) (206)
Exchange adjustments 27 (3) 5 (52) (29) (52) 20 3 6 (51) 12 (10)
31 December  683 1,380 299 485 2,778 5,625 654 1,505 260 562 2,736 5,717
Accumulated 
amortisation      
1 January  297 669 2 22 127 1,117 185 591 3 – 43 822
Amortisation 73 161 – – – 234 103 114 – – – 217
Impairments (notes 7 and 
15(b)) – – – 137 609 746 – – 1 22 87 110
Disposals/retirements 
and surrenders – (298) – – – (298) (3) (1) (2) – – (6)
Transfers 
(iv)
 – – – – – – – (29) – – (3) (32)
Exchange adjustments 17 (8) – – (7) 2 12 (6) – – – 6
31 December  387 524 2 159 729 1,801 297 669 2 22 127 1,117
NBV at 31 December  296 856 297 326 2,049 3,824 357 836 258 540 2,609 4,600
(i) Application software includes assets under construction with a cost of £193 million (2014: £220 million).  
(ii) The £2 million EUAs and ROCs acquisition relates to a fair value adjustment in respect of a prior year business combination. 
(iii) Included within application software disposals/retirements and surrenders are £286 million of gross assets which have been retired and have a net book value of zero. 
(iv) Transfers to/from other balance sheet accounts, primarily PP&E.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
117 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
117
15. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL  
(b) Carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to CGUs 
Goodwill acquired through business combinations, and indefinite-lived intangible assets, has been allocated for impairment testing 
purposes to individual CGUs or groups of CGUs, each representing the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill or indefinite-
lived intangible asset is monitored for internal management purposes.  
 2015 2014
31 December 
Principal acquisitions to which 
goodwill and intangibles with indefinite 
useful lives relate 
Carrying
amount of
goodwill
£m 
Carrying 
amount of 
indefinite-lived
intangible
assets (i)
£m 
Total
£m 
Carrying 
amount of 
goodwill 
£m 
Carrying
 amount of 
indefinite-lived
intangible
assets (i)
£m 
Total
£m 
CGUs   
British Gas:   
Residential energy supply AlertMe 46 – 46 – – –
Business energy supply 
and services Enron Direct/Electricity Direct 178 – 178 178 – 178
Residential services Dyno-Rod  38 57 95 38 57 95
   
Bord Gáis Energy Bord Gáis Energy 13 – 13 15 – 15
   
Centrica Energy Gas:   
UK/Norway/Netherlands Newfield/Heimdal/Venture 350 – 350 880 – 880
North America  Suncor – – – 110 – 110
   
Direct Energy:   
Residential energy supply 
 
Direct Energy/ATCO/ 
CPL/WTU/FCP/Bounce 723 – 723 742 – 742
Residential and  
business services 
Residential Services Group/ 
Clockwork/Astrum Solar 202 13 215 191 12 203
Business energy supply  Direct Energy/ATCO/  
 
Strategic Energy/FCP/ 
HEM/Panoramic Power 499 – 499 455 – 455
   
Other Various – – – – 1 1
  2,049 70 2,119 2,609 70 2,679
(i) The indefinite-lived assets mainly relate to the Mr Sparky and Benjamin Franklin brands acquired as part of the Clockwork business combination, and the Dyno-Rod brand. 
(c) Impairment reviews – summary of results 
During the year, £510 million of goodwill in the UK/Norway/Netherlands CGU and £99 million of goodwill in the North America CGU in the 
‘Centrica Energy – Gas’ segment was impaired (see note 7 for further details). For all other material CGUs, the recoverable amounts 
exceed their carrying values at the impairment test date. Details of the impairment test methodologies and assumptions used are provided 
in note 7 and note S2.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
118 
16. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS
Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment to provide for tax that is expected to arise in the future as a result of differences in the 
accounting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The principal deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group relate to 
capital investments, fair value movements on derivative financial instruments, PRT and pensions. 
Accelerated tax 
depreciation 
(corporation tax)
£m 
Other timing 
differences 
including losses 
carried forward
£m 
Marked to
market positions
£m 
Net deferred  
PRT (i)  
£m 
Retirement 
benefit
 obligation and 
other provisions
£m 
Total
£m 
1 January 2014 (2,045) 705 (9) 76 (48) (1,321)
Charge to income – change to tax rates (1) (7) (11) – – (19)
Credit/(charge) to income – other 583 64 348 (12) (51) 932
(Charge)/credit to equity – (3) (1) – 18 14
Acquisition/disposal of businesses 8 4 – – 1 13
Transfer of liabilities to non-controlling interests 32 – – – – 32
Exchange and other adjustments 20 17 3 – – 40
31 December 2014 (1,403) 780 330 64 (80) (309)
Credit/(charge) to income – change to tax rates 212 (61) 20 (29) 21 163
Credit/(charge) to income – other 226 126 81 42 (16) 459
(Charge)/credit to equity – (2) (6) – 50 42
Acquisition/disposal of businesses (5) – – – – (5)
Net assets of disposal groups classified as held for 
sale 2 (10) – – – (8)
Exchange and other adjustments 48 (8) 17 – – 57
31 December 2015 (920) 825 442 77 (25) 399
(i) The deferred PRT amounts include the effect of deferred corporation tax as PRT is deductible for corporation tax purposes. 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The following is an analysis of the gross 
deferred tax balances and associated offsetting balances for financial reporting purposes: 
31 December 
Assets 
£m 
2015 
Liabilities  
£m 
Assets 
£m 
2014
Liabilities 
£m 
Gross deferred tax balances crystallising within one year 372 (307) 301 (365)
Gross deferred tax balances crystallising after one year 1,654 (1,320) 1,362 (1,607)
2,026 (1,627) 1,663 (1,972)
Offsetting deferred tax balances (1,529) 1,529 (1,309) 1,309
Net deferred tax balances (after offsetting for financial reporting purposes) 497 (98) 354 (663)
Deferred tax assets arise principally on decommissioning provisions, trading losses carried forward and marked to market positions. 
Forecasts indicate that there will be suitable taxable profits to utilise those deferred tax assets not offset against deferred tax liabilities. 
Specific legislative provisions applicable to oil and gas production provide assurance that deferred tax assets relating to decommissioning 
costs and certain trading losses will be utilised. 
At the balance sheet date the Group had certain unrecognised deductible temporary differences of £963 million (2014: £881 million), 
of which £790 million (2014: £266 million) are carried forward tax losses available for utilisation against future taxable profits. Some 
£118 million (2014: £127 million) of these losses will expire within one to five years. All other temporary differences have no expiry date. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams. 
At the balance sheet date, no taxable temporary differences existed in respect of the Group’s overseas investments (2014: nil). The 
deferred tax liability arising on these temporary differences is estimated to be nil (2014: nil).  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
119 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
119
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
Trade and other receivables include accrued income, and are amounts owed by our customers for goods we have delivered or 
services we have provided. These balances are valued net of expected irrecoverable debts. Other receivables include payments made 
in advance to our suppliers. 
 
31 December 
Current 
£m 
2015 
Non-current  
£m 
Current 
£m 
2014
Non-current 
£m 
Financial assets:  
Trade receivables 2,493 – 2,405 –
Accrued energy income 1,925 – 2,311 –
Other accrued income 127 – 160 –
Cash collateral posted (note 24(c)) 216 – 961 –
Other receivables (including loans) 
(i)
 338 25 365 24
 5,099 25 6,202 24
Less: provision for credit losses (694) – (634) –
 4,405 25 5,568 24
Non-financial assets: prepayments and other receivables 500 36 658 63
 4,905 61 6,226 87
(i) 2014 includes a deposit with Societe Generale classified as ‘Loans and other receivables’. 
Trade and other receivables include financial assets representing the contractual right to receive cash or other financial assets from 
residential customers, business customers and treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties as follows:  
31 December 
Current
 £m 
2015 
Non-current  
£m 
Current 
£m 
2014
Non-current 
£m 
Financial assets by class:  
Residential customers 1,562 7 1,856 6
Business customers 2,496 12 2,940 13
Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties 1,041 6 1,406 5
 5,099 25 6,202 24
Less: provision for credit losses (694) – (634) –
 4,405 25 5,568 24
Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be fully performing until such time as the payment that is 
due remains outstanding past the contractual due date. Contractual due dates range from falling due upon receipt to falling due in  
30 days from receipt. Receivables from residential customers are generally reviewed for impairment on an individual basis once a 
customer discontinues their relationship with the Group. 
Current financial assets within trade and other receivables net of provision  
for credit losses on an undiscounted basis 
31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Balances that are not past due 2,790 3,749
Balances that are past due but not considered to be individually impaired 1,576 1,783
Balances with customers that are considered to be individually impaired 39 36
 4,405 5,568
An ageing of the carrying value of trade and other receivables that are past due that are not considered to be individually impaired is as 
follows: 
Financial assets within trade and other receivables on an undiscounted basis 
31 December 
2015 
£m  
2014
£m 
Days past due:  
Less than 30 days 745 905
30 to 89 days 366 397
Less than 90 days 1,111 1,302
90 to 182 days 225 179
183 to 365 days 163 183
Greater than 365 days 77 119
 1,576 1,783 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
120 
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES  
The provision for credit losses is based on an incurred loss model and is determined by application of expected default and loss factors, 
informed by historical loss experience and current sampling to the various balances receivable from residential and business customers  
on a portfolio basis, in addition to provisions taken against individual accounts. Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed  
as being remote. The impairment charge in trade receivables is stated net of credits for the release of specific provisions made in previous 
years, which are no longer required. These relate primarily to residential customers in the UK. Movements in the provision for credit losses 
by class are as follows:  
 2015 2014
 
Residential 
customers 
£m 
Business
customers
£m 
Treasury, 
trading
and energy
procurement
counterparties
£m 
Total
£m 
Residential
customers
£m 
Business 
customers 
£m 
Treasury, 
trading
and energy
procurement
counterparties
£m 
Total
£m 
1 January  (388) (243) (3) (634) (374) (226) (3) (603)
Impairment of trade receivables 
(i) (ii)
 (109) (188) – (297) (132) (133) – (265)
Receivables written off  138 99 – 237 118 116 – 234
31 December (359) (332) (3) (694) (388) (243) (3) (634)
(i) Includes £38 million (2014: nil) of items previously classified as provisions within accrued energy income that management believes is more appropriately classified as provisions for  
credit losses. 
(ii) 2014 includes £25 million of existing provisions acquired with business combinations. 
18. INVENTORIES 
Inventories represent assets that we intend to use in future periods, either by selling the asset itself (for example gas in storage) or by 
using it to provide a service to a customer. 
 
31 December 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Gas in storage and transportation 221 344
Other raw materials and consumables 160 169
Finished goods and goods for resale 14 42
 395 555
The Group consumed £889 million of inventories (2014: £804 million) during the year. Write downs amounting to £19 million  
(2014: £8 million) were charged to the Group Income Statement in the year. 
19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage the risk arising from fluctuations in the value of certain assets or liabilities, 
associated with treasury management, energy sales and procurement. These derivatives are held at fair value, and are predominantly 
unrealised positions, expected to unwind in future periods. The Group also uses derivatives for proprietary energy trading purposes.  
 
Purpose Accounting treatment 
 
Proprietary energy trading 
and treasury management 
Carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the Group’s results for the year, before 
exceptional items and certain re-measurements 
(i)
  
 
Energy procurement/ 
optimisation 
Carried at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in certain re-measurements 
(ii)
 
 
 
(i) With the exception of certain energy derivatives related to cross-border transportation and capacity contracts. 
(ii) Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss include certain energy contracts that the Group has, at its option, designated at fair value through profit or loss under  
IAS 39 because the energy contract contains one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows under the contract (note S2). 
 
In cases where a derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. Note S5 
provides further detail on the Group’s hedge accounting.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
121 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
121
19. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments by product type for accounting purposes are as follows: 
31 December 
Assets
£m 
2015 
Liabilities 
£m 
Assets
£m 
2014
Liabilities
£m 
Derivative financial instruments – held for trading under IAS 39:  
Energy derivatives – for procurement/optimisation 1,038 (1,782) 644 (1,878)
Energy derivatives – for proprietary trading 99 (1) 44 (17)
Interest rate derivatives 
(i)
 – (25) – (30)
Foreign exchange derivatives 
(i)
 68 (89) 58 (125)
Energy derivative contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss 14 – 16 (14)
Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships:  
Interest rate derivatives 
(i)
 129 (3) 158 (2)
Foreign exchange derivatives 
(i)
 28 (68) 10 (87)
Total derivative financial instruments 1,376 (1,968) 930 (2,153)
Included within:  
Derivative financial instruments – current 936 (1,460) 617 (1,565)
Derivative financial instruments – non-current 440 (508) 313 (588)
(i) Included within these categories are £82 million (2014: £89 million) of derivatives used to hedge movements in net debt. See note 24(c). 
The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms but comprise the following general 
components, analysed on a net carrying value basis:  
31 December 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity: 
UK and Europe 119 (302)
North America (470) (721)
Structured gas purchase contracts (263) (105)
Structured gas sales contracts – (14)
Structured power purchase contracts (54) (67)
Other 36 4
Net total (632) (1,205)
 
Net gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments due to re-measurement 
31 December 
Income
 Statement
£m 
2015 
 
Equity 
£m 
Income 
Statement
£m 
2014
Equity
£m 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value:  
Derivative financial instruments – held for proprietary energy trading 36 – (27) –
Derivative financial instruments – held for trading under IAS 39  148 – (1,137) –
Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss 10 – (21) –
Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships (29) 28 60 (29)
 165 28 (1,125) (29) Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
122 
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
Trade and other payables include accruals, and are principally amounts we owe to our suppliers. Financial deferred income represents 
monies received from customers in advance of the delivery of goods or the performance of services by the Group. 
 
31 December 
Current
£m  
2015 
Non-current 
£m  
Current 
£m  
2014
Non-current
£m 
Financial liabilities:    
Trade payables (649) –  (864) –
Deferred income (584) –  (506) –
Capital payables (181) –  (190) –
Other payables (573) (34)  (727) (43)
Accruals:   
Commodity costs (1,187) –  (1,438) –
Transportation, distribution and metering costs (326) –  (354) –
Operating and other accruals  (853) –  (876) –
 (2,366) –  (2,668) –
 (4,353) (34)  (4,955) (43)
Non-financial liabilities:    
Other payables and accruals (548) (20)  (547) (26)
Deferred income (133) (16)  (165) (14)
 (5,034) (70)  (5,667) (83)
 
Financial liabilities within current trade and other payables 
31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Less than 90 days (4,160) (4,864)
90 to 182 days (77) (24)
183 to 365 days (116) (67)
 (4,353) (4,955) Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
123 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
123
21. PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 
Provisions are recognised when an obligation exists that can be reliably measured, but where there is uncertainty over the timing
and/or amount of the payment. The main provisions relate to decommissioning costs for upstream assets we own, or have owned, 
which require restoration or remediation. Further provisions relate to purchase contracts we have entered into that are now onerous, 
restructuring costs, and legal and regulatory matters. 
 
Current provisions for  
other liabilities and charges 
1 January 
2015 
£m 
Acquisitions 
and disposals
£m 
Charged in 
the year
£m 
Notional 
interest
£m 
Unused and 
reversed in
the year
£m 
Utilised
£m 
Transfers  
(i) 
£m 
Exchange 
adjustments
£m 
31 December
2015
£m 
Restructuring costs (23) – (4) – 1 15 (5) – (16)
Decommissioning costs 
(ii)
 (110) – (2) – 11 88 (106) 2 (117)
Purchase contract loss provision 
(iii)
 (184) – (33) (10) – 65 (8) 7 (163)
Other 
(iv)
  (78) – (78) – 15 45 (4) – (100)
 (395) – (117) (10) 27 213 (123) 9 (396)
 
Non-current provisions for  
other liabilities and charges 
1 January 
2015 
£m 
Acquisitions 
and disposals
£m 
Charged in 
the year
£m 
Notional 
interest
£m 
Unused and 
reversed in
the year
£m 
Revisions
and
additions
£m 
Transfers  
(i) 
£m 
Exchange 
adjustments
£m 
31 December
2015
£m 
Restructuring costs (13) – – – – – 2 – (11)
Decommissioning costs 
(ii)
 (2,992) 6 (48) (63) 50 193 151 111 (2,592)
Purchase contract loss provision 
(iii)
 (134) – (58) (3) – – 8 (4) (191)
Other 
(iv)
  (64) – (10) – 24 – 5 – (45)
 (3,203) 6 (116) (66) 74 193 166 107 (2,839)
Included within the above liabilities are the following financial liabilities: 
Financial liabilities 
31 December 
Current
£m 
2015 
Non-current 
£m 
Current
£m 
2014
Non-current
£m 
Restructuring costs (16) (9) (23) (11)
Provisions other than restructuring costs  (252) (222) (238) (122)
 (268) (231) (261) (133)
(i) Includes transfers to/from other balance sheet accounts including retirement benefit obligations and liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale. 
(ii) Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production and storage facilities at the end of their useful lives. The estimate has been based on 2P 
reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date. The timing of decommissioning payments is dependent on the lives of the facilities but is expected to occur by 2066, with the 
majority of the provision being utilised between 2020 and 2040.  
(iii) The purchase contract loss provision relates to a number of European gas transportation contracts, the Rijnmond and Spalding tolling contracts and Direct Energy wind farm power purchase 
agreements. The majority of the provision is expected to be utilised by 2020. 
(iv) Other provisions have been made for insurance, legal and various other claims. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
124 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
124 
22. POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS 
The Group manages a number of final salary and career average defined benefit pension schemes. It also has defined contribution 
schemes. The majority of these schemes are in the UK. 
(a) Summary of main post retirement benefit schemes 
Name of scheme Type of benefit Status Country 
Number of 
active members 
as at 
31 December
 2015 (i) 
Total 
membership
 as at 
31 December
2015 (i) 
Centrica Engineers Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2006 UK 4,044 8,688
Pension Scheme Defined benefit career average pension Open to service engineers only UK 3,933 5,108
Centrica Pension Plan Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2003 UK 3,903 8,782
Centrica Pension Scheme Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2003 UK 15 10,721
 Defined benefit career average pension Closed to new members in 2008 UK 1,852 4,153
 Defined contribution pension Open to new members UK 15,692 20,897
Bord Gáis Energy 
Company Defined Benefit 
Pension Scheme 
Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2014 Republic  
of Ireland 
157 175
Bord Gáis Energy 
Company Defined 
Contribution Pension Plan  
Defined contribution pension Open to new members Republic  
of Ireland 
156 177
Direct Energy Marketing 
Limited Pension Plan 
Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2004 Canada 31 397
Direct Energy  
Marketing Limited 
Post retirement benefits Closed to new members in 2012 Canada 162 366
(i) For Direct Energy Marketing Limited post retirement benefits the membership information is at 31 December 2014. 
The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme (CEPS), Centrica Pension Plan (CPP) and Centrica Pension Scheme (CPS) form the significant 
majority of the Group’s defined benefit obligation and are referred to below as the ‘Registered Pension Schemes’. The other schemes are 
individually, and in aggregate, immaterial. 
Independent valuations 
The Registered Pension Schemes are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified 
actuary certifies the rate of employer contributions which, together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and 
proceeds from the schemes’ assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes. 
The latest full actuarial valuations for the Registered Pension Schemes based on the position at 31 March 2015 are in progress, however 
the underlying information has been updated to 31 December 2015 for the purposes of meeting the requirements of IAS 19: ‘Employee 
Benefits’ (2011). The latest full actuarial valuation for the Direct Energy Marketing Limited Pension Plan was carried out at 1 August 2014 
and has also been updated to 31 December 2015 for the purpose of meeting the requirements of IAS 19. Investments held in all schemes 
have been valued for this purpose at market value. 
Governance 
The Registered Pension Schemes are managed by trustee companies whose boards consist of both company-nominated and member-
nominated Directors. Each scheme holds units in the Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund (CCCIF), which holds the majority  
of the combined assets of the Registered Pension Schemes. The board of the CCCIF is currently comprised of nine Directors; three 
independent Directors, three Directors appointed by Centrica plc (including the Chairman) and one Director appointed by each of the three  
Registered Pension Schemes.  
Under the terms of the Pensions Act 2004, Centrica plc and each trustee board must agree the funding rate for its defined benefit  
pension scheme and a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme-specific statutory funding objective. This approach was  
first adopted for the triennial valuations completed at 31 March 2006, and has been reflected in subsequent valuations, including the  
31 March 2015 valuations.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
125 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
125
22. POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS  
(b) Risks 
The Registered Pension Schemes expose the Group to the following risks: 
Asset volatility 
The pension liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to AA corporate bond yields; if the growth in plan assets is 
lower than this, this will create an actuarial loss within other equity. The CCCIF is responsible for managing the assets of each scheme in 
line with the liability-related investment objectives that have been set by the trustees of the schemes, and invests in a diversified portfolio 
of assets. The schemes are relatively young in nature (the schemes opened in 1997 on the formation of Centrica plc on demerger from 
BG plc (formerly British Gas plc), and only took on liabilities in respect of active employees). Therefore, the CCCIF holds a significant 
proportion of return-seeking assets; such assets are generally expected to provide a higher return than corporate bonds, but result in 
greater exposure to volatility and risk in the short term. The investment objectives are to achieve a target return above a return based  
on a portfolio of gilts, subject to a maximum volatility ceiling. If there have been advantageous asset movements relative to liabilities above 
a set threshold, then de-risking is undertaken, and as a consequence the return target and maximum volatility ceiling are reduced. 
Interest rate  
A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the net present value of the pension liabilities. The relative immaturity of the schemes 
means that the duration of the liabilities is longer than average for typical UK pension schemes, resulting in a relatively higher exposure  
to interest rate risk.  
Inflation 
Pensions in deferment, pensions in payment and pensions accrued under the career average schemes increase in line with the Retail 
Price Index (RPI) and the Consumer Price Index (CPI). Therefore scheme liabilities will increase if inflation is higher than assumed, although 
in some cases caps are in place to limit the impact of significant movements in inflation. During the year the Group offered a pension 
increase exchange (PIE) to future retirees within the Registered Pension Schemes. This PIE gives the option to receive a higher initial 
pension in return for giving up certain future increases linked to RPI. This has resulted in a past service credit of £38 million in the year. 
Longevity 
The majority of the schemes’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of scheme members and their surviving spouses; therefore 
increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the pension liabilities. The relative immaturity of the schemes means that there is 
comparatively little observable mortality data to assess the rates of mortality experienced by the schemes, and means that the schemes’ 
liabilities will be paid over a long period of time, making it particularly difficult to predict the life expectancy of the current membership. 
Furthermore, pension payments are subject to inflationary increases, resulting in a higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.  
Salary  
For final salary schemes, the pension liabilities are calculated by reference to the future salaries of active members, and hence salary rises 
in excess of assumed increases will increase scheme liabilities. During 2011 changes were introduced to the final salary sections of CEPS 
and CPP such that annual increases in pensionable pay are capped to 2%, resulting in a reduction in salary risk. 
Foreign exchange  
Certain of the assets held by the CCCIF are denominated in foreign currencies, and hence their values are subject to exchange rate risk.  
The CCCIF has long-term hedging programmes in place to manage interest rate, inflation and foreign exchange risks. 
The table below analyses the total liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes, calculated in accordance with accounting principles,  
by type of liability, as at 31 December 2015. 
Total liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes 
31 December 
2015
% 
Actives – final salary – capped 26
Actives – final salary – uncapped and crystallised benefits 5
Actives – career average 5
Deferred pensioners 29
Pensioners 35
 100 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
126 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
126 
22. POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS  
(c) Accounting assumptions 
The accounting assumptions for the Registered Pension Schemes have been given below: 
Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation  
2015
% 
2014 
% 31 December 
Rate of increase in employee earnings: 
Subject to cap 1.7 1.7
Other 3.0 3.0
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.0 3.0
Rate of increase in deferred pensions: 
In line with CPI capped at 2.5% 1.9 1.9
In line with RPI 3.0 3.0
Discount rate 3.9 3.9
The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date have been based on a combination of 
standard actuarial mortality tables, scheme experience and other relevant data, and include an allowance for future improvements in 
mortality. The longevity assumptions for members in normal health are as follows: 
Life expectancy at age 65 for a member  
Male
 Years 
2015 
Female 
 Years 
Male
 Years 
2014
Female
 Years 31 December 
Currently aged 65 23.4 25.1 22.7 25.1
Currently aged 45 25.1 27.0 24.4 27.0
The other demographic assumptions have been set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data.  
The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuations of the pension schemes. 
Reasonably possible changes as at 31 December to one of the actuarial assumptions would have affected the scheme liabilities as set  
out below: 
Impact of changing material assumptions 
 
Increase/
decrease in 
assumption 
2015 
Indicative effect  
on scheme 
liabilities  
% 
Increase/
decrease in 
assumption 
2014
Indicative effect
 on scheme 
liabilities 
% 31 December 
Rate of increase in employee earnings subject to cap 0.25% +/–1 0.25% +/–1
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 0.25% +/–4 0.25% +/–5
Discount rate 0.25% –/+6 0.25% –/+6
Inflation assumption 0.25% +/–4 0.25% +/–5
Longevity assumption 1 year +/–3 1 year +/–3
The indicative effects on scheme liabilities have been calculated by changing each assumption in isolation and assessing the impact on  
the liabilities. For the reasonably possible change in the inflation assumption, it has been assumed that a change to the inflation 
assumption would lead to corresponding changes in the assumed rates of increase in uncapped pensionable pay, pensions in payment 
and deferred pensions. 
The remaining disclosures in this note cover all of the Group’s defined benefit schemes. 
(d) Amounts included in the Group Balance Sheet 
31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Fair value of plan assets  6,642 6,444
Present value of defined benefit obligation (6,761) (6,382)
Net (liability)/asset recognised in the Group Balance Sheet (119) 62
Pension asset presented in the Group Balance Sheet as: 
Retirement benefit assets 91 185
Retirement benefit liabilities (210) (123)
Net pension (liability)/asset (119) 62 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
127 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
127
22. POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS  
(e) Movement in the year 
 
Pension 
liabilities
£m  
2015 
Pension  
assets 
£m  
Pension  
liabilities 
£m  
2014
Pension
 assets
£m 
1 January (6,382) 6,444  (5,643) 5,683
Items included in the Group Income Statement:    
Current service cost (129) –  (115) –
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice 
arrangements 
(i)
 (24) –  (25) –
Total current service cost  (153) –  (140) –
Past service credit 38 –  10 –
Interest (expense)/income (248) 253  (260) 266
Items included in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income:    
Returns on plan assets, excluding interest income – (126)  – 467
Actuarial (loss)/gain from changes to demographic assumptions (24) –  67 –
Actuarial gain/(loss) from changes in financial assumptions 5 –  (609) –
Actuarial loss from experience adjustments (176) –  (8) –
Exchange adjustments 8 (5)  1 (2)
Items included in the Group Cash Flow Statement:    
Employer contributions – 224  – 191
Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice 
arrangements 
(i)
 – 24  – 25
Other movements:    
Plan participants’ contributions (1) 1  (1) 1
Benefits paid from schemes 170 (170)  153 (153)
Acquisition/disposal of businesses 3 (3)  50 (34)
Transfers from provisions for other liabilities and charges (1) –  (2) –
31 December (6,761) 6,642  (6,382) 6,444
(i) A salary sacrifice arrangement was introduced on 1 April 2013 for pension scheme members. The contributions paid via the salary sacrifice arrangement have been treated as employer 
contributions, and included within current service cost, with a corresponding reduction in salary costs. 
In addition to current service cost on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, the Group also charged £43 million (2014: £37 million) 
to operating profit in respect of defined contribution pension schemes. This included contributions of £13 million (2014: £12 million) paid  
via a salary sacrifice arrangement. 
(f) Pension scheme assets 
The market values of plan assets were:  
31 December 
Quoted
£m 
Unquoted
£m 
2015
Total
£m 
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted 
£m 
2014
Total
£m 
Equities 1,884 219 2,103 1,950 211 2,161
Diversified asset funds 47 – 47 42 113 155
Corporate bonds 1,732 – 1,732 1,813 – 1,813
High-yield debt 167 781 948 182 275 457
Liability matching assets  874 556 1,430 1,052 415 1,467
Property – 318 318 – 328 328
Cash pending investment 64 – 64 63 – 63
 4,768 1,874 6,642 5,102 1,342 6,444 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
128 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
128 
22. POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS  
Included within equities are £1 million (2014: £2 million) of ordinary shares of Centrica plc via pooled funds that include a benchmark 
allocation to UK equities. Included within corporate bonds are £2 million (2014: £3 million) of bonds issued by Centrica plc held within 
pooled funds over which the CCCIF has no ability to direct investment decisions. Apart from the investment in the Scottish Limited 
Partnerships described in note 22(g), no direct investments are made in securities issued by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries or 
property leased to or owned by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries.  
Included within the Group Balance Sheet within non-current securities are £76 million (2014: £75 million) of investments, held in trust on 
behalf of the Group, as security in respect of the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme. Of the pension scheme liabilities above, £50 million 
(2014: £49 million) relate to this scheme. More information on the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme is included in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 63 to 79. 
(g) Pension scheme contributions 
Based on the triennial valuations at 31 March 2012, the Group and the trustees of the Registered Pension Schemes agreed to fund the 
scheduled deficit payments using asset-backed contribution arrangements. Under the arrangements, certain loans to UK Group 
companies were transferred to Scottish Limited Partnerships established by the Group. During 2012 and 2013 the Group made special 
contributions to the Registered Pension Schemes of £444 million, which the schemes immediately used to acquire interests in the 
partnerships for their fair value of £444 million. The schemes’ total partnership interests entitle them to distributions from the income of  
the partnerships over a period of between four and 15 years. Until 2016 this income will amount to £77 million per annum but will reduce 
thereafter. The partnerships are controlled by Centrica and their results are consolidated by the Group. As the trustees’ interests in the 
partnerships do not meet the definition of a plan asset under IAS 19, they are not reflected in the Group Balance Sheet. Distributions  
from the partnerships to the schemes will be recognised as scheme assets in the future as they occur. 
Although there is a relatively small IAS 19 accounting deficit in the Registered Pension Schemes in comparison with the defined benefit 
obligation, the pension trustees are required to calculate the funding position on a more prudent ‘Technical Provisions’ basis. The next 
triennial review based on the position as at 31 March 2015 is in progress and because government bond yields are currently low this is 
likely to result in a Technical Provisions deficit in the Registered Pension Schemes. It is likely, therefore, that additional deficit payments  
will be required following the completion of the triennial valuation. 
Deficit payments are also being made in respect of the Direct Energy Marketing Limited Pension Plan in Canada. £1 million was paid in  
the year to 31 December 2015. £2 million is to be paid in 2016; £1 million is to be paid in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. 
The Group estimates that it will pay £98 million of ordinary employer contributions during 2016 at an average rate of 21% of pensionable 
pay, together with £25 million of contributions paid via the salary sacrifice arrangement. At 31 March 2015 (the date of the latest full 
actuarial valuations) the weighted average duration of the liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes was 24 years. 
23. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
(a) Commitments 
Commitments are not held on the Group’s Balance Sheet as these are executory arrangements, and relate to amounts that we are 
contractually required to pay in the future as long as the other party meets its contractual obligations. 
The Group procures commodities through a mixture of production from gas fields, power stations, wind farms and procurement 
contracts. Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity at fixed and floating prices.  
They also include gas and electricity contracts indexed to market prices and long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation. The 
commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts disclosed below are stated net of amounts receivable under commodity  
sales contracts, where there is a right of offset with the counterparty.  
The total volume of gas to be taken under certain long-term structured contracts depends on a number of factors, including the actual 
reserves of gas that are eventually determined to be extractable on an economic basis. The commitments disclosed below are based  
on the minimum quantities of gas and other commodities that the Group is contracted to buy at estimated future prices.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
129 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
129
23. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
The commitments in this note differ in scope and in basis from the maturity analysis of energy derivatives disclosed in note S3. Whilst the 
commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts include all purchase contracts, only certain procurement and sales contracts 
are within the scope of IAS 39 and included in note S3. In addition, the volumes used in calculating the maturity analysis in note S3 are 
estimated using valuation techniques, rather than being based on minimum contractual quantities.  
On 25 March 2013, the Group and Company announced that it had entered into a 20-year agreement with Cheniere to purchase 89bcf 
per annum of LNG volumes for export from the Sabine Pass liquefaction plant in the US, subject to a number of project milestones and 
regulatory approvals being achieved. During 2015 Cheniere made a positive final investment decision on the fifth project at Sabine Pass 
following receipt of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approval and a Non-Free Trade Agreement licence from the Department of 
Energy. Under the terms of the agreement with Cheniere, the Group is committed to make capacity payments of up to £3.8 billion 
(included in ‘LNG capacity’ below) between 2018 and 2038. The Group may also make up to £6 billion of commodity purchases based  
on market gas prices and foreign exchange rates as at the balance sheet date. The target date for first commercial delivery is estimated 
by the terminal operator as Q4 2018. 
31 December 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Commitments in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment: 
Development of Norwegian Maria oil and gas field 110 –
Development of other Norwegian oil and gas assets 52 76
Development of Cygnus gas field 101 182
Other capital expenditure 79 23
Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets: 
Renewable obligation certificates to be purchased from joint ventures 
(i)
 977 1,063
Renewable obligation certificates to be purchased from other parties 2,462 2,024
Other intangible assets 272 247
Other commitments: 
Commodity purchase contracts  43,547 39,563
LNG capacity 4,473 4,388
Transportation capacity 932 942
Outsourcing of services 146 148
Commitments to invest in joint ventures – 5
Energy Company Obligation 13 39
Power station tolling fees 93 110
Smart meters 169 67
Power station operating and maintenance  155 162
Heat rate call options 77 146
Other long-term commitments 276 396
Operating lease commitments: 
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 770 810
(i) Renewable obligation certificates are purchased from several joint ventures which produce power from wind energy under long-term off-take agreements (up to 15 years). The commitments 
disclosed above are the gross contractual commitments and do not take into account the Group’s economic interest in the joint venture.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
130 
23. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
At 31 December the maturity analyses for commodity purchase contract commitments and the total minimum lease payments under non-
cancellable operating leases were: 
 
Commodity  
purchase contract  
commitments 
Total minimum lease 
payments under 
non-cancellable 
operating leases 
31 December 
2015
£billion 
2014 
£billion 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
<1 year 9.1 10.4 121 154
1–2 years 5.0 6.4 82 117
2–3 years 3.4 3.3 73 79
3–4 years 2.9 3.0 66 60
4–5 years 3.6 2.2 58 50
>5 years 19.5 14.3 370 350
 43.5 39.6 770 810
Operating lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were as follows: 
Year ended 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Minimum lease payments (net of sub-lease receipts) 125 113
Contingent rents – renewables 
(i)
 75 98
(i) The Group has entered into long-term arrangements with renewable providers to purchase physical power, renewable obligation certificates and levy exemption certificates from renewable 
sources. Payments made under these contracts are contingent upon actual production and so there is no commitment to a minimum lease payment (2014: nil). Payments made for physical 
power are charged to the Group Income Statement as incurred and disclosed as contingent rents. 
(b) Guarantees and indemnities 
This section discloses any guarantees and indemnities that the Group has given, where we may have to provide security in the future 
against existing and future obligations that will remain for a specific period. 
In connection with the Group’s energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into 
contracts under which they may be required to prepay, provide credit support or provide other collateral in the event of a significant 
deterioration in creditworthiness. The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point  
of deterioration. 
The Group has provided a number of guarantees and indemnities in respect of decommissioning costs; the most significant indemnities 
relate to the decommissioning costs associated with the Morecambe, Statfjord and Kvitebjorn fields. These indemnities are to the previous 
owners of these fields. Under the licence conditions of the fields, the previous owners will have exposure to the decommissioning costs 
should these liabilities not be fully discharged by the Group.  
With regard to Morecambe the security is to be provided when the estimated future net revenue stream from the associated gas field falls 
below a predetermined proportion of the estimated decommissioning cost. The nature of the security may take a number of different 
forms and will remain in force until the costs of such decommissioning have been irrevocably discharged and the relevant legal 
decommissioning notices in respect of the relevant fields have been revoked.  
Following legislation having been executed, the UK Government has now signed contracts (Decommissioning Relief Deeds – DRDs)  
with industry, providing certainty on decommissioning tax relief through confirmation of allowance against previous taxable profits.  
These deeds permit industry to move to post-tax Decommissioning Security Agreements (DSAs), cutting the cost of these and freeing  
up capital for investment. Centrica has a signed DRD and discussions are ongoing with the relevant counterparty to move to a post-tax 
DSA for Morecambe. 
Security for Statfjord and Kvitebjorn is slightly different in this respect as it was provided to the previous owners as part of the acquisition 
of these fields. 
(c) Contingent liabilities 
On 13 June 2013, the Group acquired a 25% interest in the Bowland exploration licenses in Lancashire from Cuadrilla Resources Ltd  
and AJ Lucas Group Ltd for £44 million in cash. During the year, the Group renegotiated the commercial terms around the carry and 
contingent payment obligations agreed at acquisition. The Group may now be required to pay £32 million of additional costs related to 
exploration activities under a carry agreement which is contingent on planning consents being received. Following the completion of these 
exploration activities, the Group would pay additional costs of £35 million under a further carry agreement if the Group elects to continue 
into the development phase. 
There are no other material contingent liabilities.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
131 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
131
24. SOURCES OF FINANCE 
(a) Capital structure 
The Group seeks to maintain an efficient capital structure with a balance of debt and equity as shown in the table below: 
31 December 
2015
 £m 
2014
 £m 
Net debt  4,747 5,196
Equity 1,178 2,735
Capital 5,925 7,931
Debt levels are restricted to limit the risk of financial distress and, in particular, to maintain a strong credit profile. The Group’s credit standing  
is important for several reasons: to maintain a low cost of debt, limit collateral requirements in energy trading, hedging and decommissioning 
security arrangements, and to ensure the Group is an attractive counterparty to energy producers and long-term customers. 
The Group monitors its current and projected capital position on a regular basis, considering a medium-term view of three to five years, 
and different stress case scenarios, including the impact of changes in the Group’s credit ratings and significant movements in commodity 
prices. A number of financial ratios are monitored; including those used by the credit rating agencies, such as debt to cash flow ratios  
and adjusted EBITDA to gross interest expense. At 31 December 2015, the ratio of the Group’s net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 2.0 
(2014: 1.8). Adjusted EBITDA to gross interest expense for the year ended 31 December 2015 was 7.2 (2014: 8.8). 
British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL) is required under PRA regulations to hold a minimum capital amount and has complied with this 
requirement in 2015 (and 2014). 
The Company’s Articles of Association limit the Group’s borrowings to the greater of £5.0 billion and three times adjusted capital and 
reserves. At the year end, the Group has undertaken impairment tests on its long-lived assets and, predominantly as a result of significant 
adverse commodity price movements, has recognised asset impairments of £2.3 billion. These impairments are the primary driver of the 
reduction in the Group’s adjusted capital and reserves as defined by the Company’s Articles of Association to £1.2 billion (2014: £2.7 
billion), and will consequently reduce the Group’s borrowings limit under the Company’s Articles of Association to £5.0 billion (2014: £8.2 
billion) from the date of audit of these Financial Statements until shareholders approve the suspension or raising of that limit, which will be 
sought at the Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2016. This restriction has been taken into account when the Directors have considered 
the Group’s ongoing ability to meet its obligations as they fall due. The Group funds its long-term debt requirements through issuing 
bonds in capital markets and entering into bank debt. Short-term debt requirements are met primarily through the issuance of commercial 
paper. The Group maintains substantial committed facilities and uses these to provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including 
short-term business requirements and back-up for commercial paper. 
(b) Liquidity risk management and going concern 
The Group has a number of treasury and risk policies to monitor and manage liquidity risk. Cash forecasts identifying the Group’s liquidity 
requirements are produced regularly and are stress-tested for different scenarios, including, but not limited to, reasonably possible 
increases or decreases in commodity prices and the potential cash implications of a credit rating downgrade. The Group seeks to ensure 
that sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. It is 
the Group’s policy to maintain committed facilities and/or available surplus cash resources of at least £1,200 million, raise at least 75% of 
its net debt (excluding non-recourse debt) in the long-term debt market and to maintain an average term to maturity in the recourse long-
term debt portfolio greater than five years.  
At 31 December 2015, the Group had undrawn committed credit facilities of £4,379 million (2014: £3,751 million) and £637 million  
(2014: £374 million) of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. 136% (2014: 112%) of the Group’s net debt has been raised in the 
long-term debt market and the average term to maturity of the long-term debt portfolio was 12.0 years (2014: 12.8 years). 
The Group’s liquidity is impacted by the cash posted or received under margin and collateral agreements. The terms and conditions of 
these depend on the counterparty and the specific details of the transaction. Cash is generally returned to the Group or by the Group 
within two days of trade settlement. Refer to note 24(c) for movement in cash posted or received as collateral. 
In the preparation of the 2015 Financial Statements, the Group has further evaluated its liquidity position taking into account any limitation 
on borrowings arising from the Company’s Articles of Association. The analysis includes cash resources available at the time of signing the 
Financial Statements and takes into account the remote scenario of restrictions continuing after the Company’s AGM. 
The relatively high level of undrawn committed bank facilities and available cash resources has enabled the Directors to conclude that the 
Group has sufficient headroom to continue as a going concern. The statement of going concern is included in the Directors’ Report – 
Governance, on page 62.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
132 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
132 
24. SOURCES OF FINANCE 
(c) Net debt summary 
Net debt predominantly includes capital market borrowings offset by cash, cash posted or received as collateral, securities and certain 
hedging financial instruments used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange movements on borrowings. 
 
 
Cash and
cash 
equivalents (i)
£m 
Cash posted/
(received) as 
collateral (ii)
£m 
Current and
non-current 
securities (iii)
£m 
Current and  
non-current 
borrowings, 
finance leases 
and interest 
accruals,  
net of related 
deposits (iv) 
£m 
Derivatives
£m 
Net debt
£m 
1 January 2014 719 107 211 (6,031) 52 (4,942)
Cash inflow from sale of securities 5 – (5) – – –
Cash inflow from additional borrowings 
(iv)
 1,311 – – (1,311) – –
Cash outflow from payment of capital element  
of finance leases (32) – – 32 – –
Cash outflow from repayment of borrowings (486) – – 486 – –
Remaining cash outflow and movement in cash 
posted/received under margin and collateral 
agreements 
(v)
 (895) 640 – – – (255)
Revaluation  – – 8 (61) 21 (32)
(Increase)/decrease in interest payable and 
amortisation of borrowings – – – (9) 16 7
Exchange adjustments (1) 29 1 (62) – (33)
Other non-cash movements 
(vi)
 – – 59 – – 59
31 December 2014 621 776 274 (6,956) 89 (5,196)
Cash inflow from sale of securities 
(vi)
 26 – (26) – – –
Cash inflow from additional borrowings 1,000 – – (1,000) – –
Cash outflow from payment of capital element  
of finance leases (35) – – 35 – –
Cash outflow from repayment of borrowings (1,615) – – 1,615 – –
Remaining cash inflow and movement in cash 
posted/received under margin and collateral 
agreements 
(v)
 879 (282) – – – 597
Revaluation  – – – 26 (16) 10
(Increase)/decrease in interest payable and 
amortisation of borrowings – – – (26) 9 (17)
New finance lease agreements – – – (49) – (49)
Exchange adjustments (16) 41 (4) (113) – (92)
31 December 2015 860 535 244 (6,468) 82 (4,747)
(i) Cash and cash equivalents includes £223 million (2014: £247 million) of restricted cash mostly held by the Group’s insurance undertakings that is not readily available to be used for other 
purposes within the Group. 
(ii) Collateral is posted or received to support energy trading and procurement activities. It is posted when contracts with marginable counterparties are out of the money and is received when 
contracts are in the money. These positions reverse when contracts are settled and the collateral is returned. Of the net cash collateral posted at the year end, £74 million (2014: £185 million) 
is included within trade payables, £216 million (2014: £961 million) within trade receivables, and £393 million (2014: nil) has been offset against net derivative financial liabilities. The items, to 
which the cash posted or received as collateral under margin and collateral agreements relate are not included within net debt.  
(iii) Securities balances include £124 million (2014: £129 million) of index-linked gilts which the Group uses for short-term liquidity management purposes and £120 million of available-for-sale 
financial assets (2014: £86 million). The Group has posted £28 million (2014: £29 million) of non-current securities as collateral against an index-linked swap maturing on 16 April 2020. 
(iv) In 2014, a £30 million deposit with Societe Generale in relation to a rolling credit facility was included within this category. The deposit was classified as an other receivable (see note 17)  
but the matching loan was included in borrowings. In 2015 the principal was repaid and the deposit released. Borrowings in 2015 are therefore not net of related deposits. 
(v) Including non-cash movements relating to the reversal of collateral amounts posted when the related derivative contract settles (where these daily margin amounts posted reduce the ultimate 
amount payable/receivable on settlement of the related derivative contract). 
(vi) Shares in Enercare Inc. with a value of C$106 million (£59 million), were received as part consideration for the disposal of Ontario home services in 2014. Half these shares were sold in 2015 
for C$60 million (£26 million). 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
133 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
133
24. SOURCES OF FINANCE 
(d) Borrowings, finance leases and interest accruals summary 
31 December 
Coupon 
rate 
% 
Principal
m 
Current
£m 
Non-current
£m 
2015
Total
£m  
Current 
£m 
Non-current
£m 
2014
Total
£m 
Bank overdrafts and loans 
(i)
  – (222) (222) (427) (312) (739)
Bonds (by maturity date):   
31 March 2015 Floating $70 – – – (45) – (45)
10 September 2015 0.320 ¥30,000 – – – (161) – (161)
11 September 2015 Floating £51 – – – (51) – (51)
12 September 2015 Floating €100 – – – (78) – (78)
24 October 2016 5.500 £300 (308) – (308) – (316) (316)
14 April 2017 Floating $200 – (136) (136) – (128) (128)
19 September 2018  7.000 £400 – (433) (433) – (444) (444)
1 February 2019 3.213 €100 – (74) (74) – (78) (78)
25 September 2020 Floating $80 – (54) (54) – (51) (51)
22 February 2022 3.680 HK$450 – (39) (39) – (37) (37)
10 March 2022 6.375 £500 – (523) (523) – (528) (528)
16 October 2023 4.000 $750 – (525) (525) – (494) (494)
4 September 2026 6.400 £200 – (222) (222) – (225) (225)
16 April 2027 5.900 $70 – (47) (47) – (45) (45)
13 March 2029 4.375 £750 – (739) (739) – (741) (741)
5 January 2032 
(ii)
 Zero €50 – (38) (38) – (41) (41)
19 September 2033  7.000 £770 – (763) (763) – (762) (762)
16 October 2043 5.375 $600 – (401) (401) – (379) (379)
12 September 2044 4.250 £550 – (537) (537) – (536) (536)
25 September 2045 5.250 $50 – (33) (33) – (32) (32)
10 April 2075 
(iii)
 5.250 £450 – (450) (450) – – –
10 April 2076 
(iv)
 3.000 €750 – (550) (550) – – –
  (308) (5,564) (5,872) (335) (4,837) (5,172)
Commercial paper  – – – (735) – (735)
Obligations under finance leases 
(v)
  (43) (207) (250) (35) (202) (237)
Other borrowings  (4) – (4) – – –
Interest accruals  (120) – (120) (103) – (103)
  (475) (5,993) (6,468) (1,635) (5,351) (6,986)
(i) As at 31 December 2014, current bank overdrafts and loans included £300 million of short-term borrowings drawn under committed facilities with maturities of 1 April 2019. 
(ii) €50 million of zero coupon notes have an accrual yield of 4.200%, which will result in a €114 million repayment on maturity. 
(iii) The Group has the right to repay at par on 10 April 2025 and every interest payment date thereafter. 
(iv) The Group has the right to repay at par on 10 April 2021 and every interest payment date thereafter. 
(v) Contingent rents paid under finance lease obligations during the year were £27 million (2014: £30 million). 
Maturity analysis for non-current bank loans at 31 December 
2015
£m 
2014 
£m 
2–5 years (100) (96)
>5 years (122) (216)
 (222) (312)
25. SHARE CAPITAL 
Ordinary share capital represents the total number of shares issued which are publicly traded. We also disclose the number of own and 
treasury shares the Company holds, which the Company has bought itself, principally as part of the share repurchase programme. 
 
Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 
31 December 
2015
£m 
2014 
£m 
5,128,545,946 ordinary shares of 6
14
/81 pence each (2014: 5,045,590,478) 317 311
During the year no shares were cancelled (2014: 154.3 million).  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
134 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
134 
25. SHARE CAPITAL 
The closing price of one Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2015 was 218.1 pence (2014: 279.0 pence). Centrica employee share 
ownership trusts purchase Centrica ordinary shares from the open market and receive treasury shares to satisfy future obligations of 
certain employee share schemes. The movements in own and treasury shares during the year are shown below: 
Own shares Treasury shares 
 
2015 
Million 
shares 
2014  
Million  
shares 
2015
 Million 
shares 
2014
 Million 
shares 
1 January 5.5 6.4 76.9 119.1
Shares purchased 3.0 1.9 – 132.1
Shares cancelled – – – (154.3)
Treasury shares placed into trust 1.5 3.3 (1.5) (3.3)
Shares released to employees on vesting (4.0) (6.1) (16.7) (16.7)
31 December 
(i)
 6.0 5.5 58.7 76.9
(i) The closing balance in the treasury and own share reserve of own shares was £17 million (2014: £18 million) and treasury shares was £181 million (2014: £238 million). 
26. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE 
The Group updates disclosures in light of new information being received, or a significant event occurring, in the period between 
31 December 2015 and the date of this report. 
Disposal 
On 5 February 2016, Centrica and its 50% joint venture partner announced the joint sale of the Glens of Foudland, Lynn and Inner 
Dowsing (‘GLID’) wind farms. After repayment of debt associated with GLID and other costs, Centrica’s net share of the sales proceeds 
will be approximately £115 million, which exceeds the carrying value of the disposed assets. The sale is in line with Centrica’s strategy to 
dispose of its interests in wind power generation. Centrica will continue to purchase 100% of the power and 50% of the ROCs from the 
three wind farms under existing power purchase agreements until 2024.  
As at 31 December 2015, management considered that the disposal group did not meet the IFRS 5: ‘Non-current assets held for sale  
and discontinued operations’ criteria to be classified as held for sale. A sale was not considered to be highly probable within one year. 
Although plans to sell the disposal group had been announced and negotiations with buyers had commenced, there was significant 
uncertainty at the balance sheet date as to whether a sale could be completed in its present condition, given the complex and unique 
nature of the deal being proposed for an offshore wind farm asset. 
Dividends 
The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.43 pence per ordinary share (totalling £427 million) for the year ended 31 December 2015. The 
dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 April 2016 and, subject to approval, will be 
paid on 23 June 2016 to those shareholders registered on 13 May 2016. 
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
135 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
135
Supplementary information includes additional information and disclosures we are required to make by accounting standards or 
regulation. 
S1. GENERAL INFORMATION 
Centrica plc is a company domiciled and incorporated in the UK. The address of the registered office is Millstream, Maidenhead Road, 
Windsor, Berkshire SL4 5GD. The nature of the Group’s operations and principal activities are set out in note 4(a) and on pages 1 to 42. 
The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc are presented in pounds sterling. Operations and transactions conducted in 
currencies other than pounds sterling are included in the consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the foreign currencies 
accounting policy set out in note S2. 
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
This section sets out the Group’s significant accounting policies in addition to the critical accounting policies applied in the preparation 
of these consolidated Financial Statements. These accounting policies have been consistently applied to the years presented. 
Income Statement presentation 
The Group Income Statement and segmental note separately identify the effects of re-measurement of certain financial instruments, and 
items that are exceptional, in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the Group’s underlying performance, as 
described below. 
Basis of consolidation 
The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company. 
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. Control is exercised over an entity when  
the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. Transactions with non-controlling interests that relate to their ownership interests and 
do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition (at which point 
the Group gains control over a business as defined by IFRS 3, and applies the acquisition method to account for the transaction as a 
business combination) or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial 
Statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to align the accounting policies with those used by the Group. 
When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value with the change in carrying 
amount recognised in profit or loss. This fair value becomes the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for  
the retained interest as a joint venture, associate or financial asset. 
Segmental reporting 
The Group’s operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to and regularly reviewed by  
the Group’s Executive Committee for the purposes of evaluating segment performance and allocating resources. 
Revenue 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be measured 
reliably. Revenue includes amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, 
rebates, VAT and other sales-related taxes. 
Energy supply: revenue is recognised on the basis of energy supplied during the year. Revenue for energy supply activities includes an 
assessment of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end (unread). Unread gas and 
electricity is estimated using historical consumption patterns, taking into account the industry reconciliation process for total gas and total 
electricity usage by supplier, and is included in accrued energy income within trade and other receivables. 
Proprietary energy trading: revenue comprises both realised (settled) and unrealised (fair value changes) net gains and losses from trading 
in physical and financial energy contracts. 
Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts: revenue from these contracts is recognised in the Group Income Statement with regard to the 
incidence of risk over the life of the contract, reflecting the seasonal propensity of claims to be made under the contracts and the benefits 
receivable by the customer, which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available throughout the 
contract term. 
Amounts paid in advance are treated as deferred income, with any amount in arrears recognised as accrued income. For one-off services, 
such as installations, revenue is recognised at the date of service provision. 
Storage services: storage capacity revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst commodity revenues for the injection 
and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities. Gas purchases and gas sales 
transactions entered into to optimise the performance of the gas storage facilities are presented net within revenue. Cushion gas sales 
revenue is recognised when the gas is transferred to the customer account or sold to the market.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
136 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
136 
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
Upstream production: revenue associated with exploration and production sales (of natural gas, crude oil and condensates) is recognised 
when title passes to the customer. Revenue from the production of natural gas, oil and condensates in which the Group has an interest 
with other producers is recognised based on the Group’s working interest and the terms of the relevant production sharing arrangements 
(the entitlement method). Where differences arise between production sold and the Group’s share of production, this is accounted for as 
an overlift or underlift (see separate accounting policy). Purchases and sales entered into to optimise the performance of production 
facilities are presented net within revenue. 
Power generation: revenue is recognised on the basis of power supplied during the period. Power purchases and sales entered into to 
optimise the performance of power generation facilities are presented net within revenue. 
Cost of sales 
Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced and purchased during the year taking into account the industry 
reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by supplier, and related transportation, distribution, royalty costs and 
bought-in materials and services. 
Cost of sales relating to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts includes direct labour and related overheads on installation work, repairs 
and service contracts in the year. 
Cost of sales relating to gas and oil production includes depreciation of assets used in production of gas and oil, royalty costs and direct 
labour costs. 
Cost of sales within power generation businesses includes the depreciation of assets included in generating power, fuel purchase costs, 
direct labour costs and carbon emissions costs. 
Investment income 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which  
is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net  
carrying value. 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs that arise in connection with the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised and 
subsequently amortised in line with the depreciation of the related asset. Borrowing costs are capitalised from the time of acquisition or 
from the beginning of construction or production until the point at which the qualifying asset is ready for use. Where a specific financing 
arrangement is in place, the specific borrowing rate for that arrangement is applied. For non-specific financing arrangements, a Group 
financing rate representative of the weighted average borrowing rate of the Group is used (2015: 4.2%, 2014: 4.0%). Borrowing costs not 
arising in connection with the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are expensed. 
Foreign currencies 
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the Group’s 
presentational currency. Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the Financial Statements of 
each entity are measured using that functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are, on initial recognition, recorded in the 
functional currency of the entity at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.  
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date. All exchange movements are included in the Group Income Statement for the period. In previous periods, the Group 
utilised net investment hedging and exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings that provided a hedge against a net investment 
in a foreign entity were taken directly to equity. Upon the disposal or partial disposal of the net investment any accumulated foreign 
exchange reserves related to the investment are recognised in the Group Income Statement. The Group no longer uses net investment 
hedging but historic exchange differences remain in equity until the disposal of the specific investments. 
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity concerned are 
translated using the exchange rate prevailing at the dates of the initial transaction. 
For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s non-sterling functional currency 
subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet 
date. The results of these (generally foreign) subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are translated into pounds sterling at 
the average rates of exchange for the relevant period. The relevant exchange rates are shown below: 
Exchange rate per pound sterling (£) 
Closing rate at 31 December 
Average rate for the year ended 
31 December 
2015 2014 2015 2014
US dollars 1.47 1.56 1.53 1.65
Canadian dollars 2.04 1.81 1.96 1.82
Euro 1.36 1.29 1.38 1.24
Norwegian kroner 13.04 11.67 12.35 10.40
Exchange adjustments arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets and results of non-sterling functional currency operations  
are transferred to the Group’s foreign currency translation reserve, a separate component of equity, and are reported in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the 
cumulative translation difference arising in the foreign currency translation reserve is charged or credited to the Group Income Statement 
on disposal.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
137 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
137
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
Employee share schemes 
The Group operates a number of employee share schemes, detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 79, under which it 
makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the 
date of grant (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions). The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a 
straight-line basis together with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number 
of awards that will vest, and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. 
The majority of the share-based payment charge arises from five schemes. More information is included in the Remuneration Report on 
pages 63 to 79. 
Deferred Matching Share Scheme (DMSS): 
● Applicable employees: Senior Executive Group. 
● From 2015 this scheme was replaced by the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for Executive Directors 
and On Track Incentive Plan (OTIP) for Senior Executives and senior management. 
● Vesting period of four years, comprising bonus year and three-year performance period. 
● Participants must defer between 20% and 40% of annual pre-tax bonus into scheme (deferred shares) and can elect to invest 
additional amounts of annual bonus up to a maximum of 50% of total potential bonus (investment shares).  
● Deferred and investment shares will be matched with conditional shares. On achievement of performance targets over a three-year 
period, matching shares are either released immediately or delivered as nil cost options exercisable for seven years. 
● Performance measured through Group and segment Economic Profit (EP) targets. 
● Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting rights to deferred and matching shares. 
Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIS): 
● Applicable employees: senior management. 
● From 2015 this scheme was replaced by the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for Executive Directors 
and On Track Incentive Plan (OTIP) for Senior Executives and senior management. 
● Vesting period of three years following grant date. 
● Grants after 2012: number of shares calculated according to EPS, Group EP, total shareholder return (TSR) and non-financial KPIs. 
● Following the end of the assessed performance period, and subject to continued employment at that date, shares are either released 
immediately or delivered as nil cost options exercisable for seven years. 
● Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting rights. 
Share Award Scheme (SAS): 
● Applicable employees: senior and middle management. 
● Shares vest subject to continued employment within the Group in two stages: half after two years and the other half after three years. 
● Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting rights. 
On Track Incentive Plan (OTIP): 
● Applicable employees: Senior Executives, senior and middle management. 
● Shares vest subject to continued employment within the Group in two stages: half after two years and the other half after three years. 
● Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting rights to the unvested share awards. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP): 
● Applicable employees: Executive Directors. 
● Shares vest subject to continued employment and performance conditions after a three-year period. 
● Number of shares calculated according to EPS, Group EP and non-financial KPIs. 
● Mandatory holding period of two years following vesting during which claw back applies. 
● Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting rights. 
Fair value is measured using methods appropriate to each of the different schemes as follows: 
LTIS and LTIP Market value on the date of grant 
SAS, DMSS, OTIP Market value on the date of grant   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
138 
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
Business combinations and goodwill 
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method (at the point the Group gains control over a business as 
defined by IFRS 3: ‘Business combinations’). The cost of the acquisition is measured as the cash paid and the aggregate of the fair 
values, at the date of exchange, of other assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group  
in exchange for control of the acquiree. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a 
contingent consideration arrangement at the acquisition date. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the 
conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal 
groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5: ‘Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’, 
which are recognised and measured at FVLCD. The Group recognises any non-controlling interests in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-
acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets. 
Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of the non-controlling 
interests and the acquisition date fair value of any previously held interest in the acquiree over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a stake in a joint venture or an associate represents the excess of 
the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee at the date  
of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. The goodwill arising on an investment in a joint venture or in an associate is not recognised separately, but is shown under 
‘Interests in joint ventures and associates’ in the Group Balance Sheet. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value  
of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is 
recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture entity, any amount of goodwill attributed to that entity is included in the 
determination of the profit or loss on disposal. A similar accounting treatment is applied on disposal of assets that represent a business. 
Other intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Intangible assets include contractual customer 
relationships, brands, application software, emissions trading schemes, renewable obligation certificates, and certain exploration and 
evaluation expenditures, the accounting policies for which are dealt with separately below. For purchased application software, for 
example investments in customer relationship management and billing systems, cost includes contractors’ charges, materials, directly 
attributable labour and directly attributable overheads.  
Capitalisation begins when expenditure for the asset is being incurred and activities necessary to prepare the asset for use are in 
progress. Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for use are complete. 
Amortisation commences at the point of commercial deployment. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their 
fair value as at the date of acquisition. 
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment 
losses. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised  
over their useful economic life and are tested for impairment annually otherwise they are assessed for impairment whenever there is an 
indication that the intangible asset could be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset  
are reviewed at least at each financial year end. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future 
economic benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for on a prospective basis by changing the amortisation period or method,  
as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates. 
Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use. 
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset 
could be impaired, either individually or at the CGU level. Such intangibles are not amortised. The useful life of an intangible asset with an 
indefinite useful life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change 
in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. 
The amortisation periods for the principal categories of intangible assets are as follows: 
Contractual customer relationships Up to 20 years 
Strategic identifiable acquired brands  Indefinite 
Application software Up to 15 years 
Licences Up to 20 years  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
139 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
139
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
EU Emissions Trading Scheme and renewable obligation certificates 
Purchased carbon dioxide emissions allowances are recognised initially at cost (purchase price) within intangible assets. The liability is 
measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to the level of purchased allowances held, and then at the market price of allowances 
ruling at the balance sheet date, with movements in the liability recognised in operating profit. 
Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of carbon dioxide emissions allowances are measured at fair value with gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value recognised in the Group Income Statement. The intangible asset is surrendered and the liability is 
extinguished at the end of the compliance period to reflect the consumption of economic benefits. 
Purchased renewable obligation certificates are recognised initially at cost within intangible assets. A liability for the renewables obligation 
is recognised based on the level of electricity supplied to customers, and is calculated in accordance with percentages set by the UK 
Government and the renewable obligation certificate buyout price for that period. 
The intangible asset is surrendered and the liability is extinguished at the end of the compliance period to reflect the consumption of 
economic benefits. Any recycling benefit related to the submission of renewable obligation certificates is recognised in the Group Income 
Statement when received. 
Exploration, evaluation, development and production assets 
The Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation expenditure. Exploration and evaluation 
expenditure associated with an exploration well, including acquisition costs related to exploration and evaluation activities are capitalised 
initially as intangible assets. Certain expenditures such as geological and geophysical exploration costs are expensed. If the prospects are 
subsequently determined to be successful on completion of evaluation, the relevant expenditure including licence acquisition costs is 
transferred to PP&E. If the prospects are subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on completion of evaluation, the associated costs 
are expensed in the period in which that determination is made.  
All field development costs are capitalised as PP&E. Such costs relate to the acquisition and installation of production facilities and include 
development drilling costs, project-related engineering and other technical services costs. PP&E, including rights and concessions related 
to production activities, are depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production 
method, based on all of the 2P reserves of those fields. Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.  
The net carrying value of fields in production and development is annually compared on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted 
future net revenues to be derived from the remaining commercial reserves. An impairment loss is recognised where it is considered that 
recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the net present value of future net revenues. Exploration assets are reviewed 
annually for indicators of impairment and production and development assets are tested annually for impairment. 
Interests in joint arrangements and associates 
Under IFRS 11, joint arrangements are those that convey joint control which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities 
require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or 
joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. Associates are investments over which the Group has 
significant influence but not control or joint control, and generally holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. The Group’s joint 
ventures and associates (as defined in note 6) are accounted for using the equity method.  
Under the equity method, investments are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets, less any 
impairment in value in individual investments. The Group Income Statement reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations after  
tax and interest. Accounting policies of the joint ventures and associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency  
with the policies adopted by the Group. Upon initial acquisition goodwill may arise and is recognised within ‘interests in joint ventures  
and associates’ in the Group Balance Sheet. 
The Group’s interests in joint operations (oil and gas exploration and production licence arrangements) are accounted for by recognising 
its assets (including its share of assets held jointly), its liabilities (including its share of liabilities incurred jointly), its revenue from the sale of 
its share of the output arising from the joint operation, its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation and its 
expenses (including its share of any expenses incurred jointly). 
Where the Group has an equity stake or a participating interest in operations governed by a joint arrangement for which it is acting  
as operator, an assessment is carried out to confirm whether the Group is acting as agent or principal. As the terms and conditions 
negotiated between business partners usually provide joint control to the parties over the relevant activities of the oil and gas fields and/or 
wind farms that are governed by joint arrangements, the Group is usually deemed to be an agent when it is appointed as operator and  
not as principal (as the contracts entered into do not convey control to the parties). Accordingly, the Group recognises its equity share  
of these arrangements as outlined above except that it presents gross liabilities and gross receivables of the joint venture (including 
amounts due to or from non-operating partners) in the Group Balance Sheet in accordance with the netting rules of IAS 32: ‘Financial 
instruments: presentation’.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
140 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
140 
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
Property, plant and equipment 
PP&E is included in the Group Balance Sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment. The initial cost of 
an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation. The 
purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset. 
Subsequent expenditure in respect of items of PP&E such as the replacement of major parts, major inspections or overhauls, are 
capitalised as part of the cost of the related asset where it is probable that future economic benefits will arise as a result of the expenditure 
and the cost can be reliably measured. All other subsequent expenditure, including the costs of day-to-day servicing, repairs and 
maintenance, is expensed as incurred. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. Other PP&E, with the exception of upstream production assets (see above), are depreciated on a 
straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual assets over their estimated useful 
lives. The depreciation periods for the principal categories of assets are as follows: 
Freehold and leasehold buildings Up to 50 years 
Plant Five to 20 years 
Equipment and vehicles Three to 10 years 
Power stations and wind farms Up to 30 years 
Gas storage  Up to 40 years 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful economic lives on the same basis as for owned assets, or 
where shorter, the lease term. 
The carrying values of PP&E are tested annually for impairment and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually and if 
necessary changes are accounted for prospectively. 
Impairment assumptions 
Details of the approach taken to impairment are included in note 7(c). The following provides further information on the assumptions used 
in the VIU calculations: 
VIU – Key assumptions used 
The VIU calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Group’s Board-approved three-year business plans. The Group’s 
business plans are based on past experience, and adjusted to reflect market trends, economic conditions, key risks, the implementation 
of strategic objectives and changes in commodity prices, as appropriate. Commodity prices used in the planning process are based in 
part on observable market data and in part on internal estimates. The extent to which the commodity prices used in the business plans 
are based on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be 
active. Note S6 provides additional detail on the active period of each of the commodity markets in which the Group operates.  
(a) VIU – Growth rates and discount rates 
Cash flows beyond the three-year plan period have been extrapolated using long-term growth rates in the market where the CGU 
operates. Long-term growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available historical data and long-term growth rate forecasts 
published by external analysts. Cash flows are discounted using a discount rate specific to each CGU. Discount rates reflect the current 
market assessments of the time value of money and are based on the estimated cost of capital of each CGU. Additionally, risks specific  
to the cash flows of the CGUs are reflected within cash flow forecasts. Each CGU’s weighted average cost of capital is then adjusted to 
reflect the impact of tax in order to calculate an equivalent pre-tax discount rate. 
Long-term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates used in the VIU calculations for each of the Group’s CGUs are provided in the  
table below: 
2015 
British Gas – 
Residential energy 
supply 
% 
British Gas –
 Business energy 
supply and 
services 
% 
British Gas –
 Residential 
services 
% 
Direct Energy –
 Residential 
energy supply (i) 
% 
Direct Energy – 
Business energy 
supply (i) 
 % 
Direct Energy – 
Residential and 
business services (i)  
% 
Bord Gáis 
Energy 
% 
Growth rate to perpetuity 1.9 1.9 1.9 2.2/2.1 2.2/2.1 2.2/2.1 1.5
Pre-tax discount rate 7.4 7.4 7.4 8.5/8.0 8.5/8.0 8.5/8.0 7.2
 
2014 
British Gas – 
Residential energy 
supply 
% 
British Gas –
 Business energy 
supply and 
services 
% 
British Gas –
 Residential
 services 
% 
Direct Energy – 
Residential 
energy supply (i) 
% 
Direct Energy – 
Business energy 
supply (i) 
 % 
Direct Energy – 
Residential and 
business services (i)  
% 
Bord Gáis 
Energy 
% 
Growth rate to perpetuity 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.3/2.0 2.3/2.0 2.3/2.0 N/A
Pre-tax discount rate  7.4 7.4 7.4 8.4/8.0 8.4/8.0 8.4/8.0 N/A
(i) US/Canada respectively. 
(b) VIU – Inflation rates 
Inflation rates used in the three-year business plan were based on a blend of a number of publicly available inflation forecasts for the UK, 
Canada and the US. Inflation rates used for the value in use calculations were as follows: UK: 1.8% (2014: 2.0%); Canada: 2.1% (2014: 
2.0%); Republic of Ireland 1.4% (2014: N/A); and the US: 2.2% (2014: 2.2%).  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
141 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
141
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
(c) Key operating assumptions by CGUs using VIU 
The key operating assumptions across all CGUs are gross margin, revenues and operating costs. Each of these assumptions is tailored to 
the specific CGU using management’s knowledge of the environment, as shown in the table below: 
CGU Gross margin Revenues Operating costs 
British Gas – 
Residential 
energy supply 
Existing customers: based on 
contractual terms. 
New customers and renewals: 
based on gross margins achieved in 
the period leading up to the date of 
the business plan. Both adjusted for 
current market conditions and 
transportation cost inflation. 
Market share: percentage 
immediately prior to business plan. 
Adjusted for: growth forecasts which 
are based on sales and marketing 
activity and recent customer 
acquisitions.  
Gas and electricity revenues  
based on forward market prices. 
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based  
on inflation expectations. 
Credit losses: historical assumptions  
regarding provisions have been updated  
to reflect the current UK environment. 
British Gas –  
Business  
energy supply 
and services 
Existing customers: based on 
contractual terms. 
New customers and renewals: 
based on gross margins achieved in 
the period leading up to the date of 
the business plan. Both adjusted for 
current market conditions and 
transportation cost inflation. 
Market share: percentage 
immediately prior to business plan. 
Adjusted for: growth forecasts which 
are based on sales and marketing 
activity and recent customer 
acquisitions.  
Gas and electricity revenues  
based on forward market prices. 
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based  
on inflation expectations. 
Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding 
provisions have been updated to reflect the 
current UK environment. 
British Gas –  
Residential 
services 
Future sales: based on percentages 
achieved in the period up to the 
approval of the business plan. 
Market share: percentage 
immediately prior to business plan. 
Adjusted for: change in growth rates 
to reflect the current economic 
environment in the UK. 
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected efficiency programme.  
Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding 
provisions have been updated to reflect the 
current UK environment. 
Direct Energy –  
Residential 
energy supply 
Existing customers: based on 
contractual terms. 
New customers and renewals: 
based on gross margins achieved in 
the period leading up to the date of 
the business plan. Adjusted for: 
competitor data.  
Market share: average percentage 
immediately prior to business plan. 
Adjusted for: expectations of growth 
or decline to reflect competitive 
differences.  
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based on 
inflation expectations.  
Future developments: reduction in costs to 
reflect planned business process efficiencies.  
Customer acquisition: based on experience of 
costs required to support acquisition, renewal 
and other servicing activities.  
Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding 
provisions have been updated to reflect the 
current North American environment. 
Direct Energy –  
Business energy 
supply 
Existing customers: based on 
contractual terms. 
New customers and renewals: 
based on gross margins  
achieved historically. 
Market share: based on historical 
growth trends and planned  
sales activities by individual  
market sector.  
Adjusted for: prices based on 
contractual terms for fixed price 
contracts and forward market curves 
for both gas and electricity  
in Canada and the US.  
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based  
on inflation expectations. 
Future developments: reduction in costs  
to reflect expected savings.  
Customer acquisition: based on experience  
of costs required to support acquisition, 
renewal and other servicing activities. 
Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding 
provisions have been updated to reflect the 
current North American environment. 
Direct Energy –  
Residential  
and business 
services 
New customers and renewals: 
based on gross margins achieved  
in the period leading up to the date 
of the business plan. Adjusted for: 
current economic conditions, 
consumer confidence and the  
status of the housing market  
as appropriate.  
Market share: based on historical 
growth trends by individual  
market sector.  
Adjusted for: new product offerings 
and continued penetration into new 
markets.  
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based  
on inflation expectations.  
Credit losses: estimated bad debt and 
allowances based on historical collection rights 
and trends which are evaluated by business. 
Bord Gáis 
Energy 
Existing customers: based on 
contractual terms. New customers 
and renewals: based on gross 
margins achieved in the period 
leading up to the date of the 
business plan. Both adjusted for 
current market conditions, inflation 
and transportation cost. 
Market share: percentage 
immediately prior to business plan. 
Adjusted for: growth forecasts which 
are based on sales and marketing 
activity and recent customer 
acquisitions. Gas and electricity 
revenues based on forward market 
prices. 
Wages: projected headcount in line with 
expected activity. Salary increases based  
on inflation expectations. Credit losses: 
historical assumptions regarding provisions 
have been updated to reflect the current Irish 
market environment.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
142 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
142 
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Overlift and underlift 
Off-take arrangements for oil and gas produced from joint operations are often such that it is not practical for each participant to receive 
or sell its precise share of the overall production during the period. This results in short-term imbalances between cumulative production 
entitlement and cumulative sales, referred to as overlift and underlift. 
An overlift payable, or underlift receivable, is recognised at the balance sheet date within trade and other payables, or trade and other 
receivables, respectively and measured at market value, with movements in the period recognised within cost of sales. 
Leases 
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an 
assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the 
arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets. Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Assets held under 
finance leases are capitalised and included in PP&E at their fair value, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, 
each determined at the inception of the lease. The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future 
periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months included in bank overdrafts  
and loans within current liabilities. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the finance lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income. 
Payments under operating leases are charged to the Group Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Inventories 
Inventories are valued on a weighted-average cost basis, at the lower of cost, or estimated net realisable value after allowance for 
redundant and slow-moving items. 
Decommissioning costs 
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas and oil production facilities at the end of the 
producing lives of fields, and storage facilities and power stations at the end of their useful lives, based on price levels and technology at 
the balance sheet date. 
When this provision relates to an asset with sufficient future economic benefits, a decommissioning asset is recognised and included as 
part of the associated PP&E and depreciated accordingly. If there is an indication that the new carrying amount of the asset is not fully 
recoverable, the asset is tested for impairment and an impairment loss is recognised where necessary. Changes in these estimates and 
changes to the discount rates are dealt with prospectively and reflected as an adjustment to the provision and corresponding 
decommissioning asset included within PP&E. The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in the Group Income Statement 
within interest expense. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale and discontinued operations 
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs 
to sell. No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, the asset (or disposal group)  
is available for immediate sale in its present condition and management is committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for 
recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. 
The profits or losses and cash flows that relate to a major component of the Group that has been sold or is classified as held for sale  
are presented separately from continuing operations as discontinued operations within the Group Income Statement and Group Cash  
Flow Statement. 
Pensions and other post employment benefits 
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes. The cost of providing benefits under the 
defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in the period in which they occur in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is charged to the Group Income Statement over the periods benefiting from 
employees’ service. Past service cost is recognised immediately. Costs of administering the schemes are charged to the Group Income 
Statement. Net interest, being the change in the net defined benefit liability or asset due to the passage of time is recognised in the Group 
Income Statement net finance cost. 
The net defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the Group Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation of the schemes, and the fair value of the schemes’ assets. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency  
in which the benefits are paid, and that have terms of maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recognised in the Group Income Statement as they fall due.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
143 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
143
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, that can be 
measured reliably, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the best  
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the 
effect is material. 
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the Group Income Statement within 
interest expense. Onerous contract provisions are recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a contract 
exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. Contracts to purchase or sell energy are reviewed on a portfolio basis 
given the fungible nature of energy, whereby it is assumed that the highest priced purchase contract supplies the highest priced sales 
contract and the lowest priced sales contract is supplied by the lowest priced purchase contract. 
Taxation 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid  
(or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. From time to time, 
the Group may have open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities. Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a 
reliable estimate of the dispute can be made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability. These estimates take into account 
the specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice. Each item is considered separately and on a basis that provides 
the better prediction of the outcome. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the  
deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill (if impairment of goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes) or the initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss. Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Group’s 
assets and liabilities and their tax base. 
Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group. Any remaining 
deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable 
taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future, against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the timing  
of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the  
foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Measurement of deferred tax 
liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences expected from the manner in which the asset or liability is recovered or settled. 
Financial instruments  
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. Financial assets are derecognised when the Group no longer has the rights to cash flows, the risks and 
rewards of ownership or control of the asset. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, 
cancelled or expires. 
(a) Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoice amount and are subsequently held at amortised 
cost using the effective interest rate method less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts. Provision is made when there is objective 
evidence that the Group may not be able to collect the trade receivable. Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed as being 
remote. If collection is due in one year or less receivables are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. 
(b) Trade payables 
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually original invoice amount and are subsequently held at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate method. If payment is due within one year or less payables are classified as current liabilities. If not, they  
are presented as non-current liabilities. 
(c) Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction 
from the proceeds received. Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury or own shares) are deducted from equity. No gain or loss  
is recognised in the Group Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Group’s own equity instruments. 
(d) Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to 
known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the purpose of the Group Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above,  
net of outstanding bank overdrafts. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
144 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
144 
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
(e) Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings 
All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings with banks and similar institutions are initially recognised at fair value net of directly 
attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, except when they are the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship 
where the carrying value is also adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risks. Such fair value movements 
are recognised in the Group Income Statement. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, discount or premium. 
(f) Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale, which are recognised 
initially at fair value on the Group Balance Sheet. Available-for-sale financial assets are re-measured subsequently at fair value with gains 
and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised directly in equity and presented in the Group Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, until the asset is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
equity is included in the Group Income Statement for the period. Accrued interest or dividends arising on available-for-sale financial assets 
are recognised in the Group Income Statement. 
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that available-for-sale financial assets are impaired.  
If any such evidence exists, cumulative losses recognised in equity are removed from equity and recognised in the Group Income 
Statement. The cumulative loss removed from equity represents the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less 
any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the Group Income Statement. 
Impairment losses recognised in the Group Income Statement for equity investments classified as available-for-sale are not subsequently 
reversed through the Group Income Statement. Impairment losses recognised in the Group Income Statement for debt instruments 
classified as available-for-sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to  
an event occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss. 
(g) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
The Group holds investments in gilts which it designates as fair value through profit or loss. Investments are measured at fair value on 
initial recognition and are re-measured to fair value in each subsequent reporting period. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair 
value are recognised in the Group Income Statement within interest income or interest expense. 
(h) Derivative financial instruments 
The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for physical delivery of gas, power and oil. A portion of these transactions 
take the form of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the physical commodity 
in accordance with the Group’s expected sale, purchase or usage requirements (‘own use’), and are not within the scope of IAS 39.  
The assessment of whether a contract is deemed to be ‘own use’ is conducted on a Group basis without reference to underlying book 
structures, business units or legal entities. 
Certain purchase and sales contracts for the physical delivery of gas, power and oil are within the scope of IAS 39 due to the fact that 
they net settle or contain written options. Such contracts are accounted for as derivatives under IAS 39 and are recognised in the Group 
Balance Sheet at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
taken directly to the Group Income Statement for the year. 
The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange 
and energy price risks, arising in the normal course of business. The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by the Group’s 
policies which are approved by the Board of Directors. Further detail on the Group’s risk management policies is included within the 
Strategic Report – Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 38 to 42 and in note S3. 
The accounting treatment for derivatives is dependent on whether they are entered into for trading or hedging purposes. A derivative 
instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with 
the Group’s risk management policies and is in accordance with established guidelines. Certain derivative instruments used for hedging 
purposes are designated in hedge accounting relationships which require the hedging relationship to be documented at its inception, 
ensure that the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective, and require that its effectiveness can be reliably measured. The 
Group also holds derivatives that are used for hedging purposes which are not designated in hedge accounting relationships and are  
held for trading. 
All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative is entered into and are re-measured to fair value at each 
reporting date. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. Derivative 
assets and derivative liabilities are offset and presented on a net basis only when both a legal right of set-off exists and the intention to net 
settle the derivative contracts is present. 
The Group enters into certain energy derivative contracts covering periods for which observable market data does not exist. The fair value 
of such derivatives is estimated by reference in part to published price quotations from active markets, to the extent that such observable 
market data exists, and in part by using valuation techniques, whose inputs include data which is not based on or derived from observable 
markets. Where the fair value at initial recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, a fair value gain or fair value loss will 
arise. This is referred to as a day-one gain or day-one loss. Such gains and losses are deferred (not recognised) and amortised to the 
Group Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such time observable market data 
becomes available. When observable market data becomes available, any remaining deferred day-one gains or losses are recognised 
within the Group Income Statement. Recognition of the gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value depends on the purpose for 
issuing or holding the derivative. For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair 
value are taken directly to the Group Income Statement and are included within gross profit or interest income and interest expense. 
Gains and losses arising on derivatives entered into for speculative energy trading purposes are presented on a net basis within revenue.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
145 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
145
S2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Embedded derivatives: derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives 
when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair 
value, with gains or losses reported in the Group Income Statement. The closely related nature of embedded derivatives is reassessed 
when there is a change in the terms of the contract which significantly modifies the future cash flows under the contract. Where a contract 
contains one or more embedded derivatives, and providing that the embedded derivative significantly modifies the cash flows under the 
contract, the option to fair value the entire contract may be taken and the contract will be recognised at fair value with changes in fair 
value recognised in the Group Income Statement. 
(i) Hedge accounting 
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. Note S5 details the Group’s 
accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39. 
Nuclear activity 
The Group’s investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited (‘Nuclear’) is accounted for as an associate. The following accounting policies are 
specific to the accounting for the nuclear activity of this associate. 
(a) Fuel costs – nuclear front end 
Front end fuel costs consist of the costs of procurement of uranium, conversion and enrichment services and fuel element fabrication.  
All costs are capitalised into inventory and charged to the Group Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt. 
(b) Fuel costs – nuclear back end 
Advanced gas-cooled reactors (AGR) 
Spent fuel extracted from the reactors is sent for reprocessing and/or long-term storage and eventual disposal of resulting waste 
products. Back end fuel costs comprise a loading related cost per tonne of uranium and a rebate/surcharge to this cost dependent on the 
out-turn market electricity price in the year and are capitalised into inventory and charged to the Group Income Statement in proportion to 
the amount of fuel burnt. 
Pressurised water reactor (PWR) 
Back end fuel costs are based on wet storage in station ponds followed by dry storage and subsequent direct disposal of fuel. Back end 
fuel costs are capitalised into inventory on loading and charged to the Group Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt. 
(c) Nuclear property, plant and equipment and depreciation 
The nuclear fleet is depreciated from the date of the Group acquiring its share of the fleet on a straight-line basis, with remaining 
depreciable periods currently of up to 20 years. 
Expenditure on major inspection and overhauls of production plant is depreciated over the period until the next outage which for AGR 
power stations is three years and for the PWR power station is 18 months. 
(d) Nuclear Liabilities Fund (NLF) funding arrangements 
Under the arrangements in place with the Secretary of State, the NLF will fund, subject to certain exceptions, qualifying uncontracted 
nuclear liabilities and qualifying decommissioning costs. 
In part consideration for the assumption of these liabilities by the Secretary of State and the NLF, the former British Energy Group agreed 
to pay fixed decommissioning contributions each year and £150,000 (indexed to RPI) for every tonne of uranium in PWR fuel loaded into 
the Sizewell B reactor after the date of these arrangements. 
(e) NLF and nuclear liabilities receivables 
The UK Government indemnity is provided to indemnify any future shortfall on NLF funding of qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities 
(including PWR back end fuel services) and qualifying nuclear decommissioning costs such that the receivable equals the present value of 
the associated qualifying nuclear liabilities. 
(f) Nuclear liabilities 
Nuclear liabilities represent provision for liabilities in respect of the costs of waste management of spent fuel and nuclear 
decommissioning. 
(g) Unburnt fuels at shutdown 
Due to the nature of the nuclear fuel process there will be quantities of unburnt fuel in the reactors at station closure. The costs relating to 
this unburnt fuel (final core) are fully provided for at the balance sheet date. The provision is based on a projected value per tonne of fuel 
remaining at closure, discounted back to the balance sheet date and recorded as a long term liability. 
S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
The Group’s normal operating, investing and financing activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including 
commodity price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management 
processes are designed to identify, manage and mitigate these risks. 
Further detail on the Group’s overall risk management processes is included within the Strategic Report – Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties on pages 38 to 42. 
Financial risk management is overseen by the Group Financial Risk Management Committee (GFRMC) according to objectives, targets 
and policies set by the Board. Commodity price risk management is carried out in accordance with individual business unit Financial Risk 
Management Committees and their respective financial risk management policies, as approved by the GFRMC under delegated authority  
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
146 
S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
from the Board. Treasury risk management, including management of currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk is carried out  
by a central Group Treasury function in accordance with the Group’s financing and treasury policy, as approved by the Board. 
The wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and treasury positions are managed in accordance with the Group’s  
credit risk policy and collateral risk policy. Downstream customer credit risk management is carried out in accordance with individual 
business unit credit policies. 
Market risk management 
Market risk is the risk of loss that results from changes in market prices (commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates).  
The level of market risk to which the Group is exposed at a point in time varies depending on market conditions, expectations of future 
price or market rate movements and the composition of the Group’s physical asset and contract portfolios. 
(a) Commodity price risk management 
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its upstream assets, energy procurement contracts, downstream and proprietary  
energy trading activities and uses specific limits to manage the exposure to commodity prices associated with the Group’s activities to  
an acceptable level. The Group uses Profit at Risk (PaR) limits to control exposures to market prices. These are complemented by other 
limits including Value at Risk (VaR), volumetric or stop-loss limits to control risk around trading activities. 
(i) Energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities 
The Group’s energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities consist of equity gas and liquids production, equity power 
generation, bilateral procurement and sales contracts, market-traded purchase and sales contracts and derivative positions transacted 
with the intent of securing gas and power for the Group’s downstream customers in the UK, North America and the Republic of Ireland 
from a variety of sources at an optimal cost. The Group actively manages commodity price risk by optimising its asset and contract 
portfolios and making use of volume flexibility. 
The Group’s commodity price risk exposure in its energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities is driven by the cost of 
procuring gas and electricity to serve its downstream customers and which varies with wholesale commodity prices. The primary risk is 
that market prices for commodities will fluctuate between the time that sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set and the time at which the 
corresponding procurement cost is fixed, thereby potentially reducing expected margins or making sales unprofitable. 
The Group is also exposed to volumetric risk in the form of an uncertain consumption profile arising from a range of factors, including 
weather, energy consumption changes, customer attrition and economic climate. There is also risk associated with ensuring there is 
sufficient commodity available to secure supply to customers. 
In order to manage the exposure to market prices associated with the Group’s energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities 
the Group uses a specific set of limits (including volumetric, VaR, PaR and stop-loss) established by the Board, Executive Committee, 
GFRMC or business unit Financial Risk Committees.  
PaR measures the estimated potential loss in a position or portfolio of positions associated with the movement of a commodity price  
for a given confidence level, over the remaining term of the position or contract. VaR measures the estimated potential loss for a given 
confidence level over a predetermined holding period. The standard confidence level used is 95%. In addition, regular stress and scenario 
tests are performed to evaluate the impact on the portfolio of possible substantial movements in commodity prices. 
The Group measures and manages the commodity price risk associated with the Group’s entire energy procurement, upstream and 
downstream portfolio. Only certain of the Group’s energy procurement, upstream and downstream contracts constitute financial 
instruments under IAS 39 (note S6). 
As a result, while the Group manages the commodity price risk associated with both financial and non-financial energy procurement, 
upstream and downstream contracts, it is the notional value of energy contracts being carried at fair value that represents the exposure  
of the Group’s energy procurement, upstream and downstream activities to commodity price risk according to IFRS 7: ‘Financial 
instruments: disclosures’. This is because energy contracts that are financial instruments under IAS 39 are accounted for on a fair value 
basis and changes in fair value immediately impact profit or equity. Conversely, energy contracts that are not financial instruments under 
IAS 39 are accounted for as executory contracts and changes in fair value do not immediately impact profit or equity, and as such, are not 
exposed to commodity price risk as defined by IFRS 7. So whilst the PaR or VaR associated with energy procurement and downstream 
contracts outside the scope of IAS 39 is monitored for internal risk management purposes, only those energy contracts within the scope 
of IAS 39 are within the scope of the IFRS 7 disclosure requirements. 
(ii) Proprietary energy trading 
The Group’s proprietary energy trading activities consist of physical and financial commodity purchases and sales contracts taken on with 
the intent of benefiting from changes in market prices or differences between buying and selling prices. The Group conducts its trading 
activities in the over-the-counter market and through exchanges in the UK, North America and continental Europe. The Group is exposed 
to commodity price risk as a result of its proprietary energy trading activities because the value of its trading assets and liabilities will 
fluctuate with changes in market prices for commodities. 
The Group sets volumetric and VaR limits to manage the commodity price risk exposure associated with the Group’s proprietary energy 
trading activities. VaR measures the estimated potential loss at a 95% confidence level over a one-day holding period. The carrying value 
of energy contracts used in proprietary energy trading activities at 31 December 2015 is disclosed in note 19. 
As with any modelled risk measure, there are certain limitations that arise from the assumptions used in the VaR calculation. VaR assumes 
that historical price behaviours will continue in the future and that the Group’s trading positions can be unwound or hedged within the 
predetermined holding period. Furthermore, the use of a 95% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account changes in value 
that might occur beyond this confidence level.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
147 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
147
S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
(b) Currency risk management 
The Group is exposed to currency risk on foreign currency denominated forecast transactions, firm commitments, monetary assets  
and liabilities (transactional exposure) and on its net investments in foreign operations (translational exposure). 
IFRS 7 only requires disclosure of currency risk arising on financial instruments denominated in a currency other than the functional 
currency of the commercial operation transacting. As a result, for the purposes of IFRS 7, currency risk excludes the Group’s net 
investments in North America and Europe as well as foreign currency denominated forecast transactions and firm commitments. 
(i) Transactional currency risk 
The Group is exposed to transactional currency risk on transactions denominated in currencies other than the underlying functional 
currency of the commercial operation transacting. The Group’s primary functional currencies are pounds sterling in the UK, Canadian 
dollars in Canada, US dollars in the US, Norwegian kroner in Norway and euros in the Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland. The risk is 
that the functional currency value of cash flows will vary as a result of movements in exchange rates. Transactional exposure arises from 
the Group’s energy procurement and upstream activities, where many transactions are denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, in 
order to optimise the cost of funding, the Group has, in certain cases, issued foreign currency denominated debt, primarily in US dollars, 
euros, Japanese yen or Hong Kong dollars. 
It is the Group’s policy to hedge material transactional exposures using derivatives to fix the functional currency value of non-functional 
currency cash flows, except where there is an economic hedge inherent in the transaction. At 31 December 2015, there were no material 
unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or probable forecast transactions (2014: nil), other than 
transactions which have an inherent economic hedge and foreign currency borrowings used to hedge translational exposures. 
(ii) Translational currency risk 
The Group is exposed to translational currency risk as a result of its net investments in North America and Europe. The risk is that the 
pounds sterling value of the net assets of foreign operations will decrease with changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s policy  
is to protect the pounds sterling book value of its net investments in foreign operations where appropriate, subject to certain parameters 
monitored by the GFRMC, by holding foreign currency debt, entering into foreign currency derivatives, or a mixture of both. 
The Group manages translational currency risk taking into consideration the cash impact of any hedging activity as well as the risk to the 
net asset numbers in the Group’s Financial Statements. The translation hedging programme including the potential cash impact is 
monitored by the GFRMC. 
(c) Interest rate risk management 
In the normal course of business the Group borrows to finance its operations. The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because the fair 
value of fixed rate borrowings and the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with changes in interest rates. The 
Group’s policy is to manage the interest rate risk on long-term borrowings by ensuring the exposure to floating interest rates remains 
within a 30% to 70% range, including the impact of interest rate derivatives. 
(d) Sensitivity analysis 
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Group’s financial position and 
performance to changes in market variables (commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates) as a result of changes in the fair 
value or cash flows associated with the Group’s financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis provided discloses the effect on profit or loss 
and equity at 31 December 2015, assuming that a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable had occurred at 31 December 
2015, and has been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that date to show the effects of reasonably possible changes in price on 
profit or loss and equity to the next annual reporting date. Reasonably possible changes in market variables used in the sensitivity analysis 
are based on implied volatilities, where available, or historical data for energy prices and foreign exchange rates. Reasonably possible 
changes in interest rates are based on management judgement and historical experience. 
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on 31 December 2015 balances and on the basis that the balances, the ratio of fixed  
to floating rates of debt and derivatives, the proportion of energy contracts that are financial instruments, the proportion of financial 
instruments in foreign currencies and the hedge designations in place at 31 December 2015 are all constant. Excluded from this analysis 
are all non-financial assets and liabilities and energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IAS 39. The sensitivity to foreign 
exchange rates relates only to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the 
commercial operation transacting, and excludes the translation of the net assets of foreign operations to pounds sterling. 
The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily 
indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced. This is because the Group’s actual exposure to market rates is changing 
constantly as the Group’s portfolio of commodity, debt and foreign currency contracts changes. Changes in fair values or cash flows 
based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated because the relationship between the change in market variable and the 
change in fair value or cash flows may not be linear. In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash 
flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the 
Group. The sensitivity analysis provided excludes the impact of proprietary energy trading assets and liabilities because the VaR 
associated with the Group’s proprietary energy trading activities is less than £5 million. 
(i) Transactional currency risk 
The Group has performed an analysis of the sensitivity of the Group’s financial position and performance to changes in foreign exchange 
rates. The Group deems 10% movements to US dollar, Canadian dollar and euro currency rates relative to pounds sterling to be 
reasonably possible. The impact of such movements on profit and equity, both before and after taxation, is immaterial to the Group except 
for US Dollar where a 10% upward movement would increase profit by £52 million and a 10% downward movement would decrease 
profit by £80 million.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
148 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
148 
S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT  
(ii) Interest rate risk 
The Group has performed an analysis of the sensitivity of the Group’s financial position and performance to changes in interest rates. The 
Group deems a one percentage point move in UK, US and euro interest rates to be reasonably possible. The impact of such movements 
on profit and equity, both after taxation, is immaterial. 
(iii) Commodity price risk 
The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions set 
out above are as follows:  
Energy prices 
Base price
(i) 
2015 
Reasonably 
possible 
change in variable 
 % (ii) 
Base price 
(i) 
2014
Reasonably
 possible
change in variable
 % (ii) 
UK gas (p/therm)  34 +/–5 50 +/–6
UK power (£/MWh) 36 +/–4 47 +/–5
UK coal (US$/tonne) 43 +/–4 67 +/–6
UK emissions (€/tonne) 8 +/–1 8 +/–1
UK oil (US$/bbl) 47 +/–7 69 +/–14
North American gas (US cents/therm) 25 +/–4 33 +/–4
North American power (US$/MWh) 34 +/–6 41 +/–6
 
Incremental profit/(loss) 
2015 
Impact on 
profit (ii) 
£m 
2014
Impact on
profit (ii)
£m 
UK energy prices (combined) – increase/(decrease) 52/(63) 114/(94)
North American energy prices (combined) – increase/(decrease) 93/(93) 109/(111)
(i) The base price represents the average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used in the sensitivity analysis provided. 
(ii) The reasonably possible change in variable and the impact on profit are calculated using both the active and inactive market curves for all UK energy prices. 
The impact on equity of such price changes is immaterial. 
Credit risk management 
Credit risk is the risk of loss associated with a counterparty’s inability or failure to discharge its obligations under a contract. The Group 
continually reviews its rating thresholds for counterparty credit limits, and updates these as necessary based on a consistent set of 
principles. It continues to operate within its limits. In the US and Europe, there is a continued increase in trading over exchanges or 
margined contracts, this helps to reduce counterparty credit risk, but carries increased liquidity requirements. The Group actively manages 
the trade-off between credit and liquidity risks by optimising the use of contracts with and without margining obligations. 
The fall in global commodity prices during the year has added financial pressure to many of our counterparties and in some cases has had 
a detrimental impact on their financial strength and resulting credit risk profile. These pressures have been and will continue to be taken 
into account in counterparty credit reviews. During the 12 months ended 31 December 2015, many large European utilities have been 
downgraded lowering the overall credit assessment of the industry. There have been significant downgrades for some specific European 
banks but as most have reduced their gas and power presence in Europe already this has not had a material impact. 
The Group is exposed to credit risk in its treasury, trading, energy procurement and downstream activities. Credit risk from financial assets 
is measured by counterparty credit rating as follows: 
  2015  2014
 
Derivative financial 
instruments with 
positive fair values 
£m 
Receivables from 
treasury, trading 
and energy 
procurement 
counterparties
£m 
Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m 
Derivative financial 
instruments with 
positive fair values 
£m 
Receivables from 
treasury, trading  
and energy 
procurement 
counterparties 
£m 
Cash and cash 
equivalents
£m 
AAA to AA 16 7 404 9 27 282
AA– to A– 497 560 403 530 643 296
BBB+ to BBB– 462 237 31 282 314 24
BB+ to BB– 307 134 – 37 87 4
B or lower 13 1 – 4 114 –
Unrated 
(i)
 81 108 22 68 226 15
 1,376 1,047 860 930 1,411 621
(i) The unrated counterparty receivables primarily comprise amounts due from subsidiaries of rated entities, exchanges or clearing houses. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
149 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
149
S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
Details of how credit risk is managed across the asset categories are provided below. 
(a) Treasury, trading and energy procurement activities 
Wholesale counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to 
approved limits. The Group uses master netting agreements to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with counterparties where  
net settlement provisions exist (see S6 ‘Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, master netting arrangements and similar 
arrangements’ for details of amounts offset). In addition, the Group employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk: margining, 
various forms of bank and parent company guarantees and letters of credit. See note 24(c) for details of cash posted or received under 
margin or collateral agreements. 
100% of the Group’s credit risk associated with its treasury, trading and energy procurement activities is with counterparties in related 
energy industries or with financial institutions.  
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of information about the exposure to credit risk arising from financial instruments only. Only certain of the 
Group’s energy procurement contracts constitute financial instruments under IAS 39. As a result, whilst the Group manages the credit risk 
associated with both financial and non-financial energy procurement contracts, it is the carrying value of financial assets within the scope 
of IAS 39 (note S6) that represents the maximum exposure to credit risk in accordance with IFRS 7. 
(b) Downstream activities 
In the case of business customers, credit risk is managed by checking a company’s creditworthiness and financial strength both before 
commencing trade and during the business relationship. For residential customers, creditworthiness is ascertained normally before 
commencing trade to determine the payment mechanism required to reduce credit risk to an acceptable level. Certain customers will only 
be accepted on a prepayment basis or with a security deposit. In some cases, an ageing of receivables is monitored and used to manage 
the exposure to credit risk associated with both business and residential customers. In other cases, credit risk is monitored and managed 
by grouping customers according to method of payment or profile. 
Liquidity risk management and going concern 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group experiences significant 
movements in its liquidity position due primarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash arrangements associated with 
certain wholesale commodity contracts. To mitigate this risk the Group maintains significant committed facilities and holds cash on 
deposit. See note 24(b) for further information.  
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
150 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
150 
S3. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
Maturity profiles 
Maturities of derivative financial instruments, provisions, borrowings and finance leases are provided in the following tables (all amounts are 
remaining contractual undiscounted cash flows): 
Due for payment 2015 
<1
year
£m 
1 to 2 
years
£m 
2 to 3
years
£m 
3 to 4 
years 
£m 
4 to 5
years
£m 
>5
years
£m 
Energy and interest derivatives in a loss position  
that will be settled on a net basis (384) (111) (39) (8) (11) –
Gross energy procurement contracts and related 
derivatives carried at fair value 
(i)
 (7,040) (3,421) (2,135) (2,047) (2,604) (10,448)
Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled  
on a gross basis:  
Outflow (4,106) (565) (117) (125) (30) (912)
Inflow 4,071 554 107 106 19 808
Financial liabilities within provisions (268) (92) (43) (29) (26) (48)
Borrowings (bank loans, bonds, commercial  
paper and interest)  (598) (417) (681) (327) (405) (7,544)
Finance lease: 
(ii)
  
Minimum lease payments (50) (41) (43) (45) (46) (49)
Capital elements of leases (43) (36) (38) (41) (44) (48)
 
 
Due for payment 2014 
<1
year
£m 
1 to 2 
years
£m 
2 to 3
years
£m 
3 to 4 
years 
£m 
4 to 5
years
£m 
>5
years
£m 
Energy and interest derivatives in a loss position  
that will be settled on a net basis (674) (181) (45) (13) (3) (9)
Gross energy procurement contracts and related 
derivatives carried at fair value 
(i)
 (9,092) (4,480) (1,498) (1,274) (1,384) (8,321)
Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled  
on a gross basis:  
Outflow (5,242) (756) (73) (12) (89) (354)
Inflow 5,163 738 71 9 82 236
Financial liabilities within provisions (261) (27) (56) (23) (4) (28)
Borrowings (bank loans, bonds, commercial  
paper and interest)  (1,656) (555) (367) (735) (288) (6,680)
Finance lease: 
(ii)
  
Minimum lease payments (48) (48) (39) (39) (39) (70)
Capital elements of leases (35) (38) (30) (32) (35) (67)
(i) Proprietary energy trades are excluded from this maturity analysis as we do not take physical delivery of volumes traded under these contracts. The associated cash flows are expected to be 
equal to the contract fair value at the balance sheet date. See note 19 for further details. 
(ii) The difference between the total minimum lease payments and the total capital elements of leases is due to future finance charges. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
151 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
151
S4. OTHER EQUITY 
This section summarises the Group’s other equity reserve movements.
 
 
Cash
flow
hedging
reserve
£m 
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve
£m 
Actuarial
gains and
losses
reserve
£m 
Available-
for-sale
reserve
(AFS)
£m 
Revaluation
reserve
£m 
Treasury  
and own 
shares 
 reserve 
£m 
Share- 
based 
payments 
reserve 
£m 
Merger and 
capital
redemption
reserve
£m 
Total
£m 
1 January 2014 (17) (177) (272) 14 10 (456) 100 483 (315)
Revaluation of available-for-sale securities – – – 5 – – – – 5
Actuarial loss – – (83) – – – – – (83)
Employee share schemes:   
Increase in own shares – – – – – (7) – – (7)
Exercise of awards – – – – – 78 (39) – 39
Value of services provided – – – – – – 39 – 39
Purchase of treasury shares – – – – – (420) – – (420)
Cancellation of shares held in treasury – – – – – 549 – 10 559
Cash flow hedges:   
Net losses (44) – – – – – – – (44)
Transferred to income and expense 46 – – – – – – – 46
Transfer to assets and liabilities 6 ––––– – – 6
Share of other comprehensive (loss)/income  
of joint ventures and associates, net of taxation (15) – 21 – – – – – 6
Reversal of revaluation reserve (asset 
impairment) – – – – (13) – – – (13)
Taxation on above items (1) – 18 (1) 3 – (5) – 14
Exchange adjustments – (164) –––– – – (164)
31 December 2014 (25) (341) (316) 18 – (256) 95 493 (332)
Revaluation of available-for-sale securities – – – 5 – – – – 5
Actuarial loss – – (321) – – – – – (321)
Employee share schemes:   
Increase in own shares – – – – – (11) – – (11)
Exercise of awards – – – – – 69 (45) – 24
Value of services provided – – – – – – 45 – 45
Cash flow hedges:   
Net gains 20 – – – – – – – 20
Transferred to income and expense (12) – – – – – – – (12)
Transfer to assets and liabilities 7 ––––– – – 7
Share of other comprehensive income/(loss)  
of joint ventures and associates, net of taxation 3 – (8) – – – – – (5)
Taxation on above items (6) – 50 – – – (2) – 42
Exchange adjustments – (221) 3 – – – – – (218)
31 December 2015 (13) (562) (592) 23 – (198) 93 493 (756)
Merger reserve 
During February 1997, BG plc (formerly British Gas plc) demerged certain businesses (grouped together under GB Gas Holdings Limited 
(GBGH)) to form Centrica plc. Upon demerger, the share capital of GBGH was transferred to Centrica plc and was recorded at the 
nominal value of shares issued to BG plc shareholders. In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, no premium was recorded on the 
shares issued. On consolidation, the difference between the nominal value of the Company’s shares issued and the amount of share 
capital and share premium of GBGH at the date of demerger was credited to a merger reserve. 
Capital redemption reserve 
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, the Company has transferred to the capital redemption reserve an amount equal to the 
nominal value of shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled. Up to 31 December 2015 the cumulative nominal value of shares 
repurchased and subsequently cancelled was £26 million (2014: £26 million). 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
152 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
152 
S4. OTHER EQUITY  
Revaluation reserve 
During 2005, the revaluation to fair value of the Group’s existing interest in the Humber power station was recorded as a revaluation 
reserve adjustment following the acquisition by the Group of the remaining 40% in its owner, Centrica SHB Limited. In 2014, an 
impairment charge was made against the Humber power station, of which £13 million was recognised in the Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income through the revaluation reserve (together with an offsetting £3 million deferred tax movement). 
Own shares reserve 
The own shares reserve reflects the cost of shares in the Company held in the Centrica employee share ownership trusts to meet the 
future requirements of the Group’s share-based payment plans. 
Treasury shares reserve 
Treasury shares are acquired equity instruments of the Company. During 2014, the Group purchased £420 million of its own shares  
on the market under the share repurchase programme. The Group subsequently cancelled 154.3 million treasury shares with a nominal 
value of £10 million during 2014. The repurchase cost of £549 million was transferred to retained earnings. 
Share-based payments reserve 
The share-based payments reserve reflects the obligation to deliver shares to employees under the Group’s share schemes in return for 
services provided. 
Foreign currency translation reserve 
The foreign currency translation reserve comprises exchange adjustments on the translation of the Group’s foreign operations. Historically 
the Group has hedged its net investments in these foreign operations and the opening balance of the foreign currency translation reserve 
includes exchange translation adjustments on borrowings and derivatives classified as net investment hedges under the requirements of  
IAS 39. Note S5 provides further detail on historical net investment hedges. 
Cash flow hedging reserve 
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises fair value movements on instruments designated as cash flow hedges under the requirements  
of IAS 39. Amounts are transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve to the Group Income Statement or Group Balance Sheet as and 
when the hedged item affects the Group Income Statement or Group Balance Sheet which is, for the most part, on receipt or payment  
of amounts denominated in foreign currencies and settlement of interest on debt instruments. Note S5 provides further detail on cash  
flow hedging. 
S5. HEDGE ACCOUNTING 
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or, in previous periods, 
hedges of net investments in foreign operations.  
The fair values of derivatives and primary financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships at 31 December were as follows:  
31 December 
Assets
£m 
2015 
Liabilities 
£m 
Assets
£m 
2014
Liabilities
£m 
Fair value hedges  129 (2) 155 (1)
Cash flow hedges 28 (69) 13 (88)
The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are described below. 
Fair value hedges  
A derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and its relationship to a recognised asset or liability is classified as a fair value hedge 
when it hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of that recognised asset or liability. The Group’s fair value hedges consist of 
interest rate swaps used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate, long-term debt due to movements in market interest 
rates. Any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument to fair value is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement. 
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and 
recognised in the Group Income Statement within net finance cost. The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the 
designation. Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest method is used is 
amortised to the Group Income Statement. Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and shall begin no later than when 
the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged. 
Gains or losses arising on fair value hedges net of gains or losses arising on hedged items attributable to the hedged risk for the years 
ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 were immaterial. 
Cash flow hedges  
A derivative is classified as a cash flow hedge when it hedges exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk 
either associated with a recognised asset, liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. The Group’s cash flow hedges consist 
primarily of:  
● forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability of functional currency denominated cash flows associated 
with non-functional currency denominated highly probable forecast transactions;   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
153 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
153
S5. HEDGE ACCOUNTING  
● interest rate swaps used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated with floating-rate borrowings due to movements in 
market interest rates; and 
● cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability in cash flows 
associated with borrowings denominated in non-functional currencies.  
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is effective is recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness is 
recognised in the Group Income Statement. The gains or losses that are initially recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve in the Group 
Statement of Comprehensive Income are transferred to the Group Income Statement in the same period in which the highly probable 
forecast transaction affects income. Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are 
transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability on its recognition. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the 
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or 
the Group revokes the designation. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity 
remains in equity until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs. If the transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative 
gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Group Income Statement. 
Note S4 details movements in the cash flow hedging reserve. The ineffective portion of gains and losses on cash flow hedging is 
immaterial and is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.  
Net investment hedges  
Historically the Group engaged in net investment hedging (NIH) whereby it would obtain foreign currency debt issued in the same currency 
as its net investment in a foreign operation. Such hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow 
hedges. Any gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity; any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the 
hedge is recognised in the Group Income Statement. In 2009 the Group ceased to NIH, however the opening balance of the foreign 
currency translation reserve includes cumulative exchange translation adjustments on borrowings and derivatives classified as a NIH under 
the requirements of IAS 39. These balances will be recycled to the Group Income Statement on disposal of the relevant foreign operation. 
S6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The fair value of a financial instrument is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Group has documented internal policies for determining fair 
value, including methodologies used to establish valuation adjustments required for credit risk. 
(a) Fair value hierarchy 
Financial assets and financial liabilities measured and held at fair value are classified into one of three categories, known as hierarchy 
levels, which are defined according to the inputs used to measure fair value as follows: 
● Level 1: fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities; 
● Level 2: fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be directly observable inputs or unobservable inputs that are 
corroborated by market data; and 
● Level 3: fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with 
internally developed methodologies that result in management’s best estimate of fair value. 
31 December 
Level 1
£m 
Level 2
£m 
Level 3 (i)
£m 
2015
Total
£m 
Level 1 
£m 
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3
£m 
2014
Total
£m 
Financial assets    
Derivative financial instruments:   
Energy derivatives 17 1,172 (38) 1,151 4 688 12 704
Interest rate derivatives – 129 – 129 – 158 – 158
Foreign exchange derivatives – 96 – 96 – 68 – 68
Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit or 
loss 124–– 124 129 – – 129
Debt instruments 60 – – 60 59 – 3 62
Equity instruments
 (ii)
 27303 60 24 59 – 83
Total financial assets at fair value 228 1,427 (35) 1,620 216 973 15 1,204
Financial liabilities    
Derivative financial instruments:   
Energy derivatives (220) (1,449) (114) (1,783) (320) (1,268) (321) (1,909)
Interest rate derivatives – (28) – (28) – (32) – (32)
Foreign exchange derivatives – (157) – (157) – (212) – (212)
Total financial liabilities at fair value (220) (1,634) (114) (1,968) (320) (1,512) (321) (2,153)
(i) Included within Level 3 energy derivative assets are liabilities of £53 million, which are presented within derivative assets on the Group Balance Sheet, as a result of being netted off the 
associated Level 2 trades with the same counterparty, in line with the netting policy described in Note S2. 
(ii) Level 2 equity instruments relate to shares acquired in Enercare Inc.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
154 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
154 
S6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
During 2014, £31 million of net assets were transferred out of Level 1 into Level 2 as a result of the reassessment of derivatives held within 
the Hess Energy Marketing business acquired in 2013. There were no other significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2015 
and 2014. 
The reconciliation of the Level 3 fair value measurements during the year is as follows: 
 
Financial assets
 £m 
2015 
Financial liabilities  
£m 
Financial assets
 £m 
2014
Financial liabilities
 £m 
Level 3 financial instruments  
1 January 15 (321) 125 (81)
Total realised and unrealised (losses)/gains:  
Recognised in Group Income Statement (63) 195 (69) 18
Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (net) 26 (41) (2) (260)
Transfers between Level 2 and Level 3
 (i)
 2 (15) (45) 3
Foreign exchange movements 3 (14) 6 (1)
Other 
(ii)
 (18) 82 ––
31 December (35) (114) 15 (321)
Total gains/(losses) for the year for Level 3 financial instruments  
held at the end of the reporting year
 (iii)
 8 (3) (61) (233)
(i) Transfers between levels are deemed to occur at the beginning of the reporting period. 
(ii) Other movements reflect margin collateral balances which have now been offset against the related Level 3 derivatives. The impact on 2014 balances is not considered to be material. 
(iii) £8 million gains (2014: £61 million losses) for the year for Level 3 financial assets held at the end of the reporting year were recognised within certain re-measurements and no gains or losses 
(2014: nil) were recognised in other comprehensive income. £3 million losses (2014: £233 million) for the year for Level 3 financial liabilities held at the end of the reporting year were 
recognised within certain re-measurements and no gains or losses (2014: nil) were recognised in other comprehensive income. 
(b) Valuation techniques used to derive Level 2 and Level 3 fair values and Group valuation process 
Level 2 interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange derivatives comprise interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. 
Interest rate swaps are fair valued using forward interest rates extracted from observable yield curves. Forward foreign exchange 
contracts are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market. 
Level 2 energy derivatives are fair valued by comparing and discounting the difference between the expected contractual cash flows for 
the relevant commodities and the quoted prices for those commodities in an active market. The average discount rate applied to value this 
type of contract during 2015 was 1% (2014: 1%) (Europe) and 3% (2014: 3%) (North America) per annum. 
For Level 3 energy derivatives, the main input used by the Group pertains to deriving expected future commodity prices in markets that 
are not active as far into the future as some of our contractual terms. This applies to certain contracts within the UK and US. Fair values 
are then calculated by comparing and discounting the difference between the expected contractual cash flows and these derived future 
prices using an average discount rate of 2% (2014: 1%) (UK) and 7% (2014: 7%) (US) per annum for 2015. 
Active period of markets 
Gas Power Coal Emissions Oil 
UK (years)  3 3 3 3 3
North America (years) 5 Up to 5 N/A Up to 5 3
Because the Level 3 energy derivative valuations involve the prediction of future commodity market prices, sometimes a long way into the 
future, reasonably possible alternative assumptions for gas, power, coal, emissions or oil prices may result in a higher or lower fair value 
for Level 3 financial instruments. Given the relative size of these fair values, it is unlikely that the impact of these reasonably possible 
changes would be significant when judged in relation to the Group’s profit and loss or total asset value. 
It should be noted that the fair values disclosed in the tables above only concern those contracts entered into which are within the scope 
of IAS 39. The Group has numerous other commodity contracts which are outside of the scope of IAS 39 and are not fair valued. The 
Group’s actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Group’s portfolio of energy contracts changes.  
The Group’s valuation process includes specific teams of individuals that perform valuations of the Group’s derivatives for financial 
reporting purposes, including Level 3 valuations. The Group has an independent team that derives future commodity price curves based 
on available external data and these prices feed in to the energy derivative valuations. The price curves are subject to review and approval 
by the Group’s Executive Committee and valuations of all derivatives, together with other contracts that are not within the scope of  
IAS 39, are also reviewed regularly as part of the overall risk management process. 
Where the fair value at initial recognition for contracts which extend beyond the active period differs from the transaction price, a day-one 
gain or loss will arise. Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the Group Income Statement based on volumes purchased or 
delivered over the contractual period until such time as observable market data becomes available (see note S2 for further detail). The 
amount that has yet to be recognised in the Group Income Statement relating to the differences between the transaction prices and the 
amounts that would have arisen had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less 
subsequent releases, is immaterial.   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
155 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
155
S6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
(c) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost  
The carrying value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost are approximately equal to their fair value 
except as listed below: 
31 December Notes 
Carrying value
 £m 
Fair value 
£m 
2015
 Fair value 
hierarchy 
Carrying value  
£m 
Fair value
 £m 
2014
 Fair value 
hierarchy 
Bank overdrafts and loans
 (i)
  24(d) (222) (279) Level 2 (739) (792) Level 2
Bonds  Level 1 24(d) (5,795) (6,078) Level 1 (5,094) (5,676) Level 1
 Level 2 24(d) (77) (113) Level 2 (78) (111) Level 2
Obligations under finance leases  24(d) (250) (272) Level 2 (237) (268) Level 2
(i) 2014 includes £427 million of liabilities where the carrying value is considered to approximate the fair value of the instrument. 
Financial liabilities 
The fair values of bonds classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy are based on quoted market prices. The fair values of Level 2 
bonds and bank loans have been determined by discounting cash flows with reference to relevant market rates of interest. The fair values 
of overdrafts, short-term loans and commercial paper are assumed to equal their book values due to the short-term nature of these 
amounts. The fair values of obligations under finance leases have been determined by discounting contractual cash flows with reference 
to the Group’s cost of borrowing. 
Other financial instruments 
Due to their nature and/or short-term maturity, the fair values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
payables and provisions are estimated to approximate their carrying values. 
(d) Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, master netting arrangements and similar arrangements 
    
Related amounts not offset in the 
Group Balance Sheet (i)  
31 December 2015 
Gross amounts
of recognised
financial instruments
£m 
Gross amounts of
recognised financial
instruments offset in the
Group Balance Sheet
£m 
Net amounts 
presented in the
Group Balance 
Sheet
£m 
Financial 
instruments 
£m 
Collateral
£m 
Net amount
£m 
Derivative financial assets 7,990 (6,614) 1,376 (401) (74) 901
Derivative financial liabilities (8,582) 6,614 (1,968) 401 244 (1,323)
 (592) (422)
Balances arising from commodity contracts  
Accrued energy income 4,859 (2,934) 1,925 (183) – 1,742
Accruals for commodity costs (4,121) 2,934 (1,187) 183 – (1,004)
Cash and financing arrangements  
Cash and cash equivalents 1,182 (322) 860 – – 860
Bank loans and overdrafts (544) 322 (222) – – (222)
Securities 244 – 244 – (28) 216
 
    
Related amounts not offset in the 
Group Balance Sheet (i)  
31 December 2014 
Gross amounts
of recognised
financial instruments
£m 
Gross amounts of
recognised financial
instruments offset in the
Group Balance Sheet
£m 
Net amounts 
presented in the
Group Balance 
Sheet
£m 
Financial 
instruments 
£m 
Collateral
£m 
Net amount
£m 
Derivative financial assets 6,152 (5,222) 930 (320) (185) 425
Derivative financial liabilities (7,375) 5,222 (2,153) 320 990 (843)
 (1,223) (418)
Balances arising from commodity contracts  
Accrued energy income 8,148 (5,837) 2,311 (466) – 1,845
Accruals for commodity costs (7,275) 5,837 (1,438) 466 – (972)
Cash and financing arrangements  
Cash and cash equivalents 788 (167) 621 – – 621
Bank loans and overdrafts (906) 167 (739) 127 – (612)
Securities 274 – 274 (97) (29) 148
Other receivables (current) 365 – 365 (30) – 335
(i) The Group has arrangements in place with various counterparties in respect of commodity trades which provide for a single net settlement of all financial instruments covered by the 
arrangement in the event of default or termination, or other circumstances arising whereby either party is unable to meet its obligations. The above table shows the potential impact of these 
arrangements being enforced by offsetting the relevant amounts within each Group Balance Sheet class of asset or liability, but does not show the impact of offsetting across Group Balance 
Sheet classes.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
156 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
156 
S7. FIXED-FEE SERVICE AND INSURANCE CONTRACTS 
This section includes fixed-fee service (FFS) and insurance contract disclosures for services related to British Gas – Residential services 
and Direct Energy – Residential and business services. 
FFS contracts in North America are entered into with home and business services customers.  
FFS contracts in the UK are entered into with home services customers by British Gas Services Limited (BGSL). Insurance contracts  
in the UK are entered into with home services customers by British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL), authorised by the PRA and regulated  
by the FCA and the PRA.  
Product offerings include central heating, boiler and controls, plumbing and drains and electrical appliance insurance cover.  
FFS contracts continue until cancelled by either party; insurance contracts normally provide cover for 12 months with the option  
of renewal. 
The contracts protect policyholders against the risk of breakdowns, resulting in the transfer of an element of risk to the contract provider. 
Benefits provided to customers vary in accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into; however, they generally 
include maintenance, repair and/or replacement of the items affected. 
The levels of risk exposure and service provision to customers under contract terms are dependent on the occurrence of uncertain future 
events, in particular the nature and frequency of faults and the cost of repair or replacement of the items affected. Accordingly, the timing 
and amount of future cash outflows associated with the contracts is uncertain. The key terms and conditions that affect future cash flows 
are as follows: 
● provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and associated level of service; 
● one safety and maintenance inspection either annually or in every continuous two-year period, as set out in the agreement; 
● no limit to the number of call-outs to carry out repair work; and  
● limits on certain maintenance and repair costs.  
Revenue is recognised over the life of contracts having regard to the incidence of risk, in particular the seasonal propensity of claims 
which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available throughout the contract term. Costs incurred to 
settle claims represent principally the engineer workforce employed by Centrica within home services and the cost of parts utilised in 
repair or maintenance. These costs are accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of 
workload over a given year. 
Weather conditions and the seasonality of repairs both affect the profile of the workload and associated costs incurred across the year. 
The risk exposure of these uncertain events is actively managed by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities: 
● an initial service visit is provided to customers taking up most central heating contracts and in some instances pre-existing faults may 
lead to the contract being cancelled and no further cover being provided; 
● an annual maintenance inspection is performed as part of most central heating contracts to help identify and prevent issues developing 
into significant maintenance or breakdown claims; and 
● contract limits are applied to certain types of maintenance and repair work considered to be higher risk in terms of frequency and cost. 
The costs of FFS claims and insurance claims incurred during the year were £42 million (2014: £79 million) and £381 million (2014: £344 
million) respectively and are included in the table below in ‘Expenses relating to FFS and insurance contracts’. All claims are settled 
immediately and in full. Due to the short average lead time between claims occurrence and settlement, no material provisions were 
outstanding at the balance sheet date (2014: nil). 
 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Total revenue 1,173 1,224
Expenses relating to FFS and insurance contracts (986) (1,004)
Deferred income (73) (78)
Accrued income 24 24
The Group considers whether estimated future cash flows under the contracts will be sufficient to meet expected future costs. Any 
deficiency is charged immediately to the Group Income Statement. Claims frequency is sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well as 
the impact of weather conditions. The contracts are not exposed to any interest rate risk or significant credit risk and do not contain any 
embedded derivatives.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
157 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
157
S8. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Group’s principal related parties include its investments in wind farms and the existing EDF UK nuclear fleet. 
During the year, the Group entered into the following arm’s length transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group, 
and had the following associated balances: 
 2015 2014
 
Sale 
of goods  
and services 
£m 
Purchase 
of goods
and services
£m 
Amounts
 owed from
£m 
Amounts
 owed to
£m 
Sale
of goods 
and services
£m 
Purchase  
of goods 
and services 
£m 
Amounts 
owed from
£m 
Amounts 
owed to
£m 
Joint ventures:   
Wind farms (as defined in note 6) 14 (123) 232 (113) 16 (126) 414 (104)
Associates:   
Nuclear (as defined in note 6)  – (639) – (61) – (616) – (58)
Other 3 (9) 2 – 5 (42) 24 (2)
 17 (771) 234 (174) 21 (784) 438 (164)
Investment and funding transactions for joint ventures and associates are disclosed in note 14. Shareholder loan interest income for wind 
farm joint ventures in the period was £17 million (2014: £34 million). The terms of the outstanding balances related to trade receivables 
from related parties are typically 30 to 120 days. The balances are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No provision against amounts 
receivable from related parties was recognised during the year through the Group Income Statement (2014: nil). The balance of the 
provision at 31 December 2015 was nil (2014: £21 million). 
At the balance sheet date, there were back to back committed facilities with Lake Acquisition Limited’s facilities to EDF Nuclear 
Generation Limited totalling £120 million at Centrica’s share, but nothing has been drawn down at 31 December 2015. 
Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 16 individuals at 31 December 2015 
(2014: 15).  
Remuneration of key management personnel 
Year ended 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Short-term benefits 12.3 7.9
Post employment benefits 1.9 2.0
Share-based payments 5.4 0.4
 19.6 10.3
 
Remuneration of the Directors of Centrica plc 
Year ended 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014
(restated) (i)
£m 
Total emoluments 
(ii)
 6.4 4.7
Gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options – 3.6
Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes – 1.9
Contributions into pension schemes 0.7 1.0
(i) The long-term incentives vesting in 2014 have been recalculated based on the share price on the date of vest. See Remuneration Report on page 72 for further details. 
(ii) These emoluments were paid for services performed on behalf of the Group. No emoluments related specifically to services performed for the Company. 
S9. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION 
Year ended 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014
£m 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s individual and consolidated 
Financial Statements 
(i)
 5.3 5.6
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries  1.4 1.3
Total fees related to the audit of the parent and subsidiary entities  6.7 6.9
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services: 
Audit-related assurance services 2.0 2.1
Tax advisory services – 0.2
Corporate finance services – 0.4
All other services 0.3 0.2
 9.0 9.8
Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.1 0.1
(i) Including £0.3 million (2014: £0.2 million) for the audit of the Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement. 
It is the Group’s policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancy and advisory projects. Appointments are made taking into 
account factors including expertise, experience and cost. In addition, the Audit Committee has approved a detailed policy defining the 
types of work for which the Company’s auditors can tender and the approvals required. In the past, the Company’s auditors have been 
engaged on assignments in addition to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are particularly 
important, including due diligence reporting and corporate finance support for acquisitions and disposals.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
158 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
158 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS 
The Group has a large number of related undertakings principally in the UK, US, Norway, Canada, the Netherlands and the Republic of 
Ireland. These are listed below. 
(a) Subsidiary undertakings 
31 December 2015 Principal activity 
Country of incorporation/ 
registered address key (i) 
Class of shares 
held 
Direct 
investment 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Indirect 
interest 
and voting 
rights (%) 
1773648 Alberta Ltd. Gas and/or oil exploration and products 
and/or trading
Canada / A Ordinary shares 100.0%
8401268 Canada Inc. Gas and/or oil exploration and products 
and/or trading
Canada / B Ordinary shares 100.0%
Accord Energy (Trading) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Accord Energy Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Airco Mechanical Ltd. Home and/or commercial services United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
AirTime Canada ULC Home and/or commercial services Canada / E Ordinary shares 100.0%
AirTime LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / F Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Airtron Inc. Home and/or commercial services United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Alertme.com Ltd.
(ii)
 Energy management products and services United Kingdom / C Ordinary and 
preference 
shares 
100.0%
Alertme.com Inc.
(ii)
 Energy management products and services United States / G Ordinary shares 100.0%
Alertme.com GmbH 
(ii)
 Non-trading Germany / H Ordinary shares 100.0%
Astrum Solar Inc. Home and/or commercial services United States / I Ordinary shares 100.0%
Atform Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
AWHR America's Water Heater Rentals LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Benjamin Franklin Franchising LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / F Membership 
interest 
100.0%
BGPGS Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
BMS Setpoint Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
BMS Solutions Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Bord Gáis Energy Limited Energy supply and power generation Republic of Ireland / J Ordinary shares 100.0%
Bounce Energy Inc. Energy supply United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Bounce Energy NY LLC Energy supply United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Bounce Energy PA LLC Energy supply United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Bowland Resources (No.2) Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Bowland Resources Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Brae Canada Ltd. Gas and/or oil exploration and production Canada / A Ordinary and 
preference 
shares 
100.0%
British Gas Direct Employment Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Energy Procurement Limited Energy supply United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Energy Services Limited Energy management products and services United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Finance Limited Vehicle leasing United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Housing Services Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Insurance Limited Insurance provision United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas New Heating Limited Electrical and gas installations United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Services (Commercial) Limited Servicing and installation of heating systems United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Services Limited Home services United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Social Housing Limited Servicing and installation of heating systems United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Solar Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
British Gas Trading Limited Energy supply United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Business Gas Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
159 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
159
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS 
(a) Subsidiary undertakings 
31 December 2015 Principal activity 
Country of incorporation/ 
registered address key (i) 
Class of shares 
held 
Direct 
investment 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Indirect 
interest 
and voting 
rights (%) 
BuyMax LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / F Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Caythorpe Gas Storage Limited Gas storage United Kingdom / K Ordinary shares 100.0%
Central Recoveries Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica (BOW) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica (DSW) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica (IOM) Limited Dormant Isle of Man / L Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica (Lincs) Wind Farm Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica 25 Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica 27 Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Alpha Finance Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica America Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Barry Limited Power generation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Bastrop Finance Holdings In liquidation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Beta Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Brigg Limited Power generation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Combined Common Investment 
Fund Limited 
Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Delta Limited Dormant Isle of Man / M Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Directors Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Electric Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Energy (Trading) Limited Wholesale energy trading United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Energy Limited Wholesale energy trading United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Energy Marketing Limited Wholesale energy trading United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Energy Operations Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Energy Renewable  
Investments Limited 
Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Energy Tolling BV Power generation Netherlands / N Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Engineers Pension Trustees Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Epsilon Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica F3 Developments Limited Dormant United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Finance (Canada) Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Finance (Scotland) Limited Holding company United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Finance (US) Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Finance Investments Limited Non-trading United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Finance Norway Limited Investment company Jersey / P Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Gamma Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica HoldCo GP LLC Holding company United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Centrica Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Ignite GP Limited Investment company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Ignite LP Limited Investment company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica India Offshore Private Limited Business services India / Q Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Infrastructure BV Construction, ownership and exploitation 
of infrastructure
Netherlands / N Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Infrastructure Limited Dormant United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Insurance Company Limited Insurance provision Isle of Man / L Ordinary and 
preference 
shares 
100.0%
Centrica International BV Group financing Netherlands / N Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica International Coöperatief WA Investment company Netherlands / N Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Centrica Jersey Limited Dormant Jersey / R Ordinary shares 100.0% Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
160 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
160 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS 
(a) Subsidiary undertakings 
31 December 2015 Principal activity 
Country of incorporation/ 
registered address key (i) 
Class of shares 
held 
Direct 
investment 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Indirect 
interest 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Centrica KL Limited Power generation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica KPS Limited Power generation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Lake Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Langage Limited Power generation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Leasing (KL) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Leasing (PB) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica LNG Company Limited LNG Trading United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica LNG UK Limited 
(ii)
 Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica LSA Trust Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Nederland BV Holding company Netherlands / N Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Nigeria Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica No.12 Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Nominees No.1 Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica North Sea Gas Exploration Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica North Sea Gas Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica North Sea Limited 
(iii)
 Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica North Sea Oil Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Norway Limited 
(iv)
 Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Offshore UK Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / K Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Onshore Processing UK Limited Dormant United Kingdom / K Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Overseas Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica PB Limited Power generation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Pension Plan Trustees Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Pension Trustees Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Production (DMF) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Production (GMA) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Production (Services) Limited Business services United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Production Limited Dormant United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Production Nederland BV Gas and/or oil exploration and production Netherlands / N Ordinary Shares 100.0%
Centrica Production Trustees Limited Dormant United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Quest Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Renewable Energy Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Resources (Armada) Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Resources (Nigeria) Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production Nigeria / S Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Resources (Norge) AS Gas and/or oil exploration and production Norway / T Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Resources (UK) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Resources Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Resources Petroleum UK Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Retail Holdings Netherlands BV Holding company Netherlands / N Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica RPS Limited Power generation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Secretaries Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica SHB Limited Power generation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Shipping Limited 
(ii) (v)
 Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Storage Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom / K Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Storage Limited Gas storage United Kingdom / K Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Trading Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Trinidad and Tobago Limited Business services Trinidad and 
Tobago /
 
U 
Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Trust (No.1) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Trustees Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica Upstream Investment Limited Dormant United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Centrica US Holdings Inc. Holding company United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0% Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
161 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
161
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS 
(a) Subsidiary undertakings 
31 December 2015 Principal activity 
Country of incorporation/ 
registered address key (i) 
Class of shares 
held 
Direct 
investment 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Indirect 
interest 
and voting 
rights (%) 
CH4 Energy Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
CH4 Old Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Cheltenham Renovators Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
CID1 Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
CIU1 Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Clockwork Acquisition II Inc. Home and/or commercial services United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Clockwork Inc. Home and/or commercial services United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Clockwork IP LLC Holding company United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
CSA Offshore Services (Proprietary) Limited Business services South Africa / V Ordinary shares 100.0%
DEML Investments Limited Holding company Canada / W Ordinary shares 100.0%
DER Development No.10 Ltd. Holding company Canada / A Ordinary shares 100.0%
Direct Energy (B.C.) Limited  Energy supply and/or services Canada / B Ordinary shares 100.0%
Direct Energy Business LLC Energy supply and/or services United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Direct Energy Business Marketing LLC Energy supply and/or services United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Direct Energy Business Services Limited Commercial services Canada / W Ordinary and  
special shares 
100.0%
Direct Energy GP LLC Holding company United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Direct Energy Holdings (Alberta) Inc. Home and/or commercial services Canada / A Ordinary shares 100.0%
Direct Energy HVAC Services Ltd. Home and/or commercial services Canada / A Ordinary shares 100.0%
Direct Energy Investments LLC Energy supply and/or services United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Direct Energy Leasing LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Direct Energy Marketing Inc. Wholesale energy trading United States / D Ordinary and 
preference 
shares 
100.0%
Direct Energy Marketing Limited Energy supply and/or services Canada / W Ordinary shares 100.0%
Direct Energy New York Corporation Energy supply United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Direct Energy Operations LLC Energy supply and/or services United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Direct Energy Power Holdings Inc. Holding company United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Direct Energy Services LLC Energy supply and/or services United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Direct Energy Services Retail Inc. Home and/or commercial services United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Direct Energy Small Business LLC Energy supply United States / X Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Direct Energy Source LLC Energy supply United States / Y Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Direct Energy US Home Services Inc. Home and/or commercial services United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Drips Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Dyno Developments Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Dyno Holdings Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Dyno Kil (Franchising) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Dyno-Plumbing Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Dyno-Rod Limited Operation of a franchise network United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Dyno-Security Services Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Dyno-Services Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
ECL Contracts Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
ECL Investments Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Econergy Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Electricity And Gas Recoveries Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0% Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
162 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
162 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS 
(a) Subsidiary undertakings 
31 December 2015 Principal activity 
Country of incorporation/ 
registered address key (i) 
Class of shares 
held 
Direct 
investment 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Indirect 
interest 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Electricity Direct (UK) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Elswick Energy Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
EN1 Property Holdings Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Energetix DE LLC Energy supply United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Energy America LLC Energy supply United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Energy And Building Management 
Solutions Limited 
Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Energy For Tomorrow Not-for-profit energy services United Kingdom / C Limited by 
guarantee 
100.0%
ES Old Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
First Choice Power GP LLC Holding company United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Gateway Energy Services Corporation Energy supply United States / X Ordinary shares 100.0%
GB Gas Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
GF One Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / Z Ordinary shares 100.0%
GF Two Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / Z Ordinary shares 100.0%
GLID Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Goldbrand Development Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Hillserve Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Home Assistance UK Limited Intermediary services, including claims 
handling and administration services
United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Home Warranty Holdings Corp. Insurance provision United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Home Warranty of America Inc. 
(vi)
 Home and/or commercial services United States / AA Ordinary shares 100.0%
Home Warranty of America Inc. 
(vi)
 Home and/or commercial services United States / AB Ordinary shares 100.0%
Humberland Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Hydrocarbon Resources Limited Gas and/or oil exploration and production United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Jannco 2 Limited In liquidation Guernsey / AC Ordinary shares 100.0%
JK Environmental Services (UK) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Killingholme Pensions Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Masters Inc. Home and/or commercial services United States / I Ordinary shares 100.0%
Mister Sparky Franchising LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / AD Membership 
interest 
100.0%
New Millennium Academy LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / F Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Newco Five Limited 
(iii)
 Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Newco One Limited 
(iii)
 Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Newnova Ltd. Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Newnova Old Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited Dormant United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
NSGP (Ensign) Limited Gas supply Jersey / AE Ordinary shares 100.0%
NSIP (ETS) Limited Gas supply United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
NSIP (Holdings) Limited Dormant United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
NYSEG Solutions LLC Energy supply United States / D Membership 
interest 
100.0%
O'Connor Plumbing, Heating & Cooling Inc. Home and/or commercial services United States / AF Ordinary shares 100.0%
One Hour Air Conditioning Franchising LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / AD Membership 
interest 
100.0%
P.H. Jones Facilities Management Ltd. Servicing and maintenance of heating systems United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
P.H. Jones Group Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Panoramic Power Ltd. 
(ii)
 Energy management products and services Israel / AG Ordinary and 
preference 
shares 
100.0%
    Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
163 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
163
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS 
(a) Subsidiary undertakings 
31 December 2015 Principal activity 
Country of incorporation/ 
registered address key (i) 
Class of shares 
held 
Direct 
investment 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Indirect 
interest 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Quality A/C Service LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / AH Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Repair and Care Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
RSG Holding Corp. Holding company United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
Scottish Gas Limited Dormant United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 100.0%
Semplice Energy Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
SF (UK) Limited In liquidation United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Solar Technologies Group Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Solar Technologies Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
Soren Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 100.0%
SuccessWare Inc. Home and/or commercial services United States / F Ordinary shares 100.0%
UWIN LLC Home and/or commercial services United States / AD Membership 
interest 
100.0%
Willis Refrigeration, Air Conditioning & 
Heating Inc. 
Home and/or commercial services United States / D Ordinary shares 100.0%
(i) For list of registered addresses, refer to note S10(d). 
(ii) Acquired or established in 2015. 
(iii) Centrica North Sea Limited, Newco Five Limited and Newco One Limited were renamed during the year (previously Centrica (Horne & Wren) Limited, British Gas Business Services Limited 
and British Gas Service Limited respectively). 
(iv) Centrica Norway Limited is operating in Norway as Centrica Energi NUF. 
(v) In February 2016 Centrica Shipping Limited was renamed to Pioneer Shipping Limited. 
(vi) Home Warranty of America Inc. is registered as separate entities in the states of California and Illinois. 
(b) Subsidiary undertakings – partnerships 
31 December 2015 Principal activity 
Country of incorporation/
registered address key (i) Class of shares held 
Direct 
investment 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Indirect 
interest 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Centrica Finance Limited Partnership Group financing United Kingdom / O Membership interest 100.0%
CFCEPS LLP Group financing United Kingdom / C Membership interest 100.0%
CFCPP LLP Group financing United Kingdom / C Membership interest 100.0%
CFCPS LLP Group financing United Kingdom / C Membership interest 100.0%
CPL Retail Energy LP Energy supply United States / D Membership interest 100.0%
CQ Energy Canada Partnership Holding company Canada / AI Membership interest 60.0%
CQ Energy Canada Resources Partnership Gas and/or oil exploration
and production
Canada / AJ Membership interest 60.0%
Direct Energy LP Energy supply United States / AK Membership interest 100.0%
Direct Energy Partnership Energy supply Canada / A Membership interest 100.0%
Direct Energy Resources Partnership Holding company Canada / A Membership interest 100.0%
Finance Scotland CEPS Limited Partnership Group financing United Kingdom / O Membership interest 100.0%
Finance Scotland CPP Limited Partnership Group financing United Kingdom / O Membership interest 100.0%
Finance Scotland CPS Limited Partnership Group financing United Kingdom / O Membership interest 100.0%
First Choice Power LP Energy supply and/or
services
United States / AK Membership interest 100.0%
First Choice Power Special Purpose LP Energy supply and/or
services
United States / AK Membership interest 100.0%
Ignite Social Enterprise LP Social enterprise
investment fund
United Kingdom / C Membership interest 100.0%
WTU Retail Energy LP Energy supply United States / D Membership interest 100.0%
(i) For list of registered addresses, refer to note S10(d). 
The following partnerships are fully consolidated into the Group accounts and the Group has taken advantage of the exemption (as 
confirmed by regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008) not to prepare or file separate accounts for these entities: 
● Finance Scotland CEPS Limited Partnership 
● Finance Scotland CPP Limited Partnership 
● Finance Scotland CPS Limited Partnership 
● Centrica Finance Limited Partnership 
● Ignite Social Enterprise Limited Partnership.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
164 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
164 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS 
(c) Joint arrangements and associates 
31 December 2015 Principal activity 
Country of incorporation/
registered address key (i) 
Class of shares 
held 
Direct 
investment 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Indirect 
interest 
and voting 
rights (%) 
Joint ventures 
(ii)
   
509760 Alberta Ltd. 
(iii) 
Gas and/or oil exploration and production Canada / AL Ordinary shares 43.0%
Allegheny Solar 1 LLC 
(iv)
 Energy supply and/or services United States / AM Membership 
interest 
40.0%
Celtic Array Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 50.0%
Glens of Foudland Wind Farm Limited Operation of an onshore windfarm United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 50.0%
GLID Wind Farms TopCo Limited Holding company United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 50.0%
Inner Dowsing Wind Farm Limited Operation of an offshore windfarm United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 50.0%
Lincs Wind Farm Limited Operation of an offshore windfarm United Kingdom / O Ordinary shares 50.0%
Lynn Wind Farm Limited Operation of an offshore windfarm United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 50.0%
Manheim CNG Center LLC Energy supply and/or services United States / D Membership 
interest 
50.0%
Rhiannon Wind Farm Limited Dormant United Kingdom / C Ordinary shares 50.0%
Three Rivers Solar 1 LLC Energy supply and/or services United States / AM Membership 
interest 
40.0%
Three Rivers Solar 2 LLC 
(iv)
 Energy supply and/or services United States / AM Membership 
interest 
40.0%
Associates 
(ii)
   
Dalkia Chp Limited
 (v) 
Energy supply and power generation Republic of Ireland / AN Ordinary shares 20.0%
Lake Acquisitions Limited Holding company United Kingdom / AO Ordinary shares 20.0%
(i) For list of registered addresses, refer to note S10(d). 
(ii) Further information on the principal joint ventures and associate investments held by the Group is disclosed in notes 6 and 14. 
(iii) 509760 Alberta Ltd. was renamed during the year (previously Phillips PC Resources Ltd.). 
(iv) Acquired in 2015. 
(v) In February 2016 Dalkia Chp Limited was renamed to Veolia CHP Ireland Limited. 
All Group companies principally operate within their country of incorporation. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
165 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
165
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS 
(d) List of registered addresses 
Registered 
address key Address 
A 2323 32nd Avenue N.E., Calgary, AB T2E 6Z3, Canada 
B 1700-1185 West Georgia Street, Vancouver BC V6E 4E6, Canada 
C Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, SL4 5GD, United Kingdom 
D 3411 Silverside Road Rodney Building #104, Wilmington, DE 19810, United States 
E Purdy's Wharf Tower One, 1959 Upper Water Street, Halifax NS B3J 3N2, Canada 
F 12747 Olive Boulevard #300, St. Louis, MO 63141, United States 
G 1521 Concord Pike #303, Wilmington, DE 19803, United States 
H Thomas-Wimmer-Ring 1-3, 80539, Munich, Germany 
I 2 Wisconsin Circle #700, Chevy Chase, MD 20815, United States 
J 1 Warrington Place, Dublin, 2, Republic of Ireland 
K 20 Kingston Road, Staines-upon-Thames, TW18 4LG, United Kingdom 
L St George's Court, Upper Church Street, Douglas, IM1 1EE, Isle of Man 
M 33-37 Athol Street, Douglas, IM1 1LB, Isle of Man 
N Polarisavenue 39, 2132 JH Hoofddorp, Netherlands 
O IQ Building, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, United Kingdom 
P 47 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 0BD, Jersey 
Q L-107, Lajpat Nagar-2, New Delhi, 110024, India 
R 26 New Street, St Helier, JE2 3RA, Jersey 
S Sterling Towers, 20 Marina, Lagos, Nigeria 
T Veritasveien 25, 4007 Stavenger, Norway 
U Eleven Albion, Corner Albion and Dere Streets, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago 
V No 12A Sooty Street, Ambefield Glen Cnr, Reddersburg & Virginia Street, Rooihuiskraal, North Centurion Gauteng, 0175, South Africa 
W 333 Bay Street, Toronto ON M5H 2R2, Canada 
X 15 North Mill Street, Nyack, NY 10960, United States 
Y 105 E. Jefferson Boulevard #800, South Bend, IN 46601, United States 
Z 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, United Kingdom 
AA 1430 Truxtun Avenue, Bakersfield, CA 93301, United States 
AB 350 S. Northwest Highway #300, Park Ridge, IL 60068, United States 
AC P.O. Box 25, Regency Court, Glategny Esplanade, St Peter Port, GY1 3AP, Guernsey 
AD 11380 Prosperity Farms Road #221E, Palm Beach Gardens, FL 33410, United States 
AE 13 Castle Street, St Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey 
AF 5200 Willson Road #150, Edina, MN 55424, United States 
AG 20 Atir Yeda St., Kfar Saba 44643, Israel 
AH 8275 South Eastern Avenue #200, Las Vegas, NV 89123, United States 
AI 666 Burrand Street, Park Place, Vancouver, BC V6C 2X8, Canada 
AJ 525 8th Ave S.W., Calgary, AB T2P 1G1, Canada 
AK 4265 San Felipe #1100, Houston, TX 77027, United States 
AL 855 2nd Street S.W., Calgary, AB T2P NJ8, Canada 
AM 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, DE 19801, United States 
AN Innovation House, DCU Innovation Campus, 11 Old Finglas Road, Glasnevin, Dublin, 11, Republic of Ireland 
AO 40 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7EN, United Kingdom  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
166 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
166 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS  
The Directors have determined that the investments in Lake Acquisitions Limited and Lincs Wind Farm Limited are sufficiently material to 
warrant further disclosure on an individual basis. Accordingly, the Group presents summarised financial information, along with 
reconciliations to the amounts included in the consolidated Group Financial Statements, for these investees. 
Lake Acquisitions Limited 
Summarised Statement of Total Comprehensive Income 
  2015 2014
Year ended 31 December 
Associate 
information 
reported to 
Group 
£m 
Unadjusted 
20% share
£m 
Fair value 
and other 
adjustments 
£m 
Group
 share
£m 
Associate 
information 
reported to 
Group
£m 
Unadjusted 
20% share 
£m 
Fair value 
and other 
adjustments
£m 
Group
 share
£m 
Revenue 3,220 644 – 644 3,102 620 – 620
Operating profit before interest and tax 1,351 270 (56) 214 1,209 242 (13) 229
Profit for the year 1,042 208 (26) 182 902 180 – 180
Other comprehensive (loss)/income (38) (8) – (8) 107 21 – 21
Total comprehensive income 1,004 200 (26) 174 1,009 201 – 201
Summarised Balance Sheet 
 2015 2014
31 December 
Associate 
information 
reported to 
Group 
£m 
Unadjusted 
20% share
£m 
Fair value 
and other 
adjustments
 (i)
£m 
Group
 share
£m 
Associate 
information 
reported to 
Group
£m 
Unadjusted 
20% share 
£m 
Fair value 
and other 
adjustments
£m 
Group
 share
£m 
Non-current assets 12,775 2,555 929 3,484 12,517 2,504 987 3,491
Current assets 2,800 560 13 573 3,102 620 19 639
Current liabilities (883) (177) – (177) (945) (189) – (189)
Non-current liabilities  (7,613) (1,523) (162) (1,685) (7,770) (1,554) (201) (1,755)
Net assets 7,079 1,415 780 2,195 6,904 1,381 805 2,186
(i) Before cumulative impairments of £586 million (2014: £214 million) of the Group’s associate investment. 
During the year dividends of £166 million (2014: £130 million) were paid by the associate to the Group. 
Lincs Wind Farm Limited 
Summarised Statement of Total Comprehensive Income 
  2015 2014
Year ended 31 December 
Joint venture 
information 
reported to 
Group  
£m 
Unadjusted 
50% share 
£m 
Fair value 
and other 
adjustments 
£m 
Group
 share 
£m 
Joint venture 
information 
reported to 
Group 
£m 
Unadjusted 
50% share  
£m 
Fair value 
and other 
adjustments 
£m 
Group 
share 
£m 
Revenue 125 62 – 62 112 56 – 56
Depreciation and amortisation (49) (24) – (24) (48) (24) – (24)
Loss on disposal – – – – (7) (4) – (4)
Other costs of sales and operating costs (45) (23) – (23) (35) (17) – (17)
Profit before interest and tax 31 15 – 15 22 11 – 11
Net finance cost (54) (27) – (27) (66) (33) – (33)
Taxation 13 6 – 6 9 4 – 4
Loss for the year (10) (6) – (6) (35) (18) – (18)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 3 2 – 2 (28) (14) – (14)
Total comprehensive loss (7) (4) – (4) (63) (32) – (32) Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
167 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
167
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS  
Summarised Balance Sheet 
  2015 2014
31 December  
Joint venture 
information 
reported to 
Group (i) 
£m 
Unadjusted 
50% share
£m 
Fair value 
and other 
adjustments
£m 
Group
 share
£m 
Joint venture 
information 
reported to 
Group (i)
£m 
Unadjusted 
50% share 
£m 
Fair value 
and other 
adjustments
£m 
Group
 share
£m 
Non-current assets 943 472 3 475 903 452 2 454
Current assets
 (i)
 116 58 – 58 84 42 – 42
Current liabilities
 (i)
 (187) (94) – (94) (194) (97) – (97)
Non-current liabilities
 (i)
 (730) (365) – (365) (644) (322) – (322)
Net assets 142 71 3 74 149 75 2 77
(i) Current assets includes £76 million (2014: £46 million) of cash and cash equivalents. Non-current liabilities and current liabilities include £682 million (2014: £624 million) and £59 million 
(2014: £64 million) of borrowings respectively. 
Other material joint arrangements owned by the Group that are classified as joint operations and accounted for in accordance with  
IFRS 11 (see note S2) are detailed below. This list excludes interests in fields where there is no party with overall control since the 
arrangement does not fulfil the IFRS 11 definition of joint control. 
Joint operations – fields/assets 
31 December 2015 Location 
Percentage holding 
in ordinary shares and 
net assets 
Cygnus UK North Sea 49
Non-controlling interests 
The Group has two subsidiary undertakings with a non-controlling interest: CQ Energy Canada Partnership and its 100% subsidiary, CQ 
Energy Canada Resources Partnership. 
   2015 2014
31 December 
Non-
controlling 
interests 
% 
Loss for  
the year  
£m 
Total 
comprehensive 
loss
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Dividends 
paid to non- 
controlling 
interests 
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests
% 
Profit for 
the year 
£m 
Total 
comprehensive 
income 
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Dividends 
paid to non-
controlling 
interests 
£m 
CQ Energy Canada 
Partnership 40 (137) (172) 164 – 40 7 6 336 (18)
Summarised financial information 
The summarised financial information disclosed is shown on a 100% basis. It represents the consolidated position of CQ Energy Canada 
Partnership and its subsidiary that would be shown in its consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under 
Group accounting policies before intercompany eliminations. 
Summarised Statement of Total Comprehensive Income 
Year ended 31 December 
2015 
£m  
2014
£m 
Revenue 252 261
(Loss)/profit for the year (342) 17
Other comprehensive loss (88) (2)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (430) 15
Summarised Balance Sheet 
31 December 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Non-current assets 922 1,454
Current assets 70 88
Current liabilities (96) (105)
Non-current liabilities (432) (543)
Net assets 464 894
Summarised Cash Flow 
Year ended 31 December 
2015 
£m 
2014 
£m 
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (6) (15)
 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Financial Statements 
Supplementary information 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
168 
S10. RELATED UNDERTAKINGS  
Transactions with non-controlling interests 
On 1 October 2014, Direct Energy Resources Partnership, the wholly owned immediate parent undertaking of CQ Energy Canada 
Partnership, contributed the Group’s wholly owned gas and liquids assets in Canada to CQ Energy Canada Partnership in return for a 
capital stake in the partnership of C$538 million (£297 million). At the same time, the non-controlling interest subscribed for a further 
C$215 million (£119 million) of capital in the partnership for cash. The cash was used to repay, in part, the Group’s partnership loan to CQ 
Energy Canada Partnership. Group and non-controlling interests partnership loans of C$144 million and C$239 million (£80 million and 
£132 million respectively) were then converted to capital, leaving Group and non-controlling interests partnership loans of C$30 million and 
C$20 million (£17 million and £11 million respectively) outstanding. 
From a Group perspective, the gas and liquid assets were not disposed of, since they remained controlled by a subsidiary of the Group. 
Instead, this was a transaction with the non-controlling interest who paid C$215 million (£119 million) for a share of additional Group 
assets. This payment, together with the conversion of C$239 million (£132 million) partnership loans, and a reduction in the Group’s 
deferred tax liability of C$59 million (£32 million) since the non-controlling interest was now responsible for 40% of the tax consequences 
of the contributed assets, resulted in an increase in the non-controlling interest of C$513 million (£283 million) in 2014. In the underlying 
financial information of the partnership, predecessor accounting was followed. 
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
169 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Company Statement of Changes in Equity  
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
169
 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share
 premium
£m 
Retained
 earnings
 £m 
Other 
 equity 
 (note II) 
 £m 
Capital
 redemption
reserve
£m 
Total
equity
£m 
1 January 2014 (as previously reported) 321 931 2,230 (371) 16 3,127
Effect of changes in accounting policies – – 20 (11) – 9
1 January 2014 321 931 2,250 (382) 16 3,136
Profit for the year – – 884 – – 884
Other comprehensive income/(loss):  
Revaluation of available-for-sale securities – – – 5 – 5
Cash flow hedges – net losses – – – (29) – (29)
Cash flow hedges – transferred to income and expense – – – 29 – 29
Actuarial loss – – – (2) – (2)
Other equity movements:  
Employee share schemes – – – 71 – 71
Purchase of treasury shares – – (2) (420) – (422)
Cancellations of shares held in treasury (10) – (549) 549 10 –
Dividends paid to equity holders – – (867) – – (867)
Taxation on share-based payments – – – (5) – (5)
31 December 2014 311 931 1,716 (184) 26 2,800
Profit for the year – – 303 – – 303
Other comprehensive income/(loss):  
Revaluation of available-for-sale securities – – – 1 – 1
Cash flow hedges – net gains – – – 4 – 4
Cash flow hedges – transferred to income and expense – – – (2) – (2)
Actuarial loss – – – (14) – (14)
Taxation on above items – – – 1 – 1
Other equity movements:  
Employee share schemes – – 2 58 – 60
Scrip dividend 6 204 – – – 210
Dividends paid to equity holders – – (598) – – (598)
Taxation on share-based payments – – – (2) – (2)
31 December 2015 317 1,135 1,423 (138) 26 2,763
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 no Income Statement or Statement of Comprehensive Income is prepared. 
The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.43 pence per share (totalling £427 million) for the year ended 31 December 2015. Details of the 
dividends are given in note 11 to the consolidated Group Financial Statements. 
Details of the Company’s share capital are provided in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and note 25 to the consolidated Group 
Financial Statements. 
The notes on pages 171 to 180 form part of these Financial Statements, along with note 25 to the consolidated Group Financial 
Statements. 
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
170 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Company Balance Sheet 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
170 
  
31 December Notes 
2015 
 
£m  
2014
(restated) (i)
£m 
Non-current assets    
Property, plant and equipment IV –  2
Other intangible assets  V 4  28
Investments VI 2,306  2,262
Deferred tax VII 6  7
Trade and other receivables VIII 1,411  241
Derivative financial instruments IX 160  178
Retirement benefit asset XVI 9  22
Securities XI 200  204
  4,096  2,944
Current assets    
Trade and other receivables VIII 10,925  12,167
Derivative financial instruments IX 215  202
Cash and cash equivalents XII 441  132
  11,581  12,501
Total assets  15,677  15,445
Current liabilities    
Derivative financial instruments IX (207) (206)
Trade and other payables XIII (6,282) (5,341)
Financial liabilities XIV (428) (1,608)
  (6,917) (7,155)
Non-current liabilities    
Derivative financial instruments IX (64) (132)
Trade and other payables XIII (92) (156)
Provisions for liabilities XV (5) (4)
Retirement benefit liabilities XVI (50) (49)
Financial liabilities XIV (5,786) (5,149)
  (5,997) (5,490)
Total liabilities  (12,914) (12,645)
Net assets  2,763  2,800
Share capital XVII 317  311
Share premium  XVII 1,135  931
Capital redemption reserve XVII 26  26
Retained earnings 
(ii)
 XVII 1,423  1,716
Other equity II (138) (184)
Total shareholders’ equity  2,763  2,800
(i)  Restated based on transition to FRS 101 from UK GAAP, as shown in note XX. 
(ii) Retained earnings includes a net profit after tax of £303 million (2014: £884 million). 
The Financial Statements on pages 169 to 180, of which the notes on pages 171 to 180 form part, along with note 25 to the consolidated 
Group Financial Statements, were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 18 February 2016 and were signed on 
its behalf by: 
Iain Conn  Jeff Bell 
Chief Executive  Group Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
171 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
171
I. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE COMPANY 
Basis of preparation 
The Company Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101: ‘Reduced Disclosure 
Framework’ (‘FRS 101’). In preparing these Financial Statements the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure 
requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (‘Adopted IFRSs’), but makes amendments where 
necessary in order to comply with Companies Act 2006 and sets out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has 
been taken. 
In the transition to FRS 101 the Company has applied IFRS 1: ‘First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ whilst 
ensuring that its assets and liabilities are measured in compliance with FRS 101. An explanation of how the transition to FRS 101 has 
affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Company is provided in note XX. 
IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRSs in the transition period. The following exemptions have 
been taken in these Financial Statements: 
● investments in subsidiaries – on transition to FRS 101, investments in subsidiaries are measured at deemed cost which, in relation to 
the Company’s investments in Centrica Holdings Limited, Centrica Trading Limited and Centrica Beta Holdings Limited is the previous 
UK GAAP carrying value of the investment. 
As the Company is adopting IFRS for its separate Financial Statements later than it adopted IFRS for its consolidated Group Financial 
Statements, the assets and liabilities in these Financial Statements have been measured at the same amounts as in those consolidated 
Group Financial Statements. 
In these Financial Statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: 
● a Cash Flow Statement and related notes; 
● comparative period reconciliations for tangible fixed assets and intangible assets; 
● disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries; 
● disclosures in respect of capital management; and 
● the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs. 
The Company has early adopted the following amendments to FRS 101 (effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016) in 
these Financial Statements: 
● presentation of IAS format Financial Statements; and 
● exemption from the presentation of a third balance sheet (being the opening balance sheet of the Company at the date of application of 
FRS 101).  
Additionally, no Income Statement or Statement of Comprehensive Income is presented for the Company as permitted by the Companies 
Act 2006 (section 408). The Company profit after tax for the year was £303 million (2014: £884 million). 
As the consolidated Group Financial Statements of Centrica plc, which are available from the registered office, include the equivalent 
disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures: 
● IFRS 2: ‘Share-based payment’ in respect of Group settled share-based payments; and 
● certain disclosures required by IFRS 13: ‘Fair value measurement’ and the disclosures required by IFRS 7: ‘Financial instruments: disclosures’. 
Measurement convention 
The Company Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following assets and liabilities, which are 
stated at their fair values: derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classified as fair value through the profit or loss or as 
available-for-sale, and the assets of defined benefit pension schemes. The liabilities of defined benefit pension schemes are measured at 
the projected unit method of valuation. These Financial Statements are rounded at the nearest million pounds sterling. Unless required or 
permitted by an IFRS, assets and liabilities or income and expenses, are not offset. 
Going concern 
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis, as described in the Directors’ Report and note 24(b) of the consolidated 
Group Financial Statements. 
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
The critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty are set out in note 3 of the consolidated Group  
Financial Statements.  
The key accounting judgement of the Company is the carrying value of its investments in subsidiary undertakings and receivables from 
these undertakings. The Company does not deem its investments in subsidiary undertakings to be impaired and supports this judgement 
through its impairment review process as detailed below. This impairment review process identified that some receivables from Group 
undertakings were not fully recoverable and accordingly a bad debt provision of £262 million (2014: £673 million) was recognised against 
receivables during the year. In addition, debt waivers totalling £25 million (2014: nil) occurred during the year.  
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
172 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
172 
I. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE COMPANY 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty include: 
● the fair value of derivative financial instruments classified as level 2 within the fair value hierarchy as a result of the use of valuation 
techniques, in addition to published price quotations in active markets, to determine these values; and 
● the allocation of the Company’s share of pension scheme surplus/deficit, as detailed further within the accounting policies section of 
these Financial Statements. 
New standards effective during the year 
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Financial 
Statements and in preparing the opening FRS 101 Balance Sheet at 1 January 2014 for the purposes of the transition to FRS 101  
(refer to note XX). 
Employee share schemes 
The Group has a number of employee share schemes under which it makes equity-settled share-based payments as detailed in the 
Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 79 and in note S2 to the consolidated Group Financial Statements. Equity-settled share-based 
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions). The fair value 
determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis together with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of the number of awards that will vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. 
The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions. When these 
costs are recharged to the subsidiary undertaking, the investment balance is reduced accordingly.  
Fair value is measured using methods detailed in note S2 to the consolidated Group Financial Statements. 
Foreign currencies 
The Company’s functional and presentational currency is pounds sterling. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rate  
of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
pounds sterling at closing rates of exchange. Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities and transactions are taken to the 
Income Statement. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is held at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment. Cost includes the 
original purchase price of the asset and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation. The purchase price is the 
aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.  
Subsequent expenditure in respect of items of PP&E such as the replacement of major parts, major inspections or overhauls, are 
capitalised as part of the cost of the related asset where it is probable that future economic benefits will arise as a result of the expenditure 
and the cost can be reliably measured. All other subsequent expenditure is expensed as incurred.  
PP&E is depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual assets over 
their estimated useful lives of up to 10 years. Depreciation of assets under construction commences when the asset is operational.  
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of purchased application software, for example 
investments in customer relationship management and billing systems, includes contractors’ charges, materials, directly attributable 
labour and directly attributable overheads. Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the cost, 
less estimated residual values, of individual assets over their estimated useful lives of up to 10 years. Amortisation of assets under 
construction commences when the asset is operational. 
Investments 
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries’ shares are held at cost in accordance with IAS 27: ‘Separate financial statements’, less any 
provision for impairment as necessary. 
Impairment 
The Company’s accounting policies in respect of impairment of PP&E, intangible assets and financial assets are consistent with those  
of the Group. 
The carrying values of investments in subsidiary undertakings are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
The recoverable amount of an investment in a subsidiary undertaking is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs of 
disposal. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Receivables from Group undertakings 
are compared to their recoverable amount which is also assessed using the same estimated discounted future cash flow for each 
undertaking as described above. 
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
173 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
173
I. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE COMPANY 
Leases 
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires  
an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the 
arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets. Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease  
transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
Payments under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Pensions and other post employment benefits 
The Company’s employees participate in a number of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes. The total Group cost of providing 
benefits under defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each of the Group’s schemes under the projected unit credit actuarial 
valuation method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. The key assumptions used for the 
actuarial valuation are based on the Group’s best estimate of the variables that will determine the ultimate cost of providing post 
employment benefits, on which further detail is provided in note 22 to the consolidated Group Financial Statements. 
The Company’s share of the total Group surplus or deficit at the end of the reporting period for each scheme is calculated in proportion  
to the Company’s share of ordinary employer contributions in to that scheme during the year; ordinary employer contributions are 
determined by the pensionable pay of the Company’s employees within the scheme and the cash contribution rates set by the scheme 
trustees. Current service cost is calculated with reference to the pensionable pay of the Company’s employees. The Company’s share of 
the total Group interest on scheme liabilities, expected return on scheme assets and actuarial gains or losses is calculated in proportion to 
ordinary employer contributions in the prior accounting period. Changes in the surplus or deficit arising as a result of the changes in the 
Company’s share of total ordinary employer contributions are also treated as actuarial gains or losses. 
Taxation 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date, except for differences arising on: 
● the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and which at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit; and 
● investments in subsidiaries where the Company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable that the 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Company’s assets and liabilities and their tax base. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Company has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and 
the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority. 
Deferred tax assets that are not eligible for offset against deferred tax liabilities are recognised only when, on the basis of all available 
evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits in the foreseeable future, against which the deductible 
temporary difference can be utilised.  
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Measurement of deferred tax 
liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences expected from the manner in which the asset or liability is recovered or settled. 
The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the Income Statement, except to the extent that  
it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. 
Financial instruments 
The Company’s accounting policies for financial instruments are consistent with those of the Group as disclosed in note S2 to the 
consolidated Group Financial Statements. The Company’s financial risk management policies are consistent with those of the Group and 
are described in the Strategic Report – Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 38 to 42 and in note S3 to the consolidated Group 
Financial Statements.  
Presentation of derivative financial instruments 
In line with the Group’s accounting policy for derivative financial instruments, the Company has classified those derivatives held for the 
purpose of treasury management as current or non-current, based on expected settlement dates.  
Provisions 
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event that can be 
measured reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
174 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
174 
II. OTHER EQUITY 
 
Cash
 flow 
hedging
 reserve
£m 
Actuarial
gains and 
losses 
reserve
£m 
Available-
for-sale 
reserve 
(AFS)
£m 
Treasury 
 and own 
 shares  
reserve 
£m 
Share-
based 
payments
 reserve
£m 
Total
£m 
1 January 2014 (10) (33) 17 (456) 100 (382)
Revaluation of available-for-sale securities – – 5 – – 5
Actuarial loss – (2) – – – (2)
Employee share schemes:  
Increase in own shares – – – (7) – (7)
Exercise of awards – – – 78 (39) 39
Value of services provided – – – – 39 39
Purchase of treasury shares – – – (420) – (420)
Cancellation of shares held in treasury – – – 549 – 549
Cash flow hedges:  
Net losses (29) – – – – (29)
Transferred to income and expense 29 – – – – 29
Taxation on above items – 1 (1) – (5) (5)
31 December 2014 (10) (34) 21 (256) 95 (184)
Revaluation of available-for-sale securities – – 1 – – 1
Actuarial loss – (14) – – – (14)
Employee share schemes:  
Exercise of awards – – – 69 (45) 24
Value of services provided – – – – 45 45
Increase in own shares – – – (11) – (11)
Cash flow hedges:  
Net gains 4 – – – – 4
Transferred to income and expense (2) – – – – (2)
Taxation on above items (1) 2 – – (2) (1)
31 December 2015 (9) (46) 22 (198) 93 (138)
III. DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES 
Details of Directors’ remuneration, share-based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 79 form 
part of these Financial Statements. Information on the main employee share-based payments is given in note S2 to the consolidated 
Group Financial Statements. Details of the remuneration of key management personnel are given in note S8 to the consolidated Group 
Financial Statements. 
Employee costs 
Year ended 31 December 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Wages and salaries 56 50
Social security costs 5 5
Pension and other post retirement benefits costs 6 7
Share scheme costs (1) 2
 66 64
Average number of employees during the year 
Year ended 31 December 
2015
Number 
2014
Number 
Administration 319 300
Power 197 202
 516 502
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
175 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
175
IV. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
 
2015
£m 
Cost 
1 January 38
Disposals 
(i)
 (38)
31 December –
Accumulated depreciation  
1 January 36
Disposals 
(i)
 (36)
31 December –
NBV at 31 December –
(i) Disposals include £33 million of gross assets which have been retired and have a net book value of zero. 
V. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
 
2015
£m 
Cost 
1 January 28
Additions 3
Disposals (26)
31 December 5
Accumulated depreciation  
1 January –
Charge for the year 1
31 December 1
NBV at 31 December 4
VI. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES 
 2015 2014
 
(i)
£m 
(i) 
£m 
Cost 
1 January 2,262 2,225
Additions 44 37
31 December 2,306 2,262
(i) Additions include the net change in shares to be awarded under employee share schemes to employees of Group undertakings. Direct investments are held in Centrica Holdings Limited, 
Centrica Trading Limited and Centrica Beta Holdings Limited, all of which are incorporated in England. Related undertakings are listed in note S10 to the consolidated Group Financial 
Statements.  
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their realisable value. 
VII. DEFERRED TAX  
 
1 January
2015
£m 
Charge to income 
£m 
Reserves
(charge)/credit
£m 
31 December
2015
£m 
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) arising on:  
Pension schemes 6 – 2 8
Other 1 – (3) (2)
 7 – (1) 6
Other deferred corporation tax assets primarily relate to other timing differences. Unrecognised deferred corporation tax assets amount to 
nil at the balance sheet date (2014: nil). 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
176 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
176 
VIII. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
2015 2014
31 December 
Due within
one year (i)
£m 
Due after more 
than one year (ii) 
£m 
Due within
one year (i)
£m 
Due after more
than one year (ii)
£m 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 10,921 1,402 12,131 45
Other loans and receivables – – 32 189
Prepayments 4 9 47
 10,925 1,411 12,167 241
(i) The amounts receivable by the Company include £9,128 million (2014: £4,239 million) that bears interest at a quarterly rate determined by Group treasury and linked to the Group cost  
of funds. The quarterly rates ranged between 1.9% and 5.5% per annum during 2015 (2014: 1.2% and 3.1%). The other amounts receivable from Group undertakings are interest-free.  
All amounts receivable from Group undertakings are unsecured and repayable on demand. Amounts receivable by the Company are stated net of provisions of £1,082 million  
(2014: £820 million). 
(ii) The amounts receivable by the Company due after more than one year include £1,360 million (2014: nil) that bears interest at a quarterly rate determined by Group treasury and linked to the 
Group cost of funds. The quarterly rates ranged between 3.7% and 6.0% per annum during 2015. The other amounts receivable from Group undertakings are interest-free. All amounts 
receivable from Group undertakings are unsecured and repayable in two to three years. 
IX. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
 2015 2014
31 December 
Due within
one year
£m 
Due after more
than one year
£m 
Total
£m 
Due within 
one year 
£m 
Due after more
than one year
£m 
Total
£m 
Derivative financial assets 215 160 375 202 178 380
Derivative financial liabilities (207) (64) (271) (206) (132) (338)
X. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
(a) Determination of fair values 
The Company’s policy for the classification and valuation of financial instruments carried at fair value into one of the three hierarchy levels 
determined in accordance with IFRS 13 are consistent with those of the Group, as detailed in note S6 to the consolidated Group Financial 
Statements. 
(b) Financial instruments carried at fair value 
31 December 
Level 1
£m 
Level 2
£m 
Level 3
£m 
2015
Total
£m 
Level 1 
£m 
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3
£m 
2014
Total
£m 
Financial assets designated as fair value through profit  
or loss:   
Treasury gilts 124 – – 124 129 – – 129
Derivative financial assets:   
Held for trading:   
Foreign exchange derivatives – 222 – 222 – 212 – 212
In hedge accounting relationships:   
Interest rate derivatives – 129 – 129 – 158 – 158
Foreign exchange derivatives – 24 – 24 – 10 – 10
Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 124 375 – 499 129 380 – 509
Available for sale financial assets:   
Debt instruments 58 – – 58 58 – – 58
Equity instruments 18 – – 18 17 – – 17
Total financial assets at fair value 200 375 – 575 204 380 – 584
Derivative financial liabilities:   
Held for trading:   
Interest rate derivatives – (25) – (25) – (30) – (30)
Foreign exchange derivatives – (175) – (175) – (228) – (228)
In hedge accounting relationships:   
Interest rate derivatives – (3) – (3) – (2) – (2)
Foreign exchange derivatives – (68) – (68) – (78) – (78)
Total financial liabilities – (271) – (271) – (338) – (338)
Total financial instruments 200 104 – 304 204 42 – 246
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
177 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
177
XI. SECURITIES 
31 December 
2015
£m 
2014 
£m 
Treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit or loss 124 129
Debt instrument 58 58
Equity instrument 18 17
Short-term investments 200 204
£76 million (2014: £75 million) of investments were held in trust, on behalf of the Company, as security in respect of the Centrica 
Unfunded Pension Scheme (refer to note XVI). 
XII. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
31 December 
2015
£m 
2014
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand 32 –
Deposits at call 
(i)
 409 132
 441 132
(i) Term deposits are presented as cash equivalents if they have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition. 
XIII. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
2015 2014
31 December 
Due within
one year
£m 
Due after more 
than one year 
£m 
Due within
one year
£m 
Due after more
than one year
£m 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 
(i)
 (6,223) (92) (5,289) (153)
Other taxation and social security (5) – (1) –
Accruals and other creditors (54) – (51) (3)
 (6,282) (92) (5,341) (156)
(i) The amounts payable by the Company include £4,980 million (2014: £4,474 million) that bears interest at a quarterly rate determined by Group treasury and linked to the Group cost of funds. 
The quarterly rates ranged between 1.9% and 5.5% per annum during 2015 (2014: 1.2% and 3.1%). 
XIV. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 
31 December 
Due within
 one year
£m 
2015 
Due after more 
than one year 
£m 
Due within
 one year
£m 
2014
Due after more
than one year
£m 
Bank loans and overdrafts – (222) (437) (312)
Commercial paper – – (735) –
Bonds (308) (5,564) (335) (4,837)
Interest accruals (120) – (101) –
 (428) (5,786) (1,608) (5,149)
Disclosures in respect of the Group’s financial liabilities are provided in note 24 to the consolidated Group Financial Statements. 
XV. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES 
 
1 January
2015
£m 
Charged in 
the year 
£m 
Utilised 
£m 
31 December
2015
£m 
Other provisions (4) (3) 2 (5)
Other provisions principally represent estimated liabilities for contractual settlements, business restructuring and National Insurance in 
respect of employee share scheme liabilities. The National Insurance provision is based on a share price of 218.10 pence at 31 December 
2015 (2014: 279.00 pence). The majority of the provisions are expected to be utilised by 2017. 
XVI. PENSIONS 
(a) Summary of main schemes 
The Company’s employees participate in the following Group defined benefit pension schemes: Centrica Pension Plan (CPP), Centrica 
Pension Scheme (CPS), and Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme. Its employees also participate in the defined contribution section of the 
Centrica Pension Scheme. Information on these schemes is provided in note 22 to the consolidated Group Financial Statements. 
Together with the Centrica Engineers Pensions Scheme (CEPS), CPP and CPS form the significant majority of the Group’s and 
Company’s defined benefit obligation and are referred to below and in the consolidated Group Financial Statements as the ‘Registered 
Pension Schemes’. 
(b) Accounting assumptions, risks and sensitivity analysis 
The accounting assumptions, risks and sensitivity analysis for the Registered Pension Schemes are provided in note 22 to the 
consolidated Group Financial Statements.  
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
178 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
178 
XVI. PENSIONS 
(c) Movements in the year 
 
Pension liabilities
£m 
2015 
Pension assets 
£m 
Pension liabilities 
£m 
2014
Pension assets
£m 
1 January (366) 339 (293) 269
Items included in the Company Income Statement:   
Current service cost (6) – (6) –
Past service credit 1 – 1 –
Interest on scheme liabilities  (14) – (14) –
Expected return on scheme assets – 13 – 13
Other movements:   
Actuarial gain/(loss) 7 (21) (61) 59
Employer contributions – 6 – 6
Benefits paid from schemes 10 (10) 8 (8)
Transfers from other Group companies  – – (1) –
31 December (368) 327 (366) 339
Presented in the Company Balance Sheet as: 
31 December 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Defined benefit pension assets 9 22
Defined benefit pension liabilities (50) (49)
 (41) (27)
Of the pension schemes liabilities, £50 million (2014: £49 million) relates to the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme. 
(d) Analysis of the actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in reserves (note II) 
Year ended 31 December 
2015  
£m 
2014 
£m 
Actuarial (loss)/gain (actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets) (21) 59
Experience (loss)/gain arising on the scheme liabilities (7) 1
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the schemes’ liabilities 14 (62)
Actuarial loss recognised in reserves before adjustment for taxation (14) (2)
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in reserves at 1 January, before adjustment for taxation (43) (41)
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in reserves at 31 December, before adjustment for 
taxation (57) (43)
(e) Pension scheme contributions 
Note 22 to the consolidated Group Financial Statements provides details of the triennial review carried out at 31 March 2012 in respect of 
the UK Registered Pension Schemes and the asset-backed contribution arrangements set up in 2012 and 2013. Under IAS 19 ‘Employee 
benefits’, the Company’s contribution and trustee interest in the Scottish Limited Partnerships are recognised as scheme assets. 
The Company estimates that it will pay £4 million of employer contributions during 2016 at an average rate of 25% of pensionable pay. 
(f) Pension scheme assets 
31 December 
Quoted
£m 
Unquoted
£m 
2015
£m 
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted
£m 
2014
£m 
Equities 1,867 219 2,086 1,931 211 2,142
Diversified asset funds 47 – 47 42 113 155
Corporate bonds 1,717 – 1,717 1,794 – 1,794
High-yield debt 167 780 947 182 275 457
Liability matching assets  874 556 1,430 1,052 415 1,467
Property – 315 315 – 324 324
Cash pending investment 60 – 60 61 – 61
Asset-backed contribution assets – 243 243 – 312 312
Group pension scheme assets 
(i)
 4,732 2,113 6,845 5,062 1,650 6,712
 
 
2015
£m 
 2014
£m 
Company share of the above 327 339
(i) Total pension scheme assets for the UK pension schemes. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
179 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
179
XVII. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND RESERVES 
The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.43 pence per share (totalling £427 million) for the year ended 31 December 2015. Details of the 
dividends are given in note 11 to the consolidated Group Financial Statements. 
Details of the Company’s share capital are provided in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and note 25 to the consolidated Group 
Financial Statements. Movements in equity are shown in the Company Statement of Changes in Equity. 
XVIII. COMMITMENTS 
At 31 December 2015, the Company had commitments of £67 million (2014: £99 million) relating to contracts for outsourced services,  
£1 million (2014: £2 million) of annual lease payments in respect of land and buildings non-cancellable operating lease commitments 
expiring in less than one year, and £5 million (2014: £6 million) of guaranteed operating commitments of a subsidiary undertaking expiring 
in more than five years. The Company’s commitment in respect of its agreement with Cheniere is detailed in note 23 to the consolidated 
Group Financial Statements. 
The Company enters into parent company guarantee arrangements and letters of credit in relation to its subsidiary undertakings.  
The Company has assessed the likelihood of these guarantees being called, or letters of credit being drawn upon, as remote. 
XIX. RELATED PARTIES 
During the year the Company received interest and fees on its loan to Lincs Wind Farm Limited of £11 million (2014: £14 million) and 
received repayments of £189 million (2014: £73 million). 
XX. OPENING BALANCE SHEET ADJUSTMENTS INCLUDING FRS 101 FROM UK GAAP 
31 December 2014 Notes  
 
 
UK GAAP 
£m 
Effect of transition 
including FRS 101 
adjustments
£m 
FRS 101
£m 
Non-current assets    
Property, plant and equipment (a)  30 (28) 2
Other intangible assets  (a)  – 28 28
Investments (b)  2,451 (189) 2,262
Deferred tax (d), (e)  – 7 7
Trade and other receivables (b), (c)  – 241 241
Derivative financial instruments (c), (d)  – 178 178
Retirement benefit asset   22 – 22
Securities   204 – 204
   2,707 237 2,944
Current assets    
Trade and other receivables (b), (c), (d)  11,700 467 12,167
Derivative financial instruments (c), (d)  – 202 202
Cash and cash equivalents   132 – 132
   11,832 669 12,501
Total assets   14,539 906 15,445
Current liabilities    
Derivative financial instruments (c), (d)  – (206) (206)
Trade and other payables (c), (d)  (4,816) (525) (5,341)
Financial liabilities   (1,608) – (1,608)
   (6,424) (731) (7,155)
Non-current liabilities    
Derivative financial instruments (c), (d)  – (132) (132)
Trade and other payables (c), (d)  (118) (38) (156)
Provisions for liabilities   (4) – (4)
Retirement benefit liabilities (e)  (43) (6) (49)
Financial liabilities   (5,149) – (5,149)
   (5,314) (176) (5,490)
Total liabilities   (11,738) (907) (12,645)
Net assets   2,801 (1) 2,800
Share capital   311 – 311
Share premium    931 – 931
Capital redemption reserve   26 – 26
Retained earnings (f)  1,704 12 1,716
Other equity (f)  (171) (13) (184)
Total shareholders’ equity   2,801 (1) 2,800 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
180 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
180 
XX. OPENING BALANCE SHEET ADJUSTMENTS INCLUDING FRS 101 FROM UK GAAP 
Notes to the reconciliation of equity 
(a) Under FRS 101, only computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware should be included as PP&E. All other computer 
software should be recorded as an intangible asset. The impact at transition was to reclassify £28 million of application software 
classified as PP&E under UK GAAP to intangible assets. 
(b) Under FRS 101, the Company’s investment of £189 million in the form of a long-term loan to certain joint ventures of the Group has 
been designated a non-current loan and receivable balance. The Company previously recognised this asset as an investment, however 
on transition, the investment is accounted for in accordance with IAS 39: ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’. Under 
FRS 101, the non-current portion of assets previously shown as current under UK GAAP have now been reclassified as non-current 
trade and other receivables (£15 million). 
(c) As part of the transition to FRS 101, the Company reviewed its accounting policies and practices with respect to intercompany 
transactions. As a result, certain adjustments have been made to intercompany balances to reflect the expected nature in  
which they will be settled, to improve the clarity for the users of the Financial Statements in light of guidance in IAS 32: ‘Financial 
instruments: presentation’. 
(d) As part of the FRS 101 transition, financial derivative instruments netted within trade and other receivables and trade and other 
payables (previously named as debtors and other creditors under UK GAAP) have been disclosed separately on a gross basis. 
Deferred tax is also now separately disclosed. 
(e) As part of the FRS 101 transition, a deferred tax asset of £6 million associated with the Company’s defined benefit pension scheme 
and previously offset against the scheme obligation has been presented separately in the Balance Sheet under FRS 101. Under  
FRS 101, deferred tax on share-based payments is calculated on the difference between the intrinsic value of shares expected to vest 
compared with the expected tax deduction based on the year end share price. On transition, this resulted in a reduction in deferred tax 
assets of £1 million being recognised. 
(f) As part of the FRS 101 transition, a separate available-for-sale reserve and actuarial gains and losses reserve have been presented in 
Other equity. Under UK GAAP these items were recognised within retained earnings. 
Reconciliation of profit 
Under UK GAAP, the Company was not required to, and did not, present a Statement of Comprehensive Income. There are two adjusting 
items on transition to FRS 101:  
● the first relates to the application of IAS 19 to the calculation of finance income and expense on the Company’s defined benefit pension 
scheme assets and liabilities. Under UK GAAP, FRS 17 required the calculation of a gross finance income and expense on scheme 
assets and liabilities through the application of an expected asset rate of return and discount rate respectively. IAS 19 prohibits the use 
of a separate expected rate of return on scheme assets and requires application of the discount rate to the net scheme asset or liability. 
This has the impact of reducing the net financing income in relation to pension schemes and the impact in the year of transition 
increases the financing charge by £2 million; and 
● under IAS 12: ‘Income taxes’, the deferred tax arising on share-based payments is recalculated resulting in an increase in the deferred 
tax charge of £1 million. 
Explanation of material adjustments to the Cash Flow Statement for 31 December 2014 
Under UK GAAP and FRS 101, the Company is not required to, and did not, prepare a Cash Flow Statement. 
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2014 
The net assets as at 1 January 2014 under UK GAAP were £3,127 million and following transition to FRS 101 were adjusted to  
£3,136 million. The difference relates to differences in deferred tax balances calculated under IAS 12. All other FRS 101 adjustments  
upon transition have a nil impact on the total equity position. The remaining adjustments relate to balance sheet reclassifications which  
are described above. See Company Statement of Changes in Equity for further details. 
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
181 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Gas and Liquids Reserves (Unaudited) 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
181
The Group’s estimates of reserves of gas and liquids are reviewed as part of the full year reporting process and updated accordingly. 
A number of factors affect the volumes of gas and liquids reserves, including the available reservoir data, commodity prices and future 
costs. Due to the inherent uncertainties and the limited nature of reservoir data, estimates of reserves are subject to change as additional 
information becomes available.  
The Group discloses 2P gas and liquids reserves, representing the central estimate of future hydrocarbon recovery. Reserves for Centrica 
operated fields are estimated by in-house technical teams composed of geoscientists and reservoir engineers. Reserves for non-operated 
fields are estimated by the operator, but are subject to internal review and challenge. 
As part of the internal control process related to reserves estimation, an assessment of the reserves, including the application of the 
reserves definitions is undertaken by an independent technical auditor. An annual reserves assessment has been carried out by DeGoyler 
and MacNaughton for the Group’s global reserves. Reserves are estimated in accordance with a formal policy and procedure standard. 
The Group has estimated 2P gas and liquids reserves in Europe, Canada and Trinidad and Tobago.  
The principal fields in Europe are Kvitebjorn, Statfjord, Cygnus, South Morecambe, Maria, Chiswick, Valemon, Butch and Rhyl. The 
principal field in Trinidad and Tobago is NCMA-1. The principal field in Centrica Storage is the Rough field. The European and Trinidad and 
Tobago reserves estimates are consistent with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers, the Society of 
Petroleum Evaluation Engineers and the World Petroleum Council’s Petroleum Resources Management System using accepted principles. 
The principal fields in Canada are Panther, Wildcat Hills, Alderson, Stolberg, Hanlan and Ferrier. The Canadian field reserves estimates 
have been evaluated in accordance with the Canadian Oil and Gas Evaluation Handbook (COGEH) reserves definitions and are consistent 
with the guidelines and definitions of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the World Petroleum Council. 
Estimated net 2P reserves of gas  
(billion cubic feet) 
Europe 
Canada
(i) 
Trinidad and 
Tobago
 (ii) 
Centrica 
Energy 
Centrica
 Storage Total 
1 January 2015 1,631 909 109 2,649 182 2,831
Revisions of previous estimates 
(iii)
 (6)28(19) 3 – 3
Disposals of reserves in place 
(iv)
 –(4)– (4) – (4)
Extensions, discoveries and other additions 
(v)
 – 30 – 30 – 30
Production 
(vi)
 (203)(76)(21) (300) (6) (306)
31 December 2015 1,422 887 69 2,378 176 2,554
 
Estimated net 2P reserves of liquids  
(million barrels) 
Europe 
Canada
(i) 
Trinidad and 
Tobago
 (ii) 
Centrica 
Energy 
Centrica
 Storage Total 
1 January 2015 126 17 – 143 – 143
Revisions of previous estimates 
(iii)
 51– 6 – 6
Extensions, discoveries and other additions 
(v)
 –1 – 1 – 1
Production 
(vi)
 (16)(2)– (18) – (18)
31 December 2015 115 17 – 132 – 132
 
Estimated net 2P reserves  
(million barrels of oil equivalent) 
Europe 
Canada
(i) 
Trinidad
and Tobago 
(ii) 
Centrica 
 Energy 
Centrica
 Storage Total 
31 December 2015 
(vii)
 352 165 11 528 29 557
(i) The Canada reserves represent the Group’s 60% interest in the natural gas assets owned by the CQ Energy Canada Partnership. 
(ii) The Trinidad and Tobago reserves are subject to a production sharing contract and accordingly have been stated on an entitlement basis (including tax barrels).  
(iii) Revision of previous estimates including those associated with Statfjord, Kvitebjorn, Butch, Valemon, Grove and Galleon areas in Europe; the Peace River Arch and Hanlan Robb areas in 
Canada and NCMA-1 in Trinidad and Tobago. 
(iv) Reflects the disposal of Craigmyle and Endiang assets during the year. 
(v) Recognition of reserves including the addition of 81 development locations in Canada. 
(vi) Represents total sales volumes of gas and oil produced from the Group’s reserves. In August 2015, Centrica Storage gained consent from the Oil and Gas Authority (OGA) to convert 15 bcf 
of cushion gas to working gas. By 31 December 2015, 6 bcf had been converted (deemed production) with the remainder expected to be converted in 2016. 
(vii) Includes the total of estimated gas and liquids reserves at 31 December 2015 in million barrels of oil equivalent. 
Liquids reserves include oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. 
   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
182 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FIVE YEAR SUMMARY (UNAUDITED) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FIVE YEAR SUMMARY (UNAUDITED) 
Five Year Summary (Unaudited) 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
182 
 
Year ended 31 December 
2011
(restated) (i) 
£m 
2012
(restated) (i) 
£m 
2013 
(restated) (i)  
£m 
2014
(restated) (i) 
£m 
2015
£m 
Group revenue from continuing operations 22,824 23,942 26,571 29,408 27,971
Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional  
items and certain re-measurements:  
British Gas 1,005 1,093 1,030 823 809
Direct Energy 287 310 276 150 328
Bord Gáis Energy – – – 7 30
Centrica Energy 898 1,118 1,217 648 255
Centrica Storage 75 89 63 29 37
Adjusted operating profit – operating profit before exceptional items 
and certain re-measurements 2,265 2,610 2,586 1,657 1,459
Share of joint ventures’ and associates’ interest and taxation (57) (48) (68) (89) (61)
 2,208 2,562 2,518 1,568 1,398
Operating profit from discontinued operations:  
European operations  13 – – – –
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements after taxation (844) (77) (383) (1,932) (1,717)
Profit/(loss) attributable to owners of the parent  385 1,245 950 (1,012) (747)
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Earnings per ordinary share 7.5 24.0 18.4 (20.2) (14.9)
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 23.8 25.5 25.9 18.0 17.2
Dividend per share declared in respect of the year 15.4 16.4 17.0 13.5 12.0
Assets and liabilities 
31 December 
2011
£m 
2012
£m 
2013 
 £m 
2014
£m 
2015
£m 
Goodwill and other intangible assets 3,739 4,122 4,724 4,600 3,824
Other non-current assets 10,234 11,690 10,993 9,974 7,790
Net current liabilities (739) (446) (470) (1,492) (521)
Non-current liabilities (7,634) (9,439) (10,192) (10,011) (9,718)
Net assets of disposal groups held for sale – – 202 – (33)
Net assets 5,600 5,927 5,257 3,071 1,342
Debt, net of cash, cash equivalents and securities:  
Net debt (3,073) (3,945) (4,942) (5,196) (4,747)
Cash flows 
Year ended 31 December 
2011 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013  
£m 
2014 
£m 
2015 
£m 
Cash flow from operating activities before exceptional payments 2,531 3,086 3,164 1,342 2,278
Payments relating to exceptional charges (194) (266) (224) (125) (81)
Net cash flow from investing activities (1,400) (2,558) (2,351) (651) (611)
Cash flow before cash flow from financing activities 937 262 589 566 1,586
(i) The 2011-2014 comparatives have been restated following the Board’s decision to include the depreciation of fair value uplifts of fixed assets acquired on Strategic Investments in the 
definition of adjusted operating profit. See note 2 for further information. 
  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
183 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
183
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF CENTRICA PLC AND ITS LICENSEES 
We have audited the accompanying statement (the ‘Consolidated Segmental Statement’ or ‘CSS’) of Centrica plc and its Licensees (as 
listed in footnote 
(i)
) as at 31 December 2015 in accordance with the terms of our agreement dated 27 January 2016. The CSS has been 
prepared by the Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees (together the ‘Directors’) based on the requirements of Ofgem’s Standard 
Condition 19A of the Gas and Electricity Supply Licences and Standard Condition 16B of the Electricity Generation Licences (together, the 
‘Licences’) and the basis of preparation on pages 188 to 191. 
Directors’ responsibility  
The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the CSS in accordance with the Licences and the basis of preparation on pages 188 
to 191 and for maintaining the underlying accounting records and such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable 
the preparation of the CSS that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
Auditors’ responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the CSS based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the CSS is free from material misstatement. The materiality level that we used in planning and 
performing our audit is set at £30 million for each of the segments. 
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the CSS. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the CSS, whether due to 
fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the CSS in 
order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by 
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the CSS. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 
Opinion 
In our opinion, the attached CSS of Centrica plc and its Licensees for the year ended 31 December 2015 is prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with: 
(i) the requirements of Ofgem’s Standard Condition 19A of the Gas and Electricity Supply Licences and Standard Condition 16B of the 
Electricity Generation Licences established by the Regulator Ofgem; and 
(ii) the basis of preparation on pages 188 to 191.  
Basis of accounting and restriction on distribution 
Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to pages 188 to 191 of the CSS, which describes the basis of preparation. The CSS is 
prepared in order for Centrica plc and its Licensees to meet the Licence requirements of the Regulator Ofgem rather than in accordance 
with a generally accepted accounting framework. The CSS should therefore be read in conjunction with both the Licences and the basis 
of preparation on pages 188 to 191. This basis of preparation is not the same as segmental reporting under IFRS and/or statutory 
reporting. As a result, the schedule may not be suitable for another purpose. 
This report, including our opinion, has been prepared solely for the Boards of Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees in accordance 
with the agreement between us, to assist the Directors in reporting on the CSS to the Regulator Ofgem. We permit this report to be 
disclosed in the Financial Statements section of the Annual Report and Accounts of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 
and the Financial Statements section of their website 
(ii)
 www.centrica.com/prelims2015, to enable the Directors to show they have 
addressed their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the CSS. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors as a body and Centrica plc and its 
Licensees for our work or this report except where terms are expressly agreed between us in writing. 
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
London 
18 February 2016 
 
(i) British Gas Trading Limited, Centrica Langage Limited, Centrica SHB Limited, Centrica Brigg Limited, Centrica Barry Limited, Centrica KPS Limited, Centrica RPS Limited, Centrica PB 
Limited and Centrica KL Limited. 
(ii) The maintenance and integrity of the Centrica plc website is the responsibility of the Directors of Centrica plc; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the CSS since it was initially presented on the website.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
184 
INTRODUCTION 
The Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement (CSS) and required regulatory information on pages 184 to 193 are provided in order 
to comply with Standard Condition 16B of Electricity Generation Licences and Standard Condition 19A of the Electricity and Gas  
Supply Licences. 
The CSS and supporting information are prepared by the Directors in accordance with the Segmental Statements Guidelines issued by 
Ofgem. The CSS has been derived from and reconciled to the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 
2015 which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union 
(EU) and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006. 
Centrica plc operational reporting structure  
Below is a summary of the Centrica plc Group’s (Group) operational reporting structure. The CSS financial data has been extracted from  
the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 operating segments rather than with reference to specific legal entities. Certain 
activities included in the Group’s operating segments have been excluded from the Generation and Supply segments of the CSS on the 
basis they are non-licensed activities (eg Midstream Power and Business Services) as illustrated below. However, to aid transparency, the 
Midstream Power result has been voluntarily included in the CSS. The Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 provides operating 
segment results for ‘British Gas – Residential energy supply’, ‘British Gas – Business energy supply and services’ and ‘Centrica Energy – 
Power’ in note 4. A full reconciliation between these results and those disclosed for ‘Domestic Supply’, ‘Non-Domestic Supply’ and 
‘Generation’ in this CSS is provided at the end of the report. 
 
Centrica plc is the ultimate parent company of all 100% owned licensees. The individual supply and generation licences are held in legal 
entities whose licensed activities are reported as part of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 within the operating segments 
shown above. The individual supply and generation licences held in subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates of Centrica plc during 2015 
are detailed below: 
Licensee Licence Ownership 
British Gas Trading Limited  Supply 100% 
Centrica Langage Limited Generation 100% 
Centrica SHB Limited  Generation 100% 
Centrica Brigg Limited 
(i)
 Generation 100% 
Centrica Barry Limited Generation 100% 
Centrica KPS Limited  Generation 100% 
Centrica RPS Limited 
(i)
 Generation 100% 
Centrica PB Limited  Generation 100% 
Centrica KL Limited Generation 100% 
Lincs Wind Farm Limited  Generation 50% Joint venture 
Glens of Foudland Wind Farm Limited  Exempt 50% Joint venture 
Lynn Wind Farm Limited Exempt 50% Joint venture 
Inner Dowsing Wind Farm Limited  Exempt 50% Joint venture 
EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited Generation 
(ii)
 20% Associate 
(i) Brigg and Roosecote’s licences were revoked on 2 July 2015 (at their request) because they no longer require an electricity generation licence. 
(ii) The Centrica plc Group holds a 20% investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited which indirectly owns 100% of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited. 
Operating 
segments
Business  
energy supply  
& services
Gas
Residential 
energy supply
Power
Residential 
services
Segments Bord Gáis Energy Centrica Storage Centrica Energy British Gas Direct Energy
Activities 
excluded  
from CSS
Business 
Services
Activities 
voluntarily 
included in CSS
Midstream 
Power
Activities 
included  
in CSS
Generation
Domestic 
supply
Non-domestic 
supply
Ofgem reporting structure
Centrica plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
184 
INTRODUCTION 
The Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement (CSS) and required regulatory information on pages 184 to 193 are provided in order 
to comply with Standard Condition 16B of Electricity Generation Licences and Standard Condition 19A of the Electricity and Gas  
Supply Licences. 
The CSS and supporting information are prepared by the Directors in accordance with the Segmental Statements Guidelines issued by 
Ofgem. The CSS has been derived from and reconciled to the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 
2015 which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union 
(EU) and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006. 
Centrica plc operational reporting structure  
Below is a summary of the Centrica plc Group’s (Group) operational reporting structure. The CSS financial data has been extracted from  
the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 operating segments rather than with reference to specific legal entities. Certain 
activities included in the Group’s operating segments have been excluded from the Generation and Supply segments of the CSS on the 
basis they are non-licensed activities (eg Midstream Power and Business Services) as illustrated below. However, to aid transparency, the 
Midstream Power result has been voluntarily included in the CSS. The Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 provides operating 
segment results for ‘British Gas – Residential energy supply’, ‘British Gas – Business energy supply and services’ and ‘Centrica Energy – 
Power’ in note 4. A full reconciliation between these results and those disclosed for ‘Domestic Supply’, ‘Non-Domestic Supply’ and 
‘Generation’ in this CSS is provided at the end of the report. 
 
Centrica plc is the ultimate parent company of all 100% owned licensees. The individual supply and generation licences are held in legal 
entities whose licensed activities are reported as part of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 within the operating segments 
shown above. The individual supply and generation licences held in subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates of Centrica plc during 2015 
are detailed below: 
Licensee Licence Ownership 
British Gas Trading Limited  Supply 100% 
Centrica Langage Limited Generation 100% 
Centrica SHB Limited  Generation 100% 
Centrica Brigg Limited 
(i)
 Generation 100% 
Centrica Barry Limited Generation 100% 
Centrica KPS Limited  Generation 100% 
Centrica RPS Limited 
(i)
 Generation 100% 
Centrica PB Limited  Generation 100% 
Centrica KL Limited Generation 100% 
Lincs Wind Farm Limited  Generation 50% Joint venture 
Glens of Foudland Wind Farm Limited  Exempt 50% Joint venture 
Lynn Wind Farm Limited Exempt 50% Joint venture 
Inner Dowsing Wind Farm Limited  Exempt 50% Joint venture 
EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited Generation 
(ii)
 20% Associate 
(i) Brigg and Roosecote’s licences were revoked on 2 July 2015 (at their request) because they no longer require an electricity generation licence. 
(ii) The Centrica plc Group holds a 20% investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited which indirectly owns 100% of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
185 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
185 
OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT 
Year ended 31 December 2015         
  Electricity Generation Aggregate 
Generation 
Business 
Electricity Supply  Gas Supply Aggregate 
Supply 
Business 
Midstream 
Power (ii)  Unit Nuclear (i) Thermal (i) Renewables Domestic 
Non-
Domestic  Domestic 
Non-
Domestic 
Total revenue £m 596.3 443.4 124.0 1,163.7 3,309.4 1,682.5 4,939.6 677.9 10,609.4 106.5
Sales of electricity & gas £m 591.3 432.1 45.6 1,069.03,241.61,679.1 4,863.8 677.9 10,462.4 74.5
Other revenue £m 5.0 11.3 78.4 94.7 67.8 3.4 75.8 – 147.0 32.0
Total operating  
costs £m (291.4) (527.3) (59.0) (877.7) (3,266.7)(1,722.9) (4,298.4) (640.9) (9,928.9) (88.9)
Direct fuel costs £m (83.9) (315.8) – (399.7)(1,369.9) (802.0) (2,264.8) (381.7) (4,818.4) –
Direct costs £m (211.7) (134.8) (31.9) (378.4)(1,363.7) (672.6) (1,273.8) (137.4) (3,447.5) (72.6)
Network costs £m (38.7) (31.3) (11.4) (81.4) (890.7) (385.5) (1,126.9) (126.2) (2,529.3) (1.3)
Environmental  
and social  
obligation costs £m – (50.5) – (50.5)(444.5)(258.1) (117.6) – (820.2) (0.7)
Other direct costs £m (173.0) (53.0) (20.5) (246.5) (28.5) (29.0) (29.3) (11.2) (98.0) (70.6)
Indirect costs 
(iii)
 £m 4.2 (76.7) (27.1) (99.6) (533.1) (248.3) (759.8) (121.8) (1,663.0) (16.3)
WACOF/E/G £/MWh, P/th (6.9) (58.1) – N/A (60.6) (56.5) (64.1) (61.5) N/A N/A
EBITDA £m 304.9 (83.9) 65.0 286.0 42.7 (40.4) 641.2 37.0 680.5 17.6
DA 
(iv)
 £m (132.0) (33.6) (35.5) (201.1) (48.1) (8.4) (61.4) (4.2) (122.1) –
EBIT £m 172.9 (117.5) 29.5 84.9 (5.4) (48.8) 579.8 32.8 558.4 17.6
Volume TWh, MThms 12.1 6.3 0.9 N/A 22.6 14.2 3,530.6 620.5 N/A
Average customer 
numbers/sites ‘000s N/A N/A N/A N/A6,477.1 536.4 8,267.5 268.5 N/A
 
 
    
 
 
 Supply EBIT margin (0.2%) (2.9%) 11.7% 4.8% 5.3%
 
 
 Supply PAT £m (4.5) (38.9) 465.5 26.1 448.2
 
 
 Supply PAT margin (0.1%) (2.3%) 9.4% 3.9% 4.2%
2014 Summarised CSS 
Year ended 31 December 2014          
  Electricity Generation Aggregate 
Generation 
Business 
Electricity Supply  Gas Supply Aggregate 
Supply 
Business 
 
Midstream 
Power (ii)  Unit 
Nuclear 
(i) (iv) 
Thermal 
(i) (v) Renewables Domestic 
Non-
Domestic  Domestic 
Non-
Domestic  
Total revenue  £m 575.1 599.2 144.9 1,319.2 3,296.3 1,963.6 5,031.2 765.9 11,057.0 105.6
EBIT £m 209.7 (119.8) 9.9 99.8 45.2 54.6 393.7 68.6 562.1 30.8
              
   Supply EBIT margin 1.4% 2.8% 7.8% 9.0% 5.1%  
   Supply PAT £m 35.4 44.2 308.2 55.6 443.4  
   Supply PAT margin 1.1% 2.3% 6.1% 7.3% 4.0%  
(i) The Nuclear and Thermal segments represent conventional electricity generation. 
(ii) Midstream Power includes results from non-licensed activities related to power trading and bilateral arrangements with third-party owners of power generation assets in the UK and Europe 
(included in the ‘Centrica Energy – Power’ segment as defined in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 (note 4)). 
(iii) Included within Nuclear indirect costs is a one-off pension credit of £18.7 million. 
(iv) The 2014 Nuclear segment EBIT excludes £58 million of depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment acquired in the Strategic Investment of Lake Acquisitions Limited; 
the 2015 depreciation figures reflect the Board’s decision to include this in the definition of adjusted operating profit (£57 million). 
(v) As the Langage, Humber and Killingholme power stations were reported as assets held for sale for the period 8 May 2014 to 31 December 2014 no depreciation has been charged on these 
stations during this period. The 2014 Thermal segment EBIT would have been reduced by £39.0 million had depreciation been charged.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
186 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
186 
OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT 
Glossary of terms 
● ‘WACOF/E/G’ is weighted average cost of fuel (nuclear), electricity (supply) and gas (thermal and supply) calculated by dividing  
direct fuel costs by volumes. For the Thermal sub-segment the cost of carbon emissions is added to direct fuel costs before  
dividing by the generated volume. 
● ‘EBITDA’ is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, and is calculated by subtracting total operating costs  
from revenue. 
● ‘DA’ is depreciation and amortisation. 
● ‘EBIT’ is earnings before interest and tax, and is calculated by subtracting total operating costs, depreciation and amortisation  
from total revenue. 
● ‘Supply EBIT margin’ is a profit margin expressed as a percentage and calculated by dividing EBIT by total revenue and multiplying  
by 100 for the Supply segment. 
● ‘Supply PAT’ is profit after tax but before interest and is calculated by subtracting Group adjusted tax from EBIT for the Supply 
segment. 
● ‘Supply PAT margin’ is a profit margin expressed as a percentage and calculated by dividing Supply PAT by total revenue and 
multiplying by 100 for the Supply segment.  
● ‘Volume’ for Supply is supplier volumes at the meter point (ie net of losses); Generation volume is the volume of power that can  
actually be sold in the wholesale market (ie generation volumes after losses up to the point where power is received under the Balancing 
and Settlement Code but before subsequent losses). 
● ‘Average customer numbers/sites’ are calculated by adding average monthly customer numbers/sites (as defined in the basis of 
preparation) and dividing by 12.   Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
187 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
187 
BUSINESS FUNCTIONS TABLE 
Year ended 31 December 2015 – analysis of business functions 
(i)
 
The table below illustrates where the business functions reside.
 
 Generation Supply Another part of business 
Operates and maintains generation assets – –
Responsible for scheduling decisions – –
Responsible for interactions with the Balancing Market  –
Responsible for determining hedging policy  (output) (demand) –
Responsible for implementing hedging policy/makes decision to buy and sell energy  (output) (demand) –
Interacts with wider market participants to buy/sell energy 
 
 (bilateral) (market and 
bilateral) 
 (market and 
bilateral) 
(ii)
Holds unhedged positions (either short or long)  
(ii)
Procures fuel for generation – –
Procures allowances for generation – –
Holds volume risk on positions sold (either internal or external)  –
Matches own generation with own supply –
(iii) (ii) (iii)
Forecasts total system demand – –
Forecasts wholesale price 
(iv) (iv) (iv)
Forecasts customer demand – –
Determines retail pricing and marketing strategies – –
Bears shape risk after initial hedge until market allows full hedge  –
Bears short-term risk for variance between demand and forecast – –
(i) The table reflects the business functions that impact our UK segments. 
(ii) The Group’s Supply and Generation businesses are separately managed. Both businesses independently enter into commodity purchases and sales with the market via Centrica Energy 
Limited (CEL), our market-facing legal entity. CEL forms part of our non-licensed Midstream Power function and also conducts trading for the purpose of making profits in its own right. The 
Supply segment is also able to enter into market trades directly as part of its within day balancing activities (as well as external bilateral contracts). 
(iii) There are a small number of bilateral off-take contracts between wind farm joint ventures and Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply segments. Other than this small number of 
bilateral contracts, ‘Matches own generation with own supply’ is undertaken in ‘Another part of the business’ (by CEL at market referenced prices), outside of the Generation and Supply 
segments. 
(iv) A separate team forecasts the wholesale price for the benefit and use of the entire Group. This team does not formally reside in any particular segment but their costs are recharged across 
the Group.  
 
Key: 
 Function resides and profit/loss recorded in segment. 
–  Neither function nor profit/loss reside in segment. 
Glossary of terms 
● ‘Scheduling decisions’ means the decision to run individual generation units. 
● ‘Responsible for interactions with the Balancing Market’ means interactions with the Balancing Mechanism in electricity. 
● ‘Interacts with wider market participants to buy/sell energy’ means the business unit is responsible for interacting with wider market 
participants to buy/sell energy, not the entity responsible for the buy/sell decision itself, which falls under ‘Responsible for implementing 
hedging policy/makes decisions to buy/sell energy’. 
● ‘Matches own generation with own supply’ means where there is some internal matching of generation and supply before either 
generation or supply interact with the wider market.  
● ‘Forecasts total system demand’ means forecasting total system electricity demand or total system gas demand. 
● ‘Forecasts customer demand’ means forecasting the total demand of own supply customers. 
● ‘Bears shape risk after initial hedge until market allows full hedge’ means the business unit which bears financial risk associated with 
hedges made before the market allows fully shaped hedging. 
● ‘Bears short-term risk for variance between demand and forecast’ means the business unit which bears financial risk associated with 
too little or too much supply for own customer demand. 


 

























 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
188 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
188 
BASIS OF PREPARATION 
The following notes provide a summary of the basis of preparation of the 2015 submission.
The Ofgem CSS segments our Supply and Generation activities and provides a measure of profitability, weighted average cost of fuel, and 
volumes, in order to increase energy market transparency for consumers and other stakeholders. 
These statements have been prepared by the Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees in accordance with Standard Condition 16B of 
Electricity Generation Licences and Standard Condition 19A of the Electricity and Gas Supply Licences and the basis of preparation. 
Throughout the basis of preparation the first paragraph number relates to the generation licence and the second to the supply licence 
conditions respectively.  
The financial data provided has been taken from the relevant licensee’s and affiliate’s financial information for the year ended  
31 December 2015, included in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 which has been prepared under IFRS (in accordance 
with paragraph 3/19A.3). 
For the Generation segment, we have included the financial results from all activities that relate to our generation licences. For clarity the 
following judgements have been made: 
● Where a sub-segment (eg Nuclear, Thermal or Renewables) has undertaken trades to optimise the result of their underlying generation, 
the net revenue and result from these trades has been included in the CSS sub-segment as they are considered to be related to our 
generation licences. 
● The Group has a long-term tolling contract in respect of the Spalding power station, but does not specifically hold the generation 
licence. This arrangement provides the Group with the right to nominate 100% of the plant capacity in return for a mix of capacity 
payments and operating payments. We do not own the power station and the Group does not control the physical dispatch of the 
asset. This contractual arrangement has been accounted for as a finance lease (under IFRS) and therefore the financial result and 
volume has been included in the Thermal sub-segment, within the Generation segment. 
● The Group has a 20% equity interest in eight nuclear power stations (through its indirect investment in EDF Energy Nuclear Generation 
Limited). Although we do not specifically hold a generation licence for any of the nuclear stations, our gross share of the financial result 
from this business (including any contractual arrangements) has been included in the Nuclear sub-segment and hence within the 
Generation segment. 
● The Group has equity interests in a number of wind farm joint ventures. Although we do not specifically hold a generation licence for any 
of the wind farms owned by these entities, our gross share of the financial result from these businesses (including any contractual 
arrangements) has been included in the Renewables sub-segment and hence within the Generation segment. 
● As a voluntary disclosure, to aid transparency, the Midstream Power trading result (including immaterial overseas activities) has been 
reported in a separate column of the CSS (‘Midstream Power’). The Midstream Power result includes trading in physical and financial 
energy contracts for the purpose of making profits in their own right and other non-licensed activities (see below). This does not form 
part of either the Generation or Supply segment. This means our CSS discloses all of the activities that have been included in the 
‘Centrica Energy – Power’ segment of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 (note 4).  
● Where power is purchased from third parties (eg from wind farms, power stations or other bilateral arrangements) and we do not have 
an equity interest in, or a finance leasing arrangement (from an IFRS perspective) over the assets that generate this power, the result 
related to these activities is excluded from the Generation segment (but is included in our ‘Midstream Power’ disclosure). In all cases, 
the Generation segment reports direct fuel costs and generation volumes on a consistent basis (ie if the purchase cost is a direct fuel 
cost, then the electricity generated is reported in volume). 
Domestic Supply represents the revenue and associated costs in supplying gas and electricity to residential customers in the UK.  
Non-Domestic Supply represents the revenue and associated costs in supplying gas and electricity to business customers in the UK. 
As a voluntary disclosure, to aid comparability, a summarised 2014 CSS with margins has been included within the report. 
Revenues 
Revenues, costs and profits of the Licensees have been defined below and prepared in compliance with the Group’s accounting policies 
as detailed in notes 2, 3 and S2 of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015, except for joint ventures and associates which are 
presented gross (in accordance with paragraph 4(a)/19A.4(a)). 
● Revenue from sales of electricity and gas for the Supply segment is recognised on the basis of gas and electricity supplied during the 
period to both domestic and non-domestic customers.  
● Revenue from sales of electricity and gas includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter 
reading and the year end (unread). For the respective Supply segments this means electricity and gas sales. Revenue for domestic 
supply is after deducting dual fuel discounts where applicable, with the discount split evenly between electricity and gas. Government 
mandated social tariffs and discounts, such as the Warm Home Discount, and other social discounts, have also been deducted from 
Domestic Supply revenues directly, charged specifically to each fuel.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
189 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
189 
BASIS OF PREPARATION 
● Revenue from sales of electricity for the Generation segment is recognised on the basis of power supplied during the period. Power 
purchases and sales entered into to optimise the performance of each of the power Generation segments are presented net within 
revenue. 
● LEC revenues associated with Renewables are included within sales of electricity and gas because the certificates must be sold with 
the electricity. 
● Revenue from sales of electricity and gas in Midstream Power relate to the sale of power procured under non-licensed activities’ power 
purchasing agreements (PPAs) and from overseas generation.  
● No tolling agreements exist between business segments. The financial risks and rewards of owning and using the Group’s power 
stations reside in the Generation segment. 
● Other respective segmental revenues not related to the sale of gas or power have been separately disclosed. Other revenues include: 
– £78.4 million (2014: £91.9 million) in Renewables principally relating to the sale of ROCs and services provided to joint ventures; 
– £3.4 million in Non-Domestic Electricity Supply relating to connections and metering installations (2014: £8.3 million); 
– £67.8 million (2014: £35.6 million) in Domestic Electricity Supply and £75.8 million (2014: £45.1 million) in Domestic Gas Supply 
primarily relating to New Housing Connections and a variety of new technology investments including smart meter installations; and  
– £32.0 million in Midstream Power predominantly relating to the net result of trading in physical and financial energy contracts  
(both realised (settled) and unrealised (fair valued)) for the purpose of making profits in their own right, net of broker costs  
(2014: £45.7 million).  
Direct fuel costs 
Direct fuel costs for both Generation and Supply include electricity, gas, nuclear fuel and imbalance costs.  
● Energy supply to Domestic and Non-Domestic energy customers is procured at a market referenced price, through a combination of 
bilateral, OTC and exchange based trades/contracts (see table below). Where energy is procured from within the Group it is also at a 
market referenced price on an OTC basis (except for a small number of bilateral off-take contracts between wind farm joint ventures 
and the Supply segments) 
(i)
. The market referenced prices used are those prevailing at the time of procurement, which may differ from 
the price prevailing at the time of supply. 
● Domestic and Non-Domestic fixed price products are hedged based upon anticipated demand at the start of the contract period. The 
majority of the gas and power for Non-Domestic energy and Domestic energy tariff products is purchased in advance (see table below). 
● The exact Domestic and Non-Domestic purchasing patterns vary in response to the outlook for commodity markets and commercial 
factors. 
● The Generation segment purchases gas and sells all of its energy at market referenced prices. Gas for CCGTs is procured at market 
referenced prices through a combination of OTC and exchange based trades/contracts. The cost to the power stations will reflect 
market referenced prices at the time of procurement, and so may differ from the price prevailing at the time of physical supply.  
● For the Midstream Power segment, any procurement of gas for overseas generation is reported as part of direct costs and not within 
direct fuel costs. 
How we procure electricity, gas and carbon: 
Long form bilateral  
contracts (‘bilateral’) 
Individually negotiated contracts with non-standardised terms and conditions which may relate to size, duration 
or flexibility. Pricing is predominantly indexed to published market referenced prices, adjusted for transfer of 
risks, cost of carry and administration. 
Over-the-counter (‘OTC’) Broker supported market of standardised products, predominantly performed via screen-based trading. These 
transactions are between two parties, leaving both parties exposed to the other’s default with no necessary 
intermediation of any exchange. An internal OTC price may be provided where market liquidity prevents 
external trading, with prices that are reflective of market conditions at the time of execution.  
Exchange Regulated electronic platform (notably ICE, APX, and N2EX) where standardised products are traded on 
exchange through the intermediary of the clearing house which becomes the counterparty to the trade. 
Membership of a clearing house is required which entails posting of cash or collateral as margin.  
WACOF/WACOE/WACOG: 
● For Generation this represents the weighted average input cost of gas, carbon and nuclear fuel, shown as £/MWh, used by the 
Generation business. Gas for CCGTs is procured at market referenced prices through a combination of OTC and exchange-based 
trades/contracts. The cost to the power stations will reflect market referenced prices at the time of procurement, and so may differ from 
the price prevailing at the time of physical supply.  
 
 
(i) Internal power off-take contracts are long-term power and associated renewable certificate sales from Generation owned assets to Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply. Pricing is 
indexed to published market prices, adjusted for the transfer of risks specific to the asset.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
190 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
190 
BASIS OF PREPARATION 
● For Supply this covers the wholesale energy cost, the energy element of Reconciliation-by-Difference (RBD) costs and balancing and 
shaping costs incurred by the Supply licensees. Again, gas and electricity is procured at market referenced prices through a 
combination of bilateral, OTC and exchange-based trades/contracts. The cost for the Supply business will reflect market referenced 
prices at the time of procurement, and so may differ from the price prevailing at the time of physical supply. Where gas is procured 
using (predominantly indexed) bilateral contracts, the fuel cost is then allocated between Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply using 
annually updated fixed percentages based on the historical split of tariff book volumes. Gas and Electricity balancing costs are allocated 
between Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply based on their respective volumes multiplied by an appropriate industry referenced price 
(eg APX or SAP). 
● For electricity Supply the weighted average cost of electricity is shown as £/MWh. For gas Supply, the weighted average cost of gas is 
shown as p/th. 
Direct costs 
Direct costs for Supply and Generation are broken down into network costs, environmental and social obligation costs and other  
direct costs.  
● Network costs for Supply and Generation include transportation costs, BSUOS and the transport element of RBD costs. Supply 
transportation costs include transportation and LNG costs, including £42.2 million incurred by Gas Domestic Supply in 2015, which 
enables the segment to secure supply by giving the ability to bring gas into the UK from overseas (2014: £46.1 million). 
● Environmental and social obligation costs for Domestic Supply include ROCs, FIT and ECO. Non-Domestic Supply includes the cost of 
LECs, ROCs and FIT. Within the Domestic and Non-Domestic segments, the costs of LECs, FIT and ROCs are included within 
Electricity, and ECO is allocated between Electricity and Gas based on the relevant legislation. Environmental and social obligation costs 
for the Generation segment relate to EU ETS carbon emission costs and carbon tax. 
● Other direct costs for Generation include employee and maintenance costs.  
● Other direct costs for Supply include brokers’ costs and sales commissions when the costs have given rise directly to revenue, ie 
producing a sale. They also include Elexon and Xoserve market participation and wider Smart metering programme costs. 
● Other direct costs for Midstream Power principally relate to the costs of purchasing power under other non-licensed activities’ PPAs 
and from procuring gas for overseas generation.  
Indirect costs 
Indirect costs for Supply and Generation include operating costs such as sales and marketing, bad debt costs, costs to serve, IT, HR, 
finance, property, staffing and billing and metering costs (including smart meter costs). 
● Indirect costs for the Generation, Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply segments (including corporate and business unit recharges) are 
allocated based on relevant drivers which include turnover, headcount, operating profit, net book value of fixed assets and 
proportionate use/benefit. For Supply, indirect costs (including corporate recharges but excluding bad debt costs) are primarily 
allocated between Electricity and Gas on the basis of customer numbers (Domestic) and sites (Non-Domestic). Bad debt costs are 
allocated between Electricity and Gas on the basis of actual bad debt cost by individual contract in the billing system (Domestic), and on 
the basis of revenues (Non-Domestic). 
● Indirect costs for Nuclear (within the Generation segment) include a one off pension credit of £18.7 million (2014: nil). 
● Indirect costs for Midstream Power relate to employee, IT and property costs.  
Other  
● For Supply, depreciation and amortisation is allocated between Electricity and Gas on the basis of customer numbers (Domestic) and 
sites (Non-Domestic). 
● For the purposes of Supply PAT, tax is allocated between Gas and Electricity within both Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply based on 
their relative proportions of EBIT. Note 4(c) of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 provides details of the adjusted 
operating profit after tax of the ‘British Gas – Residential energy supply’ and ‘British Gas – Business energy supply and services’ 
operating segments.  
● For the Domestic Supply segment, customer numbers are stated based on the number of district meter point reference numbers 
(MPRNs) and meter point administration numbers (MPANs) in our billing system (for gas and electricity respectively), where it shows an 
active point of delivery and a meter installation. As a result, our customer numbers do not include those meter points where a meter 
may recently have been installed but the associated industry registration process has yet to complete, as the meter information will not 
be present in our billing system. 
● For the Non-Domestic Supply segment, sites are based on the number of distinct MPRNs and MPANs in our billing system for gas and 
electricity respectively.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
191 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
191 
BASIS OF PREPARATION  
Transfer pricing for electricity, gas and generation licensees in accordance with paragraph 4(d)/19A.4(d) 
There are no specific energy supply agreements between the Generation and Supply segments (apart from a small number of bilateral off-
take 
(i)
 contracts between wind farm joint ventures and Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply segments). 
The Group continues to ensure transfer pricing methodologies are appropriate and up to date. In order to meet this requirement, the 
Group ensured all transfer pricing and cost allocation methodologies were internally reviewed, updated and collated in a central repository. 
Internal Audit performed a limited procedures review of the documentation in January 2015 to give comfort over compliance with the 
Ofgem guidelines, with their next review planned for January 2018.  
Treatment of joint ventures and associates 
The share of results of joint ventures and associates for the year ended 31 December 2015 principally arises from the Group’s interests in 
the entities listed on page 184. 
Under paragraph 5 of the Conditions, the information provided in the CSS includes our gross share of revenues, costs, profits and 
volumes of joint ventures and associates. In preparing the CSS, joint ventures and associates (which hold a UK generation licence or 
exemption) are accounted for as follows: 
● our proportionate share of revenues of joint ventures and associates has been included within revenue; 
● our proportionate share of the profit before tax of joint ventures and associates has been included within EBIT and EBITDA; and 
● our proportionate share of the generation volumes of joint ventures and associates has been included within the generation volumes. 
For each of the above items, our share of the income and expenses of the joint ventures or associates has been combined line-by-line 
within the relevant item of the CSS. 
The Supply segment has investments in associates but because the investees’ businesses do not relate to the sale of gas and electricity, 
the share of result (revenue of £2.0 million (2014: £6.0 million), EBIT loss of £1.0 million (2014: £1.0 million loss)) has been included net 
within indirect costs rather than gross, on a line-by-line basis.  
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 
Mark-to-market adjustments, profits or losses on disposal and impairment charges that have been identified in the Centrica plc Annual 
Report and Accounts 2015 are excluded from the CSS. For further details of excluded exceptional items and certain re-measurements 
see note 7 in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015.  
The Nuclear sub-segment result includes a £19.6 million (2014: £20.8 million) profit from the revaluation of contingent valuation rights, 
related to the original acquisition of the Nuclear investment. This result has been included in the Generation segment as it is not 
exceptional in size, nature or incidence, and does not materially change the Generation result. 
There were no impairment losses in the Supply segment during the year (2014: £2.4 million). The Generation segment includes a number 
of impairment losses totalling £7.3 million. These losses have been included in the Generation results as they are not exceptional in size, 
nature or incidence, and do not materially change the result.  
A reconciliation of the Segmental Statement revenue, EBIT, depreciation and Supply PAT to the 2015 audited Centrica plc Annual Report 
and Accounts has been included in accordance with paragraph 4(b) & (c)/19A.4 (b) & (c) and 6/19A.6. 
 
 
(i) Internal power off-take contracts are long-term power and associated renewable certificate sales from Generation owned assets to Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply. Pricing is 
indexed to published market prices, adjusted for the transfer of risks specific to the asset.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
192 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
192 
RECONCILIATION TO CENTRICA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 
The reconciliation refers to the segmental analysis of the 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts in note 4.  
 
Generation 
segment 
Supply segment 
 Domestic  Non-Domestic 
 Electricity Gas  Electricity Gas
 Notes 2015 2015 2015  2015 2015
Revenue (£m) 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts  
Segmental Analysis 
(i)
  1,189.6 8,249.0 
 
2,462.6 
Gas and Electricity allocation 1 – 3,309.4 4,939.6  1,784.7 677.9
Include share of JVs and associates 2 742.5 – –  – –
Exclude intra-segment revenues 3 (661.9) – –  – –
Exclude midstream revenues 4 (106.5) – –  – –
Exclude non-domestic services revenues 5 – – –  (102.2) –
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement  1,163.7 3,309.4 4,939.6  1,682.5 677.9
 
     
 
     
EBIT (£m) 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts  
Segmental Analysis 
(i)
  102.5 574.4 
 
(21.6) 
Gas and Electricity allocation 1 – (5.4) 579.8  (54.4) 32.8
Exclude midstream EBIT 4 (17.6) – –  – –
Exclude non-domestic services loss 5 – – –  5.6 –
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement  84.9 (5.4) 579.8  (48.8) 32.8
 
     
 
     
Depreciation (£m) 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts  
Segmental Analysis 
(i)
  (34.5) (109.5) 
 
(13.5) 
Gas and Electricity allocation 1 – (48.1) (61.4)  (9.3) (4.2)
Include share of JVs and associates depreciation 2 (166.6) – –  – –
Exclude midstream depreciation 4 – – –  – –
Exclude non-domestic services depreciation 5 – – –  0.9 –
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement  (201.1) (48.1) (61.4)  (8.4) (4.2)
 
     
 
     
PAT (£m) 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts  
Segmental Analysis 
(i)
  461.0 
 
(18.0)  
Gas and Electricity allocation 1 (4.5) 465.5  (44.1) 26.1
Exclude non-domestic services loss 5 – –  5.2 –
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement  (4.5) 465.5  (38.9) 26.1
 
     
(i) The table above reconciles the Generation segment to ‘Centrica Energy – Power’, the Domestic Supply segment to ‘British Gas – Residential energy supply’ and the Non-Domestic Supply 
segment to ‘British Gas – Business energy supply and services’ in note 4 to the 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts. Also included in note 4 is a reconciliation to the IFRS 
compliant statutory result reported by the Centrica plc Group.  Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
193 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
193 
RECONCILIATION TO CENTRICA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 
Notes: 
1. The share of Domestic and Non-Domestic Revenues, Operating Profit (EBIT), Depreciation (including amortisation) and PAT  
(adjusted operating profit after tax) as provided in note 4 of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015, has been split  
between Gas and Electricity. 
2. £742.5 million of revenues relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates in Generation are included in the CSS –  
£643.9 million relating to Nuclear revenues and £98.6 million relating to Wind revenues. £261.8 million of EBIT in the Generation 
segment relates to profit from joint ventures (£227.8 million profit relating to Nuclear and £34.0 million profit relating to Wind). 
Additionally, costs relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates – £83.9 million direct fuel costs, £237.2 million direct 
costs, £(7.0) million indirect costs and £166.6 million depreciation and amortisation are included. The results of joint ventures and 
associates are shown separately in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 in notes 6 and 14. 
3. £661.9 million of intra-segment revenues between the joint ventures and associates and the Generation segment (included in the 
£742.5 million of joint venture and associate revenues) are excluded from the CSS. 
4. £106.5 million of revenues, £17.6 million of operating profit and no depreciation relating to Centrica’s Midstream Power non-licensed 
activities (‘Midstream Power’) are excluded from the Generation segment of the CSS (but have been voluntarily disclosed as  
‘Midstream Power’). 
5. £102.2 million of revenues, £5.6 million of operating loss, £0.9 million of depreciation and £5.2 million of operating loss after tax relate  
to Non-Domestic services and are excluded from the CSS.  This section provides shareholders with key information to 
assist in the management of their shareholding.
MANAGING YOUR SHARES
Manage your shares online
We actively encourage our shareholders to receive 
communications via email and view documents electronically  
via our website, centrica.com. Receiving communications and 
Company documents electronically saves our Company money  
and reduces our environmental impact.
If you sign up for electronic communications, you will receive an 
email to notify you that new shareholder documents are available to 
view online, including the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual 
Review on the day they are published. You will also receive alerts  
to let you know that you can cast your AGM vote online.
You can also manage your shareholding online by registering  
for Shareview at shareview.co.uk, a free, secure online site where  
you can access your information and complete a number of 
functions including:
• viewing information about your shareholding or dividend 
payments;
• updating your records, including changing your address  
or bank mandate instructions; and
• appointing a proxy for the AGM.
Centrica FlexiShare
FlexiShare is an easy way to hold Centrica shares without a share 
certificate. Your shares are held by a nominee company, Equiniti 
Corporate Nominees Limited, however, you are able to attend and 
vote at general meetings as if the shares were held in your own 
name. Holding your shares in this way is free and comes with a 
number of benefits:
• low cost share dealing rates, full details of which are available  
on the Shareholder Centre together with dealing charges; 
• no replacement share certificate charges if your share certificate 
is lost or destroyed; and
• quicker settlement periods for buying and selling shares.
Centrica.com
The Shareholder Centre on our website includes frequently asked 
questions and forms that are available to download to: 
• register for electronic communications;
• transfer your shares;
• change your registered name or address;
• register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement;
• consolidate your share certificates;
• manage your dividend payments;
• buy, sell or transfer shares through Centrica FlexiShare; and
• notify the death of a shareholder. 
A wealth of other information is also available on our website, 
including:
• regular updates about our business;
• financial results;
• comprehensive share price information;
• dividend payment dates and amounts;
• the Company’s Articles of Association; and
• share and dividend history.
This Annual Report and Accounts can also be viewed online  
by visiting centrica.com/ar15.
General enquiries
Centrica’s share register is administered and maintained by Equiniti, 
our Registrar, whom you can contact directly if you have any 
questions about your shareholding which are not answered here  
or on our website. You can contact Equiniti at the following:
Address: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing,  
West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom. 
Telephone: 0371 384 2985*  
Outside the UK: +44 (0)121 415 7061 
Textphone: 0371 384 2255* 
Outside the UK: +44 (0)121 415 7028
Website: help.shareview.co.uk 
*  Calls to an 03 number cost no more than a national rate call to an 01 or 02 number.  
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (UK time), excluding public holidays  
in England and Wales.
When contacting Equiniti or registering via shareview.co.uk,  
you should have your shareholder reference number at hand.  
This can be found on your share certificate, dividend tax voucher  
or any other correspondence you have received from Equiniti.
If you hold less than 2,500 shares, you will be able to change your 
registered address or set up a dividend mandate instruction over 
the phone, however, for security reasons, if you hold more than 
2,500 shares, you will need to put this in writing to Equiniti. 
Together with Equiniti, we have introduced an electronic queries 
service to enable our shareholders to manage their investment  
at a convenient time. Details of this service can be found at 
shareview.co.uk.
Duplicate documents
If you receive more than one copy of shareholder documents,  
it is likely that you have multiple accounts on the share register, 
perhaps with a slightly different name or address. To combine  
your shareholdings, please contact Equiniti and provide your 
shareholder reference numbers. This also helps us to reduce  
our environmental impact and save paper.
Dividends
Dividends on Centrica shares are usually paid in June and 
November. Details of the dividends for the year ended 
31 December 2015 can be found in note 11 to the Financial 
Statements on page 111. 
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
194 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Shareholder Information If you elect to receive cash dividends you are encouraged to have 
your dividends paid directly to your bank or building society 
account. This means that you will receive the money on the day  
it is paid which avoids the risk of dividend cheques being delayed 
or lost in the post. If you do choose to receive your dividends in  
this way, a consolidated tax voucher will be sent to you each year.
If you do not have a UK bank or building society account, Equiniti  
is able to pay dividends in local currencies in over 90 countries.  
For a small fee, you could have your dividends converted from 
sterling and paid into your designated bank account, usually  
within five days of the dividend being paid. 
Unclaimed dividends
We have worked with a specialist tracing agency, ProSearch, over  
a number of years to identify shareholders whose details are not up 
to date and who have outstanding cash entitlements. During 2015, 
we extended the tracing programme to identify shareholders and 
former shareholders who did not take up the rights issue 
undertaken by the Company in December 2008. The rights issue 
was on the basis of three new Ordinary shares for every eight 
existing Ordinary shares held by shareholders at the close of 
business on 14 November 2008. Those shareholders whose rights 
lapsed as they did not take up the option would have received a 
cash payment equivalent to the number of shares offered as part  
of the rights issue. ProSearch will try to contact shareholders who 
have not received their cash entitlement.
To ensure you continue to receive all our communications and 
mailings, please notify Equiniti when your address details change.
American Depositary Receipts (ADR)
We have an ADR programme, trading under the symbol CPYYY. 
Centrica’s ratio is one ADR being equivalent to four ordinary shares. 
Further information is available from our website or please contact:
ADR Depositary
Address: BNY Mellon Shareowner Services 
PO Box 30170, College Station, TX 77842-3170, USA.
Email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
Website: mybnymdr.com
Telephone: +1 888 269 2377 (toll-free in the US) 
Outside the US: +1 201 680 6825
Annual General Meeting 2016
The 2016 AGM will be held on 18 April 2016 at 11.00 am  
at Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, 
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. A separate notice convening  
the meeting is distributed to shareholders, which includes an 
explanation of the items of business to be considered at 
the meeting.
Share dealing services
If you wish to buy or sell Centrica shares and hold a share 
certificate, you can do this by using the services of a stockbroker  
or high street bank, or through telephone or online services.
In order to sell your shares in this way, you will need to present your 
share certificate at the time of sale. Alternatively, if you hold your 
shares through FlexiShare, you can buy and sell Centrica shares 
through the Shareview portal at shareview.co.uk.
2016 calendar
Apr 
2016
May 
2016
Jun 
2016
Jul  
2016
Aug 
2016
Sep  
2016
Oct 
2016
Nov  
2016
Dec 
2016
12 May 2016
Ex-dividend date for  
2015 final dividend
13 May 2016
Record date for 2015  
final dividend
18 May 2016
Scrip reference 
share price set
28 July 2016
Half-year results 
announcement
24 November 
2016
Payment date for 
2016 interim dividend
18 April 2016
Trading Update 
AGM
Queen Elizabeth II  
Conference Centre 
Broad Sanctuary  
Westminster  
London SW1P 3EE
2 June 2016  
4.30pm
Deadline for the 
receipt of election 
forms from 
shareholders
20 June 2016
Share certificates/
FlexiShare statements 
posted 
23 June 2016
Payment date for 
2015 final dividend
13 October 
2016
Ex-dividend date for 
2016 interim dividend
14 October 
2016
Record date for 2016  
interim dividend
15 December 
2016
Trading Update
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
195 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE ShareGift
If you have a small number of shares and the dealing costs or  
the minimum fee make it uneconomical to sell them, it is possible  
to donate these to ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide  
a free service to enable you to dispose charitably of such shares. 
More information on this service can be found at sharegift.org  
or by calling +44 (0)20 7930 3737.
Capital gains tax (CGT)
The information provided below is primarily for the purpose of 
individual shareholders resident in the UK calculating their personal 
tax liability. Shareholders who are in any doubt as to their tax 
position or who are subject to tax in a jurisdiction other than the  
UK should consult an appropriate professional adviser. 
Shareholders who held British Gas plc shares at demerger would 
have received one Centrica share and one BG plc (now BG Group 
plc) share for each British Gas plc share held. The base cost 
distribution of British Gas plc shares were allocated between 
Centrica plc and BG plc, 27.053% and 72.947% respectively.
Due to the range of individual circumstances, shareholders are 
advised to contact HM Revenue & Customs or seek independent 
advice when calculating their CGT liability. Further information 
about CGT can be found at hmrc.gov.uk/cgt/shares/index.htm  
or on our website. 
Shareholder fraud warning
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any suspicious or 
unsolicited mail or telephone calls in relation to their Centrica 
shares. These may offer to buy shares at a discount, sell your 
shares at a premium or offer a free company report. These 
communications imply a connection with Centrica and are often 
from overseas based ‘brokers’ who are very persuasive and 
extremely persistent, with professional websites to support their 
activities. Such communications are not endorsed by Centrica  
as the Company does not participate in such unsolicited 
communication programmes. The calls should be treated as 
scams and should be reported to the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) so that they can investigate. You are able to do this either 
online at fca.org.uk/consumers/scams/investment-scams/
share-fraud-and-boiler-room-scams/reporting-form or by calling 
them on 0800 111 6768*.
If you do receive telephone calls, emails, letters from Centrica or 
from companies endorsed by Centrica and you are unsure if they 
are legitimate, please contact our shareholder helpline for 
clarification on 0371 384 2985**.
More information can be found on the FCA’s website  
fca.org.uk/consumers/scams and scamsmart.fca.org.uk.
* Free from UK landlines.
**  Calls to an 03 number cost no more than a national rate call to an 01 or 02 number. 
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (UK time), excluding public holidays 
in England and Wales. 
Dematerialisation
European Union regulation stipulates that full market 
dematerialisation of transferable securities (including shares) must 
be implemented across the European Union by 2023. This 
essentially means that once the regulation comes into effect it will 
no longer be possible for shareholders of traded companies to hold 
their shares in certificated form.
The Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) will hold a 
consultation on dematerialisation during 2016. The consultation will 
explore ways of implementing dematerialisation in the UK. Existing 
issued shares, such as Centrica shares, will need to be in 
dematerialised form from 1 January 2025.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
196 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Shareholder Information continued RANGE ANALYSIS OF REGISTER
Breakdown of shareholdings overall
Range Number of holdings
Percentage of issued 
share capital*
1 – 500 441,900 2.0%
501 – 1,000 93,513 1.3%
1,001 – 5,000 63,670 2.3%
Over 5,001 7,346 94.4%
Total* 606,429 100%
* excludes shares held in Treasury.
RANGE ANALYSIS OF REGISTER 
Breakdown of shareholdings with over 5,001 shares
Range Number of holdings
Percentage of issued 
share capital*
5,001 – 10,000 4,476 0.6%
10,001 – 50,000 1,827 0.7%
50,001 – 100,000 188 0.3%
100,001 – 1,000,000 495 3.5%
1,000,001 – maximum 360 89.3%
Total* 7,346
* excludes shares held in Treasury.
TELL SID
2016 is the 30
th
 anniversary of the privatisation of British Gas 
Corporation in 1986. The famous ‘Tell Sid’ advertising campaign 
prompted hundreds of thousands of people to buy shares in British 
Gas plc. Anyone who kept their British Gas plc shares now owns 
stakes in BG Group plc and National Grid plc as well as Centrica plc. 
Our ‘Sid’ shareholders continue to make up an important part of 
our shareholder base accounting for 22.5% of our shareholders.
Shareholder communication 
preferences as at 31 December 2015
Shareholder dividend preferences  
for the 2015 interim dividend
Share distribution
Number of shares
Institutions  4,635,446,843
Individuals  303,647 ,145
Centrica FlexiShare  130,746,942
Treasury  58,705,016
Number of holdings
Hardcopy Annual Report 5,576
Hardcopy Annual Review 15,916
Notice of Availability 600,407
Electronic communication 54,369
Number of shares
Scrip dividend reinvestment 959,641,113
Bank mandate 3,647 ,174,960
Cheque 446,591,274
The Company spends over £200,000  
on postage of its Annual Report and 
Accounts and related documents.
Help us to reduce our costs and to 
reduce our environmental impact by 
signing up now for electronic shareholder 
communications. Register now at 
shareview.co.uk and you will be notified 
as soon as new shareholder documents 
are available online.
When including Centrica FlexiShare 
holders, individual shareholders equate  
to 98% of the Company’s registered 
shareholders with institutions making up 
the remaining 2%. The 98% of individual 
shareholders hold 8.6% of the 
Company’s issued share capital with 
institutional investors holding 91.4%. 
These figures exclude shares held in 
Treasury which represent 1.2% of the 
Company’s issued share capital.
If you elect to receive cash dividends you 
are encouraged to have your dividends 
paid directly to your bank or building 
society account. This means that you will 
receive the money on the day it is paid 
which avoids the risk of dividend cheques 
being delayed or lost in the post.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
197 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE $ Refers to US dollars unless specified otherwise
2P reserves Proven and probable reserves
AFS Available-for-sale
AGM Annual General Meeting
AGR Advanced gas-cooled reactor
AIP Annual Incentive Plan
AOCF Adjusted operating cash flow
Articles The Articles of Association
Associate An entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise 
significant influence
bbl Barrels of oil
bcf Billion cubic feet
BSUOS Balancing services use of system
C&I Commercial and industrial
CCGT Combined cycle gas turbine
CGU Cash generating unit
CMA Competition and Markets Authority
CO
2
Carbon dioxide
CO
2
e Universal unit of measurement of the global warming potential (GWP) of greenhouse gases (GHG) expressed 
in terms of the GWP of one unit of CO
2
e (carbon dioxide equivalent)
CPI Consumer Price Index
CRM Customer relationship management
CSS Consolidated Segmental Statement
CUPS Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme
DE&P Distributed Energy and Power
DECC Department of Energy and Climate Change
DMSS Deferred and Matching Share Scheme
E&P Exploration and production
EBITDA (adjusted) Earnings from business performance before share of results of joint ventures and associates and before 
interest, tax, depreciation, impairments and amortisation
EBT Employee Benefit Trust
ECO The Energy Company Obligation is a UK government programme that requires energy suppliers to insulate  
and install energy efficiency measures to reduce heating costs across the UK 
EM&T Energy Marketing and Trading
Employee  
engagement
Employee engagement is an emotional state driven by employees’ perception of what it is like to work for  
an organisation. What they think and feel will drive how they behave and this in turn has a measurable 
impact on business performance
EP Economic profit is adjusted operating profit (after share of joint venture interest) less a tax charge based  
on the tax rate relevant to the business segments and after deduction of a capital charge
EPS (adjusted) Earnings per share. This measure of performance is calculated as profit or loss before other costs and 
exceptional items and certain re-measurements for the year, attributable to equity shareholders of the  
ultimate parent company, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year
EUA European Union allowance (carbon emissions certificate)
EU ETS European Union Emission Trading Scheme
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
198 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Glossary FCA Financial Conduct Authority
FOB Free on board, grants a supplier the global rights to deliver to wherever it can gain the best price for a cargo
FTSE 100 Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 share index, an average of share prices in the 100 most actively traded 
companies on the London Stock Exchange, with the highest market capitalisation
FVLCD Fair value less costs of disposal
gCO
2
/kWh Grammes of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour
GFRMC Group Financial Risk Management Committee
HSES Health, safety, environment & security
HVAC Heating, ventilation and air conditioning
IAS International Accounting Standards
IAS 19 The International Accounting Standard related to Employee Benefits. These financial reporting rules include 
requirements related to pension accounting
IAS 39 The International Accounting Standard related to financial instruments (recognition & measurement)
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard
IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association
Jointly controlled  
entity
A joint venture which involves the establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, which the Group 
controls jointly with its fellow venturers
KPI Key performance indicators
kW Kilowatt
kWh Kilowatt hour
Level 1 
fair value
Fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical 
assets and liabilities
Level 2 
fair value
Fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be either directly observable inputs or unobservable  
inputs that are corroborated by market data
Level 3 
fair value
Fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and  
may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in management’s best estimate of fair value
LNG Liquefied natural gas
LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate. A work related injury or illness that results in one or more days away from 
work, excluding the day that the injury or illness occurred
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan
LTIS Long Term Incentive Scheme
mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent
mmth Million therms
MPAN Meter point administration number
MPRN Meter point reference number
mtCO
2
e Million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
MW Megawatt
MWh Megawatt hour
MWp Megawatt peak
NBP National Balancing Point
NBV Net book value
NGO Non-governmental organisation
nm Not measured
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
199 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE NPS Net promoter score. NPS measures customer advocacy by responses to the question ‘How likely would you 
be to recommend us (0–10 scale)?’ The score is calculated by the percentage of customers defined as 
promoters (scoring 9–10) minus the percentage defined as detractors (0–6)
OTC Over the counter
PAC Political Action Committee
PIE Pensions increase exchange
PPA Power purchase agreement
PP&E Property, plant and equipment
ppt Percentage point
PRA Prudential Regulation Authority
Process safety Process safety is concerned with the prevention of harm to people and the environment, or asset damage  
from major incidents such as fires, explosions and accidental releases of hazardous substances
PRT Petroleum Revenue Tax
PwC Pricewaterhouse Coopers – the external auditors
QPI Qatar Petroleum International
RBD Reconciliation by difference
ROC Renewable Obligation Certificate
RPI Retail Price Index
SBU Standard bundled unit
Scope 1 emissions The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with combustion of fossil fuels in the power stations, gas  
and oil assets, offices, vehicles, equipment and machinery owned/controlled by the reporting entity, as well  
as the leakage or escape of GHG emissions 
Scope 2 emissions The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with the electricity, heat and steam we import for use in  
our power stations, gas and oil assets, offices, vehicles, equipment and machinery 
Securities Comprised of treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition and  
available-for-sale financial assets. The fair values of securities are based on quoted market prices, when  
available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using observable market data
SHESEC The Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee
SIP Share Incentive Plan
Spark spread The difference between the price of a unit of electricity and the cost of the gas used to generate it
tCO
2
e Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
The Code The UK Corporate Governance Code set of principles and provisions issued by the Financial Reporting Council
TRIFR Total recordable injury frequency rate. Recordable injuries include all work-related injuries including fatalities, 
lost time incidents, restricted duty and medical treatment (excluding first aid only injuries)
TSR Total shareholder return measures the return to shareholders in terms of the growth of a £100 investment  
in the Company’s shares, assuming that dividends and returns of capital are reinvested. We compare our  
TSR with those of the other 99 members of the FTSE 100
TWh Terawatt hour
VAT Value added tax
VIU Value in use
Vulnerable customer A customer is vulnerable if due to their personal circumstances, they may be unable to safeguard their 
personal welfare or that of other household members
WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development
WRI World Resources Institute
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
200 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Glossary continued Group Results
Resilient financial performance in a challenging 
environment. Adjusted earnings per share of  
17 .2p, down 4%.
Adjusted operating cash flow up 2% to £2,253 million. 
9% reduction in net debt to £4,747 million. 
Post-tax exceptional items of £1,846 million  
primarily as a result of falling commodity prices.
Group robust in a low commodity price environment 
(flat real $35/bbl Brent oil, 35p/th UK NBP gas,  
£35/MWh UK power prices) with sources and uses  
of cash flow more than balanced over 2016–2018.
Confident in delivery of at least 3%–5% per annum 
adjusted operating cash flow growth from a 2015 
baseline adjusted for the low commodity price 
environment 
(i)
. 2016 adjusted operating cash  
flow expected to exceed £2 billion.
Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in  
a full year dividend of 12.0p and dividend cover of  
1.4 times. Delivery of progressive future dividend 
tied to confidence in underlying operating cash flow.
Strategy implementation on track with growth focus 
on customer-facing activities; adjusted operating 
profit from energy and services businesses up  
19% in 2015. E&P free cash flow positive in 2015.
£750 million per annum by 2020 cost efficiency 
programme underpinned in our plans; £200 million 
of savings expected in 2016.
OVERVIEW
GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Year ended 31 December 2015
2014 
(restated*) Change
Revenue £28.0bn £29.4bn (5)%
Adjusted operating profit £1,459m £1,657m (12)%
Adjusted effective tax rate 26% 30% (4)ppt
Adjusted earnings £863m £903m (4)%
Adjusted basic earnings per 
share (EPS) 17.2p 18.0p (4)%
Full year dividend per share 12.0p 13.5p (11)%
Adjusted operating cash flow £2,253m £2,201m 2%
Return on average capital 
employed 11% 11% 0ppt
Group operating costs £3,039m £2,903m 5%
Group net investment £855m £829m 3%
Group net debt £4,747m £5,196m (9)%
Statutory operating loss £(857)m £(1,137)m nm
Statutory loss for the year 
attributable to shareholders £(747)m £(1,012)m nm
Net exceptional items after tax 
included in statutory loss £(1,846)m £(1,161)m nm
Basic earnings per share (14.9)p (20.2)p nm
GROUP KEY OPERATIONAL  
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Change
Total recordable injury frequency 
rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 1.10 1.00 10%
Total customer account holdings 
(ii) 
(year end, ’000) 28,433 29,035 (2)%
Total customer gas consumption 
(mmth) 12,177 12,354 (1)%
Total customer electricity 
consumption (TWh) 151.5 156.8 (3)%
Group direct headcount 
(iii)
 
(year end) 39,348 37,734 4%
(i) The low commodity price environment assumes flat real prices of $35/bbl Brent oil, 
35p/th UK NBP gas and £35/MWh UK power.
(ii) 2014 British Gas residential services product holdings have been restated to  
include 41,000 holdings following data assurance activity of our analytical systems.
(iii) Group direct headcount excludes contractors, agency and outsourced staff.
STRATEGIC REPORT
01  Group Results and  
Performance Summary
02  Chairman’s Statement
05  Chief Executive’s Statement
10  How We Create Value
12  Our Businesses
14   Our Focus for Long-Term 
Growth
20  Key Performance Indicators
22  How We Do Business
28  Business Review
34  Group Financial Review
38   Our Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
GOVERNANCE
44  Board of Directors
46  Senior Executives
47   Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance Report
63  Remuneration Report
80   Independent Auditors’ 
Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
88  Group Income Statement
89   Group Statement of  
Comprehensive Income
89   Group Statement of 
Changes in Equity
90  Group Balance Sheet
91   Group Cash Flow Statement
92   Notes to the Financial 
Statements
1 69  C omp a n y S t a t e m e n t  
of Changes in Equity
170  Company Balance Sheet
171  Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
181  Gas and Liquids Reserves
182  Five Year Summary
183   Ofgem Consolidated  
Segmental Statement
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION 
194  Shareholder Information
1 98  Glossary
CONTENTS
Disclaimer
This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, 
or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect  
to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc. These statements  
and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on 
circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause 
actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these 
forward-looking statements and forecasts. 
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult 
an independent financial adviser.
Designed and produced by 
 
This report is printed on recycled silk papers made from 100% 
pre and post-consumer waste. The paper mills are based in the 
European Union and manufacture papers independently audited 
and certified by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC
®
) and 
accredited to the Environmental Management System 14001. 
Printed by CPI Colour Limited ISO14001, FSC
®
 certified and 
CarbonNeutral
®
. Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CENTRICA PLC Registered office:  
Millstream 
Maidenhead Road 
Windsor 
Berkshire 
SL4 5GD
Company registered  
in England and Wales 
No. 3033654
centrica.com
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Satisfying the  
changing needs  
of our customers
“ In July 2015, we announced the conclusions of  
our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic 
review. We concluded that Centrica’ s strength 
lies in being a customer-facing energy and 
services business. This is where we have 
distinctive positions and capabilities and 
where we can make the biggest difference and 
contribution going forward, for our customers, 
our employees and our shareholders.”
Iain Conn
Chief Executive  CENTRICA PLC Registered office:  
Millstream 
Maidenhead Road 
Windsor 
Berkshire 
SL4 5GD
Company registered  
in England and Wales 
No. 3033654
centrica.com
Annual Review 2015
Satisfying the  
changing needs  
of our customers
“ In July 2015, we announced the conclusions of  
our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic 
review. We concluded that Centrica’ s strength 
lies in being a customer-facing energy and 
services business. This is where we have 
distinctive positions and capabilities and 
where we can make the biggest difference and 
contribution going forward, for our customers, 
our employees and our shareholders.”
Iain Conn
Chief Executive 
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 CENTRICA PLC Registered office:  
Millstream 
Maidenhead Road 
Windsor 
Berkshire 
SL4 5GD
Company registered  
in England and Wales 
No. 3033654
centrica.com
Annual Review 2015
Satisfying the  
changing needs  
of our customers
“ In July 2015, we announced the conclusions of  
our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic 
review. We concluded that Centrica’ s strength 
lies in being a customer-facing energy and 
services business. This is where we have 
distinctive positions and capabilities and 
where we can make the biggest difference and 
contribution going forward, for our customers, 
our employees and our shareholders.”
Iain Conn
Chief Executive 
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Disclaimer
This Annual Review does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise 
acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc. These statements and forecasts 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that  
will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or 
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking 
statements and forecasts. 
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult 
an independent financial adviser.
Designed and produced by 
 
This review is printed on recycled silk papers made from 100% 
pre and post-consumer waste. The paper mills are based in the 
European Union and manufacture papers independently audited 
and certified by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC
®
) and 
accredited to the Environmental Management System 14001. 
Printed by CPI Colour Limited ISO14001, FSC
®
 certified and 
CarbonNeutral
®
.
Group Results
Resilient financial performance in a challenging 
environment. Adjusted earnings per share of  
17 .2p, down 4%.
Adjusted operating cash flow up 2% to £2,253 million. 
9% reduction in net debt to £4,747 million. 
Post-tax exceptional items of £1,846 million  
primarily as a result of falling commodity prices.
Group robust in a low commodity price environment 
(flat real $35/bbl Brent oil, 35p/th UK NBP gas,  
£35/MWh UK power prices) with sources and uses  
of cash flow more than balanced over 2016–2018.
Confident in delivery of at least 3%–5% per annum 
adjusted operating cash flow growth from a 2015 
baseline adjusted for the low commodity price 
environment 
(i)
. 2016 adjusted operating cash  
flow expected to exceed £2 billion.
Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in  
a full year dividend of 12.0p and dividend cover of  
1.4 times. Delivery of progressive future dividend 
tied to confidence in underlying operating cash flow.
Strategy implementation on track with growth focus 
on customer-facing activities; adjusted operating 
profit from energy and services businesses up  
19% in 2015. E&P free cash flow positive in 2015.
£750 million per annum by 2020 cost efficiency 
programme underpinned in our plans; £200 million 
of savings expected in 2016.
OVERVIEW
GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Year ended 31 December 2015
2014 
(restated*) Change
Revenue £28.0bn £29.4bn (5)%
Adjusted operating profit £1,459m £1,657m (12)%
Adjusted effective tax rate 26% 30% (4)ppt
Adjusted earnings £863m £903m (4)%
Adjusted basic earnings per 
share (EPS) 17.2p 18.0p (4)%
Full year dividend per share 12.0p 13.5p (11)%
Adjusted operating cash flow £2,253m £2,201m 2%
Return on average capital 
employed 11% 11% 0ppt
Group operating costs £3,039m £2,903m 5%
Group net investment £855m £829m 3%
Group net debt £4,747m £5,196m (9)%
Statutory operating loss £(857)m £(1,137)m nm
Statutory loss for the year 
attributable to shareholders £(747)m £(1,012)m nm
Net exceptional items after tax 
included in statutory loss £(1,846)m £(1,161)m nm
Basic earnings per share (14.9)p (20.2)p nm
GROUP KEY OPERATIONAL  
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Change
Total recordable injury frequency 
rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 1.10 1.00 10%
Total customer account holdings 
(ii) 
(year end, ’000) 28,433 29,035 (2)%
Total customer gas consumption 
(mmth) 12,177 12,354 (1)%
Total customer electricity 
consumption (TWh) 151.5 156.8 (3)%
Group direct headcount 
(iii)
 
(year end) 39,348 37,734 4%
(i) The low commodity price environment assumes flat real prices of $35/bbl Brent oil, 
35p/th UK NBP gas and £35/MWh UK power.
(ii) 2014 British Gas residential services product holdings have been restated to  
include 41,000 holdings following data assurance activity of our analytical systems.
(iii) Group direct headcount excludes contractors, agency and outsourced staff.
STRATEGIC REPORT
01  Group Results and  
Performance Summary
02  Chairman’s Statement
05  Chief Executive’s Statement
10  How We Create Value
12  Our Businesses
14   Our Focus for Long-Term 
Growth
20  Key Performance Indicators
22  How We Do Business
28  Business Review
34  Group Financial Review
38   Our Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44  Board of Directors
46  Senior Executives
4 7    I n d e p e n d e nt Au d i t o r s ’ 
Statement
48   Summary Group  
Income Statement
49   Summary Group  
Balance Sheet
49    Summary Group Statement 
of Changes in Equity
49   Summary Group Cash Flow 
Statement
50  Summary Directors’ and 
Corporate Governance 
Report
5 3  S umma r y  
Remuneration Report
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION 
55 Shareholder Information
CONTENTS Disclaimer
This Annual Review does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise 
acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc. These statements and forecasts 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that  
will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or 
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking 
statements and forecasts. 
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult 
an independent financial adviser.
Designed and produced by 
 
This review is printed on recycled silk papers made from 100% 
pre and post-consumer waste. The paper mills are based in the 
European Union and manufacture papers independently audited 
and certified by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC
®
) and 
accredited to the Environmental Management System 14001. 
Printed by CPI Colour Limited ISO14001, FSC
®
 certified and 
CarbonNeutral
®
.
Group Results
Resilient financial performance in a challenging 
environment. Adjusted earnings per share of  
17 .2p, down 4%.
Adjusted operating cash flow up 2% to £2,253 million. 
9% reduction in net debt to £4,747 million. 
Post-tax exceptional items of £1,846 million  
primarily as a result of falling commodity prices.
Group robust in a low commodity price environment 
(flat real $35/bbl Brent oil, 35p/th UK NBP gas,  
£35/MWh UK power prices) with sources and uses  
of cash flow more than balanced over 2016–2018.
Confident in delivery of at least 3%–5% per annum 
adjusted operating cash flow growth from a 2015 
baseline adjusted for the low commodity price 
environment 
(i)
. 2016 adjusted operating cash  
flow expected to exceed £2 billion.
Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in  
a full year dividend of 12.0p and dividend cover of  
1.4 times. Delivery of progressive future dividend 
tied to confidence in underlying operating cash flow.
Strategy implementation on track with growth focus 
on customer-facing activities; adjusted operating 
profit from energy and services businesses up  
19% in 2015. E&P free cash flow positive in 2015.
£750 million per annum by 2020 cost efficiency 
programme underpinned in our plans; £200 million 
of savings expected in 2016.
OVERVIEW
GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Year ended 31 December 2015
2014 
(restated*) Change
Revenue £28.0bn £29.4bn (5)%
Adjusted operating profit £1,459m £1,657m (12)%
Adjusted effective tax rate 26% 30% (4)ppt
Adjusted earnings £863m £903m (4)%
Adjusted basic earnings per 
share (EPS) 17.2p 18.0p (4)%
Full year dividend per share 12.0p 13.5p (11)%
Adjusted operating cash flow £2,253m £2,201m 2%
Return on average capital 
employed 11% 11% 0ppt
Group operating costs £3,039m £2,903m 5%
Group net investment £855m £829m 3%
Group net debt £4,747m £5,196m (9)%
Statutory operating loss £(857)m £(1,137)m nm
Statutory loss for the year 
attributable to shareholders £(747)m £(1,012)m nm
Net exceptional items after tax 
included in statutory loss £(1,846)m £(1,161)m nm
Basic earnings per share (14.9)p (20.2)p nm
GROUP KEY OPERATIONAL  
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Change
Total recordable injury frequency 
rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 1.10 1.00 10%
Total customer account holdings 
(ii) 
(year end, ’000) 28,433 29,035 (2)%
Total customer gas consumption 
(mmth) 12,177 12,354 (1)%
Total customer electricity 
consumption (TWh) 151.5 156.8 (3)%
Group direct headcount 
(iii)
 
(year end) 39,348 37,734 4%
(i) The low commodity price environment assumes flat real prices of $35/bbl Brent oil, 
35p/th UK NBP gas and £35/MWh UK power.
(ii) 2014 British Gas residential services product holdings have been restated to  
include 41,000 holdings following data assurance activity of our analytical systems.
(iii) Group direct headcount excludes contractors, agency and outsourced staff.
STRATEGIC REPORT
01  Group Results and  
Performance Summary
02  Chairman’s Statement
05  Chief Executive’s Statement
10  How We Create Value
12  Our Businesses
14   Our Focus for Long-Term 
Growth
20  Key Performance Indicators
22  How We Do Business
28  Business Review
34  Group Financial Review
38   Our Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44  Board of Directors
46  Senior Executives
4 7    I n d e p e n d e nt Au d i t o r s ’ 
Statement
48   Summary Group  
Income Statement
49   Summary Group  
Balance Sheet
49    Summary Group Statement 
of Changes in Equity
49   Summary Group Cash Flow 
Statement
50  Summary Directors’ and 
Corporate Governance 
Report
5 3  S umma r y  
Remuneration Report
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION 
55 Shareholder Information
CONTENTS Group Performance Summary
• Conclusions of strategic review announced in July 2015, with 
Centrica’s purpose defined as providing energy and services  
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers; strategy 
implementation on track.
• Execution of strategy underpinned by comprehensive 
implementation plans across all businesses and functions. New 
organisational model, segments and business units announced, 
with defined KPIs and metrics to measure success.
 – Group will report in line with the new reporting segments for 
the first time at the 2016 Interim Results.
• Focus for growth on distinctive customer-facing activities of 
Energy Supply & Services, Connected Home, Distributed 
Energy & Power and Energy Marketing & Trading.
 – Significant improvement in performance in North America 
with operating profit more than doubling compared to 2014. 
Growth in margins in Direct Energy Business and increased 
product bundling and differentiated offers in Direct Energy 
Residential.
 – Improved customer service and higher net promoter score 
(NPS) in UK residential energy and services. Weak result  
from British Gas Business but operational issues now  
largely rectified.
 – Focus on competitive pricing – the only major UK residential 
energy supplier to make three reductions to household gas 
bills since the start of 2015, saving British Gas customers 
almost £100 per year on average. 
 – Existing Connected Home and Distributed Energy & Power 
capabilities brought together under new business units,  
with good early progress made. 
• Exploration & Production (E&P) and central power generation 
portfolios being actively refocused in line with strategy.
 – E&P focused on creating value in current price environment 
through cost improvement and capital discipline.
 – E&P capital expenditure reduced to around £500 million  
in 2016; flexibility to reduce expenditure further in 2017  
and 2018 if current low price environment is sustained.
 – Post-tax impairments and provisions of £1,477 million on  
E&P assets and £485 million on power assets, reflecting  
the end-year commodity price environment.
 – Announced disposal of the GLID wind farms in February 
2016, in line with strategy to exit wind power generation.
• £750 million cost efficiency programme underpinned and  
on track to be completed by 2020. 
 – 2,000 role reductions already announced. Reduction  
in direct headcount of 3,000 roles expected in 2016. 
 – £200 million of savings expected to be delivered in 2016;  
on track to deliver two-thirds or £500 million per annum  
by the end of 2018. 
*Restatement details
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted effective tax rate, adjusted 
basic and adjusted diluted earnings and adjusted basic and 
adjusted diluted earnings per share include fair value depreciation 
related to our investments in Venture and Nuclear. Prior year 
comparators have been restated accordingly.
Unless otherwise stated, all references to operating profit or loss, 
taxation, cash flow, earnings and earnings per share throughout  
the announcement are adjusted figures, reconciled to their statutory 
equivalents in the Group Financial Review on pages 34 to 37 .
Adjusted earnings
£863m £28.0bn
Revenue
12.0p
Dividend per share
2013 £1,333m*
£1,322m*
2014  £903m*
2012
2015  £863m
2013 17.0p
16.4p
2014  13.5p
2012
2015  12.0p
2013 £26.6bn
£23.9bn
2014  £29.4bn
2012
2015  £28.0bn
IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGY
01
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 The Group has delivered a resilient 
performance for 2015, during what proved 
to be an incredibly challenging period for 
both the energy sector and the global 
economy. These results, the first full  
year under Iain Conn’s leadership,  
are a testimony to the resilience of our 
businesses, particularly those that are 
customer facing, and the dedication and 
hard work of our employees. 
STRATEGIC REVIEW
In July 2015, we announced the results  
of the Group’s strategic review. This review 
was largely driven by changing external 
factors and the Board’s decision to question 
whether we had the right strategy and mix 
of businesses to take advantage of future 
opportunities. As a Board, we fundamentally 
reassessed our strategy and the direction 
we wanted to take the Group. 
In February 2015, we took the tough but 
necessary decision to cut the dividend, 
having reduced capital investment.  
This was a further reason to review the 
Group’s strategic direction so that we  
could move into the next phase with 
confidence and certainty.
Our review concluded that Centrica is first 
and foremost a customer-facing business. 
We are an energy and services company 
and our purpose is to deliver energy and 
services to satisfy the changing needs of 
our customers. 
The outcome of the review requires a 
change to our portfolio mix with our growth 
areas focused on our customer-facing 
businesses and a reduced scale in gas and 
oil E&P to a level which will still allow us to 
participate effectively in that market, 
Chairman’s Statement 
Rick Haythornthwaite, Chairman
“ Centrica is first and foremost a customer-facing 
business. We are an energy and services company 
and our purpose is to deliver energy and services  
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers. ” 
 S e r v ing o u r 
customers  
for over  
200 years... 
1812–1948 1973 1986
Gas Light & Coke 
Company formed
British Gas Corporation 
established
British Gas privatised
The Gas Light & Coke Company, 
formed by Frederick Winsor, was 
incorporated by Royal Charter in 
1812. In 1948, the Gas & Coal Act 
nationalised the industry merging 
over 1,000 privately owned and 
municipal companies into 12 area 
gas boards.
The Gas Council is abolished 
following the introduction of the 
Gas Act in 1972 and British Gas 
Corporation is established in 
1973. The corporation is 
responsible for the development 
and maintenance of the supply  
of gas to Great Britain.
British Gas Corporation is privatised 
and British Gas plc is formed. The 
‘Tell Sid’ campaign is launched 
allowing customers to buy a stake  
in British Gas. Ofgas, the forerunner 
of Ofgem, is created to regulate the 
gas industry.
02 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 1997 2000 2002–2003
Centrica plc formed Direct Energy acquired  Rough storage facility 
secured
Centrica is formed when British 
Gas plc is demerged into two 
separate companies; Centrica plc 
and BG plc. Centrica maintains 
the British Gas brand in the UK.
Centrica’s acquisition of Direct 
Energy marks a major step  
in international expansion.  
Direct Energy is the largest 
unregulated retailer of natural 
gas in North America.
Centrica acquired the Rough 
offshore gas storage facility  
off the East Yorkshire coast.  
This is the largest gas storage 
facility in the UK, holding the 
majority of the UK’s current 
storage capacity.
diversify our cash flows and help us to 
manage risk by contributing to the strength 
of our balance sheet. Although we are 
making significant investment now, the 
benefits from these changes will be realised 
over the next three to five years.
21
ST
 CENTURY ENERGY COMPANY
We believe in operating transparently, 
treating employees fairly and linking reward 
to performance. These principles are not 
only the ‘right thing to do’ but make good 
business sense too. 
We also believe that we have a duty  
to make a positive contribution to the 
communities in which we operate. In the  
UK alone, Centrica supports 174,000 jobs 
and 6,000 companies supplying goods  
and services through our supply chain.  
In addition, we provide opportunities for 
training and apprenticeships to upskill  
and motivate our workforce. 
Within the energy sector, we face particular 
challenges around sustainability:
• heightened expectations for support to 
be given to those who are most affected 
by the additional costs of carbon 
reduction targets; 
• prioritising technologies of lowest cost 
and least regret; and
• setting simple cost-effective 
decarbonisation targets.
The Board is engaged in understanding the 
potential of new technology and big data  
in our sector and the role that leadership 
can play in exploiting new opportunities  
and guarding against new risks. In order  
to succeed in the 21
st
 century, we will need 
to focus our energies on building trust, 
  
being nimble in our formulation of strategy 
and attracting new talent to Centrica who 
can provide us with competitive advantage. 
Crucially, we will need to do this while 
maintaining our aim to deliver long-term 
shareholder value through both returns and 
growth. These goals are neither easy nor 
will they be achieved overnight but they  
are an essential element of our journey  
to transform Centrica. 
BOARD CHANGES IN 2015
At the start of the year, Iain Conn was 
appointed as the Group’s Chief Executive 
and he has shown that his breadth of 
knowledge and commitment to customers 
and safety make him ideally suited to  
lead Centrica in the next phase of its 
development. He has made a significant 
contribution in leading the Group’s strategic 
review and has underpinned the outcome 
with comprehensive implementation plans. 
During the year, both Carlos Pascual and 
Steve Pusey joined the Board as Non-
Executive Directors. Carlos’ experience  
in international energy geopolitics and 
economic and commercial development 
has enhanced the Board’s global 
perspective and he has brought strong 
challenge to the strategic review. Steve’s 
considerable international experience as a 
senior customer-facing business technology 
leader has provided a new dimension to our 
Board’s discussions and undoubtedly this 
helps us develop our thinking in respect  
of our innovative offerings to customers. 
Mark Hodges, Executive Director and Chief 
Executive, Energy Supply & Services,  
UK & Ireland also joined the Board in 2015.  
Mark has substantial experience of running a 
major UK customer-facing business and has 
a strong track record in improving customer 
service, increasing performance and driving 
growth through innovation. Mark is well 
placed to lead the business in this next 
phase and our customer-facing businesses 
are already benefiting significantly from his 
capabilities. Jeff Bell, who was appointed as 
interim Group Chief Financial Officer, has 
been confirmed in post. Jeff brings extensive 
experience in driving financial performance 
and has a strong track record in developing 
and leading finance teams both in the UK 
and in North America having joined the 
Group in 2002. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
FRAMEWORK
During 2015, the Board undertook a 
fundamental review of the Group’s principal 
risks and its corporate governance 
framework and considered the primary 
roles of the Board’s Committees and  
their membership. A new Committee was 
convened, the Safety, Health, Environment, 
Security and Ethics Committee (SHESEC), 
under the chairmanship of Mike Linn.  
Its purpose is to ensure the effective 
management of risks in respect of people: 
engagement, culture and behaviours; 
sourcing and supplier management;  
health, safety, environment and security; 
information systems security; and legal, 
regulatory and ethical standards 
compliance. 
03
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 BOARD EVALUATION
Centrica has for many years conducted a 
thorough review of Board process, practice 
and culture on an annual basis with the 
input of an external facilitator at least once 
every three years. The Board considers 
such annual reviews as an essential part  
of good corporate governance. In 2015,  
we assessed our effectiveness internally 
building on the findings from the 2014 
external exercise. We focused on our 
progress against our improvement agenda 
and new reflections in the light of our 
evolving context and composition.
DIVERSITY
Centrica continues to support diversity in  
all its forms, from the top of our organisation 
down. We believe that a mixed, diverse 
workforce is best able to engage with  
our customers and society. We know  
that diversity drives better insight and 
understanding of customers, leads to better 
innovations and itself attracts diverse talent.  
OUTLOOK
For 2016, continued weaknesses in 
commodity prices will provide challenges for 
the Group. However, I am confident in the 
Group’s resilience against this backdrop. 
The Group will continue to engage actively 
in discussions on energy policy in the UK, 
Europe and North America in the interests 
of our customers and stakeholders.
The clear outcome of the 2015 UK general 
election has provided greater political 
certainty. The Competition and Markets 
Authority (CMA) investigation into the UK 
energy market is ongoing and we welcomed 
this wide-ranging review and the possibility 
that it will have a constructive influence  
on competition in the sector.
The Group is underpinned by our 
competitive advantage including our strong 
market share in the geographies we operate 
in, good brands and deep energy services 
capability. Building on these strengths, our 
strategic direction involves less reliance on 
upstream and more investment in sources 
of differentiation in Energy Services, 
Connected Home, Distributed Energy & 
Power (DE&P) and Energy Marketing & 
Trading (EM&T). 
Looking ahead, our people and our 
technologies are what will make us 
distinctive, giving us the competitive 
advantage to not only respond to the 
changing global energy sector but to win  
for our customers. For these reasons,  
I believe this is an exciting time for Centrica. 
Rick Haythornthwaite
Chairman
18 February 2016
“  Our strategic direction involves 
less reliance on upstream and 
more investment in sources  
of differentiation in Energy 
Services, Connected Home, 
Distributed Energy & Power and 
Energy Marketing & Trading. ” 
2009 2013 2014 2015
Centrica expands  
in the North Sea  
and into nuclear
Energy Marketing  
business of Hess 
Corporation acquired
Bord Gáis Energy  
acquired
AlertMe and Panoramic 
Power acquired
Centrica acquired Venture 
Production to become a  
leading operator of mature and 
orphaned gas assets in the UK 
continental shelf and acquires a 
20% interest in British Energy’s 
nuclear fleet of power stations 
from EDF.
Direct Energy acquired the 
Energy Marketing business of 
Hess Corporation. This made 
Direct Energy the largest business 
gas supplier on the US East 
Coast and the second largest 
business power supplier in the  
US retail markets.
Centrica acquired Bord Gáis 
Energy, a vertically integrated 
energy supply business in the 
adjacent market of the Republic 
of Ireland from Bord Gáis Éireann, 
the state-owned energy company.
British Gas completed the 
acquisition of AlertMe,  
a UK-based connected home 
company. Direct Energy also 
acquired Panoramic Power, a 
leading provider of device-level 
energy management solutions.
READ MORE IN OUR BUSINESSES ON PAGE 12. 
Chairman’s Statement continued
04 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 OVERVIEW
2015 provided a very challenging 
environment for Centrica. Commodity 
prices continued to fall during the year, 
creating major challenges for our E&P  
and nuclear power businesses. However, 
Centrica delivered a resilient financial 
performance against this backdrop, with 
increased adjusted operating cash flow and 
a 9% reduction in net debt in the year. In 
addition, the actions we have taken since 
the start of 2015 on the dividend, capital 
expenditure and costs mean the Group is 
robust in this much lower oil and gas price 
environment, and our current projections 
indicate we can more than balance sources 
and uses of cash flow out to 2018 at flat  
real commodity prices of $35/bbl Brent oil, 
35p/th UK NBP gas and £35/MWh  
UK power. 
In July, we announced the conclusions of 
our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic 
review. We concluded that Centrica’s 
strength lies in being a customer-facing 
energy and services business. This is  
where we have distinctive positions and 
capabilities and where we can make the 
biggest difference and contribution going 
forward, for our customers, our employees 
and our shareholders. 
Our purpose – to provide energy and 
services to satisfy the changing needs  
of our customers – provides a clear future 
direction for the Group. Everything we  
do will be in support of this purpose, as  
we position Centrica to deliver returns  
and growth.
Chief Executive’s  
Statement
“ We have a clear strategy for delivering growth  
and returns built around the customer and I am 
encouraged by the progress we have made. ”
Iain Conn, Chief Executive
Key events  
in 2015...
January
British Gas and Bord Gáis 
Energy announce price cuts
British Gas announced a 5% 
reduction in Standard and  
Fix & Fall household gas tariffs 
benefiting 6.8 million customers. 
Bord Gáis Energy announced  
it would cut the unit rate of gas  
by 3.5% and the unit rate of 
electricity by 2.5%. 
February
Strategic review 
announced
Centrica announced a 
fundamental strategic review  
of the Group, largely driven  
by changing external factors 
and the Board’s decision  
to question whether we had  
the right strategy and mix of 
businesses to take advantage 
of future opportunities.
05
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Chief Executive’s Statement continued
We remain confident we can deliver at least 
3–5% per annum operating cash flow 
growth at flat real commodity prices and  
are committed to delivering a progressive 
dividend in line with the sustainable 
operating cash flow growth of the Group.  
I am encouraged with the progress we  
have made since July, as we develop our 
customer-facing platforms for growth and 
we deliver on our major cost efficiency 
programme, which is now underpinned in 
our business plans. Implementation of the 
strategy is on track, I remain excited about 
this next phase and continue to believe that 
Centrica has all the components necessary 
to deliver a powerful investor proposition 
– one of returns and growth. 
2015 PERFORMANCE 
Safety and compliance remain our top 
priority. In safety, we experienced a slight 
degradation in personal safety performance. 
We also experienced one Tier 1 process 
safety incident during the year and we are 
focused on improving our performance in 
this area. In regulatory compliance, we  
have had constructive interactions with our 
principal regulators and have continued  
to contribute to the CMA investigation into 
the functioning of the UK energy market.
Overall operational performance was solid 
during the year. Customer service levels 
improved in the UK, with residential 
complaints down 18% and a higher NPS.  
In UK residential energy supply, the number  
of accounts was down by less than 1% in  
a highly competitive market, while we were 
the only major UK energy supplier to reduce 
residential gas tariffs twice in 2015, by a 
total of 10%. In North America, extreme 
cold weather in the first half of the year was 
handled well, while we delivered increased 
margins and growth in margin under 
contract in Direct Energy Business. E&P 
production and nuclear generation volumes 
were strong. However, as previously 
reported we did face issues following the 
migration of customer accounts and 
associated data onto a new billing and 
customer relationship management system 
from multiple legacy systems in British Gas 
Business. This resulted in temporary 
increases in operating costs to help resolve 
the issues and an increase in debt 
balances, while the number of customer 
accounts reduced over the year. Reflecting 
these factors, our UK business energy 
supply and services division reported  
an operating loss in 2015.
Given the above, and the low commodity 
price environment, Group adjusted 
operating profit fell by 12% compared to 
2014, to £1,459 million, although profit from 
our customer-facing energy and services 
businesses was up 19%. The Group tax 
rate of 26% was lower than in 2014, 
reflecting a reduced proportion of profit 
from the heavily-taxed E&P business. As a 
result, Group adjusted earnings only fell by 
4% compared to last year, to £863 million, 
and adjusted earnings per share of 17.2p. 
These figures now include fair value 
depreciation related to our investments in 
Venture and Nuclear, a change in definition 
we announced in our December 2015 
Trading Update. The 2015 final proposed 
dividend per share of 8.43p is in line with 
last year, taking the 2015 full year dividend 
to 12.0p. 
We also incurred pre-tax impairments and 
onerous provisions on E&P and power 
generation assets of £2,358 million, 
resulting in total post-tax exceptional items 
of £1,846 million. These impairments reset 
the Group’s balance sheet to reflect the 
current commodity price environment. 
CASH FLOW RESILIENCE 
We made good progress during the  
year in our actions to improve cash flows 
and strengthen the Group’s financial 
position. Adjusted operating cash flow  
of £2,253 million was up 2% compared  
to 2014, with increased cash flow from our 
customer-facing businesses offsetting the 
impact of lower wholesale prices on E&P. 
We took action to reduce capital expenditure 
to just over £1 billion, including two small 
acquisitions. Combined with our decision to 
re-base the dividend in February 2015, the 
introduction of a scrip dividend alternative, 
and some divestment proceeds, net debt 
fell by 9% or £449 million to £4.7 billion. 
Reflecting our focus on costs and capital 
discipline, our E&P business was free cash 
flow positive in 2015. 
The steep falls in wholesale commodity 
prices will continue to have a material 
impact on the operating cash flows from  
our E&P and central power generation 
businesses in 2016 and beyond, if  
current levels persist. However, our 
customer-facing businesses are delivering 
resilient cash flows and benefits from our 
cost efficiency programme are starting  
to be realised. If current low wholesale 
prices continue beyond 2016, we have  
the flexibility to reduce our E&P capital 
expenditure further to the bottom end  
of our £400 million– £600 million range.  
As a result, we currently project that our 
sources and uses of cash flow will remain 
more than balanced over the period 
2016–2018, even if flat real wholesale oil, 
gas and power prices remain at low levels 
of $35/bbl Brent oil, 35p/th UK NBP  
gas and £35/MWh UK power. 
March
Direct Energy in  
ground breaking  
loyalty programme
Direct Energy became a 
participating member of Plenti, 
the first of its kind US-based 
coalition loyalty programme. The 
programme offers customers the 
opportunity to earn promotional 
points for signing up for qualifying 
energy plans enhancing Direct 
Energy’s customer proposition.
April
Dedicated to serving 
customers
British Gas dedicated an 
additional £50 million investment 
over three years, demonstrating 
its commitment to customer 
service excellence.
May
Centrica extends gas 
supply contracts
Centrica extended contracts with 
Statoil and Gazprom Marketing 
and Trading. The separate deals 
will meet the gas needs of nine 
million British homes every year.
06 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 We remain confident in delivering at least 
3-5% per annum operating cash flow 
growth at flat real prices from a 2015 
baseline adjusted for current prices. 
Combined with more than balanced 
sources and uses of cash flow in this 
environment, our focus remains to deliver  
a progressive dividend in line with operating 
cash flow growth.
PROVIDING ENERGY AND SERVICES TO 
SATISFY THE CHANGING NEEDS OF 
OUR CUSTOMERS
Our customer-facing businesses are a 
source of competitive advantage given our 
distinctive positions and capabilities, and 
these businesses will be our focus areas for 
growth. As we set out in July, we expect to 
invest an additional £1.5 billion of operating 
and capital resources into these growth 
areas – Energy Supply & Services, 
Connected Home, DE&P and EM&T – over 
the next five years. Implementation of our 
strategy is on track and we have made some 
material early progress in all of these areas.
In Energy Supply & Services:
• We are focused on competitive pricing for 
all our customers and have made three UK 
residential gas price reductions since the 
start of 2015, saving British Gas customers 
almost £100 per year on average. 
• We continue to develop our bundled 
energy and services propositions for 
residential customers in North America, 
with 46% of energy customer acquisitions 
in 2015 also taking a services protection 
plan or smart thermostat, up from 11%  
in 2014.
• We increased our number of energy 
accounts in the Republic of Ireland, the 
first growth in accounts for a number of 
years, as we focus on increasing our 
market share.
• We launched our new simpler ‘Homecare’ 
services product range in the UK and 
have plans to launch propositions which 
appeal to new customer segments, 
including on-demand and landlords,  
in 2016.
• We have now installed more than two 
million residential smart meters in the  
UK and expect to install over one million  
in 2016, allowing us to provide more 
customers with accurate bills and 
improving customer engagement.
In Connected Home:
• We have established a new international 
business unit, bringing together existing 
expertise in the UK and North America, 
including capabilities gained through the 
AlertMe acquisition in March 2015.
• We have now sold over 300,000 smart 
thermostats in the UK, having launched 
the next generation of our Hive Active 
Heating
TM
 product in the second half of 
the year, and have sold nearly 200,000 
smart thermostats in North America. We 
continue to develop plans to launch Hive 
products outside of the UK and Republic 
of Ireland in 2016.
• In early 2016 we launched a range of  
new connected home products in the  
UK, including the Hive Active Plug,  
Hive Window or Door Sensor and Hive 
Motion Sensor.
In Distributed Energy & Power:
• We have established a new international 
business unit and are looking to increase 
the number of customer relationships  
we have for distributed energy activity  
in the UK and North America from over 
1,000 currently.
• We completed the acquisition of 
Panoramic Power, a leading provider  
of device-level energy management 
solutions, providing our DE&P business 
with leading capabilities in energy 
management technology and data 
science expertise, and enabling us to 
enhance our offerings to Commercial & 
Industrial (C&I) customers.
In Energy Marketing & Trading:
• We continue to build our capability and 
completed a number of ‘free on board’ 
(FOB) liquefied natural gas (LNG) cargoes 
in 2015 and have secured further cargoes 
which are scheduled for delivery in 2016.
• We expect to take delivery of the first 
cargo under our US export contract  
with Cheniere in late 2018 or early 2019, 
following a positive final investment 
decision on the fifth train of their Sabine 
Pass LNG facility in Louisiana in June.
REFOCUSING OUR E&P AND POWER 
BUSINESSES
As part of our strategic review, we also 
clarified the role of E&P in the portfolio –  
to provide diversity of cash flows and the 
balance sheet strength that goes with this. 
We are targeting a stable business that 
produces between 40–50mmboe of gas 
and oil per annum and requires between 
£400 million – £600 million of capital to  
fulfil this role. This compares to gas and  
oil production and capital expenditure  
levels respectively of 79mmboe and 
£728 million in 2015 and 80mmboe  
and £1,086 million in 2014. 
As a result of capital discipline and cost 
efficiency programmes, E&P was free cash 
flow positive in 2015 despite the current low 
wholesale price environment. In the near 
term, at current depressed wholesale prices 
July
British Gas cuts prices 
again
British Gas announced its second 
gas price reduction in six months 
bringing the average total savings 
in 2015 to £72 for British Gas 
customers. The price cut benefits 
6.9 million British Gas customers 
on Standard and Fix & Fall tariffs.
Conclusion of the 
strategic review 
The review identifies a clear 
direction for the business.  
Growth ambitions will focus  
on customer-facing activities. 
Sources of competitive advantage 
include strong market shares, 
good brands and deep energy 
services capability.
07
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Chief Executive’s Statement continued
we will only invest in new E&P developments 
if the Group’s cash flows can support the 
investment and the projects indicate good 
returns over a range of price environments. 
We currently expect to invest around 
£500 million in 2016, reflecting expenditure 
on existing in-flight projects such as Cygnus 
and Maria. However, in the absence of a 
recovery in oil and gas prices, we could 
potentially make further reductions to the 
levels of E&P capital expenditure.
We will also be pursuing further cost 
reductions. We now expect cash production 
costs to be 15%, or £150 million, lower in 
2016 when compared to 2014. This is 
£50 million lower than the levels previously 
announced. We will explore all options to 
strengthen our E&P business. 
Our E&P focus is on the UK, Netherlands 
and Norway, and as such we continue to 
review options to release capital from our 
Trinidad and Tobago assets, while we now 
consider our positions in Canada to be 
non-core. We continue to work with our 
Canadian partners, Qatar Petroleum, as  
we seek ways to maximise value from our 
existing position. 
In central power generation, we are in the 
process of rationalising our thermal power 
generation portfolio with a view to 
simplification and cost reduction, while 
retaining low-cost optionality. Our focus for 
growth is on peaking units and distributed 
generation. We continue to view our 
participation in nuclear power as a financial 
investment, while in wind power generation 
we announced in July that we intend to 
dispose of our interests in assets, while 
continuing to participate to a limited degree 
through power purchase agreements (PPA). 
In February 2016, we announced we were 
disposing of our 50% interest in the Glens  
of Foudland, Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind 
farms, with our net share of proceeds 
expected to be approximately £115 million. 
This disposal forms part of our divestment 
programme, under which we expect to 
realise £0.5 billion – £1 billion of proceeds 
from the sale of E&P and wind assets by  
the end of 2017. 
COST EFFICIENCY
We announced as part of the strategic 
review conclusions that we are targeting 
£750 million per annum of like-for-like cost 
efficiencies from operating costs and 
controllable cost of goods, to be delivered 
over the next five years. We expect to 
achieve this from a 2015 controllable cost 
base of around £5 billion, before inflation, 
one-off investment to achieve the savings, 
the costs of installing smart meters and 
additional investment in growth areas. After 
inflation, we still expect like-for-like operating 
costs to reduce by around £300 million by 
2020, and after additional operating costs  
to deliver incremental gross margin in the 
growth areas of services, Connected Home, 
DE&P and EM&T, we would expect total 
nominal operating costs in 2020 to be  
no higher than their 2015 level. We also 
announced that the programme would 
result in a reduction in like-for-like 
headcount of around 6,000 roles by 2020, 
with around half expected to come from 
redundancy and half from natural attrition.
The £750 million programme is now 
underpinned in our business plans. We 
remain on track to achieve the savings  
and have already made a number of 
restructuring announcements across the 
Group, which will result in the reduction of 
around 2,000 roles. We expect to achieve  
a reduction in direct headcount of around 
3,000 by the end of 2016, excluding the 
impact of increased headcount in smart 
metering and in growth areas such as our 
Connected Home business. We have also 
made good progress in delivering savings 
from our third party cost base, with a 
number of initiatives ongoing. As a result, 
we expect to deliver £200 million of 
annualised savings in 2016 and we are on 
track to achieve two-thirds, or £500 million, 
of the savings by 2018. 
ORGANISING AROUND OUR 
CUSTOMERS
In January 2016, we announced 
fundamental changes to the way that 
Centrica will be organised, to support 
delivery of our strategy. Centrica has 
historically operated as a holding company 
for a number of different and largely 
self-contained businesses, each of which 
had its own organisation and way of doing 
things. This model made it harder for us  
to work together across businesses, share 
ideas and best practice, and meant we 
have not been taking advantage of 
Centrica’s scale as an international energy 
and services company.
We have therefore moved to establish a 
single group of international businesses and 
have created eleven business units.  
We have combined our energy and services 
activities around our residential and 
business customer segments and a 
common operating model, with the creation 
of UK Home, UK Business, North America 
Home, North America Business and Ireland 
business units. This will allow us to more 
effectively deliver products and services 
which respond to changing customer needs 
at a competitive price. The Home and 
Business units in both the UK and North 
America will be supported by common 
operating functions of Field Operations  
and Customer Operations, while our new 
Connected Home and DE&P business  
units will also leverage Home and Business 
respectively to sell their products. 
EM&T will continue to provide services to 
the other businesses, while E&P, Nuclear 
August
Smart meter landmark
British Gas announced that 
1.5 million smart meters have 
been installed in UK homes. 
Smart meters put an end to 
estimated bills, giving customers 
greater understanding and control 
of their energy consumption.
September
Bord Gáis Energy cuts 
prices again
Bord Gáis Energy announced its 
second price cut in 2015. Bord 
Gáis Energy customers unit rate 
of gas was cut by a further 2.5% 
and the unit rate of electricity by  
a further 2.0%.
October
New well at York field
Drilling began for a new well at 
the York field that will tap into an 
additional 20 billion cubic feet of 
gas, enough to heat half a million 
UK homes for a year. Gas from 
the field is processed at 
Easington by Centrica Storage. 
08 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 and Centrica Storage will all be run as 
separate business units. All business units 
will be supported by nine Group functions, 
specifically Finance, Human Resources, 
Corporate Affairs, HSES (Health, Safety, 
Environment & Security), Information 
Services, Technology & Engineering,  
Group Marketing, Procurement and Legal, 
Regulatory & Compliance. These changes 
will allow Centrica to leverage its scale  
and operate in a more efficient, effective 
and joined-up way, allowing us to serve  
our customers more effectively and 
efficiently while contributing to underlying 
cash flow growth.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS  
AND NEW SEGMENTS
The execution of our strategy is now 
underpinned by comprehensive 
implementation plans across all businesses 
and functions. We have also now defined 
the key performance indicators (KPIs) 
against which we will measure success in 
delivering our strategy, both at a Group and 
business unit level. The KPIs for our energy 
and services businesses are consistent 
across geographies, in line with the 
establishment of a common operating 
model, while the KPIs for all business units 
are intended to provide an appropriate 
balance of growth and efficiency metrics. 
Details of these KPIs can be found at 
centrica.com/performance. We intend to 
report these KPIs in each half year and full 
year results announcement, starting at our 
Interim Results in July 2016. 
In addition, new reporting segments are  
in place, effective from 1 January 2016, 
aligned to the new strategy and the way  
we now run the business. These will also  
be reported against for the first time at our 
Interim Results in July 2016. Details of the 
new segments can be found on page 13. 
COMPETITION AND MARKETS 
AUTHORITY INVESTIGATION
The CMA investigation into the UK energy 
market is ongoing and the Provisional 
Decision on Remedies is now expected  
in March 2016, with the final report due  
in June 2016. This follows the publication  
of the CMA’s provisional findings and notice  
of possible remedies in July 2015. We have 
contributed constructively to the process 
and improved customer trust in the 
functioning of the energy market is 
something we would welcome. 
We have expressed concerns over some  
of the CMA’s provisional findings and 
proposals including the potential 
introduction of a transitional ‘safeguard 
regulated tariff’. We also expressed 
concerns regarding their analysis of 
profitability and returns. As part of our 
response to the CMA we suggested an 
alternative to the ‘safeguard regulated tariff’, 
the ending of evergreen tariffs. As long  
as this is implemented appropriately, we 
believe it will improve engagement by 
providing customers with a regular prompt 
to review their energy tariff, addressing the 
concerns the CMA may have around 
customer engagement without the need for 
a regulated tariff. We will continue to engage 
with the CMA as their process comes to  
a conclusion over the coming months.
2016 OUTLOOK AND SUMMARY
The lower commodity price environment  
will inevitably continue to have an impact  
on the earnings and operating cash flow 
from our E&P and central power generation 
businesses. However, with our focus on 
cash flow growth and delivery of our 
£750 million cost efficiency programme,  
we currently expect to deliver adjusted 
operating cash flow in excess of £2 billion  
in 2016.
In summary, Centrica has produced  
a resilient performance in 2015 and  
the actions we have taken leave us  
well positioned to handle the current 
environment, with sources and uses  
of cash flow more than balanced at  
current wholesale commodity prices.  
With a strategy developed around the 
customer, we have a clear purpose and 
direction. Implementation of the strategy  
is on track and I am pleased with the 
progress we have made to date. I am 
confident in our ability to deliver our target 
of at least 3–5% growth in operating cash 
flow per annum at flat real commodity 
prices, underpinning a progressive  
dividend policy and delivering shareholder 
value through returns and growth. 
Iain Conn
Chief Executive
18 February 2016
November
Major investment at 
gas-fired South Humber 
Bank power station
Centrica confirmed a £63 million 
investment at South Humber 
Bank gas-fired power station, 
securing the future of the site  
up to 2027. The power station  
is capable of producing enough 
electricity to meet the needs  
of over one million UK homes.
December
Growth in Connected 
Home
Connected Home confirmed 
sales of over 250,000 smart 
thermostats in the UK to the end 
of 2015. Three million customers 
in the UK, North America and  
the Republic of Ireland also now 
have access to our analytics  
and insight products.
09
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 How We 
Create Value
We are an energy  
and services company. 
Everything we do is 
focused on satisfying 
the changing needs  
of our customers. 
OUR PURPOSE OUR STRATEGY
Long-term growth
• Energy Supply & Services
• Distributed Energy & Power (DE&P)
• Connected Home
• Energy Marketing & Trading (EM&T)
Cash flow and balance sheet strength
• Exploration & Production (E&P)
• Central Power Generation
• Centrica Storage
SEE PAGES 14 TO 19 FOR MORE DETAIL ON OUR STRATEGY AND 
PAGES 38 TO 42 FOR INFORMATION ON HOW OUR RISKS ARE MANAGED.
OUR ORGANISATIONAL MODEL
Underpinning how we create value is our new operating model which  
is aligned to our strategy and our focus on customer-facing businesses.
 Business unit 
 Operating function 
 Group function
Group functions
Common operating model
Distributed Energy & Power
Connected Home
Energy Marketing & Trading
(i) Centrica Storage is operated as a separate ring-fenced entity.
Nuclear E&P Centrica 
Storage 
(i)
North 
America 
Home
North 
America 
Business
Field operations
Customer operations
Ireland UK 
Home
UK 
Business
Field operations
Customer operations
10 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE CREATE VALUE
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Serving our customers is what we are 
known for, what we are good at and 
where we have distinctive capabilities.
Our customer-facing businesses are  
a source of competitive advantage, 
given our distinctive positions and 
capabilities, and these businesses will 
be our focus areas for growth. These 
areas will receive additional operating 
and capital resources of approximately 
£1.5 billion over the next five years.
WITH OUR PRIMARY FOCUS ON
• Safety, compliance and conduct
• Customer satisfaction and operational excellence
• Cash flow growth and strategic momentum
• Cost efficiency and simplification
• People and building capability
OUR LONG-TERM  
FINANCIAL GOALS
Deliver long-term 
shareholder value 
through returns  
and growth.
DELIVERING OUR LONG-TERM FINANCIAL GOALS  
THROUGH A CLEAR FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK
THROUGH THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OUR STRATEGY  
WE WILL REALISE OUR GOALS TO BECOME
A trusted corporate citizen
An employer of choice
A 21
st
 century energy company
Targets
Operating cash flow (OCF)
Dividend
Controllable costs
Capital reinvestment 
Credit rating
Return on average capital 
employed (post-tax)
Metrics
• 3% to 5% growth per annum
• Progressive in line with OCF
• Cost growth < inflation
• Investment < 70% of OCF 
• Limited to £1 billion per annum in 2016/2017
• Strong investment grade
• 10% to 12% 
OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
11
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION An integrated energy company, participating 
throughout the energy value chain.
OUR BUSINESSES IN 2015 OUR GROUP STRATEGIC REVIEW
Centrica Storage
Centrica Storage’s Rough gas storage 
facility is the largest in the UK.
Adjusted operating profit  
£809m
2014: £823m
Adjusted operating profit 
£328m
2014: £150m
Adjusted operating profit 
£30m
2014: £7m
Adjusted operating profit  
£255m
2014: £648m*
*Restated – see page 1 for details.
Adjusted operating profit 
£37m
2014: £29m
British Gas
British Gas is the UK’s leading energy 
supplier and offers a comprehensive range 
of services from boiler installation and 
maintenance to plumbing and drains.
Our strategic review carried  
out in 2015 concluded that 
Centrica’s strengths lie in being 
a customer-facing business.
Our focus is to deliver for  
the changing needs of our 
customers, by continuing to 
develop our existing services 
and by accessing new strategic 
opportunities.
We are reducing the scale  
of our E&P business to a 
sustainable level which will allow 
us to participate effectively, 
diversify our cash flows and  
help us to manage risk by 
contributing to the strength  
of our balance sheet.
Direct Energy
Direct Energy is one of the largest retail 
providers of electricity, natural gas and 
home services across North America.
Bord Gáis Energy
Bord Gáis Energy is a leading supplier 
of energy in the Republic of Ireland.
Centrica Energy
Centrica is one of the top gas 
producers on the UK continental shelf.
READ MORE ABOUT HOW WE CREATE VALUE 
ON PAGES 10 AND 11.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR 2015 PERFORMANCE IN THE BUSINESS REVIEW ON PAGES 28 TO 33.
British Gas £12,303m
Direct Energy £10,587m
Bord Gáis Energy £733m
Centrica Energy £4,242m
Centrica Storage £106m
Breakdown by operating revenue Breakdown by adjusted operating proﬁt
British Gas £809m
Direct Energy £328m
Bord Gáis Energy £30m
Centrica Energy £255m
Centrica Storage £37m
Our Businesses
12 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESSES
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 A customer-facing energy and services  
company for the 21
st
 century.
OUR GROUP STRATEGIC REVIEW
Energy Supply & Services
Supplying energy and services to residential and business customers in the 
UK, the Republic of Ireland and North America through our new business 
segments: UK Home; UK Business; Ireland; North America Home; and  
North America Business.
Energy Marketing & Trading
Operating in UK and European energy markets we trade in energy  
produced both inside and outside the business. EM&T is the trading  
arm of Centrica and provides the route to market for our production  
and power generation operations.
Connected Home
Our Hive smart thermostat and other products and services help  
our customers manage their energy use in the UK, the Republic of Ireland 
and North America. We plan to build a global business providing new and 
innovative solutions for consumers across the world.
Centrica Storage
We intend to hold our Rough gas storage facility to ensure it fulfils its role  
as the main strategic storage asset for the UK.
Exploration & Production
Targeting production of between 40–50mmboe per year focused  
on the North Sea and East Irish Sea.
Central Power Generation
We are rationalising our thermal power generation portfolio with a view  
to simplification and cost reduction while retaining low cost optionality.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR NEW BUSINESSES ON PAGES 14 TO 19.
 
Strong customer-facing brands 
and distinctive capabilities.
OUR FUTURE BUSINESSES OUR BRANDS
Distributed Energy & Power
Our vision is to provide large scale C&I consumers with the ability to use 
energy more intelligently, giving customers tools to generate and manage  
their energy usage.
13
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Supplying 
energy and 
providing 
distinctive 
and leading 
services
Our focus for long-term growth
1
Energy Supply & Services
UK & IRELAND
Our energy supply businesses will continue to be a  
key contributor to Group cash flow. In the UK, given  
a highly competitive market, our focus for growth will 
be through significantly improved cost efficiency and 
customer service to underpin better retention levels. 
We expect these to offset the impacts of competitive 
intensity and reducing consumption. By leveraging our 
capability to innovate and compete, we believe that  
we can offer compelling propositions to customers.
In services, we are building on our capability in service 
delivery to develop new propositions to appeal to new 
customer segments.
In the Republic of Ireland we will look to increase 
our share of electricity supply and energy services 
facilitated by a market more recently deregulated 
than the UK.
14 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 NORTH AMERICA
Our North American customer-facing businesses  
are an important part of the Group and we see 
opportunities to increase market share. In residential 
energy supply, we are focused on developing a more 
sustainable business model through the development 
of improved bundled propositions, greater focus on 
customer mix and achieving better retention levels.  
In business energy supply, the acquisition of Hess 
Energy Marketing in 2013 has provided us with a 
market leading position and a strong base from which 
to deliver sustainable returns over the long term.
In our North American services business we are the 
US market leader, albeit with a small market share in  
a very fragmented market, and believe there is strong 
potential for growth from the wide range of products 
we are able to offer. 
15
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2
Distributed Energy & Power
Distributed energy, including energy efficiency, flexible 
generation and new technologies, is an activity which, 
alongside energy management and optimisation,  
we expect to provide significant growth potential for 
Centrica in the long term. This activity will be targeted 
at commercial and industrial (C&I) customers in all the 
geographies in which we operate. Although building 
up our capability in this area will require additional 
investment, many of the skills associated with 
distributed energy already exist in the Group.
We have a good starting position and this is an 
attractive opportunity for Centrica. We expect to invest 
up to £700 million of additional operating and capital 
resources in this area over the next five years.
Focusing on 
distributed 
energy offerings
Our focus for long-term growth
16
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Investing  
in Smart 
technologies 
in the home
3
Connected Home
We believe that our Connected Home offerings will 
become increasingly important, with propositions 
linked to our core energy and services products in  
the UK, the Republic of Ireland and North America. 
These propositions will help to underpin better 
retention levels as well as provide growth opportunities 
in their own right. 
We already have products in the market under our 
Hive brand and have built high quality end-to-end 
capability in this area, with operating platform design 
and operation, hardware and software development, 
data analytics, installation and maintenance. Given 
these capabilities, the scale of our existing customer 
relationships and our ability to directly support 
customers through our national network of engineers 
and technicians, we will be able to compete effectively  
in this space. 
To drive growth, we are investing £500 million in 
operating costs and capital expenditure in our 
Connected Home activities over the next five years. 
17
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Building our 
international 
capability  
in energy  
marketing  
and trading
Our focus for long-term growth
4
Energy Marketing & Trading
EM&T provides a good opportunity for growth and is 
an area where we already have strong capabilities.  
In LNG, the first commercial delivery under our US gas 
export contract with Cheniere is expected in late 2018 
or early 2019 and we have been actively building both 
our capability and market presence in LNG. 
We will also continue to expand our route to market 
services and to utilise our knowledge of European 
energy markets to benefit from trading and 
optimisation activity. 
We expect to invest an additional £150 million of 
operating costs and capital expenditure in this area 
over the next five years. 
18
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Supplying energy 
and providing cash 
flow and balance 
sheet strength
Exploration & Production
The role of Exploration & Production (E&P) in the 
portfolio is to provide cash flow and balance sheet 
strength. We have determined that a stable E&P 
business which produces around 40–50mmboe  
per annum, and requires £400 million to £600 million 
of capital expenditure each year, is sufficient to fulfil 
this role. This compares to a business which produced 
75-80mmboe and incurred capital expenditure  
of around £1.1 billion in both 2013 and 2014 as  
we sought to grow E&P.
We will focus our E&P activity on the North Sea and 
East Irish Sea, where we are material enough to play  
a major role in the UK and Netherlands as well as 
having the capability and presence in Norway to allow 
us to access additional value opportunities.
Centrica Storage
Our offshore gas storage asset, Rough, is the largest 
in the UK. We do not see it as a growth option in  
the current environment and will focus on safety, 
compliance and efficiency of the asset. We will 
continue to work with the UK Government on any 
changes necessary to ensure Rough fulfils its role  
as a strategic asset for UK energy security.
Central Power Generation
In thermal power, we will continue to operate our existing 
small gas-fired fleet, maximising optimisation activity and 
seeking opportunities to make investments in improving 
the fleet where economics allow. We will maintain a 
watching brief as the capacity market evolves, and will 
retain sufficient capability to enable us to continue to 
manage power assets in the future. However, we will not 
increase our emphasis on central thermal generation, 
preferring to seek opportunities in peaking units and 
distributed generation. Additionally, we intend to continue 
to dispose of our interests in wind generation. 
Our participation in nuclear power generation is an 
attractive financial investment but provides limited 
strategic optionality for the Group.
19
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 We monitor our performance  
by measuring and tracking  
key performance indicators (KPIs).
Financial key performance indicators
Key Performance 
Indicators
CENTRICA.COM/CRASSURANCE.
 
Adjusted operating 
profit
Operating profit is our 
key measure for financial 
performance. For 
remuneration purposes, 
operating profit is adjusted 
to a post-tax basis and by 
a charge on capital to set 
the economic profit 
performance targets.
With the impact of continued 
falls in wholesale oil and gas 
prices only partially offset  
by higher profit in our 
customer-facing businesses, 
adjusted operating profit  
was down 12%.
Link to reward
Short and long-term incentive 
Adjusted operating profit
£1,459m
2013 £2,586m*
2014  £1,657m*
2015  £1 ,459m
*  Restated – see page 1 for details.
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
Adjusted EPS
17.2p
2013 25.9p*
2014  18.0p*
2015  17 .2p
*  Restated – see page 1 for details.
Link to reward
Short and long-term incentive
TSR indices (unaudited)
80
100
1 20
1 40
160
12
Centrica return index
FTSE 100 return index
Source: Datastream 
13 14 15
Link to reward in 2015
The performance of these 
KPIs is linked to the 
remuneration arrangements 
for Executive Directors. 
For 2016
The primary long-term 
financial goal for the Group 
is now adjusted operating 
cash flow (AOCF) growth. 
AOCF is now the basis of 
the Annual Incentive Plan 
(AIP) financial measure. 
Non-financial KPIs
Deloitte LLP review 
selected non-financial  
KPIs and provide limited 
assurance using the 
International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 
ISAE 3000 (Revised). The 
full assurance statement 
and Basis of Reporting are 
available online.
Adjusted basic earnings 
per share (EPS)
EPS is an industry standard 
determining corporate 
profitability for shareholders. 
EPS is adjusted to reflect 
better the performance  
of the business. 
Reflecting the lower adjusted 
operating profit, partially offset 
by a lower tax rate due to 
lower profits from the 
highly-taxed E&P business, 
adjusted basic EPS was  
down 4%. 
Total shareholder 
return (TSR)
The Board believes that  
TSR is a valuable KPI to 
assess the Company’s 
performance in the delivery  
of shareholder value.
Centrica underperformed the 
FTSE 100 return index over 
the three-year period ending 
in 2015 by 12.5%.
(i) Unit has been updated from 100,000 hours 
worked to better align with industry 
standards.
(ii) Restated to align with the updated unit.
(iii) British Gas and Direct Energy NPS is not 
comparable due to different methodologies.
(iv) Restated due to changes in methodology 
which now focuses on experiences at the  
end of key customer journeys.
(v) Data is not comparable with 2014 or 2015 
due to changes in methodology.
20 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Lost time injury 
frequency rate (LTIFR)
We prioritise safety because it 
spans all of our activities, from 
working in customer homes 
to securing energy offshore. 
In 2015, our LTIFR rose by 
21% to 0.34 per 200,000 
hours worked
(i)
 (high 
performance zone). 
We are working hard to 
reduce the occurrence of 
these injuries by delivering 
new leadership training and 
embedding a stronger health 
and safety culture among 
our people.
Non-financial key performance indicators
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked
0.34
2013
(ii)
 0.22
2014
(ii)
 0.28
2015  0.34
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
Employee engagement
4.84 out of 6
2013 4.81
2014  4.79
2015  4.84
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
NPS
British Gas
+4
2013
(v)
 +15
2014
(iv)
  -4
2015  
+4
Direct Energy
+37
2013 +40
2014  +38
2015  +37
Link to reward
Long-term incentive
Significant events
1
2014 and 2013: 0
Link to reward
Short and long-term incentive
TSR indices (unaudited)
80
100
1 20
1 40
160
12
Centrica return index
FTSE 100 return index
Source: Datastream 
13 14 15
Customer  
satisfaction
Everything we do is focused 
on satisfying the changing 
needs of our customers.  
To measure customer 
satisfaction we use net 
promoter scores (NPS)
(iii)
.
NPS for British Gas increased  
to +4 (median performance 
zone) in 2015. The rise was 
mainly due to service 
improvements in key customer 
journeys as well as competitive 
price reductions.
NPS for Direct Energy 
declined slightly to +37  
(high performance zone).
Process  
safety
Process safety is a key focus 
where we source, generate 
and store energy so that we 
can prevent potential major 
incidents, such as fires and 
explosions.
One significant process safety 
event occurred in 2015 (high 
performance zone). The event 
resulted in the permanent 
disablement of a contractor.
We have created a three-year 
process safety improvement 
plan that will strengthen 
employee leadership and 
capability alongside enhancing 
asset management and 
assurance processes.
Employee 
engagement
Creating a great place to work, 
that motivates and enables 
our people to fulfil their 
potential, is a key driver of 
employee engagement and 
being an employer of choice. 
To achieve this, our people 
provide feedback which helps 
us understand what we are 
doing well and where we 
need to improve. 
In 2015, our employee 
engagement score increased 
slightly to 4.84 out of 6 
(median performance zone). 
This is our highest result  
to date and remains above 
average compared to peer 
companies.
21
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 As a leading energy and services company with more 
than 200 years of experience, we are well positioned 
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers. 
T o deliver this purpose, we must continue to improve 
and evolve how we do business. We are building 
stronger relationships with key stakeholders that  
help us become a better corporate citizen and an 
employer of choice, with the capabilities necessary 
for delivering an excellent service in a safe and 
responsible way. We are also making an important 
contribution to address big issues in society related 
to energy: from energy pricing and vulnerability to 
energy security and climate change.
By improving how we do business, we will better 
adapt to the challenges and opportunities that arise 
in the rapidly-changing world of energy and build 
trustworthiness in our business and sector. Not only 
will this secure our long-term sustainable growth,  
it will define us as a 21
st
 century energy and services 
company acting for, and on behalf of, our current  
and future customers. 
How We Do Business
EXPLORE MORE ABOUT HOW WE DO BUSINESS  
AT CENTRICA.COM/CR.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS 22 Strengthening 
relationships for a 
better energy future
Quality relationships with key 
stakeholders help evolve how we  
do business and determines our  
long-term success.
PRIORITISING SAFETY 
Ensuring the safety of our people, 
customers and communities is our top 
priority. Focus on safety also makes us  
a stronger, more productive business for 
meeting our customers’ needs. 
All our engineers undergo training to reduce 
safety risks in customer homes. Despite 
this, 46 incidents such as trips and falls 
occurred compared with 29 in 2014. In 
2016, we will re-focus our approach to 
customer safety and introduce improved 
working practices that reduce risk for  
our customers.
Our lost time injury frequency rate for 
employees increased from 0.28 per 
200,000 hours worked in 2014 to 0.34
(i)
. 
Our total recordable injury frequency rate 
also rose to 1.10 per 200,000 hours worked 
against 1.00 in 2014
(i)
. 
Across exploration and production, we 
received three Improvement Notices from 
the UK Health and Safety Executive and 
experienced one significant process safety 
event in Canada, which led to a contractor 
being disabled following exposure to liquid 
nitrogen while filling a storage tank. This 
was up from one Improvement Notice and 
zero significant process safety events in 
2014. Eight high potential events that could 
have resulted in a serious incident also 
occurred in 2015. Process safety therefore 
remains a major focus and we have  
created a three-year improvement plan  
that will strengthen employee leadership 
and capability alongside enhancing asset 
management and assurance processes. 
DEVELOPING SKILLS 
We must secure skills that satisfy our 
customers’ changing needs while helping 
our people fulfil their potential. 
During 2015, British Gas invested 
£24.5 million in training 9,000 engineers 
and 1,200 apprentices. We additionally 
improved the skills of over 20 apprentices 
in exploration, production and power 
alongside 70 people on the graduate 
programme. Following a successful pilot, 
Direct Energy will train 100 new technicians 
in 2016 through our partnership with a local 
technical school. 
In order to retain and reward our skilled 
workforce, we are determined to provide fair 
remuneration. That is why in 2015, we made 
the commitment to pay at least the Living 
Wage to our people located in the UK.
IMPROVING CUSTOMER SERVICE 
Customers are at the heart of our business 
and we recognise the need to strengthen 
our relationship with them by improving  
our service. 
British Gas is investing an additional  
£50 million between 2015 and 2017  
to deliver a better service for residential 
consumers which will enhance customer 
service systems, increase resourcing by 
around 10% and deliver extra training to  
call centre advisers. More than 350 advisers 
have already been recruited, while training 
rose 24% towards our aim of 30% more 
training days by the end of 2016 compared 
to 2013. This brings the average monthly 
training hours per person to 14, up from  
11 in 2014. 
Meanwhile, service levels for business 
customers were lower than planned 
following issues relating to the migration  
to new customer service systems. We are, 
however, beginning to see improvements 
that are expected to continue in 2016.
In North America, Direct Energy increased 
overall training per person from 10 hours  
in 2014, to 12 hours on average each 
month. Furthermore, new call centre 
advisers underwent training to increase 
call-handling efficiency. 
Over time, these investments should help 
reduce complaints and improve satisfaction. 
Our net promoter score (NPS)
(ii)
 which 
measures satisfaction, increased in British 
Gas to +4 from -4
(iii)
 in 2014. Direct Energy 
NPS declined from +38 in 2014, to +37. 
EMBEDDING ETHICS 
To create sustainable business success and 
value in society, it is vital we have a strong 
moral compass underpinning all of our 
relationships and activities. 
Our Business Principles set out the ethical 
standards we expect and in 2016, we will 
evolve our approach to ethics to ensure  
we obtain the highest levels of conduct  
and compliance. 
We also work with suppliers to uphold 
ethical, social and environmental standards 
in the products and services we buy. This 
reduces risk while increasing transparency and 
reliability in our supply chain. In 2015, 46 
potentially higher risk suppliers completed 
assessment on these issues, resulting in  
an average supplier risk score of 54 (low 
risk). This is better than the multi-industry 
average of 42 (medium risk) and marks  
an improvement from 51 (low risk) in 2014. 
Where suppliers receive a medium or high 
risk rating, we collaborate to raise standards 
by creating corrective action plans. 
British Gas invested 
£24.5 million in training  
9,000 engineers and  
1,200 apprentices.
(i) Unit has been updated from 100,000 hours worked to 
better align with industry standards. 2014 performance 
has been restated to align with the updated unit. 
(ii) British Gas and Direct Energy NPS is not comparable 
due to different methodologies.
(iii) Restated due to changes in methodology which 
now focuses on experiences at the end of key 
customer journeys.
23
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Supporting changing 
customer needs 
Energy can be complex but we are 
making it easier to understand and 
control, while ensuring support for  
those most in need.
(i) Based on Department of Energy & Climate Change 
quarterly statistics, September 2015.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE
Providing competitive prices
We regularly review our energy prices to 
ensure they remain competitive. In the UK 
since November 2014, wholesale gas prices  
have reduced by 41% but as most of our 
energy is bought in advance to help protect 
customers from pricing volatility, our cost of 
gas has reduced by 24%. Wholesale energy 
costs make up 40% of the average British 
Gas residential dual fuel bill and was offset 
to some extent by other rising external 
costs, such as distribution charges 
alongside social and environmental taxes. 
British Gas was, however, able to reduce 
household gas prices three times since  
the start of 2015 and was the only major 
supplier to do so. The average residential 
dual fuel bill was cut by 14%, bringing the 
average daily charge for energy to around 
£3.14. Our post-tax profit margin for our  
UK residential customers was 5.6% in 2015. 
To help reduce bills, we continued to 
advocate for a more cost-effective UK 
energy policy. This included engagement 
with government on our Energy Choices 
report, which outlines alternative pathways 
by prioritising lower cost technologies, 
setting cost-effective carbon targets while 
maintaining support for vulnerable people. 
Investing for smarter energy use 
With the most customers in the UK, British 
Gas is leading the mandatory smart meter 
roll-out, having installed 2.5 million in 
homes and businesses since 2009. This  
is around 70% of all smart meters installed 
in the UK
(i)
. Smart meters enable accurate 
billing and help customers explore their 
energy use and costs in real-time, allowing 
for more informed choices that can reduce 
bills. As a result, we are prioritising the 
roll-out to our vulnerable customers. 
Using smart meter data, Direct Energy was 
able to launch North America’s first online 
energy insights dashboard, ‘Direct Your 
Energy’. Similar to British Gas’ ‘my energy’ 
tool, energy use is shown by categories  
such as appliance and compares it to 
similar households, highlighting where 
savings might be made. 
Hive is also a powerful tool for giving greater 
control over energy. Over 300,000 smart 
thermostats have been sold in the UK to 
control heating and hot water remotely, with 
58% of Hive users saying it has helped save 
money on their energy bills. Hive is now 
available in the Republic of Ireland while  
a new family of products including smart 
plugs, lights and sensors, are being 
introduced throughout 2016, enabling more 
of the home to be controlled via an app. 
We have also sold nearly 200,000 smart 
thermostats in North America, helping 
Direct Energy customers save up to 20%  
on their energy bills.
To further develop our leadership 
capabilities in cutting-edge products, we 
acquired AlertMe, an energy management 
and services company and have 
established a global Connected Home 
business in which we will invest £500 million 
over the next five years. Panoramic Power 
were also acquired to lead the future 
development of wireless sensors that 
identify ways businesses can reduce 
operating costs.
Helping those who need support
Over 3,000 customers in North America were 
supported through our Neighbor-to-Neighbor 
bill assistance programme in Texas, while  
1.9 million vulnerable customer households 
were helped in the UK. 
Our mandatory contributions in the UK 
included one-off payments of £140 to over 
650,000 vulnerable customers as part of  
the Warm Home Discount scheme. Through  
the delivery of energy efficiency products via 
ECO, those most in need will also save an 
estimated £400 million on their energy bills. 
£11.6 million in mandatory contributions  
for customers and non-customers were 
additionally made to the independent 
charity, the British Gas Energy Trust. This 
assisted over 24,500 people with household 
debt advice and grants as well as funding 
debt advisers at organisations like Shelter, 
British Gas’ strategic charity partner.
Through partnership with National Energy 
Action, we also developed targeted fuel 
poverty strategies for communities across 
the UK. 
Overall, we spent more than £220 million 
supporting those most in need during 2015, 
mainly through mandatory government 
programmes in the UK. 
OUR PROGRESS
Every household receives energy bills but 
not enough people understand their costs 
or how to reduce them. At the same time, 
changing and challenging financial 
circumstances mean some people 
struggle to pay for their energy. 
We offer competitively priced tariffs to  
win and retain customers while providing 
innovative products and services that satisfy 
their changing needs. This gives customers 
greater understanding and control over 
energy, helping them use less of what we 
sell and lower their energy bills. 
We also recognise our role to help 
government support vulnerable people  
with their energy needs. We are working 
across sectors and have formed strategic 
partnerships that deliver invaluable debt 
advice and financial support for those  
who need it most. 
1.9 million vulnerable  
customer households  
were helped in the UK.
24
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS Securing energy  
to fuel society
The world of energy is changing and  
we must adapt to it by sourcing and 
optimising energy supplies that satisfy  
the changing needs of our customers.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE
OUR PROGRESS
Energy is an enabler of society’s progress 
and global demand for it is expected to rise 
by nearly a third by 2040
(i)
. With millions of 
people increasingly reliant on energy, we 
have an ongoing responsibility to source, 
generate and supply competitively priced 
energy for our customers. 
We must evolve how we do this to create 
stronger energy propositions that meet the 
needs of our customers, the environment 
and makes us a more resilient business. 
Gas remains an important part of our 
strategy because it is one of the most 
affordable energy sources for heating 
homes and running businesses, is the 
lowest carbon fossil fuel and backs-up 
intermittent renewable energy. 
We continue to be a sizeable producer  
of gas and oil. We are, however, reducing  
the scale of our oil and gas E&P business  
to reflect the conclusions of our strategic 
review to rebalance the Group’s investments 
in favour of our customer-facing activities.
We will continue to concentrate on serving 
our customers’ energy needs by expanding 
trading capabilities while taking a leading 
role in creating a new model for generating 
and supplying energy through our new 
global DE&P business. 
Together with our innovative products and 
services (see page 24), this approach will 
improve energy security by diversifying 
supply and reducing demand.
Evolving our energy supply 
In 2015, we produced 78.6mmboe of  
gas and oil. We increased our focus on 
purchasing more competitive and diverse 
energy supplies on the global market.  
In 2016 and beyond, we will concentrate  
on significantly growing our presence in 
LNG which is forecast to account for a 
growing share of the world’s energy mix. 
The development of natural gas from shale 
could also strengthen energy security in the 
UK and throughout 2015, we continued to 
explore its potential through our 25% stake 
in the Bowland exploration licence operated 
by Cuadrilla Resources. Despite plans to 
mitigate possible adverse impacts on the 
local community such as noise and traffic, 
planning consent was refused in July. Our 
partners have since appealed the decision 
and we await the outcome in 2016.
Alternatives to fossil fuels are important  
as we transition to a lower carbon future. 
We hold a 20% stake in the UK’s existing 
nuclear power fleet and while we have been 
pivotal in shaping the UK’s wind industry 
through our role as an early developer, we 
have taken the decision to sell our 245MW 
wind farm capacity by the end of 2017. 
Owning and operating wind farms no  
longer fit with our customer-focused 
strategy which is why we will instead 
continue to be an enabler of other 
operators’ wind projects, committing to  
take electricity through a limited number  
of PPAs. 
To reduce risks associated with increased 
energy trading, particularly in respect of 
LNG, PPAs and entry into new markets, we 
have sought to maintain rigorous controls  
in contracting to ensure future partners 
meet the legal standards we expect.
At the end of 2015, our overall commitment 
to secure gas and power for customers 
totalled over £50 billion.
We have taken the decision  
to sell our 245MW wind farm 
capacity. 
Revolutionising energy supply 
We have established a new global DE&P 
business and expect to invest £700 million 
over the next five years to revolutionise the 
traditional, centralised way of generating 
and supplying energy.
We will give large scale energy users such 
as businesses and hospitals, the ability  
to take control of their energy and use it 
more intelligently to reduce, generate and 
manage it themselves. DE&P will bring 
together flexible, local generation with 
storage and renewable technologies 
alongside energy efficiency measures  
and smart building management systems. 
All of these technologies will be managed 
from a smart energy control centre to help 
keep costs and carbon emissions as low  
as possible.
DE&P will also develop new propositions 
and technologies that reduce demand on 
the grid and reward customers with lower 
bills for shifting use away from peak times. 
Together with battery storage and smarter 
grids, this will help energy use become 
more efficient, reduce consumption and 
improve future energy security.
(i) International Energy Agency, 2015.
25
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Reducing carbon 
emissions to combat 
climate change 
Fossil fuels contribute to climate change 
so we are helping customers reduce 
their carbon footprint while driving down 
emissions across our business. 
Our carbon emissions
2015 2014
Total carbon emissions 4,393,016tCO2e 5,587,885tCO2e
(ii)
Scope 1 4,272,477tCO2e 5,452,079tCO2e
(ii)
Scope 2 120,539tCO2e 135,806tCO2e
(ii)
Total carbon intensity by revenue 157tCO2e/£m 190tCO2e/£m
We report on an equity basis with practices drawn from WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, IPIECA’s Petroleum 
Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Defra’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE
OUR PROGRESS
Energy is essential to the lives of individuals, 
families and businesses but we recognise 
that fossil fuels are also the biggest 
contributor to climate change; one of 
society’s greatest global challenges. 
We fully support climate change targets 
set at a national and international level by 
helping customers cut carbon emissions 
from their energy consumption alongside 
those generated by our business. 
With over 90% of our carbon emissions 
coming from customers, empowering them 
to reduce emissions is vital. We are well 
placed to do this through market-leading 
products and services that give customers 
greater choice and control over their energy. 
Our commitment to disclose and effectively 
manage risks related to climate change 
were again recognised in 2015 by CDP , an 
international non-governmental organisation 
(NGO), who ranked Centrica as a leader  
in disclosure and awarded us a ‘B’ for 
performance
(i)
. This was down from an ‘A’ 
the previous year, due mainly to reduced low 
carbon nuclear and renewable generation. 
Enabling customers to cut carbon
Our expected £1.2 billion investment over 
the next five years in Connected Home 
(see page 24) and DE&P (see page 25), can 
help our customers lower their emissions 
through greater insights and control over 
how they use and generate energy. 
Cost-effective energy efficiency measures 
such as insulation, are also delivered as part 
of ECO. During 2015, we installed 149,000 
measures through ECO which will generate 
lifetime savings of 2.8mtCO2e. 
Furthermore, we help customers reduce 
reliance on fossil fuels by investing in 
alternative energy sources. Solar energy  
is growing in North America and during 
2015, Direct Energy installed solar panels  
in 2,164 homes and businesses, generating  
28MWp. This was up from 19MWp the 
previous year, following the acquisition of 
residential solar capabilities in July 2014. 
In the UK, British Gas exited residential 
solar due to challenging market conditions 
and will now focus on large scale solar for 
businesses. Combined, installations rose 
from 7MWp to 34MWp across 697 UK 
homes and businesses.
Balancing demand on the grid also reduces 
impact from fossil fuels because less energy 
needs to be generated to meet peak 
demand. In 2015, Direct Energy launched 
Reduce Your Use Rewards where 
customers save 5% on their bill by lowering 
usage during a peak event. In 2016, British 
Gas expects to roll-out its own Time-of-Use 
tariff to reduce consumption at peak hours. 
In total, we calculate that we have helped 
our UK customers save over 22mtCO2e 
since 2008, the majority of which was 
through mandated government schemes. 
Reducing our own emissions
We now emit nearly 70% less carbon for 
every pound of revenue raised than in 2010, 
having gradually shifted away from being  
a large scale energy producer. 
Our UK fuel mix of power sold %
Gas 
Nuclear 
Renewable 
 
Coal 
Other 
33
31
23
11
2
In 2015, the carbon intensity of our power 
generation fell by 24% to 117gCO2/kWh. 
This surpasses our target of 260gCO2/kWh 
by 2020, largely due to reduced gas 
generation, stronger nuclear generation  
and divestments made in 2014. We have 
now revised our target to 200gCO2/kWh  
by 2020, which better reflects our business. 
The carbon intensity of all power sold to 
our UK customers during 2014/15, was 
one of the lowest among major UK energy 
suppliers at 240gCO2/kWh; well below the 
UK average of 360gCO2/kWh
(iii)
. 
Meanwhile, the internal carbon footprint  
of our core business was 79,096tCO2e.  
This meant we exceeded our target to 
reduce emissions by 20% since 2007, 
achieving a total reduction of 27%.
(i) Based on 2014 data. 
(ii) Restated due to availability of improved data. 
(iii) ElectricityInfo.org.
26
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS Our view on taxation
OUR APPROACH
Wherever we do business in the world we 
take great care to ensure we fully comply 
with all of our obligations to pay or collect 
taxes and to meet local reporting and 
disclosure requirements.
We fully disclose information on ownership, 
transactions and financing structures to the 
relevant tax authorities. Our cross-border 
tax reporting reflects the underlying 
commercial reality of our business.
We ensure that income and costs, 
including costs of financing operations, 
are appropriately recognised on a fair and 
sustainable basis across all countries where 
the Group has a business presence. We 
understand that this is not an exact science 
and we engage openly with tax authorities 
to explain our approach.
UK tax charge
UK cash tax paid
Mainland Europe tax charge
Mainland Europe cash tax paid
North America tax charge
North America cash tax paid
Tax charge v. cash tax by country
2015 £m
98
121
130
106
106
74
TAXES PAID IN THE UK
We maintain a transparent and constructive 
relationship with HMRC in the UK. This 
includes regular, open dialogue on issues 
of significance to HMRC and Centrica. 
Our relationship with fiscal authorities in 
other countries where we do business 
is conducted on the same principles.
We carefully manage the tax risks and costs 
inherent in every commercial transaction, in 
the same way as any other cost. However, 
we do not enter into artificial arrangements 
in order to avoid taxation nor to defeat the 
stated purpose of tax legislation.
We actively engage in consultation with 
government on tax policy where we believe 
we are in a position as a Group to provide 
valuable commercial insight.
TAXES PAID OUTSIDE THE UK
Outside the UK the Group’s businesses 
are subject to corporate income tax rates 
in excess of the UK Corporation Tax Rate 
(see below).
A more detailed explanation of the way the 
Group’s tax liability is calculated and the 
timing of cash payments is provided on our 
website at centrica.com/responsibletax.
Statutory tax rates on profits
Group activities %
UK supply of energy and services 20
UK oil and gas production 50/75
Norway oil and gas production 78
Netherlands oil and gas production 50
United States supply of energy 
and services 35
Canada supply of energy and 
services and oil and gas production 26
Republic of Ireland supply  
of energy and services 12.5
As at December 2015.
The Group takes its obligations to pay  
and collect the correct amount of tax very 
seriously. Responsibility for tax governance 
and strategy lies with the Group Chief 
Financial Officer, with the oversight of  
the Board and the Audit Committee. 
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
Breakdown of UK adjusted tax charge 
£m
120 100 80 60 40 20 0
Adjusted UK
tax charge
Deferred taxes and
associates taxes
2015 taxes to be 
repaid in 2016
2014 taxes paid 
in 2015
Taxes paid 
in 2015
74
(47)
66
28
121
27
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Business Review
This review reports on our performance 
during 2015 under the business unit  
reporting structure in place at the time.  
In January 2016, we announced fundamental 
changes to the way that Centrica will be 
organised. Our new reporting segments, 
aligned to support the delivery of our 
strategy, are set out on page 13.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR BUSINESS UNIT  
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ON  
CENTRICA.COM/PERFORMANCE.
28 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 British Gas operating profit fell 2% in  
2015, with an operating loss in British Gas 
Business (BGB) caused by issues resulting 
from the implementation of a new billing and 
customer relationship management (CRM) 
system mostly offset by an increase in 
British Gas Residential (BGR) operating 
profit, with consumption returning to more 
normal levels following a mild 2014. In a 
competitive environment we are focused on 
delivering increased efficiencies, improved 
customer service and innovative customer 
propositions across British Gas.
CUSTOMER SERVICE
Improving our levels of customer service  
is a key focus and in April we announced  
we were dedicating a further £50 million  
of resources over three years in serving our 
residential energy customers, to help achieve 
our goal of delivering excellent service. We 
completed recruitment of more than 350 
additional customer service agents by the 
end of September, which enabled us to 
provide resilient service levels in the fourth 
quarter and our residential energy contact 
centre NPS increased by nine points over 
2015, to +28. In Services, our engineer NPS 
increased to a record high of +70 for the 
year. Our nationwide network of around 
8,000 highly trained service engineers with 
trusted access to customers’ homes remains 
a competitive advantage for British Gas. We 
have also seen a consistent improvement 
during 2015 in our brand reputation.
Providing customers with the tools to 
interact and engage through digital channels 
is increasingly important, to improve 
customer satisfaction and to help reduce 
costs, and we are focused on transforming 
the digital customer experience. We have 
made good progress in developing our 
digital platforms and during the year we 
launched a new simplified ‘homemove’ 
customer journey, which has helped 
increase retention of customers moving 
home by 23 percentage points.
British Gas: Residential energy accounts 
14.7m
2014: 14.8m
CONNECTED HOME, INNOVATION 
AND SMART METERING
Innovative customer offerings, including 
connected home products, are increasingly 
important to improve customer satisfaction 
and retention. We have established a 
significant position in connected homes in 
the UK and in March 2015 we completed 
the acquisition of AlertMe, the provider of 
the technical platform that underpins our 
existing connected home activity, including 
our ‘in-house’ developed Hive smart 
thermostat. The acquisition means  
Centrica has ownership and control  
over a scalable technology platform, 
software development capability and  
data analytics, to enable us to provide  
a full end-to-end customer experience. 
In July 2015, we launched Hive Active 
Heating
TM
 2, the next generation of our 
smart thermostat. We have now sold over 
300,000 smart thermostats in the UK, 
providing us with the largest installed  
base of connected thermostats. Around 
80% of Hive customers say they have 
recommended the product, and 42%  
of Hive customers who also have one of  
our energy or services products say they 
feel more positive about British Gas as a 
result. In early 2016, we launched a range  
of connected home products in the UK, 
including Hive Window or Door sensor,  
Hive Active Plug
TM
 and Hive Motion Sensors. 
We have a strong development pipeline  
of further innovative products planned  
for 2016, including Hive Active Lights and 
our ‘connected boiler’, which is currently  
on commercial trial. 
Smart meters will bring significant benefits 
to customers, including an end to estimated 
bills, greater ability to monitor and reduce 
consumption and simpler and faster 
switching between suppliers, helping to 
improve trust in the UK energy industry.  
We have now installed more than two  
million residential smart meters in the  
UK, significantly more than any of our 
competitors, as we scale the business to 
ensure we are fully mobilised for delivery  
of the mandated roll-out by 2020. We are 
currently trialling smart meters to our 
pre-payment customers, with around 
50,000 customers participating in the trial 
and a full commercial launch is planned for 
the second half of 2016. Over 800,000 of 
our smart meter customers now regularly 
receive our unique smart energy report, ‘my 
energy’, which provides a comprehensive 
analysis of their energy consumption.  
The report is helping to improve levels  
of customer satisfaction and the overall 
perception of British Gas, with a +21 NPS 
improvement for customers engaging with 
the report. We are also trialling ‘my energy 
live’ which allows customers to access 
many of the in-home display functions  
on their smart phone or tablet device. 
BRITISH GAS RESIDENTIAL
British Gas Residential operating profit 
increased, reflecting a 5% increase in 
average gas consumption despite the 
warmest December on record, with more 
normal UK temperatures on average in the 
year compared to a mild 2014. In addition, 
costs associated with delivery of the ECO 
programme were lower, predominantly 
reflecting improved efficiency and the 
phasing of expenditure on the programme 
as we accelerated delivery in 2014 to ensure 
we met our obligations under Phase 1 of  
the programme. We have helped nearly 
500,000 households under the ECO 
programme to date. 
Our residential energy customer accounts 
fell by less than 1% over the year, in a 
competitive market environment. We are 
adapting to the changing market with 
competitive fixed price and collective switch 
offerings and our fixed-price Sainsbury’s 
tariff delivered particularly strong sales, 
generating new to brand customers. In 
February 2016, we announced a further cut 
in our residential gas prices, becoming the 
only major UK energy supplier to cut prices 
three times since the start of 2015. The 
average British Gas customer bill is around 
£100 less now than at the start of 2015.
BRITISH GAS SERVICES
The sales environment remains challenging 
for our UK services business, with a 
continued shift in customer demand 
towards cheaper on-demand and home 
emergency products. Against this 
backdrop, we are focused on improving 
sales performance through enhancing the 
online journey and the development of new 
propositions to better meet this changing 
customer demand. In the fourth quarter  
of 2015 we launched our new, simpler 
‘Homecare’ product range and although 
accounts declined during the second half  
of 2015, the net rate of loss was reduced 
compared to the first half. The market for 
central heating installations is also proving 
challenging, with market demand changing 
towards simpler and faster installations. 
British Gas
British Gas: Operating profit
£809m
2014: £823m
29
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Reflecting this, in the second half of 2015 
we launched new propositions, such as 
‘straight swaps’, targeted at these  
customer segments.
British Gas Services operating profit fell  
by 5%, with the impact of lower contract 
holdings partly offset by a continued focus 
on cost management. Costs are a key  
area of focus and we are committed to 
managing our cost base to improve 
efficiency and effectiveness. In support  
of this, we made changes to our defined 
benefit pension schemes, resulting in  
a £23 million credit.
BRITISH GAS BUSINESS
British Gas Business was affected by  
issues following the migration of customer 
accounts and associated data onto a  
new billing and CRM system from multiple 
legacy systems, which had a significant 
impact on customer service, including 
difficulties in producing timely customer 
bills. To help resolve these issues we 
recruited additional resource and customer 
service levels have begun to improve. 
Complaints in the second half were down 
9% compared to the first half of the year, 
while unresolved complaints fell by 50%  
in comparison to the peak in early 2015. 
All our business customer accounts have 
been migrated onto the new system and 
billing performance is now better than 
under the old legacy system, with cash 
collection continuing to be a key area of 
focus. The new system is enabling us to 
digitise the customer journey, allowing us  
to target further improvements in customer 
service at reduced cost.
The number of business energy supply 
points fell by 11% during 2015, with our 
focus on resolving the billing issues for 
existing customers limiting the opportunity 
for new sales in a competitive market. In 
addition, the business incurred temporary 
increases in operating costs to help resolve 
the system issues and an increase in the 
bad debt charge. As a result, the business 
reported an operating loss in the year.
Business services and distributed energy 
are key sources of differentiation and will 
help us retain existing customers and 
acquire new ones, as well as providing 
growth opportunities in their own right. We 
have good capabilities in this space, and will 
continue to develop propositions for our C&I 
customers through the newly established 
Distributed Energy & Power business unit.
Direct Energy: Residential energy accounts
3.0m
2014: 3.3m
Direct Energy: Operating profit
£328m
2014: £150m
Direct Energy
Direct Energy delivered significantly higher 
operating profit than in 2014. Much colder 
than normal weather at the start of 2015 
benefited the business, as a more stable 
physical infrastructure, in addition to market 
redesign and management action meant  
we did not see a repeat of the additional 
network system charges resulting from the 
polar vortex in 2014. Although this benefit 
was partially offset by un-seasonally warm 
weather in the fourth quarter of 2015. In 
addition, our C&I business benefited from 
higher unit margins on contracts sold in 
prior years and our residential energy 
business benefited from acquiring higher 
consuming customers. However, the 
services business reported an operating 
loss, primarily due to ongoing investments 
in residential solar.
In November, we announced we were 
combining our residential energy and 
services activities, organising the business 
around our customer segments. This will 
allow us to develop a more sustainable 
residential business, improving commercial 
performance and delivering cost efficiency. 
We also made good progress in building the 
Direct Energy brand across North America. 
During the year we joined a range of 
well-known brands to launch Plenti, the  
first United States-based coalition loyalty 
programme, and we re-launched our Direct 
Energy and First Choice Power brands in 
residential energy. 
DIRECT ENERGY BUSINESS 
Direct Energy Business reported a 
significant increase in operating profit in 
2015, even after taking into account the 
absence of the one-off Polar Vortex costs  
in 2014. This reflects higher margins on 
contracts sold from 2014 onwards, lower 
amortisation costs related to the Hess 
Energy Marketing acquisition and a more 
balanced business between power and 
gas. In addition, natural gas pipeline and 
storage capacity contracts were utilised  
to deliver strong optimisation performance 
during periods of cold weather in the first 
quarter of the year. 
Overall gas and electricity volumes delivered 
to customers were slightly down compared 
to 2014 due to a warm December. However, 
Direct Energy maintained its position as  
the largest C&I gas supplier and the second 
largest C&I power supplier in the United 
States. Unit margins on new C&I gas and 
power sales have remained broadly at the 
levels achieved in 2014, with increased 
margins on power sales and lower margins 
on gas sales.
During 2015 we continued to enhance our 
online customer experience, through the 
launch of ‘MyAccount’. This online platform 
simplifies online bill payment and account 
management. We are currently experiencing 
over 14,500 ‘MyAccount’ log-ins each month.
We continue to look for opportunities  
to enhance our offerings to our C&I 
customers. Through our relationship with 
SolarCity, we completed a number of 
commercial solar installations for customers 
across the US. In November, we completed 
the acquisition of Panoramic Power with 
whom we have had a successful 
partnership since 2014. The acquisition 
provides Centrica with leading capabilities 
in energy management technology and 
data science expertise, with around 25,000 
sensors deployed across 700 sites in 30 
countries, and enables us to offer enhanced 
and innovative propositions to customers 
which allow them to better understand  
their energy consumption. It will also help 
advance our Distributed Energy & Power 
offering in North America. 
British Gas continued
Business Review 
continued
30 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 DIRECT ENERGY RESIDENTIAL
Direct Energy Residential operating profit 
increased in 2015. This predominantly 
reflects the absence of polar vortex costs 
incurred in 2014. 
The number of customer accounts declined 
by 223,000, reflecting competitive market 
pressures in the US North East and the 
continued impact of the Energy Consumer 
Protection Act (ECPA) in Ontario. Against 
this backdrop, we continue to build our 
capabilities to deliver enhanced and 
innovative customer propositions, including 
the bundling of energy and services 
products as we aim to retain and attract  
the highest value customers. In 2015,  
46% of residential customers acquired also  
took a services protection plan or smart 
thermostat, up from 11% in 2014. We  
also began to execute on our strategy of 
attracting higher consuming customers. 
We continue to offer innovative products 
and have now sold nearly 200,000 smart 
thermostats in North America, enabling  
our customers to reduce and better control 
their energy consumption. Our ‘Direct Your 
Energy’ insight tool, launched in July 2015, 
allows customers to itemise their energy 
usage by major household appliance.  
In addition, we launched ‘Reduce Your  
Use Rewards’ which incentivises customers 
to use less energy in peak demand periods.  
In July 2015, we launched ‘Direct Your  
Plan’, a personalised service enabling 
residential customers to build their own 
energy plan from a number of options such 
as length of contract, energy type, energy 
efficiency tools, reward programmes and 
home services. 
Bord Gáis Energy
Bord Gáis Energy performed strongly in 
2015, ahead of its acquisition case, and 
reported an operating profit of £30 million  
in the first full reporting year since its 
acquisition in June 2014. Employee 
engagement has remained high since the 
acquisition. Having introduced a more robust 
procedure for measuring contact NPS in  
the first quarter, we recorded an overall 
NPS of +16 for the year including an NPS  
of +66 in our boiler servicing department.
Bord Gáis Energy was the first energy 
provider to announce price reductions in  
the Republic of Ireland in both January and 
September 2015, with residential gas and 
electricity price cuts totalling 6% and 4.5% 
respectively. These reductions positioned us 
with the cheapest standard dual fuel offering 
amongst our major competitors. Reflecting 
this, the business returned to residential 
energy account growth in both gas and 
electricity, the first time this has grown since 
2011, while the number of multi-product 
customers increased by 30% during 2015. 
In addition, the number of business energy 
service supply points also increased by  
16% to 36,000 in the year. 
Bord Gáis Energy is also leveraging 
Centrica’s expertise in deregulated energy 
markets, having launched the first residential 
fixed price tariff in the Republic of Ireland 
and also introduced Hive Active Heating
TM
. 
Early take up has been positive. 
In power generation, our flexible 445MW 
Whitegate gas-fired station operated ahead 
of expectations and delivered high reliability, 
protecting our customers from power price 
volatility during peak times in a highly 
vertically integrated market. 
Bord Gáis Energy: Operating profit
£30m
2014: £7m
 Our Energy Supply & Services 
businesses in the UK and North 
America will share a common 
operating model and be 
supported by common 
operating functions.
We remain focused on delivering high  
levels of customer service and in 2015  
our ‘right first time’ metric increased by  
10 percentage points. We also continue to 
drive digital customer interactions, helping 
improve the customer experience and 
reducing costs, and 21% of new customer 
acquisitions in 2015 were obtained  
through digital channels, an increase of  
2 percentage points in comparison to 2014. 
Cost efficiency is also a key focus and in 
2015 we delivered a 2% year-on-year 
reduction in residential energy ‘cost to  
serve’ per customer.
DIRECT ENERGY SERVICES
Direct Energy Services reported an 
operating loss of £34 million in 2015, 
compared to a £4 million like-for-like 
operating profit in 2014, which excludes the 
contribution from the Ontario home services 
business, which was sold in October 2014. 
The loss in 2015 reflects an accelerated 
investment in Direct Energy Solar. 
We continue to grow our services annuity 
business and the number of contract 
relationships across North America 
increased by 12% and is now over one 
million. During the year we re-priced our 
protection plan offerings to better reflect the 
costs and risks associated with the portfolio 
of product offerings, while maintaining a 
competitive offer to our customers. Our 
residential new construction business 
performed well, as did our franchise 
operations as we expanded our reach  
to 78 new locations and now serve 650  
in total. The combining of our residential 
activities into DE Home will help us to 
achieve our goal of building long-term 
customer relationships.
31
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Centrica Energy
Centrica Energy: Operating profit
£255m
2014: £648m*
* Restated – see page 1 for details.
Centrica Energy: UK power generated
19.3TWh
2014: 22.1TWh
Centrica Energy delivered good operational 
performance in 2015, with higher than 
planned levels of E&P production and 
nuclear generation. However, the business 
reported a significantly reduced operating 
profit and recognised post-tax impairments 
and onerous provisions totalling £1,950 
million on E&P and power generation 
assets, predominantly reflecting the impact 
of falling wholesale commodity prices, 
spark spreads and forecast capacity 
auction prices. Against this backdrop we 
made significant progress in repositioning 
the business, achieving reductions in both 
E&P cash production costs and capital 
expenditure, and the E&P business was  
free cash flow positive in the year. 
GAS
Our E&P business delivered good 
production performance, with total gas and 
liquids production down 1% to 78.6mmboe. 
Gas production was down 3% and liquids 
production was up 7%.
In Europe, total production was down  
1%. Norwegian production increased by 
16% reflecting consistently high production 
from Kvitebjorn and Statfjord and a first 
contribution from the large-scale Valemon 
project in the North Sea, which came 
on-stream in January 2015. UK and 
Netherlands production decreased by  
14%, reflecting the natural decline of 
producing fields and an extended 
maintenance shutdown at Morecambe. 
In the Americas, total production decreased 
2%, with the benefit from new wells 
acquired and drilled in Canada in 2014 
largely offsetting natural decline in the 
portfolio. Trinidad and Tobago production 
was down 5% compared to 2014. 
We have made significant progress in 
refocusing our E&P business. A number  
of initiatives have enabled us to deliver cost 
efficiencies, including management action  
to renegotiate contractor rates, headcount 
reductions in support roles and working with 
licence partners and operators to deliver 
savings. European unit cash production 
costs were down 6% compared to 2014.  
In the Americas, unit cash production costs 
reduced by 13%, in part reflecting reduced 
Canadian royalties as a result of lower North 
American gas prices. We have increased 
our target reduction in lifting and other cash 
production costs in 2016 to 15%, or 
£150 million, compared to 2014.
Organic capital expenditure in 2015 was 
£728 million, 33% lower than in 2014. This 
included spend on the large-scale Cygnus 
project, which is expected to achieve first 
gas in the first half of 2016. In the current 
price environment we have acted to 
minimise other capital expenditure, including 
exploration. We are focusing on maintaining 
and optimising production from our assets 
and on completing committed development 
projects. These projects include Cygnus and 
Maria, on which we took a final investment 
decision during 2015 and which is due to 
produce first oil in 2018. We expect capital 
expenditure to be around £500 million  
in 2016. Centrica Energy’s proven and 
probable (2P) reserves of 528mmboe at the 
end of 2015 were 10% lower than in 2014, 
with positive revisions to reserves in Norway 
and Canada partially offsetting the impact  
of production during the year.
Our gas midstream business delivered a 
strong trading performance in the second 
half of the year, including recognising a 
£24 million gain following the settlement  
of a disputed long-term gas field contract. 
This more than offset a first half operating 
loss, following the optimisation of a number 
of flexible gas contracts for value during  
a period of falling prices in 2014, with a 
consequential impact on 2015. In LNG,  
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(FERC) issued authorisation in April 2015  
to allow Sabine Pass Liquefaction LLC  
to construct and operate the fifth train 
expansion at their LNG facility in Louisiana. 
At the end of June 2015 the project received 
a Non-Free Trade Agreement licence from 
the Department of Energy (DOE), and with  
a positive final investment decision now 
having been made on the project Centrica 
expects to take delivery of its first cargo 
under its US export contract in late 2018  
or in 2019. We continue to increase our 
capabilities and presence in global LNG and 
have completed a number of FOB cargoes, 
including our first delivery to South America, 
and have secured further cargoes scheduled 
for delivery in 2016.
Overall, Gas operating profit fell 73%, 
predominantly reflecting lower achieved oil 
and gas prices and a reduced contribution 
from the gas midstream business. We also 
recognised exceptional post-tax impairments 
of £1,477 million relating to our E&P assets, 
as a result of declining oil and gas prices.
POWER
Our share of nuclear power generation  
for the year was up 8%, reflecting good 
reliability from the fleet. The four reactors  
at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool power stations 
were all operational in the year, albeit at 
reduced load, having been temporarily 
shut-down in the second half of 2014 
following the identification of an issue on 
one boiler spine at Heysham 1 in 2014.  
A programme of cooling modifications  
was successfully implemented during 2015,  
and temperature restrictions have now been 
lifted. This means that three of the reactors 
can now reach 100% output, with further 
work planned in 2016 at Heysham 1 to 
increase power.
Business Review 
continued
 We have clarified the role of 
E&P in the portfolio – to 
provide diversity of cash flows 
and balance sheet strength.
32 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Centrica Storage
Centrica Storage: Operating profit
£37m
2014: £29m
Seasonal gas price spreads fell to 
historically low levels over the second half of 
2015, with an abundance of flexible supply 
across Europe, and they remain at these 
low levels creating a challenging outlook for 
the Rough asset. It was announced in April 
2015 that all SBUs for the 2015/16 storage 
year had been sold at 21.1p, only marginally 
higher than the 20.0p achieved in 2014/15, 
which was the lowest SBU price since 
Centrica acquired the Rough asset in 2003. 
In March 2015, Centrica Storage 
announced that during a routine inspection 
of Rough a potential technical issue had 
been discovered. As a result, we decided  
to limit the maximum operating pressure of 
the Rough wells to 3,000 psi, the equivalent 
of limiting the stock in the Rough asset  
to 29-32TWh. The highest level reached in 
2014 was 41.1TWh. Reflecting the reduced 
maximum operating pressure, Centrica 
Storage has reduced the number of SBUs  
it will sell for the 2016/17 storage year to 
340 million, from 455 million in 2015/16,  
and in February 2016 announced that it  
had sold over 80% of this lower capacity.  
It is anticipated that the limitation will remain 
in place at least until the testing and 
verification works are completed between 
September 2016 and December 2016. 
In thermal power generation, market spark 
spreads and our plant’s load factors 
remained low during the year. Gas-fired 
volumes were down 37%, which also 
reflects an unplanned outage at Langage in 
the first half. In December 2015, the second 
UK power capacity auction took place for 
2019/20 capacity, clearing at £18.0/kW/
year. Our Humber and Langage plants were 
successful in the auction, as were all the 
nuclear reactors in which we have a 20% 
equity interest. Humber and Langage 
remain core assets, alongside Brigg, which 
is now operating as a distributed energy 
asset and Peterborough, where we have  
the potential to make a similar conversion. 
Killingholme will close in March 2016 once 
its Supplemental Balancing Reserve (SBR) 
contract ends, while Barry will only continue 
to operate if profitability can be secured in 
short-term flexibility markets.
Our wind assets delivered increased  
wind yields but generation volumes fell  
by 3%, reflecting the disposal of our share  
in the Barrow offshore wind farm in 
December 2014.
Total Power operating profit increased by 
40%. Nuclear profit was up, with the higher 
volumes and good cost management more 
than offsetting the impact of lower market 
power prices. The operating loss from our 
gas-fired fleet was broadly flat. Renewables 
profit increased, with 2014 including net 
negative one-off impacts of £17 million 
resulting from development project  
write-downs partially offset by profits on 
disposal. Midstream profit was lower in 
comparison to a strong performance in 2014. 
We also recognised an exceptional post-tax 
impairment of £372 million relating to our 
nuclear investment and £101 million relating 
to our Spalding contract asset, which 
includes an onerous contract provision of 
£70 million. These arose primarily as a result 
of declining baseload power, clean spark 
spread and forecast capacity auction prices.
In July 2015 Centrica Storage received 
consent from the Oil and Gas Authority  
to increase the reservoir size of Rough  
by 4.5TWh. As a result, the capacity of 
Rough has been partially recovered and  
a proportion of the cushion gas associated 
with this was sold in the second half of the 
year. Operating profit was slightly higher  
in 2015 than in 2014, with the sale of this 
cushion gas more than offsetting the 
negative impact of the pressure limitation  
on Rough. 
In September 2015, the CMA announced  
a consultation on the Rough Undertakings, 
following a request from Centrica Storage  
in light of the operating pressure limitations 
of the Rough wells. The final report is 
expected in April 2016.
Against a challenging external environment, 
Centrica Storage has completed a 
reorganisation of the business, allowing it  
to focus on health and safety, efficiency and 
cost control, while maintaining the integrity 
of the ageing Rough asset. 
 We do not see Storage as a 
growth option in the current 
environment.
33
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Group Financial  
Review
Group revenue Adjusted operating profit
£28.0bn £1,459m
2014: £29.4bn 2014: £1,657m (restated)
Adjusted effective tax rate Adjusted earnings
26% £863m
2014: 30% 2014: £903m (restated)
Adjusted basic EPS Dividend per share
17.2p 12.0p
2014: 18.0p (restated) 2014: 13.5p
Adjusted operating  
cash flow
Net debt
£2,253m £4,747m
2014: £2,201m 2014: £5,196m
Statutory loss Basic earnings per share
£(747)m (14.9)p
2014: £(1,012)m 2014: (20.2)p
GROUP REVENUE
Group revenue decreased by 5% to £28.0 
billion (2014: £29.4 billion). British Gas gross 
revenue fell 4% to £12.4 billion, primarily as 
a result of lower average sales prices 
reflecting the lower price environment and  
a lower number of business energy supply 
points. Direct Energy gross revenue fell by 
11%, also reflecting the impact of lower gas 
prices on energy unit tariffs, and the impact 
of the disposal of the Ontario home services 
business in October 2014. Bord Gáis 
Energy gross revenue increased by 87% 
reflecting 12 months of ownership in 2015 
compared to six months in 2014. Centrica 
Energy gross revenue fell by 6%, primarily 
reflecting lower achieved prices in the 
current commodity environment, partially 
offset by increased midstream revenue. 
Centrica Storage gross revenue increased 
by 5% with the sale of cushion gas more 
than offsetting the impact of lower seasonal 
gas price spreads and reduced capacity at 
the Rough asset.
OPERATING PROFIT
All profit and earnings figures now include 
fair value depreciation related to our 
Strategic Investments in Venture and 
Nuclear, which was previously excluded 
from adjusted measures. Throughout the 
statement, reference is made to a number 
of different profit measures, which are 
shown on page 35.
Total adjusted operating profit fell 12%. 
British Gas operating profit fell 2%. Within 
this, residential energy supply operating 
profit increased, reflecting higher gas 
volumes due to more normal weather 
conditions, and lower costs, including those 
associated with delivery of the ECO 
programme. Residential services profit fell 
by 5%, with the impact of lower accounts 
and inflationary cost increases partially 
offset by cost efficiency measures, including 
a £23 million one-time credit relating to the 
implementation of a Pension Increase 
Exchange (PIE) for our defined benefit 
scheme members. Business energy supply 
and services reported an operating loss, 
primarily reflecting a higher bad debt charge 
and temporary additional operating costs 
relating to the implementation of a new 
billing and CRM system.
Centrica has delivered a resilient financial 
performance, with solid 2015 adjusted 
earnings despite the challenge of falling 
wholesale oil and gas prices.
34 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Operating profit
Year ended 31 December Notes
Business
 performance
£m
Exceptional
 items and
certain 
re-measurements
£m
2015
 Statutory 
result
£m
Business
 performance
£m
Exceptional
 items and
 certain 
re-measurements
£m
2014*
 Statutory 
result
£m
Adjusted operating profit
British Gas 809 823
Direct Energy 328 150
Bord Gáis Energy 30 7
Centrica Energy 255 648
Centrica Storage 37 29
Total adjusted operating profit 4(c) 1,459 1,657
Interest and taxation on joint ventures and 
associates 4(c) (61) (89)
Group operating profit/(loss) 4(c) 1,398 (2,255) (857) 1,568 (2,705) (1,137)
Net finance cost 8 (279) – (279) (266) – (266)
Taxation 9 (286) 538 252 (375) 773 398
Profit/(loss) for the year 833 (1,717) (884) 927 (1,932) (1,005)
Attributable to non-controlling interests 30 (24)
Adjusted earnings 863 903
Group finance charge and tax
Year ended 31 December
UK
£m
Non-UK
£m
2015
Total 
£m
UK
£m
Non-UK
£m
2014*
Total 
£m
Adjusted operating profit 1,057 402 1,459 1,196 461 1,657
Share of joint ventures’/associates’ interest (53) – (53) (62) – (62)
Net finance cost (156) (123) (279) (152) (114) (266)
Adjusted profit before taxation 848 279 1,127 982 347 1,329
Taxation on profit 74 212 286 125 250 375
Share of joint ventures’/associates’ taxation 8 – 8 27 – 27
Adjusted tax charge 82 212 294 152 250 402
Adjusted effective tax rate 10% 76% 26% 15% 72% 30%
* Restated – see page 1 for details.
Direct Energy operating profit increased 
significantly, with no repeat of additional 
polar vortex related costs incurred in 2014 
and the realisation of higher margins on 
business energy supply contracts. This 
more than offset an operating loss in Direct 
Energy Services, as a result of the sale  
in 2014 of the Ontario home services 
business and additional costs related  
to accelerated investment in our solar 
business. Bord Gáis Energy made an 
operating profit of £30 million in the first  
full year since its acquisition. 
Centrica Energy operating profit fell by 61%. 
Gas operating profit fell 73%, predominantly 
reflecting the impact of lower commodity 
prices. Power profitability increased by  
40% with higher output from the nuclear 
fleet, the absence of net one-off negative 
impacts of £17 million on renewables in 
2014 and a reduced loss on gas-fired  
assets due to a lower depreciation charge 
reflecting prior year impairments. Centrica 
Storage operating profit increased by 28%, 
predominantly reflecting additional revenue 
from the sale of cushion gas. 
GROUP FINANCE CHARGE AND TAX
Net finance costs increased slightly to  
£279 million (2014: £266 million), reflecting  
a higher interest cost on bonds following the 
issuance of £1 billion equivalent of hybrid 
securities. The taxation charge reduced to 
£286 million (2014: £375 million) and after 
taking account of tax on joint ventures  
and associates the adjusted tax charge  
was £294 million (2014: £402 million). The 
resultant adjusted effective tax rate for the 
Group was 26% (2014: 30%), predominantly 
reflecting a shift in the mix of profit towards 
the lower taxed downstream businesses. 
An effective tax rate calculation, showing 
the UK and non-UK components, is  
shown below:
35
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Group Financial Review continued
Adjusted operating cash flow
Year ended 31 December
2015
£m
2014
£m
Net cash flow from operating activities 2,197 1,217
Add back/(deduct):  
Net margin and cash collateral (inflow)/outflow 
(i)
(282) 640
Payments relating to exceptional charges 81 125
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 180 138
Defined benefit deficit pension payment 77 81
Adjusted operating cash flow 2,253 2,201
(i) Net margin and cash collateral (inflow)/outflow includes the reversal of collateral amounts posted when the related derivative contract settles.
GROUP EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND
Reflecting all of the above, profit for the year 
fell to £833 million (2014: £927 million) and 
after adjusting for losses attributable to  
non-controlling interests, adjusted earnings  
were £863 million (2014: £903 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS) 
was 17.2p (2014: 18.0p). 
The statutory loss attributable to 
shareholders for the period was £747 million 
(2014: loss of £1,012 million). The reconciling 
items between Group profit for the period 
from business performance and statutory 
profit are related to exceptional items and 
certain re-measurements. The change 
compared to 2014 is principally due to  
a net gain from certain re-measurements  
of £129 million compared to a net loss  
of £771 million in 2014, partially offset by 
higher post-tax exceptional charges of 
£1,846 million (2014: £1,161 million). The 
Group reported a statutory basic EPS  
loss of 14.9p (2014: loss of 20.2p).
In addition to the interim dividend of 3.57p 
per share, we propose a final dividend  
of 8.43p, giving a total ordinary dividend  
of 12.0p for the year (2014: 13.5p).
GROUP CASH FLOW, NET DEBT  
AND BALANCE SHEET
Group operating cash flow before 
movements in working capital fell to 
£2,324 million (2014: £2,726 million). After 
working capital adjustments, tax and 
payments relating to exceptional charges, 
net cash flow from operating activities was 
£2,197 million (2014: £1,217 million). Adjusted 
operating cash flow, reconciled to operating 
cash flow in the table above, was up 2%,  
to £2,253 million (2014: £2,201 million).
The net cash outflow from investing  
activities decreased to £611 million (2014: 
£651 million), with lower organic capital 
expenditure broadly offsetting reduced 
proceeds from disposals.
The net cash outflow from financing 
activities was £1,331 million (2014: £663 
million). The impact of lower cash dividends 
resulting from our decision to rebase the 
dividend by 30% and high take-up of our 
scrip dividend alternative, combined with  
no repurchase of shares, was more than 
offset by the impact of a net repayment of 
borrowings of £650 million compared to  
net inflow from borrowings of £793 million  
in 2014.
Reflecting all of the above, the Group’s net 
debt at the end of 2015 fell to £4,747 million 
(2014: £5,196 million), which includes cash 
collateral posted or received in support of 
wholesale energy procurement.
During the year net assets decreased to 
£1,342 million (2014: £3,071 million) primarily 
reflecting the statutory loss in the year.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
On 17 March 2015, the Group gained control 
of AlertMe, a UK-based connected homes 
business that provides innovative energy 
management products and services. Prior  
to this date, the Group held an interest in  
the company and under this transaction 
acquired the remaining share capital.  
The purchase consideration, net of cash 
received for the previously held interest,  
was £44 million.
On 30 November 2015, the Group acquired 
Panoramic Power, a leading provider of 
device-level energy management solutions 
for a net purchase consideration of 
$64 million (£42 million). 
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Net exceptional pre-tax charges of  
£2,358 million were incurred during the  
year (2014: £1,597 million). 
The Group recognised a pre-tax impairment 
charge of £1,865 million (post-tax £1,396 
million) on a number of E&P production 
assets, reflecting declining wholesale gas 
and oil prices.
On power assets, the Group recognised  
a pre-tax impairment charge of £31 million 
and an onerous power procurement 
provision of £70 million relating to our 
finance leased UK gas-fired power station, 
reflecting declining forecast capacity market 
auction prices and clean spark spreads. 
The Group also recognised a further pre-tax 
onerous contract provision of £20 million for 
the Direct Energy wind power procurement 
arrangement. In addition, the Group 
recognised a pre-tax impairment charge  
of £372 million on its nuclear investment  
due to declining forecast power prices  
and capacity market auction prices.
Taxation on these charges generated a 
credit of £477 million (2014: £436 million), 
and combined with a reduction in net 
deferred tax liabilities of £116 million related 
to the effect of a change in UK tax rates  
and an £81 million impairment charge on 
E&P deferred tax assets which are no 
longer expected to be recoverable against 
future tax profits, meant that exceptional 
post-tax charges totalled £1,846 million 
(2014: £1,161 million).
36 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS
The Group enters into a number of  
forward energy trades to protect and 
optimise the value of its underlying 
production, generation, storage and 
transportation assets (and similar capacity 
or off-take contracts), as well as to meet the 
future needs of our customers. A number  
of these arrangements are considered to  
be derivative financial instruments and are 
required to be fair-valued under IAS 39. The 
Group has shown the fair value adjustments 
on these commodity derivative trades 
separately as certain re-measurements,  
as they do not reflect the underlying 
performance of the business because they 
are economically related to our upstream 
assets, capacity/off-take contracts or 
downstream demand, which are typically 
not fair valued. The operating loss in the 
statutory results includes a net pre-tax  
gain of £103 million (2014: net loss  
of £1,108 million) relating to these  
re-measurements. The Group recognises 
the realised gains and losses on these 
contracts in business performance  
when the underlying transaction occurs. 
The profits arising from the physical 
purchase and sale of commodities during 
the year, which reflect the prices in the 
underlying contracts, are not impacted  
by these re-measurements. 
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE  
SHEET DATE 
On 5 February 2016, Centrica and its joint 
venture partner announced the joint sale  
of the Glens of Foudland, Lynn and  
Inner Dowsing (GLID) wind farms. After 
repayment of debt associated with GLID 
and other costs, Centrica’s net share of  
the sales proceeds will be approximately 
£115 million, which exceeds the carrying 
value of the disposed assets. It is 
anticipated that the transaction will be 
completed during March 2016.
RISKS AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties 
are set out on pages 38 to 42. 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
UK listed companies are required to comply 
with the European regulation to report 
consolidated financial statements in 
conformity with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by 
the European Union. 
“ Operating cash flow has been strong and  
with capital discipline this has allowed the  
Group to reduce net debt. ”
37
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Our Principal Risks  
and Uncertainties
A summary of our principal risks  
and uncertainties which may impact  
the delivery of our strategic priorities  
is shown below. 
(i) This list is not exhaustive and items are not prioritised.
(ii) The risk rating is based on our current understanding of our risk environment,  
but may change over time as our business and the operating environment  
continue to evolve.
A summary of our principal risks and uncertainties 
(i)
Strategic risks Risk climate (ii)
1 Strategy delivery
 
Increased risk
2 External market environment
 
Increased risk
3 Political and regulatory intervention
 
No change in risk
4 Brand, trust and perception
 
No change in risk
5 Business planning, forecasting  
and performance
 
No change in risk
Operational risks Risk climate (ii)
6 Customer service
 
No change in risk
7 People
 
Increased risk
8 Change management
 
Increased risk
9 Asset development, availability  
and performance
 
No change in risk
10 Sourcing and supplier management
 
No change in risk
11 Health, safety, environment  
and security
 
No change in risk
12 Information systems and security
 
No change in risk
Compliance risks Risk climate (ii)
13 Legal, regulatory and ethical 
standards compliance
 
Decreased risk
Financial risks Risk climate (ii)
14 Financial market
 
Increased risk
15 Credit and liquidity
 
Increased risk
16 Financial processing and reporting
 
No change in risk
38 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 In 2015, we reviewed the design of our  
risk universe to ensure a more consistent 
and comprehensive approach to risk 
identification.
This provides an overarching framework, 
which includes processes for identifying, 
achieving and managing principal risks  
to the achievement of our strategic priorities. 
These processes are reinforced through 
regular performance management and are 
subject to internal and external review.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities
1 Strategy delivery
Failure to deliver 
Centrica strategy.
The Group is being reorganised to achieve 
the strategic objectives announced in 2015. 
The delivery of this strategy creates additional 
uncertainties, including in relation to growth  
of new businesses, the achievement of 
disposals and the realisation of substantial 
cost efficiencies.
• Delivery of the strategy is the primary objective of the Board and 
Executive who are directly engaged in regular progress reviews.
• The Board approves the Group annual plan setting the strategic 
direction.
• We have a clear financial framework to ensure capital is allocated  
in line with strategy and towards projects best able to deliver expected 
business benefits.
• Where necessary, experienced leaders have been identified and 
appointed to ensure the delivery of the critical strategic goals.
• Strategic definition is provided through clear delegated targets 
embedded in business plans.
2 External market 
environment
Changes and events  
in the external market 
or environment that 
could impact delivery 
of Centrica’s strategy.
Customer behaviour, downstream competitive 
positions and upstream operational results 
are impacted by: improved energy efficiency, 
competitor activity, climate change, 
commodity price movement, long-term 
weather patterns and the general  
economic outlook. 
• Regular analysis undertaken on commodity price fundamentals  
and their potential impact on business plans and expectations.
• Strategic discussions focused in 2015 on a broad range of external 
scenarios and sensitivities to underpin the viability of the strategic 
review.
• Clarity provided during 2015 on the strategic desire for an integrated 
business operating across the value chain, providing a balanced  
risk portfolio.
• Investments in businesses such as Connected Home in response  
to changing external trends and requirements. 
• We support climate change targets set at a national and international  
level by driving down carbon emissions across our business as well 
as giving customers greater control over their energy through 
innovative and energy efficient products and services.
3 Political and 
regulatory 
intervention
Changes, intervention 
or a failure to influence 
change to the political 
or regulatory 
landscape.
We are subject to oversight by a range of 
political and regulatory bodies. UK regulators 
continue to impose significant obligations  
to implement carbon reduction measures  
and energy affordability. We await the final 
outcome of the CMA investigation into the 
energy markets in the UK and the implications 
for our businesses.
• Constructive and regular engagement with regulatory bodies such  
as the CMA, with a clear commitment to an open, transparent and 
competitive UK energy market that provides choice for consumers. 
• The Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee 
(SHESEC) has oversight of regulatory risk, in addition to the 
discussions within the Board.
• Work with regulators to find a better approach to intervention that 
agrees clear targets against which we can demonstrate progress.
• Consistent engagement with political parties to bring about 
agreement on critical areas in energy policy.
4 Brand, trust and 
perception
Competitive 
positioning and 
protection of the 
Centrica and 
subsidiary brands.
Our customers are critical to our business 
and are at the heart of our strategy. To grow 
and evolve our business we must protect and 
develop our brand, building trust across a 
wide range of stakeholders.
• NPS and other customer service and brand metrics regularly reviewed 
by Executive Committee and the Board.
• Focus on providing affordable energy and excellent service through  
a fair and simplified transparent offering.
• Seek to protect the most vulnerable households through financial 
advice and aid. 
• Engage with stakeholders to understand their views and identify 
solutions to help reduce bills and improve transparency.
39
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
Principal risks and uncertainties
Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities
5 Business planning, 
forecasting and 
performance
Business planning, 
forecasting, risk 
management and 
achievement of 
anticipated benefits.
We prioritise how we use our resources 
based on our business plans and forecasts. 
Failure to accurately plan and forecast could
result in suboptimal decisions and may 
impact expected benefits.
• Planning processes revised to underpin the strategic objectives  
for 2016 and beyond, as well as to support the shape of the future  
operating model.
• Board and Executive Committee directly engaged in constructive 
challenge of the planning, forecasting and risk management 
processes.
• Direct interaction between the strategy, fundamentals, planning  
and finance teams in arriving at forecasts and plans.
• Performance review process designed to provide challenge and  
a forum for discussion of critical uncertainties in the business  
planning processes.
6 Customer service
Failure to provide good 
quality customer 
service.
The delivery of high quality customer service 
is central to our business strategy. With the 
entry of new competitors to the market, 
customers are increasingly likely to switch 
supplier if they face an unacceptable 
customer experience. We must remain at  
the forefront of technological development  
to provide choice and efficiency.
• Providing the optimal service to our customers is discussed regularly 
at both Board and Executive Committee meetings.
• Where we are known to have experienced issues, such as the service 
to our British Gas Business customers, we have ensured a full and 
focused response.
• Commitment to continually strengthen our controls for customer 
service and complaints management.
• Increased investment in Connected Home to give customers greater 
visibility, control and engagement over their energy usage. 
7 People
Attraction, retention, 
and succession of the 
right people with the 
right skills in the right 
role at the right time.
The change in our business model means 
attracting and retaining the right skills to meet 
evolving priorities is critical. Similarly, 
maintaining industrial relations across our 
businesses becomes more challenging, given 
our announced level of job losses. Insufficient 
capability and capacity in senior management 
and key skills will limit our ability to grow and 
execute our strategy at the speed required.
• People Committee established at the executive level to provide focus 
on the key talent challenges.
• Board level consideration of values, culture and succession matters.
• Clearly defined people strategy, based on organisational capability 
and requirements, culture and engagement, equality and wellbeing, 
talent development, training and reward and recognition. 
• Active engagement with trade unions on restructuring and issues that 
could impact terms and conditions, with clear and open processes  
to promote an environment of trust and honesty.
• Annual employee engagement survey to identify what we are doing 
well and where we need to improve.
8 Change 
management
Execution of change 
programmes and 
business restructuring.
The scale of change planned in our business 
is significant. Any substantial delay or 
challenge experienced with the organisational 
restructuring, system implementation or 
growth of new businesses could adversely 
affect stakeholder expectations. At the same 
time we must maintain our systems of internal 
control throughout the change.
• Monthly Executive Committee review of the strategy implementation 
and required change programmes, allow for the open discussion  
of emerging risks and control requirements.
• Progress and issues reported to and discussed by the Board.
• Appointment of a senior executive in 2015 to lead the transformation 
programme bringing focused attention on benefits realisation, risk 
prioritisation and milestone tracking. 
• Focused on our people throughout the change, recognising the  
need for appropriate capability to be built across the organisation.
• Established forums for sharing of good practice as we seek to 
standardise and simplify the business model.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties
Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities
9 Asset 
development, 
availability and 
performance
Investment, 
development and 
integrity of operated 
and non-operated 
assets.
Failure to invest in the maintenance and 
development of our assets could result  
in underperformance, assets being out  
of service or significant safety issues.  
The Company must have confidence in  
its operational integrity and ability to perform 
and deliver in line with objectives.
• The Board takes a direct interest in the oversight of our significant  
assets and in ensuring we have the highest operational standards.
• Group-wide minimum standards applied to all assets, whether 
operated or non-operated, in order to have confidence in their 
integrity.
• Clarity on future direction of E&P assets provided through the 
strategic review underpinning our continued commitment to  
this sector.
• Capital allocation and investment decisions governed through  
the Investment Committee chaired by the Chief Executive.
10 Sourcing 
and supplier 
management
Dependency on and 
management of third 
parties to deliver the 
products and services 
for which they have 
been contracted to  
the agreed time,  
cost and quality. 
Across our business operations we rely on 
services provided by third parties. These 
include outsourced activities and third party 
infrastructure as well as operating 
responsibility in some assets. As with  
any contractual relationship there are no 
guarantees that suppliers will always 
comply with legal, regulatory or corporate 
responsibility requirements.
• Board level oversight is provided through the SHESEC, with the 
executive level Ethics & Compliance Committee also focused  
on this area.
• All suppliers are required to sign up to our ‘Responsible Procurement’ 
policies and procedures.
• Financial health risk and anti-bribery and corruption due diligence and 
monitoring is implemented in supplier selection and contract renewal 
processes.
• Corporate responsibility processes in place for procurement  
of all goods and services.
11 Health, safety, 
environment and 
security (HSES)
HSES hazards and 
regulations associated 
with Centrica’s 
operations.
Our operations have the potential to result in 
personal, environmental or operational harm. 
Significant HSES events could also have 
regulatory, legal, financial, and reputational 
impacts that would adversely affect some  
or all of our brands and businesses.
• HSES is considered to be of upmost significance to the Group and 
receives Board level oversight through the dedicated SHESEC. 
• Specific HSES executive level committee also established, chaired  
by the Chief Executive on a monthly basis.
• Strengthening of the second line of defence assurance capability,  
to provide independent assessments of the controls and processes  
in place to manage these risks, to ensure they remain effective and 
continue to develop. 
• Investment in capability development and awareness activities to 
ensure we maintain safe operating practices in all our businesses. 
• Regular evaluation of security intelligence, operating procedures, crisis 
management and business continuity plans, to provide assurance  
of our capability to respond rapidly and appropriately to any incident.
12 Information 
systems and 
security
Effectiveness, 
availability, integrity 
and security of IT 
systems and data 
essential for Centrica’s 
operations.
Our substantial customer base and strategic 
requirement to be at the forefront of 
technology development, means that it is 
critical our technology is robust, our systems 
are secure and our data protected. Sensitive 
data faces the threat of misappropriation from 
hackers, viruses and other sources, including 
disaffected employees.
• Information systems and cyber security received substantial Board level 
focus during 2015 and remain a continued focus for the SHESEC.
• Detection and investigation of threats and incidents were prioritised, 
through further investment in 2015 and by engaging with key 
technology partners and suppliers.
• Increased focus on employee awareness and training in relation to 
sensitive data and digital information.
• Policies over new technology development reviewed and tested 
regularly.
• Collaborative working with other parties across the energy industry and 
within the wider public and private sectors to share threat information.
• Evaluation and testing of cyber security crisis management and wider 
business continuity plans.
41
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Principal risks and uncertainties
Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities
13 Legal, regulatory 
and ethical 
standards 
compliance
Compliance with legal, 
regulatory and ethical 
requirements.
Our operations are the subject of intense 
regulatory focus and we seek to deliver the 
highest standards in compliance and ethical 
conduct. We recognise any real or perceived 
failure to follow our global Business Principles 
or comply with legal or regulatory obligations 
would undermine trust in our business. 
Non-compliance could also result in fines  
and other penalties.
• SHESEC established in 2015 to provide Board level oversight of this 
risk, alongside the executive level Ethics & Compliance Committee. 
The Disclosure Committee will review all external regulatory 
announcements. 
• The Chairman is directly responsible for promoting high ethical 
standards and best practice in corporate governance and ensures  
the effective contribution of all Directors. 
• Experienced Group Ethics and Compliance Officer appointed in 2016 
to bring additional strength and focus.
• Group Business Principles govern how we conduct our affairs. 
Managers are required to declare that they will uphold these principles 
on an annual basis to ensure that we remain a responsible and fully 
compliant business.
• Speak Up process in place to enable employees to raise and report 
any concerns.
14 Financial market
Exposure to market 
movements, including 
commodity prices and 
volumes, inflation, 
interest rates and 
currency fluctuations.
Our financial performance and price 
competitiveness is dependent upon our 
ability to manage exposure to wholesale 
commodity prices for gas, oil, coal, carbon 
and power, interest rates for our long-term 
borrowing, fluctuations in various foreign 
currencies and environmental factors. 
• Audit Committee reviews, assesses and challenges the effectiveness 
of the governance and control mechanisms within EM&T.
• Group Financial Risk Management Committee meets monthly  
to review Group financial exposures and assess compliance with  
risk limits.
• Governance and controls exist to manage liquidity and funding 
exposures.
• Active hedging programmes in place to mitigate exposure to 
commodity and financial market volatility.
15 Credit and liquidity
Management of 
counterparty 
exposures and funding 
uncertainties.
The seasonal nature of our business, 
contractual obligations, pension and 
decommissioning funding and margin cash 
arrangements associated with certain 
wholesale commodity contracts, have a 
significant impact on our liquidity. Certain 
events and activities may have a direct impact 
on our credit, ratings and liquidity, which could 
increase the cost of, and access to, financing.
• Significant committed facilities are maintained with sufficient cash 
held on deposit to meet fluctuations as they arise.
• A regular assessment of available resources is made including that 
required to support the viability and going concern assumptions 
within this report.
• Counterparty exposures are restricted by setting credit limits for each 
counterparty, where possible by reference to published credit ratings. 
• Wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and 
treasury positions are managed in accordance with Group policy.
16 Financial 
processing and 
reporting
Accuracy and 
completeness of 
internal and external 
financial information.
We must be able to maintain robust financial 
systems and produce accurate financial 
statements that adequately disclose all 
applicable accounting policies. This obligation 
includes maintaining processes to avoid 
misstatement through fraud or error. The 
confidence of our investor and regulatory 
stakeholders is reliant on the continued 
integrity of our financial public reporting.
• Audit Committee maintains close oversight of the financial policies 
and procedures within clearly defined guidelines.
• Processes in place provide assurance over the completeness and 
accuracy of our public financial reporting, with monitoring and internal 
audit activity designed to identify any misstatements or errors.
• We maintain an effective working relationship with our external 
auditors and value their insight and recommendations.
Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued
42 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Summary Governance 
and Financial Statements
44 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
46 SENIOR EXECUTIVES
4 7   IND E P E ND E NT A U DI T O RS ’ S T A T E M E NT
48  SUMMARY GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
49  SUMMARY GROUP BALANCE SHEET
4 9   S U M M A R Y G R OUP S T A TEME N T 
OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
49  SUMMARY GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT
50  SUMMARY DIRECTORS’ AND  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
53  SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
43
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board of Directors
Full biographies can be found at centrica.com
RICK HAYTHORNTHWAITE
Chairman
Rick joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director on 14 October 2013. He was 
appointed Chairman of the Board on 
1 January 2014 and is Chairman of the 
Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience
Rick has a wealth of knowledge in the 
energy industry and has significant board 
experience, both as an executive and 
non-executive. He led the rescue of Invensys 
from 2001 to 2005 and the defence, 
turnaround and subsequent sale of Blue 
Circle Industries from 1997 to 2001. He has 
served on the boards of Network Rail as 
chairman and Cookson, Lafarge, ICI and 
Land Securities as non-executive director.
External appointments
Chairman of the global board of  
MasterCard Incorporated, QIO Technologies 
and Arc International.
IAIN CONN 
Chief Executive
Iain was appointed Chief Executive on  
1 January 2015 and is Chairman of the 
Disclosure Committee.
Skills and experience 
Iain has a wealth of experience heading 
customer-facing businesses and brands. 
He possesses a deep understanding of  
the energy sector built up over a lifetime  
in the industry with a commitment to 
customers and safety. Iain was previously 
chief executive, downstream, BP’s refining 
and marketing division from 2007 to 2014. 
Iain was a board member of BP for 10 
years from 2004 and has previously held  
a number of senior roles throughout BP.
External appointments 
Non-executive director of BT Group plc. 
 N
 D
MARK HANAFIN 
Group Executive Director and 
Chief Executive, Energy Production, 
Trading and Distributed Energy
Mark joined the Board on 14 July 2008.
Skills and experience
Mark has senior management experience 
across the energy value chain from E&P 
through to product sales. He has excellent 
midstream and trading credentials as well  
as a strong track record in developing supply 
and marketing businesses. Before joining 
Centrica, Mark spent 21 years with Royal 
Dutch Shell.
External appointments
Non-executive director of EDF Energy 
Nuclear Generation Group Limited.
 MA RK H O DG E S
Group Executive Director and Chief 
Executive, Energy Supply & Services, 
UK & Ireland
Mark joined the Board on 1 June 2015.
Skills and experience
Mark brings a strong understanding of the 
UK consumer market and a track record 
in improving business performance. He 
is experienced in working in a regulated 
environment, driving significant improvements 
in customer service and efficiency, ‘offer 
innovation’, major IT and change projects. 
Mark was group chief executive officer of 
Towergate Partnership and prior to this he 
spent over 20 years with Norwich Union and 
Aviva plc holding a variety of finance, planning 
and strategy roles including sitting on both 
the executive committee and Aviva plc board.
LESLEY KNOX
Non-Executive Director
Lesley joined the Board on 1 January 2012 and 
is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience
Lesley brings a wealth of strategic and financial 
experience across a range of businesses to the 
Board and she is an experienced remuneration 
committee chair. She was previously with British 
Linen Bank and was a founder director of British 
Linen Advisers. Lesley was senior non-executive 
director of Hays Plc and also spent 15 years 
with Kleinwort Benson.
External appointments
Non-executive director of SABMiller plc, 
trustee of the Grosvenor Estate and chairman 
of Grosvenor Group Limited, Chairman  
of Design Dundee Limited and a trustee of  
The National Life Story Collection and  
National Galleries Scotland.
A N R
JEFF BELL 
Group Chief Financial Officer
Jeff was appointed Group Chief 
Financial Officer and joined the Board 
on 1 August 2015.
Skills and experience
Jeff has a broad range of finance 
experience. He joined the Group’s Direct 
Energy business in Toronto in 2002 where 
he held various senior finance positions 
before moving to the Company’s head 
office in 2008 to support the Group Chief 
Executive and to lead the Group Strategy 
team. In 2011 he was appointed Director  
of Corporate Finance. Prior to Centrica, Jeff 
worked in Toronto for both KPMG, where  
he qualified as a chartered accountant,  
and the Boston Consulting Group.
MARGHERITA DELLA VALLE 
Non-Executive Director
Margherita joined the Board on 1 January 
2011 and is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee.
Skills and experience
Margherita brings considerable corporate 
finance and accounting experience and  
has a sound background in marketing. She 
was chief financial officer for Vodafone’s 
European region from April 2007 to October 
2010 and chief financial officer of Vodafone 
Italy from 2004 to 2007. Previously she 
worked for Omnitel Pronto Italia in Italy and 
held various consumer marketing positions 
in business analytics and customer base 
management prior to moving to finance.
External appointments
Deputy Group CFO of Vodafone Group plc, 
a member of HM Treasury’s Financial 
Management Review Board of 
HM Government and a trustee of the 
Vodafone Foundation.
 D
 A  S N R
44
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD OF DIRECTORS MIKE LINN 
Non-Executive Director
Mike joined the Board on 1 June 2013  
and is Chairman of the SHESEC.
Skills and experience
Mike has considerable experience in the 
energy sector, particularly exploration and 
production and the US market. He founded 
and was previously chairman, chief 
executive officer and president of LINN 
Energy, LLC.
External appointments
Non-executive director of LINN Energy,  
LLC, non-executive board member of 
Nabors Industries, Blackstone Minerals 
Company, LP and Western Refining 
Logistics and senior advisor to Quantum 
Energy Partners. Member of the National 
Petroleum Council and inducted into the  
All American Wildcatters.
IAN MEAKINS 
Senior Independent Director
Ian joined the Board on 1 October 2010  
and is Senior Independent Director.
Skills and experience
Ian has broad general management  
and board experience and considerable 
knowledge of managing businesses  
with strong brands. Ian is currently chief 
executive officer of Wolseley plc and was, 
until April 2009, chief executive of Travelex 
Holdings Ltd. He was chief executive officer 
of Alliance UniChem plc until its merger with 
Boots in July 2006 and between 2000 and 
2004 he was president, european major 
markets and global supply for Diageo plc.
External appointments
Group chief executive officer of Wolseley 
plc. It has been announced that Ian is 
expected to retire from Wolseley plc on 
31 August 2016.
 N R  S
 A N R
CARLOS PASCUAL 
Non-Executive Director
Carlos joined the Board on 1 January 2015.
Skills and experience
Carlos has held a number of senior positions 
in the energy industry and is a senior leader 
in energy geopolitics and economic and 
commercial development. Between 2011 
and 2014 Carlos established and directed 
the US State Department’s Energy 
Resource Bureau. Until August 2014 Carlos 
was special envoy and coordinator for 
international energy affairs, acting as senior 
adviser to the US Secretary of State on 
energy issues. He has also served as  
US ambassador in Mexico and Ukraine.
External appointments
Non-resident senior fellow at the Centre on 
Global Energy Policy, Columbia University 
and senior vice president of IHS Inc.
STEVE PUSEY 
Non-Executive Director
Steve joined the Board on 1 April 2015.
Skills and experience
Steve has a wealth of international 
experience as a senior customer- 
facing business technology leader.  
He has considerable experience in the 
telecommunications industry in both  
the wireline and wireless sectors and  
in business applications and solutions. 
Steve has worked for Vodafone, Nortel  
and British Telecom and is a graduate  
of the Advanced Management Program  
at Harvard University.
External appointments
Non-executive director of FireEye, Inc.  
and ARM Holdings plc.
 N R   S
 A N S
 A
  
Audit 
Committee
 D
  
Disclosure 
Committee
 N
  
Nominations 
Committee
 R
  
Remuneration 
Committee
 S
  
Safety, Health, 
Environment, 
Security  
and Ethics 
Committee 
  
Denotes 
Committee 
Chairman
Rick Haythornthwaite
Mark Hanafin
Ian Meakins
Iain Conn
Mark Hodges
Carlos Pascual
Jeff Bell
Lesley Knox
Steve Pusey
Margherita Della Valle
Mike Linn
45
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Senior Executives
Full biographies can be found at centrica.com
CHARLES CAMERON
Director of Technology 
& Engineering
Charles was appointed Director of 
Technology & Engineering on 
1 January 2016.
Skills and experience
Charles has extensive technology and 
engineering experience and has held 
corporate roles in marketing, planning and 
M&A. Before joining Centrica he was head 
of technology, downstream at BP plc and 
was a member of the downstream 
executive team. 
Prior to his time at BP, Charles spent 23 
years with the French Institute of Petroleum 
and their catalyst, technology licensing and 
engineering service business, Axens. 
CHRIS COX
Managing Director, Exploration 
& Production
Chris was appointed Managing Director, 
Exploration & Production on 1 February 
2016.
Skills and experience
Chris has extensive experience in global oil 
and gas upstream activities. Since 2006 
and prior to his appointment with Centrica, 
he held a number of senior roles at BG 
Group plc and was latterly the executive 
vice president, BG Advance and a member 
of the group executive team. Prior to his 
time at BG Group plc, Chris was with 
Amerada Hess and Chevron Corporation.
GRANT DAWSON
Group General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
Grant was appointed Group General 
Counsel & Company Secretary in 
February 1997.
Skills and experience
Grant joined British Gas plc in October  
1996 and has been Group General Counsel 
& Company Secretary of Centrica plc  
since the demerger of British Gas plc on 
17 February 1997. He was called to the Bar 
in 1982 and has spent most of his career  
in industry joining the legal department of 
Racal Electronics plc in 1984 and then STC 
plc as legal adviser in 1986 until they were 
taken over in 1991 by Northern Telecom 
Limited. Between 1991 and 1996, he was 
the associate general counsel for Nortel  
in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
BADAR KHAN
Chief Executive, Energy Supply 
& Services, North America
Badar was appointed President and CEO, 
Direct Energy on 1 April 2013.
Skills and experience
Badar has extensive expertise in both 
upstream and customer-facing energy 
businesses. Prior to his appointment as 
President and CEO, Direct Energy, he was 
President, Upstream and Trading of Direct 
Energy. Prior to joining Centrica in 2003, he 
was a senior officer of a private retail energy 
company in the US and a management 
consultant with Deloitte.
JILL SHEDDEN
Group HR Director
Jill was appointed Group Director,  
Human Resources on 1 July 2011.
Skills and experience
Jill joined British Gas plc as a graduate  
in 1988 and has since held a wide range  
of roles across the Group. Prior to her 
appointment as Group HR Director,  
Jill was HR Director for Centrica Energy  
and was previously HR Director for  
British Gas Business and HR Director  
for British Gas Energy. 
 D
Grant Dawson
Badar Khan
Jill Shedden
Charles Cameron
Chris Cox
46
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SENIOR EXECUTIVES Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
We have examined the supplementary financial information 
included within the Strategic Report with supplementary material 
for the year ended 31 December 2015, which comprises the 
Summary Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015 and the 
Summary Group Income Statement, Summary Group Statement of 
Changes in Equity and Summary Group Cash Flow Statement for 
the year then ended.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS AND 
THE AUDITORS
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report 
with supplementary material, in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006, which includes information extracted from the full 
annual Financial Statements and the auditable part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report of Centrica plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. 
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the 
consistency of the summary financial information, included within 
the Strategic Report with supplementary material, with those full 
annual Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for 
and only for the Company’s members as a body and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
BASIS OF OPINION
Our examination involved agreeing the balances disclosed in the 
summary financial information to full annual Financial Statements. 
Our audit report on the Company’s full annual Financial Statements 
and the auditable part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
describes the basis of our opinion on those Financial Statements 
and the auditable part of that report.
OPINION
In our opinion the supplementary financial information is consistent 
with the full annual Financial Statements and the auditable part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report of Centrica plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2015.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London 
18 February 2016
Independent Auditors’ Statement
to the members of Centrica plc
47
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Summary Group Income Statement
2015 2014
Year ended 31 December 
Business 
performance
£m
Exceptional
items 
and certain
re-measurements
£m
Results for
the year
£m
Business 
performance
£m
Exceptional
items 
and certain
re-measurements
£m
Results for
the year
£m
Group revenue 27,971 – 27,971 29,408 – 29,408
Cost of sales before exceptional items  
and certain re-measurements (23,734) – (23,734) (25,043) – (25,043)
Re-measurement of energy contracts – 116 116 – (1,134) (1,134)
Gross profit 4,237 116 4,353 4,365 (1,134) 3,231
Operating costs before exceptional items (3,039) – (3,039) (2,903) – (2,903)
Exceptional items – impairments – (2,268) (2,268) – (1,938) (1,938)
Exceptional items – onerous provisions – (90) (90) – – –
Exceptional items – gains on disposals – – – – 341 341
Share of profits of joint ventures and 
associates, net of interest and taxation 200 (13) 187 106 26 132
Group operating loss 1,398 (2,255) (857) 1,568 (2,705) (1,137)
Net finance cost (279) – (279) (266) – (266)
Loss before taxation 1,119 (2,255) (1,136) 1,302 (2,705) (1,403)
Taxation on loss (286) 538 252 (375) 773 398
Loss for the year 833 (1,717) (884) 927 (1,932) (1,005)
Attributable to:
 Owners of the parent 863 (1,610) (747) 903 (1,915) (1,012)
 Non-controlling interests (30) (107) (137) 24 (17) 7
Earnings per ordinary share Pence Pence
 Basic (14.9) (20.2)
 Diluted (14.9) (20.2)
Interim dividend paid per ordinary 
share 3.57 5.10
Final dividend proposed per ordinary 
share 8.43 8.40
£000 £000
Directors’ remuneration 7,028 8,345
48
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY GROUP INCOME STATEMENT Summary Group Balance Sheet
31 December
2015
£m
2014
£m
Non-current assets 11,614 14,574
Current assets 7,233 8,118
Assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 13 –
Current liabilities (7,754) (9,610)
Non-current liabilities (9,718) (10,011)
Liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale (46) –
Net assets 1,342 3,071
Total shareholders’ equity and non-controlling interests 1,342 3,071
Summary Group Statement  
of Changes in Equity
2015
£m
2014
£m
1 January 3,071 5,257
Loss for the year (747) (1,012)
Other comprehensive loss (480) (222)
1,844 4,023
Employee share schemes 60 71
Purchase of treasury shares – (422)
Dividends (net of scrip dividends) (388) (867)
Taxation on share based payments (2) (5)
Non-controlling interests (172) 271
31 December 1,342 3,071
Summary Group Cash Flow Statement
Year ended 31 December
2015
£m
2014
£m
Cash generated from operations 2,627 2,049
Taxation and other operating cash flows (430) (832)
Net cash flow from operating activities 2,197 1,217
Net cash flow from investing activities (611) (651)
Net cash flow from financing activities (1,331) (663)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 255 (97)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 621 719
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (16) (1)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 860 621
The Summary Financial Statements on pages 48 and 49 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 
18 February 2016 and were signed on its behalf by:
Iain Conn  Jeff Bell
Chief Executive  Group Chief Financial Officer
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 49
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Summary Directors’ and  
Corporate Governance Report
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
The Auditors have issued an unqualified report on the Annual 
Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration 
Report containing no statement under section 498 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (the Act). The Auditors’ Report in respect of 
consistency between the Strategic Report and the Group Financial 
Statements is also unqualified. These Summary Financial 
Statements are a summary of the Annual Report and Accounts 
2015 and the Summary Governance Report contains information 
from the Annual Report and Accounts but not the full text of that 
report. They do not contain sufficient information to allow as full  
an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Group 
and of its policies and arrangements concerning the Directors’ 
remuneration as would be provided by the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2015.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2015 can be downloaded from  
the Company’s website at centrica.com or can be obtained, free  
of charge, from Equiniti, the Company’s Registrars. Shareholders 
may also elect to receive the Annual Report and Accounts instead  
of the Annual Review for all future years. Contact details for Equiniti 
can be found on page 55.
DIVIDENDS
For 2015, an interim dividend of 3.57p per share was paid on 
26 November 2015. The Directors propose that, subject to approval 
at the 2016 Annual General Meeting (AGM), a final dividend of 
8.43p per share will be paid on 23 June 2016 to those shareholders 
registered on 13 May 2016. This would make a total dividend for the 
year of 12.0p per share (2014: 13.5p per share).
SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Board believes that good corporate governance is central  
to contributing to Centrica’s performance. A clearly defined 
framework of roles, responsibilities and delegated authorities is  
in place and this supports the Board’s aim to deliver sustainable 
growth for the benefit of shareholders, employees and customers. 
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association (Articles), which are available on the Company’s 
website. The Articles may be amended by special resolution. In 
addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under 
legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006 (the Act).
Board of Directors
We have sought to ensure we have a balanced Board where 
individual merit and relevance are the key entry requirements but 
collectively we have an appropriate mix of diversity and skills to ensure 
constructive debate and thoughtful decision making. In addition, we 
believe it is important to maintain a blend within the Non-Executive 
group where some are in full-time executive employment and others 
are pursuing a non-executive portfolio career path. 
A balance of Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive 
Directors on our Board promotes thorough debate and 
consideration of the important issues facing Centrica and the 
Group’s performance. At present, there are a total of 11 Directors, 
of whom four are Executive and six are Non-Executive, in addition 
to our Chairman. This represents more than half the Board, which 
satisfies the requirements of the Code.
All of our Non-Executive Directors are considered to be 
independent and free from any business interest which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement. In addition, 
all of our Non-Executive Directors have assured the Board that they 
remain committed to their respective roles and, having considered 
these assurances, the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive 
Director is able to dedicate the necessary amount of time to the 
Company’s affairs. Our Non-Executive Directors are members  
of various Committees of the Board, which are the Audit, the 
Nominations, the Remuneration and the Safety, Health, 
Environment, Security and Ethics Committees.
Board appointments, evaluation and development
The Company’s current approach to Board composition, 
evaluation, diversity and succession planning is detailed in the 
Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report in the Annual Report 
and Accounts. 
During the year under review, there were a number of changes  
to the Board. As announced in December 2014, Ian Meakins 
succeeded Mary Francis to become the Company’s Senior 
Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2015.
Iain Conn was appointed as a Director of the Company and 
became Chief Executive on 1 January 2015. In addition, Carlos 
Pascual and Steve Pusey were appointed as Directors of the 
Company with effect from 1 January 2015 and 1 April 2015  
respectively. Jeff Bell, our Interim Group Chief Financial Officer,  
was confirmed in post on 1 August 2015 and Mark Hodges was 
appointed as a Director with effect from 1 June 2015. 
BOARD CONSTITUTION
Governance profile
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive 
are split and are set out in their respective job 
descriptions.
Senior Independent Director 
Ian Meakins is our Senior Independent 
Director.
Financial experience 
The chair of the Audit Committee is deemed to 
have recent, relevant financial experience. 
Independence
Almost two-thirds of our Board is made up of 
independent Non-Executive Directors, including 
the Chairman.
Compliance 
The Company complied with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code in 2015.
centrica.com
For further information on our Board and our 
corporate governance framework, please refer 
to our website.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
50 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for 
reappointment at each AGM. Details of the Directors of the 
Company are set out with their biographies and their Board 
Committee memberships on pages 44 and 45. All new Directors 
appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive induction 
programme tailored to meet their individual needs. 
Our policy over many years has been to conduct a thorough review 
of Board process, practice and culture on an annual basis with the 
input of an external facilitator at least once every three years. The 
Board considers the annual review of the Board, its Committees 
and Directors as an essential part of good corporate governance. 
On each occasion, the Board has received positive reports and  
has adopted recommendations to improve Board, Committee  
and individual Director performance.
Recognising that it could take some time for the new Board to 
‘settle’, we undertook an internal Board review in 2015, which  
is set out in the diagram below:
Internal Board review
November 2015
The completion of Board questionnaires on governance, management 
and best practice benchmarks; our progress against our improvement 
agenda; and reflections and insights in response to the Board’s evolving 
context and composition.
February 2016
Consideration by the Board of the final report on the results of the survey.
January 2016
Interviews between the Chairman and each Director to explore  
thematic areas and specific points raised in the survey as well as to peer 
review individual Director performance.
March 2016
Feedback meetings on the peer review results.
Stage 01
Stage 02
Stage 03
Stage 04
Ongoing development and training is also provided to all Directors, 
as agreed with the Chairman. During the year, Directors received 
regular updates and presentations on changes and developments  
to the business and to the legislative and regulatory environments  
in which the Group operates. 
Board and senior management diversity
Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where 
decisions are based on individual ability and potential in relation  
to the business’ needs. We are committed to promoting equal 
opportunities and diversity as part of creating an inclusive working 
environment that attracts and retains the best people and that 
enables everyone in Centrica to fulfil their potential. Individuals  
are treated in a non-discriminatory manner at all stages of their 
employment, including recruitment and selection, reward, training 
and development and promotion and career development. By 
delivering on our commitment to diversity and inclusion (D&I)  
we are able to:
• attract a diverse range of talent which we believe is the ‘fuel’  
for the company of the future;
• create an inclusive environment so that everyone can bring  
their ‘whole self’ to work, to be themselves, have their voice 
heard and contribute to innovation and ideas; and
• ensure people get career opportunities based on merit so  
that we have the right people in the right jobs.
At senior management level, 27% are women, whilst 29% of 
employees, excluding the Board and senior management, are 
women as indicated in the charts below. Our senior management 
level includes categories of employees as defined in the Act. During 
the year, Centrica was recognised for our commitment to D&I by  
a number of awards for our policies promoting and supporting 
carers, older workers and family-friendly practices. 
Centrica has various programmes taking place relating to diversity 
in all its forms. These include coaching and mentoring and our 
participation in the 30% Club’s cross-company, cross-sector 
mentoring scheme for mid-career women who will benefit from 
mentoring at the current stage of their career. In partnership with 
Mars and Vodafone, we launched HitReturn, a new UK programme 
in the Thames Valley area for senior professionals who have taken  
a career break as either a parent or a carer. The 12-week paid 
‘return-ship’ offers the opportunity to work on professional 
assignments and get expert coaching from people who have  
also returned to work after some time out. Centrica is working with 
the Women’s Business Council which makes recommendations  
to government and UK businesses on how women’s contribution  
to growth can be optimised. 
Breakdown by gender (%)
Board Other  
employees
2015 Male
2015 Female
2014 Male
2014 Female
18
82
33
67
27
73
73
27
29
71
70
30
Senior 
Management
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
51
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of financial 
reporting, internal controls and risk management. The Audit 
Committee’s key function is to support the Board in fulfilling its 
responsibilities in reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s 
financial reporting, internal controls and risk management. As  
part of this role, the Committee provides advice to the Board on 
whether the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, 
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides all the necessary 
information for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed 
the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal 
control, for the period from 1 January 2015 to the date of this report 
and is satisfied that the Group complies with the guidance issued  
by the Financial Reporting Council. 
The Board will continue to routinely challenge management in order 
to ensure that the system of risk management and internal controls  
is constantly improving and remains fit for purpose.
Relations with shareholders
The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining  
an effective investor relations and communication programme.  
The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of 
shareholder views on a number of key matters affecting the Group 
and receives formal investor feedback regularly.
In 2015, Centrica’s shareholder engagement programme included:
• formal presentations for the announcement of the Group’s 2014 
preliminary and 2015 interim results; 
• meetings between the Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial 
Officer and the Company’s major shareholders during the year;
• meetings between Iain Conn and the Company’s major 
shareholders, as part of Iain Conn’s induction process;
• the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meeting with  
a number of the Company’s major shareholders during the  
year to discuss the Company’s remuneration arrangements; 
• the Chairman and Senior Independent Director meeting with 
major institutional shareholders in order to gain a first-hand 
understanding of their concerns and key issues and provide 
regular updates of these to the Board; and
• a meeting with our largest investors and leading proxy advisers 
to provide insight into the key focus and considerations of the 
Board and its Committees and a better understanding of the 
governance measures operating across the business.
The Company’s AGM provides all shareholders with the 
opportunity to develop further their understanding of the Company. 
Shareholders can ask questions of the full Board on the matters 
put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and Accounts and 
the running of the Company generally. The Company intends to 
send the Notice of AGM and any related papers to shareholders at 
least 20 working days before the meeting. All Directors, including 
Committee Chairmen, are in attendance at the AGM to take 
questions, unless unforeseen circumstances arise.
At the AGM, the Chairman and the Chief Executive present  
a review of the Group’s business. A poll is conducted on each 
resolution at all Company general meetings. All shareholders  
have the opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed 
resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post. Following  
the AGM, the voting results for each resolution are published  
and are available on our website.
Ian Meakins, the Senior Independent Director, is available to 
shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal 
channels has failed to resolve.
Our website contains up-to-date information for shareholders and 
other interested parties including annual reports, shareholder 
circulars, share price information, news releases, presentations to 
the investment community and information on shareholder services.
Summary Directors’ and Corporate Governance Report continued
Board governance structure
Board of Directors
Audit 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Safety, Health, 
Environment, 
Security and 
Ethics Committee
Disclosure 
Committee
Chief Executive
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
52 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY DIRECTORS’ AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Summary Remuneration Report
KPIs and incentives
KPI Incentive link
Adjusted operating cash flow (AOCF) AIP primary financial measure (2016)
Adjusted operating profit AIP primary financial measure (2015), LTIP economic profit three-year measure
Adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS) LTIP EPS growth measure
Total shareholder return (TSR) AIP deferred share investment and minimum shareholding requirement
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard
Process safety LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard
Customer satisfaction LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard
Employee engagement LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The Remuneration Committee (Committee) believes that the 
remuneration arrangements are completely aligned with the 
Executive Directors’ (Executives) underlying commitment to act  
in the best interests of sustainable shareholder value creation,  
whilst ensuring behaviours remain consistent with the governance 
and values of the business.
Key objectives of reward framework
The Remuneration Policy aims to deliver a remuneration package:
• to attract and retain high calibre Executives in a challenging  
and competitive business environment;
• that delivers an appropriate balance between fixed and variable 
compensation for each Executive;
• that places a strong emphasis on performance, both the short 
term and long term;
• strongly aligned to the achievement of strategic objectives and  
the delivery of sustainable value to shareholders; and
• that seeks to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement  
of performance targets.
Reward framework
The core design of the total remuneration framework for  
Executives ensures that a substantial portion of the maximum 
opportunity is dependent upon performance as indicated in the 
chart below. Total remuneration comprises fixed pay and variable 
performance related pay, which is further divided into short-term 
incentive (with a one-year performance period) and long-term 
incentive (with a three-year performance period). 
Fixed 
remuneration
Short-term
incentive
Long-term
incentive
Cash Shares
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Our KPIs, which are set out in detail on pages 20 and 21, influence 
the design and underpin the selection of performance criteria used 
within the incentive arrangements as demonstrated in the KPIs  
and incentives table below. If overall performance is not deemed 
satisfactory, the award for any year may be reduced or forfeited,  
at the discretion of the Committee.
Remuneration Policy
In April 2015, we asked shareholders to approve our new 
Remuneration Policy as well as the new LTIP for Executives.  
We were pleased to receive votes in support from over 91% of  
our shareholders for both of these resolutions. We believe the  
new policy represents a simpler remuneration structure for our 
Executives and better alignment with the strategic direction of the 
Group. Overall maximum remuneration has been reduced and the 
stretching financial and non-financial targets reflect the KPIs that 
have been set for the business.
The remuneration structure has been designed with a large 
proportion of awards being delivered in shares which have holding 
periods of up to five years. Malus and clawback apply to both cash 
and share awards. In addition, Executives have a minimum 
shareholding requirement of 200% of gross salary and all vested 
shares will be held until this level has been reached. 
As set out in the Chief Executive’s statement, the primary long-term 
financial goal for the Group is now adjusted operating cash flow 
(AOCF) growth. In order to ensure continued alignment of Executive 
remuneration, the Committee believes that AOCF should be the 
basis of the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) financial measure. After 
consulting with a number of key shareholders who indicated strong 
support, the Committee decided to exercise its discretion and set 
an AOCF related target for 2016. A summary of the Remuneration 
Policy is provided over pages 66 to 71 of the Annual Report and 
Accounts revised only to reflect this amendment. 
Performance for the year
Our short-term incentive targets for 2015 were based on adjusted  
operating profit and achievement against individual strategic 
objectives, measured in line with the Group’s performance 
management process.
Although Group adjusted operating profit decreased compared 
with the previous year, this was against a challenging environment 
with further falls in wholesale gas and power prices during the year. 
Weak performance in British Gas Business and Direct Energy 
Services was offset by good results elsewhere in the Group  
which, together with a strong contribution from Bord Gáis Energy 
contributed to an increase in total downstream operating profit  
of 19%. As a result, Group financial performance under the AIP  
was a fraction ahead of target. 
For our long-term incentive plans, performance against Economic 
Profit (EP), Earnings Per Share (EPS) and non-financial KPIs was 
measured.
Despite solid performance against our non-financial KPIs across 
the three-year performance period ending with 2015, as the Group 
EP target under both the Long Term Incentive Scheme and the 
Deferred and Matching Share Scheme were not met, there will be 
no payouts in 2016 for the Executives under either of the long-term 
incentive plans.
Further detail on targets and outcomes relating to the year as well 
as total remuneration received in respect of 2015 is set out on 
pages 64 and 65 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
53
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Summary Remuneration Report continued
The Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report is set out in full on pages 72 to 79 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION IN 2015
Single figure for total remuneration (audited)
£000 
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Salary/
fees
Salary/
fees
Bonus
(cash)
Bonus
(cash)
Bonus
(deferred)
Bonus
(deferred)
 (xi)
Benefits
 (xi)
Benefits
(xii)
LTIPs
(xiii)
LTIPs
(restated)
(xiv)
Recruit-
ment
award
Recruit-
ment
award
(xv)(xvi)
Pension Pension Total
Total
(restated)
Executives
Iain Conn
(i)
925 – 581 – 581 – 29 – – – 616 – 277 – 3,009 –
Jeff Bell
(ii)
229 – 116 – 116 – 10 – – – – – 58 – 529 –
Mark Hanafin 621 606 361 – 361 432 24 25 – 660 – – 249 265 1,616 1,988
Mark Hodges
(iii)
365 – 230 – 230 – 20 – – – – – 91 – 936 –
Sam Laidlaw
(iv)
– 967 – 592 – – – 61 – 1,234 – – – 418 – 3,272
Nick Luff 
(v)
– 407 – – – – – 28 – – – – – 187 – 622
Chris Weston
(vi)
– 605 – – – – – 46 – – – – – 166 – 817 
6,090 6,699
Non-
Executives
Rick 
Haythornthwaite 495 495 – – – – – – – – – – – – 495 495 
Margherita 
Della Valle 88 88 – – – – – – – – – – – – 88 88 
Lesley Knox 85 85 – – – – – – – – – – – – 85 85 
Mike Linn 73 65 – – – – – – – – – – – – 73 65 
Ian Meakins 85 65 – – – – – – – – – – – – 85 65 
Carlos Pascual
(vii)
65 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 65 –
Steve Pusey
(viii)
49 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 49 –
Mary Francis
(ix)
– 105 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 105 
Paul Rayner
(x)
– 65 – – – – – – – – – – – – – 65 
940 968 
Total 7,030 7,667
(i) Iain Conn was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2015.
(ii) Jeff Bell was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 August 2015.
(iii) Mark Hodges was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 June 2015.
(iv) Sam Laidlaw retired from Centrica on 31 December 2014.
(v) Nick Luff resigned as an Executive Director on 31 August 2014.
(vi) Chris Weston resigned as an Executive Director on 30 December 2014.
(vii) Carlos Pascual was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2015.
(viii) Steve Pusey was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2015.
(ix) Mary Francis resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2014.
(x) Paul Rayner resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2014.
(xi) Taxable benefits include car allowance, health and medical, financial planning advice and long service awards. Non taxable benefits include matching shares received under the Share 
Incentive Plan and the gain from any options exercised under the HMRC-approved Sharesave plan. 
(xii) The long-term incentives include the value of the LTIS and DMSS matching awards due to vest in April 2016, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2015. 
The performance targets have not been met and these awards therefore will not vest. Full details of the performance outcome are set out on pages 73 and 74 of the Annual Report  
and Accounts.
(xiii) The long-term incentives vesting in respect of 2014 have been recalculated based on the share price on the date of vest which was 257p. The previous disclosure in the 2014 single 
figure table used an estimated share price.
(xiv) The recruitment award shares vesting in April 2016 have been valued to calculate an estimated payout using the share price at 31 December 2015 which was 218p. The value of the 
estimated dividend equivalent shares has been included. The Committees’s assessment of performance against the targets that were set for the first tranche of this award is set out  
on page 75 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
(xv) Notional contributions to the CUPS DC scheme for Mark Hanafin and Jeff Bell (less an allowance for CPI inflation of 2.7% in 2014 and 1.3% in 2015) have been included in this table as  
if CUPS DC were a cash balance scheme. Jeff Bell joined the scheme on 1 August 2015 and the figure shown above represents the notional accumulated value of his CUPS DC benefits 
as at 31 December 2015.
(xvi) Iain Conn and Mark Hodges are entitled to receive a salary supplement of 30% and 25% of base pay respectively. 
54
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT This section provides shareholders with key information to 
assist in the management of their shareholding.
MANAGING YOUR SHARES
Manage your shares online
We actively encourage our shareholders to receive 
communications via email and view documents electronically  
via our website, centrica.com. Receiving communications and 
Company documents electronically saves our Company money  
and reduces our environmental impact.
If you sign up for electronic communications, you will receive an 
email to notify you that new shareholder documents are available to 
view online, including the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual 
Review on the day they are published. You will also receive alerts  
to let you know that you can cast your AGM vote online.
You can also manage your shareholding online by registering  
for Shareview at shareview.co.uk, a free, secure online site where  
you can access your information and complete a number of 
functions including:
• viewing information about your shareholding or dividend 
payments;
• updating your records, including changing your address  
or bank mandate instructions; and
• appointing a proxy for the AGM.
Centrica FlexiShare
FlexiShare is an easy way to hold Centrica shares without a share 
certificate. Your shares are held by a nominee company, Equiniti 
Corporate Nominees Limited, however, you are able to attend and 
vote at general meetings as if the shares were held in your own 
name. Holding your shares in this way is free and comes with a 
number of benefits:
• low cost share dealing rates, full details of which are available  
on the Shareholder Centre together with dealing charges; 
• no replacement share certificate charges if your share certificate 
is lost or destroyed; and
• quicker settlement periods for buying and selling shares.
Centrica.com
The Shareholder Centre on our website includes frequently asked 
questions and forms that are available to download to: 
• register for electronic communications;
• transfer your shares;
• change your registered name or address;
• register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement;
• consolidate your share certificates;
• manage your dividend payments;
• buy, sell or transfer shares through Centrica FlexiShare; and
• notify the death of a shareholder. 
A wealth of other information is also available on our website, 
including:
• regular updates about our business;
• financial results;
• comprehensive share price information;
• dividend payment dates and amounts;
• the Company’s Articles of Association; and
• share and dividend history.
This Annual Report and Accounts can also be viewed online  
by visiting centrica.com/ar15.
General enquiries
Centrica’s share register is administered and maintained by Equiniti, 
our Registrar, whom you can contact directly if you have any 
questions about your shareholding which are not answered here  
or on our website. You can contact Equiniti at the following:
Address: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing,  
West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom. 
Telephone: 0371 384 2985*  
Outside the UK: +44 (0)121 415 7061 
Textphone: 0371 384 2255* 
Outside the UK: +44 (0)121 415 7028
Website: help.shareview.co.uk 
*  Calls to an 03 number cost no more than a national rate call to an 01 or 02 number.  
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (UK time), excluding public holidays  
in England and Wales.
When contacting Equiniti or registering via shareview.co.uk,  
you should have your shareholder reference number at hand.  
This can be found on your share certificate, dividend tax voucher  
or any other correspondence you have received from Equiniti.
If you hold less than 2,500 shares, you will be able to change your 
registered address or set up a dividend mandate instruction over 
the phone, however, for security reasons, if you hold more than 
2,500 shares, you will need to put this in writing to Equiniti. 
Together with Equiniti, we have introduced an electronic queries 
service to enable our shareholders to manage their investment  
at a convenient time. Details of this service can be found at 
shareview.co.uk.
Duplicate documents
If you receive more than one copy of shareholder documents,  
it is likely that you have multiple accounts on the share register, 
perhaps with a slightly different name or address. To combine  
your shareholdings, please contact Equiniti and provide your 
shareholder reference numbers. This also helps us to reduce  
our environmental impact and save paper.
55
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
Shareholder Information RANGE ANALYSIS OF REGISTER
Breakdown of shareholdings overall
Range Number of holdings
Percentage of issued 
share capital*
1 – 500 441,900 2.0%
501 – 1,000 93,513 1.3%
1,001 – 5,000 63,670 2.3%
Over 5,001 7,346 94.4%
Total* 606,429 100%
* excludes shares held in Treasury.
RANGE ANALYSIS OF REGISTER 
Breakdown of shareholdings with over 5,001 shares
Range Number of holdings
Percentage of issued 
share capital*
5,001 – 10,000 4,476 0.6%
10,001 – 50,000 1,827 0.7%
50,001 – 100,000 188 0.3%
100,001 – 1,000,000 495 3.5%
1,000,001 – maximum 360 89.3%
Total* 7,346
* excludes shares held in Treasury.
TELL SID
2016 is the 30
th
 anniversary of the privatisation of British Gas 
Corporation in 1986. The famous ‘Tell Sid’ advertising campaign 
prompted hundreds of thousands of people to buy shares in British 
Gas plc. Anyone who kept their British Gas plc shares now owns 
stakes in BG Group plc and National Grid plc as well as Centrica plc. 
Our ‘Sid’ shareholders continue to make up an important part of 
our shareholder base accounting for 22.5% of our shareholders.
Shareholder communication 
preferences as at 31 December 2015
Shareholder dividend preferences  
for the 2015 interim dividend
Share distribution
Number of shares
Institutions  4,635,446,843
Individuals  303,647 ,145
Centrica FlexiShare  130,746,942
Treasury  58,705,016
Number of holdings
Hardcopy Annual Report 5,576
Hardcopy Annual Review 15,916
Notice of Availability 600,407
Electronic communication 54,369
Number of shares
Scrip dividend reinvestment 959,641,113
Bank mandate 3,647 ,174,960
Cheque 446,591,274
The Company spends over £200,000  
on postage of its Annual Report and 
Accounts and related documents.
Help us to reduce our costs and to 
reduce our environmental impact by 
signing up now for electronic shareholder 
communications. Register now at 
shareview.co.uk and you will be notified 
as soon as new shareholder documents 
are available online.
When including Centrica FlexiShare 
holders, individual shareholders equate  
to 98% of the Company’s registered 
shareholders with institutions making up 
the remaining 2%. The 98% of individual 
shareholders hold 8.6% of the 
Company’s issued share capital with 
institutional investors holding 91.4%. 
These figures exclude shares held in 
Treasury which represent 1.2% of the 
Company’s issued share capital.
If you elect to receive cash dividends you 
are encouraged to have your dividends 
paid directly to your bank or building 
society account. This means that you will 
receive the money on the day it is paid 
which avoids the risk of dividend cheques 
being delayed or lost in the post.
56 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
Shareholder Information continued Disclaimer
This Annual Review does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise 
acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc. These statements and forecasts 
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that  
will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or 
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking 
statements and forecasts. 
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult 
an independent financial adviser.
Designed and produced by 
 
This review is printed on recycled silk papers made from 100% 
pre and post-consumer waste. The paper mills are based in the 
European Union and manufacture papers independently audited 
and certified by the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC
®
) and 
accredited to the Environmental Management System 14001. 
Printed by CPI Colour Limited ISO14001, FSC
®
 certified and 
CarbonNeutral
®
.
Group Results
Resilient financial performance in a challenging 
environment. Adjusted earnings per share of  
17 .2p, down 4%.
Adjusted operating cash flow up 2% to £2,253 million. 
9% reduction in net debt to £4,747 million. 
Post-tax exceptional items of £1,846 million  
primarily as a result of falling commodity prices.
Group robust in a low commodity price environment 
(flat real $35/bbl Brent oil, 35p/th UK NBP gas,  
£35/MWh UK power prices) with sources and uses  
of cash flow more than balanced over 2016–2018.
Confident in delivery of at least 3%–5% per annum 
adjusted operating cash flow growth from a 2015 
baseline adjusted for the low commodity price 
environment 
(i)
. 2016 adjusted operating cash  
flow expected to exceed £2 billion.
Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in  
a full year dividend of 12.0p and dividend cover of  
1.4 times. Delivery of progressive future dividend 
tied to confidence in underlying operating cash flow.
Strategy implementation on track with growth focus 
on customer-facing activities; adjusted operating 
profit from energy and services businesses up  
19% in 2015. E&P free cash flow positive in 2015.
£750 million per annum by 2020 cost efficiency 
programme underpinned in our plans; £200 million 
of savings expected in 2016.
OVERVIEW
GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Year ended 31 December 2015
2014 
(restated*) Change
Revenue £28.0bn £29.4bn (5)%
Adjusted operating profit £1,459m £1,657m (12)%
Adjusted effective tax rate 26% 30% (4)ppt
Adjusted earnings £863m £903m (4)%
Adjusted basic earnings per 
share (EPS) 17.2p 18.0p (4)%
Full year dividend per share 12.0p 13.5p (11)%
Adjusted operating cash flow £2,253m £2,201m 2%
Return on average capital 
employed 11% 11% 0ppt
Group operating costs £3,039m £2,903m 5%
Group net investment £855m £829m 3%
Group net debt £4,747m £5,196m (9)%
Statutory operating loss £(857)m £(1,137)m nm
Statutory loss for the year 
attributable to shareholders £(747)m £(1,012)m nm
Net exceptional items after tax 
included in statutory loss £(1,846)m £(1,161)m nm
Basic earnings per share (14.9)p (20.2)p nm
GROUP KEY OPERATIONAL  
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Change
Total recordable injury frequency 
rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 1.10 1.00 10%
Total customer account holdings 
(ii) 
(year end, ’000) 28,433 29,035 (2)%
Total customer gas consumption 
(mmth) 12,177 12,354 (1)%
Total customer electricity 
consumption (TWh) 151.5 156.8 (3)%
Group direct headcount 
(iii)
 
(year end) 39,348 37,734 4%
(i) The low commodity price environment assumes flat real prices of $35/bbl Brent oil, 
35p/th UK NBP gas and £35/MWh UK power.
(ii) 2014 British Gas residential services product holdings have been restated to  
include 41,000 holdings following data assurance activity of our analytical systems.
(iii) Group direct headcount excludes contractors, agency and outsourced staff.
STRATEGIC REPORT
01  Group Results and  
Performance Summary
02  Chairman’s Statement
05  Chief Executive’s Statement
10  How We Create Value
12  Our Businesses
14   Our Focus for Long-Term 
Growth
20  Key Performance Indicators
22  How We Do Business
28  Business Review
34  Group Financial Review
38   Our Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE 
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44  Board of Directors
46  Senior Executives
4 7    I n d e p e n d e nt Au d i t o r s ’ 
Statement
48   Summary Group  
Income Statement
49   Summary Group  
Balance Sheet
49    Summary Group Statement 
of Changes in Equity
49   Summary Group Cash Flow 
Statement
50  Summary Directors’ and 
Corporate Governance 
Report
5 3  S umma r y  
Remuneration Report
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION 
55 Shareholder Information
CONTENTS CENTRICA PLC Registered office:  
Millstream 
Maidenhead Road 
Windsor 
Berkshire 
SL4 5GD
Company registered  
in England and Wales 
No. 3033654
centrica.com
Annual Review 2015
Satisfying the  
changing needs  
of our customers
“ In July 2015, we announced the conclusions of  
our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic 
review. We concluded that Centrica’ s strength 
lies in being a customer-facing energy and 
services business. This is where we have 
distinctive positions and capabilities and 
where we can make the biggest difference and 
contribution going forward, for our customers, 
our employees and our shareholders.”
Iain Conn
Chief Executive 
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015
