 Acambis
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Business. Science. 
Opportunity .
Acambis Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Acambis plc
Registered in England No 2863682 Acambis is a leading vaccine company  
developing novel vaccines that address  
significant unmet medical needs or substantially 
improve upon current standards of care.
Financial results General information Business review
01 Operational and financial highlights
02 Chairman’s review
04 Q&A with the CEO
06 Our strategy
08 R&D overview
10 Our R&D pipeline
26 Financial review
29 Risk management report
30 Corporate Responsibility report
32 Board of Directors
36 Directors’ report
38 Corporate governance statement
40 Board and Committee reports
42 Remuneration report
Section 1
52 Directors’ responsibilities 
53  Independent Auditors’ report  
to the members of Acambis plc 
55  Financial statements 
60 Notes to the Group financial statements 
98 Summarised Group statements
Section 2
99 Shareholder information 
101 Abbreviations and definitions 
102 Glossary 
104 Company information and advisers
Section 3
About Acambis
We are headquartered in Cambridge, UK. The majority of our operations are based in the US, with R&D in Cambridge, MA and manufacturing facilities in Canton,  
MA and Rockville, MD. We are a UK public limited company with shares listed on the Official List of the LSE since 1995. At the end of 2007 we employed 206 people.
About this Annual Report
This is the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2007. It contains the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with  
UK regulations. References to the Group and Acambis throughout this document relate to Acambis plc and all of its subsidiary and associated  
undertakings. References to the Company are to Acambis plc, the ultimate holding company. For further information on Acambis, please visit  
our website at www.acambis.com.
“Safe Harbour” statement
Statements contained within this document may contain forward-looking comments, which involve risks and uncertainties that may cause  
actual events or results or the actual performance of the Company to differ materially from these reflected or contemplated in such forward-  
looking statements. In some cases, you can identify such forward-looking statements by terminology such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘could’,  
‘forecasts’, ‘expects’, ‘plans’, ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘estimates’, ‘predicts’, ‘potential’, or ‘continue’. Predictions and  
forward-looking references in this document are subject to the satisfactory progress of research which is, by its very nature,  
unpredictable. Forward projections reflect management’ s best estimates based on information available at the time of issue.
Definitions for abbreviations used throughout this document are provided on page 101.
Designed and produced by Merchant in collaboration with JohnstonWorks. 
This Report has been printed on Think4 Bright paper. This paper is fully recyclable and 
it has been independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC). The pulps used are 100% ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) and it is 
manufactured at a mill that has been accredited ISO14001 and BS EN ISO9001.  
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
01
Section 1: Business review
Operational and financial highlights
Operational and financial highlights
 2007 2006 
Year ended 31 December 2007 £m £m
Revenue 9.5  30.9
Operating loss (after restructuring costs)  (32.3) (17.2)
Loss before tax (31.3) (15.9)
Basic loss per share (in pence) (29.0) (15.4)
Cash (including cash equivalents and liquid investments) 20.9 34.4
2007 corporate developments
New management team established
Strategy implementation plan laid 
out to build Acambis into an 
independent robust vaccine 
company 
2007 key performance indicators
ACAM2000™ licensed by FDA - first 
approved biodefence vaccine
ChimeriVax™-JE commercialisation 
partnership established with  
Sanofi Pasteur 
Positive data published from  
pivotal Phase 3 efficacy trial  
of ChimeriVax™-JE 
Collaboration established with 
Sanofi Pasteur for development  
and commercialisation of 
ChimeriVax™-West Nile
Proof-of-concept achieved  
by Sanofi Pasteur in Phase 2 trial  
of ChimeriVax™-Dengue 
ACAM-CDIFF™ formulation 
established and development  
path defined
Positive data from Phase 1 clinical 
trial and H5N1 pre-clinical study  
of ACAM-FLU-A™ universal  
influenza vaccine
MVA-related litigation settled
Major developments so far  
in 2008
Pre-clinical testing initiated for  
HSV vaccine
ChimeriVax™-JE agreement with 
Sanofi Pasteur extended to include 
India and Indian subcontinent
$425m, ten-year ACAM2000™ 
smallpox vaccine warm-base 
manufacturing contract secured 
with US Government
Placing and Open Offer to raise 
£40m (net of expenses)
Key financials Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
02
Section 1: Business review
Chairman’ s review
Chairman’ s review
Business. Science. 
Opportunity . Acambis has undergone a very significant transition during  
the past year, following the appointment of a new high-quality 
management team.
 Our new management team possesses the experience 
and expertise to build Acambis into a robust vaccines company  
and I am pleased to report that they have already delivered  
a range of important advances. These will create new value  
in the Group and will underpin its future growth.
 Most notable has been the finalisation in April 2008  
of the large, multi-year warm-base manufacturing contract  
for ACAM2000™ smallpox vaccine with the US Government, 
which is expected to generate revenues of around $425m  
(c. £212m) over ten years. 
 T wo major new partnerships were also concluded 
during 2007 for the development and commercialisation of  
a novel Japanese encephalitis vaccine and a vaccine against  
the West Nile virus. These partnerships with Sanofi Pasteur, a 
leading global vaccine producer, validate the proprietary chimeric 
vaccine technology that Acambis has successfully developed.
 In addition to our late-stage clinical pipeline, we have 
successfully progressed earlier stage clinical programmes that 
we believe have high value potential. At the end of 2007, we 
received encouraging data with our universal influenza vaccine 
candidate from both a Phase 1 clinical study and a pre-clinical 
challenge study. With these results, we intend to explore 
partnering opportunities with global vaccine companies, in 
parallel with continuing our clinical development programme. 
We have also completed further formulation work on our 
ACAM-CDIFF™ vaccine, in order to initiate a clinical proof- 
of-concept trial later this year, and in February 2008 initiated 
pre-clinical testing of an HSV vaccine with a view to submitting 
an IND application in 2009.
 I believe that the extensive progress outlined above  
will unlock substantial value in the coming years.
 There will be a further Board change this year,  
with the retirement of Alan Dalby at the conclusion of the 
forthcoming AGM. Alan has served as a Director for ten years 
and was our Senior Independent Non-executive Director.  
I would like to thank him for his very valuable contribution  
and advice, particularly during the recent period of change 
within the Company.
 Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would also like  
to thank our shareholders for their strong support and our 
employees for all their efforts and commitment throughout  
the past year.
Our new management team  
has delivered a range of important 
advances. These will unlock 
substantial value in Acambis and 
underpin its future growth.
Dr Peter Fellner
Chairman
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
03
Section 1: Business review
Chairman’ s review Unlocking the 
 value of Acambis
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
04
Section 1: Business review
Q&A with the CEO
Q&A with the CEO
Ian Garland joined Acambis in May 2007 following the 
restructuring and change of management announced  
earlier in the year.
1. What is your goal for Acambis?
Acambis has substantial potential and our job is to translate  
that potential into shareholder value. Our ACAM2000™ 
smallpox vaccine has generated significant revenues for 
Acambis and will continue to do so going forward but the 
greater potential, long term, is in our very valuable R&D pipeline. 
This suffered in the past from the focus on smallpox – as a 
result, milestones were missed and the R&D group pursued 
“interesting” programmes without sufficient commercial input. 
 We’ve laid out a clear plan of how we’ll maximise  
value for shareholders. It’ s not rocket science – it’ s about  
doing a few things well: delivering our pipeline programmes  
on time and on budget, building an efficient R&D engine, being 
commercially aware and exploiting our assets to help finance 
the business. 
 We have a management team with the right mix  
of vaccines, business, operational and financial experience to 
know how to execute on our strategy. T ake the example of 
ACAM-CDIFF™, one of our high-value vaccines: by using our 
experience to define a different approach, we can now deliver 
proof-of-concept data for this potentially major value driver 
within 12 to 18 months of starting the trial.
2. What will you do differently to ensure you deliver  
against your milestones?
This is about two things: planning and execution. For the first 
time, we’ve defined detailed clinical development plans for  
our programmes, drawing on internal and external experts, 
including our new Executive Vice President, R&D, Mike Watson. 
This helps us set realistic deadlines and hit them on time  
and on budget. It will also ensure we can prioritise effectively  
and apply our resources to the activities that will create the  
most value. 
3. You describe your ACAM-CDIFF™ vaccine as  
a potentially transformational product for Acambis.  
What makes this vaccine transformational? 
Three aspects: a rapidly growing developed world problem;  
a well-understood scientific approach; and an unrivalled 
competitive position. 
 We’ve all heard about it but did you realise that there 
are now almost ten times as many C. difficile infections in UK 
hospitals as there are MRSA cases? This is a massive and 
growing problem. In Europe and the US, C. difficile infections 
are now costing the healthcare systems more than $7bn a year. 
 Even our prudent estimates indicate this is a billion-
dollar vaccine market and, to the best of our knowledge,  
we have the only vaccine in clinical development. We’re also 
taking a well-trodden path using a toxoid approach that’ s been  
proven in tetanus, diphtheria and whooping cough vaccines. 
Our job now is to generate proof-of-concept data as quickly  
as possible.  Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
05
Section 1: Business review
Q&A with the CEO
Our goal for Acambis  
is to establish a robust, 
independent vaccines  
company with a portfolio  
of marketed and  
development-stage  
vaccines and a productive 
research engine.
Ian Garland
Chief Executive Officer
4. What is the value of your manufacturing assets?
We can try to place a monetary value on Canton and  
Rockville but that doesn’t really reflect the strategic value  
to us of that capability. 
 In financial terms, the book value of Canton and 
Rockville is £13.5m but if we wanted to build those facilities 
from scratch it would cost us many times that amount. 
 The strategic value of our manufacturing assets  
is considerable. They can deliver revenues from our 
ACAM2000™, ChimeriVax™-JE and ChimeriVax™-West  
Nile vaccines. They also have sufficient flexibility to enable  
us to manufacture material for other pipeline programmes.  
This can help us control our development timelines and 
presents a very attractive proposition for potential partners  
and future in-licensing deals. 
5. You’ve mentioned that in-licensing and, possibly,  
acquisitions are part of your strategy. Can Acambis 
compete with big pharma companies and their  
deep pockets? 
Late-stage assets – Phase 2 and beyond – are in huge  
demand from large pharmaceutical companies and we  
can’t hope to compete for attractive programmes in this  
area. We want to make these companies our customers  
so our focus for in-licensing lies with early-stage products  
and platforms that we can progress to create value. 
 We already have a track record in this area,  
most recently with ACAM-FLU-A™, which we brought  
in as an early-stage research programme and have  
successfully taken through Phase 1 clinical trials.  
We can create value by leveraging our expertise  
to progress programmes through clinical trials  
and then decide whether to lock in that value by  
partnering with the pharmaceutical companies  
or take the product further ourselves if that  
option creates more value for our shareholders. 06
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Our strategy
Our strategy
Lab to Jab
PRE-CLINICAL
DEVELOPMENT
1-2 YEARS
IN-LICENSING
RESEARCH
REGULATORY
REVIEW
MARKETING
AND SALES
PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3
1-2 YEARS 1-3 YEARS 2-4 YEARS 1-2 YEARS AVERAGE DEVELOPMENT TIMES
Creating value 
Acambis has the ability to take a product through from  
research to licensure. We create value by progressing products 
through our proven infrastructure to different key decision points.
We are focusing upon the development  
of high-value vaccines that address 
significant unmet medical needs or 
substantially improve upon current 
standards of care. 
KPIs for 2008
 Finalise ACAM2000™ warm-base manufacturing  
contract 
  Complete ChimeriVax™-West Nile Phase 2 elderly  
subjects study
  Initiate Phase 2b ChimeriVax™-West Nile  
clinical trial 
  Initiate ACAM-CDIFF™ proof-of-concept study 
  Pursue partnership options for ACAM-FLU-A™ 
   Sanofi Pasteur to initiate an efficacy programme  
with ChimeriVax™-based dengue vaccine 
Research, development, manuf acturing
  We aim to generate one IND application a year by exploiting our in-house  
research expertise and technology platforms, and by in-licensing other  
early-stage programmes.
  We increase the value of our vaccines by transitioning through the development 
stages, running focused clinical trials that generate necessary data quickly  
and cost-effectively. 
  Our manufacturing capability generates revenues, gives us greater control  
of our development costs and timelines, and is very attractive to in-licensing  
and out-licensing partners. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
07
Section 1: Business review
Our strategy
PRE-CLINICAL
DEVELOPMENT
1-2 YEARS
IN-LICENSING
RESEARCH
REGULATORY
REVIEW
MARKETING
AND SALES
PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3
1-2 YEARS 1-3 YEARS 2-4 YEARS 1-2 YEARS AVERAGE DEVELOPMENT TIMES
We intend to:
  Deliver value from our current pipeline by focusing upon key 
priority programmes and partnering others where we can 
lock in value in the short term whilst retaining an interest  
in the long-term potential;
  Build a balanced portfolio by delivering one IND a year, using 
different platform technologies that we can exploit for multiple 
projects; and
  Expand the portfolio through in-licensing and acquisition. 
Deliver value from our current pipeline
(a) Unpartnered pipeline programmes
We have two clinical-stage programmes that are, as yet, 
unpartnered: ACAM-CDIFF™ and ACAM-FLU-A™.
 The ACAM-CDIFF™ vaccine is a pipeline priority that 
we believe can be a transformational programme for Acambis. 
We are targeting the prevention of relapse in patients already 
infected with C. difficile and the prevention of CDAD in high-risk 
populations. We are preparing to initiate a proof-of-concept trial 
towards the end of 2008, which will give us data within 12-18 
months of commencing the study.
 Our ACAM-FLU-A™ vaccine provides an innovative 
approach in a highly competitive field as it has the potential  
to be both a universal pandemic, or pre-pandemic, influenza 
vaccine and part of a universal seasonal vaccine. We have 
published positive data from a Phase 1 clinical trial and a 
pre-clinical challenge study that demonstrated the vaccine  
is well-tolerated and generates a robust immune response in 
humans to a novel target, M2e, and that an M2e-based vaccine 
can protect against H5N1 (avian influenza) in a pre-clinical 
model. We are exploring the potential to partner ACAM-
FLU-A™ in parallel with continued development work. 
(b) Key potential cash generators
Within our pipeline, four projects are already positioned as 
short- and medium-term cash generators for our business: 
  ChimeriVax™-JE, ChimeriVax™-Dengue and ChimeriVax™-
West Nile, which are all partnered with Sanofi Pasteur, one  
of the world’ s leading vaccine companies, and are expected 
to generate milestone payments, development funding and 
royalties; and
  ACAM2000™, for which we have finalised a long-term 
contract with the US Government that can provide  
significant revenues. 
Build a balanced portfolio
T o create further value for shareholders, we intend to deliver  
a regular flow of new vaccines that we can either partner or 
develop ourselves. T o achieve this, we aim to generate one  
IND a year. This is in line with the eight INDs generated in the 
last eight years by our research engine. 
 We expect to make our next IND application in 2009, 
which will be for our HSV vaccine, dl5-29, against genital herpes. 
This was developed by Harvard Medical School and exclusively 
licensed to Acambis by Harvard University. There is a large 
commercial opportunity for a vaccine against HSV , which is one 
of the most common sexually transmitted infections in the world. 
We are currently conducting pre-clinical testing with the vaccine. 
Expand the portfolio
We pursue in-licensing of novel vaccine technologies as  
a means of accelerating our strategy. We will leverage our 
vaccines expertise, product development capability and 
manufacturing facilities to attract opportunities, and will use 
in-licensing as an adjunct to our research activities to deliver  
our research productivity goal of one IND a year. In addition, 
while not core to our future success, we will continue to  
review acquisition opportunities where these can generate  
value for shareholders. 
unloCking value
At different key stages, Acambis can choose to 
lock in the value we have created by partnering  
or out-licensing, or we can invest to progress  
the product further to create more value.
  Our decision to partner or to 
invest in a programme ourselves 
is influenced by the balance  
of risk/reward in our portfolio,  
the affordability of development, 
the availability of funding, the 
competitive landscape, the need 
to access other capabilities or  
a partner’ s ability to progress  
a programme faster or with a 
greater probability of success.
  Partnerships can take many 
forms, including out-licensing, 
development collaborations 
or co-marketing agreements. 
Partnerships enable us to 
realise some value in the short-
term whilst retaining a long-
term interest in the programme.
Key decision points
  Our portfolio includes partnered programmes 
and vaccines we are developing ourselves. 
The more we invest in progressing our 
programmes, the more value we can retain. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
R&D overview
08
R&D overview
Delivering our pipeline
Much of Acambis’ value is concentrated in our pipeline.  
We intend to advance our programmes quickly and efficiently 
through key milestones and value creation points to unlock  
that value for our shareholders and deliver improved health  
to millions.
 Previously, Acambis has had a track record of missing 
milestones. By putting in place clear goals and development 
plans, sticking to good fundamental disciplines and tools, and 
making room for creative flexibility, we aim to be a company  
that meets or beats its goals. 
 Some changes are simple, such as increasing 
communication between the project teams and the functional 
groups responsible for defining and hitting our milestones. 
 Others are more complex. The single most significant 
change we’ve made is to establish detailed clinical development 
plans for our programmes, driven by a clear vision of what the 
patient and the market ultimately need from the product. 
Acambis’ most advanced vaccines – ACAM2000™ and 
ChimeriVax™-JE – are improvements on existing products and, 
as such, could be tested head-to-head in non-inferiority and 
superiority studies against the historical products. Our other 
pipeline products are innovative leaders in their fields and  
our development plans reflect this innovation. We have built, 
challenged, refined and adapted our plans, both internally  
and externally, to establish clear and robust development 
pathways that will take us from start to finish.
Since joining Acambis in 
March 2007 , I’ve made it my 
priority to ensure we deliver 
against our R&D milestones 
and build a high-value 
portfolio for the future. 
Dr Michael Watson
Executive Vice President, R&D 09
Section 1: Business review
R&D overview
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Delivering a continual flow of new vaccines
It is critical for us continually to fill our pipeline by generating new 
vaccine programmes that we can develop ourselves or partner. 
T o achieve this, our goal is to produce one IND a year from 2009.  
 To ensure that we direct our internal resources towards 
programmes that deliver significant value, we have put in  
place a framework for assessing current and future research 
programmes. Qualifying programmes must meet certain criteria, 
including the fit with Acambis’ expertise and experience, the 
competitive landscape, the market potential, the cost, time and 
complexity of development and the IP position. 
 An important way to maximise R&D productivity and 
success is by using core platform technologies, which can be 
used for multiple projects. ChimeriVax™ has demonstrated the 
value of this approach by generating three vaccines from the 
same platform. We will look to maximise the application of this 
platform and also to establish at least two more platforms from 
which we can generate vaccine candidates. This platform-
centred approach maximises productivity, minimises risk and 
flattens the learning curve for each successive application of  
the platform.
Making R&D
 work better
Acambis’ R&D productivity record:
Eight INDs in the last eight years
The US’ s first biodefence vaccine licensed  
since 9/11
IND to licensure with ACAM2000™ three  
years faster than the industry average 
The world’ s leading chimeric vaccine  
technology 
Improve and enhance our productivity:
Aim for one IND a year from 2009
Choose new opportunities based on medical 
need, technical feasibility and market potential
Add further platform technologies for  
multiple products and high productivity
Meet or beat our milestones
Beat industry average development times Our R&D pipeline
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Our R&D pipeline
10
ChimeriVax™ 
-West Nile
ChimeriVax™ 
-Je
ChimeriVax™ 
-DeNgue
The world’s most 
advanced vaccine against 
the world’s main cause of 
haemorrhagic fever
The leading vaccine  
against North America’s 
endemic mosquito- 
borne encephalitis 
aCam-CDiff™
The only vaccine in clinical development 
against the Western world’s  
most common cause of  
hospital-acquired infection 
aCam-flu-a™
A ground-breaking  
approach to universal  
influenza vaccination and  
pandemic influenza 
aCam2000™
The world’s leading  
smallpox vaccine for 
emergency-use  
stockpiling
researCh
Innovative technology 
platforms and programmes 
targeting high-value vaccine 
opportunities to drive  
future growth 
herPes
simPlex Virus
The next IND in our pipeline 
and a highly promising 
approach to one of the world’s  
most common sexually 
transmitted infections
A Phase 3 vaccine against 
Asia’s principal cause  
of viral encephalitis Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Our R&D pipeline
11
ChimeriVax™-Je
ChimeriVax™-DeNgue
ChimeriVax™-West Nile
aCam-CDiff™ 
aCam-flu-a™
hsV 
researCh
aCam2000™
ChimeriVax™-Je
Potential market: $200-400m
Partnered with Sanofi Pasteur
The lead ChimeriVax™ vaccine and the only 
single-dose JE vaccine. Generates an immune 
response within two weeks that can last for more 
than three years. 
ChimeriVax™-West Nile
Potential market: $200-400m
Partnered with Sanofi Pasteur 
A unique collaboration with Sanofi Pasteur  
funding Acambis to take the world’s leading West 
Nile vaccine through to licensure.
aCam-flu-a™
T oday’s seasonal influenza vaccines market:  
$2.2bn
A universal vaccine approach that does not  
require a new vaccine each year, is not produced 
in eggs and could protect against all ‘A’ strains, 
including pandemic influenza.
aCam-CDiff™
T oday’s healthcare burden:  
>$7bn in the US and Europe
The only vaccine in clinical development against 
the most prevalent nosocomial bacterial infection  
in the Western world and a key public health 
strategy to avoid antibiotic-resistant C. difficile.
herPes simPlex Virus
Worldwide Herpes Simplex Virus  
anti-viral market: $2bn
Acambis’ most advanced pre-clinical programme 
targeting an IND in 2009 for the start of clinical trials.
ChimeriVax™-DeNgue
Potential market: $1.5bn
Partnered with Sanofi Pasteur 
The leading dengue vaccine in development  
and expected to be the first to enter late-stage 
trials having achieved 100% seroconversion to  
all four dengue virus serotypes.
Phase 3 Phase 2 Pre-Clinical Phase 1 Registration Marketed
aCam2000
tm
A ten-year contract to provide the US Government 
with US-based smallpox vaccine production and 
licence maintenance.
US warm-base manufacturing contract:  
$425m 12
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Chimerivax™-JE
ChimeriV ax™ 
-Je
Distribution of JE in Asia
  Half of the world’s 
population is living  
in the endemic region
  70 million babies are 
born in endemic 
countries every year
  30-35% fatality rate
  Up to 50% JE-related 
disability rate in survivors
Endemic region
Source: CDC
ChimeriVax™-based vaccines are constructed from a full-length  
cDNA of yellow fever (YF-17D). Genes encoding the pre-membrane  
and envelope proteins of the yellow fever vaccine virus (structural  
genes) are replaced with the corresponding genes of the JE, West Nile 
or dengue virus. The retained non-structural yellow fever genes are 
responsible for replication. The combination is a new ‘chimeric’ virus 
used as a live, attenuated vaccine. This structure allows us to use the 
highly efficient replicating ‘engine’ of the yellow fever virus but immunises 
specifically against the target virus, giving it all the benefits of the yellow 
fever vaccine – rapid and durable immunity from a single dose. 
How does our ChimeriVax™ 
platform work?
C
C
prM E
prM E prM E
Nonstructural genes
Yellow fever 17D genome cloned as cDNA
Chimeric cDNA
Transfect mRNA
Grow virus in 
cell culture
transcribe to RNA
Exchange, YF-17D  
coat protein genes of JE, 
dengue, West Nile, etc.
Envelope is heterologous virus 
containing immunising antigens
Chimeric vaccine has  
the replication engine 
of YF-17D but the coat 
proteins of the target virus
Non-structural genes
ChimeriVax™ Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
13
Section 1: Business review
Chimerivax™-JE
Opportunity
JE is a disease caused by a mosquito-borne flavivirus that 
affects the membranes around the brain. Most JE virus 
infections are mild (fever and headache) or without apparent 
symptoms but approximately one in 200 infections results  
in severe disease characterised by rapid onset of high fever, 
headache, neck stiffness, disorientation, coma, seizures, 
spastic paralysis and death. The case fatality rate can be as 
high as 30-35% among those with disease symptoms. Around 
50% of those who survive suffer from lasting damage to the 
central nervous system. In areas where the JE virus is common, 
encephalitis occurs mainly in young children.
 According to the WHO, approximately 30,000 to 
50,000 people suffer from JE annually, mainly in Asia.
(2)
 During 
a recent epidemic in northern India and Nepal, JE killed more 
than 1,000 people, most of them children.
(3)
 An estimated 
three billion people live in JE-endemic regions, which include 
Thailand, China, Japan, India and parts of Australia. 
 Analysts estimate that the market for JE vaccines  
is currently worth $100-150m per annum and project that  
it will grow to $200-400m with the introduction of improved 
products. The target markets for ChimeriVax™-JE are 
endemic regions and travellers. Our main competition  
is expected to be a two-dose inactivated vaccine being 
developed by Intercell/Novartis and a two-dose live, 
attenuated vaccine licensed in China and produced by the 
Chengdu Institute. As a single-dose vaccine, we believe  
that ChimeriVax™-JE will hold significant advantages for  
use in routine immunisation programmes.
(1)
WHO, 2002
(2)
WHO, Water Related Disease, Japanese encephalitis
(3) 
WHO, Regional Office for South-East Asia, Immunization and Vaccine 
Development, Japanese encephalitis
Business
Ideal vaccination is simple, fast-acting and long-lasting. 
ChimeriVax™-JE is just that: a single-dose vaccine that induces 
a rapid immune response and maintains high antibody levels for 
years. We are working to protect millions of children born every 
year in JE-endemic countries and an estimated 12 million 
travellers to the Asia-Pacific region.
(1)
 
 We have already completed pivotal Phase 3 trials  
with ChimeriVax™-JE, which have established the vaccine’s 
highly competitive profile. It requires only one dose for adequate 
protection against JE versus two or three required with other JE 
vaccines and has also been shown to provide lasting immunity. 
 In February 2007, we partnered this programme with 
one of the world’ s leading vaccine companies, Sanofi Pasteur. 
We awarded Sanofi Pasteur marketing, distribution and certain 
manufacturing rights to ChimeriVax™-JE and extended the 
agreement in March 2008 to include India and the Indian 
subcontinent. Under the terms of the extended agreement,  
we are entitled to royalties on sales and payment for the supply 
of bulk manufactured product. We also receive upfront and 
milestone payments of up to €37m (c. £27m), the majority of 
which would follow marketing authorisation of ChimeriVax™-JE 
in key endemic countries and in the European Union. 
Science
ChimeriVax™-JE is based on the world’ s leading chimeric 
vaccine technology, ChimeriVax™, which is proprietary  
to Acambis. 
 Our vaccine has successfully undergone pivotal  
Phase 3 trials. We published data from our Phase 3 efficacy  
trial in March 2007, which showed that our vaccine is 
statistically superior (p<0.001) to the incumbent vaccine 
(seroconversion rate of 99.1% vs 74.8%). The trial also  
showed that ChimeriVax™-JE generated immunity within  
14 days in 93.7% of people. This followed publication of the 
Phase 3 safety trial data in October 2006, which showed that 
the total number of subjects reporting adverse events was 
comparable between subjects vaccinated with ChimeriVax™-
JE and those who received placebo. Vaccination with 
ChimeriVax™-JE was systemically and locally well-tolerated. 
Paediatric trials are now being conducted. Infants and children 
are the primary target population in endemic regions.
DeVelOPmeNts iN 2007
  Worldwide commercialisation partnership 
agreement signed with leading vaccine 
company, Sanofi Pasteur, in February 2007
  Statistical superiority shown to existing 
vaccine in pivotal Phase 3 trial
30,000-50,000 cases  
a year, mostly in children 
under 15 years old 14
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Chimerivax™-Dengue
ChimeriV ax™ 
-DeNgue
  50-100 million cases a year 
  500,000 cases of dengue hemorrhagic  
fever a year worldwide, fatality rate can 
exceed 20%
  Endemic in over 100 tropical and  
sub-tropical countries
  Aedes aegypti mosquito is prolific in  
crowded urban and suburban areas
  Dengue epidemics affect 40-50% of the 
population in the area but may sometimes  
be as high as 80-90%
 Source: WHO, DengueNet
Areas at risk of dengue transmission
Endemic region
Source: WHO, DengueNet
The threat of dengue as  
a re-emerging disease
The dengue virus is continuing to spread as a  
result of climate changes, demographic growth, 
uncontrolled urbanisation and increased travel.  
In a recent article by experts from the NIH,  
dengue was identified among the world’ s  
most aggressive re-emerging infections. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
15
Section 1: Business review
Chimerivax™-Dengue
Business
The world’ s leading dengue vaccine has also been derived from 
our proprietary ChimeriVax™ technology. ChimeriVax™-Dengue 
is being developed by our partner, Sanofi Pasteur. At its Investor 
Day in September 2007, Sanofi Pasteur announced three 
important developments for this tetravalent vaccine:
  Positive Phase 2 data that showed 100% seroconversion  
to all four dengue virus serotypes;
  Plans to start an efficacy programme in 2008; and
  Increased expectations for the dengue vaccine market,  
now estimated to be $1.5bn.
 Sanofi Pasteur has made research for a vaccine 
against dengue fever one of its top priorities. 
 Although we out-licensed our ChimeriVax™-based 
dengue vaccine to Sanofi Pasteur at the pre-clinical stage,  
this programme remains a significant value driver for Acambis 
given the size of the potential commercial opportunity. Under 
our partnership agreement, Acambis is entitled to receive 
milestone payments and royalties on sales of the vaccine.
Science
Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne viral disease. Transmitted  
by mosquito bites, it causes severe flu-like symptoms, which 
can lead to fatal haemorrhagic fever. 
 There are four distinct but closely related dengue virus 
serotypes. Recovery from infection by one provides lifelong 
immunity against that serotype but confers only partial and 
transient protection against infection by the other three. There  
is evidence that subsequent infection with a second serotype 
increases the risk of a more severe form of the disease, dengue 
haemorrhagic fever. An effective vaccine needs to address all 
four dengue virus serotypes but there is no vaccine currently 
available nor is there a specific treatment for dengue fever.
 In a Phase 2 trial by Sanofi Pasteur, immunisation with 
the tetravalent (four-component) dengue candidate vaccine 
generated a seroneutralising antibody response against all four 
dengue virus serotypes in 100% of adults who participated in  
a trial in the US. Sanofi Pasteur is currently conducting further 
trials in endemic regions and plans to start an efficacy 
programme in 2008, making this project the first tetravalent 
candidate dengue vaccine in the world to reach this stage  
of clinical development.
Opportunity
The market potential for this vaccine is significant. An estimated 
2.5 billion people live in the endemic areas – equivalent to 40% 
of the world’s population – and 63 million people travel to 
these areas every year.
(1) 
 Dengue fever affects 50-100 million people each year 
and results in 24,000 deaths.
(2,3)
 It occurs mostly in tropical  
and subtropical countries and it is spreading to new parts  
of the world. Outbreaks have been observed recently in 
Paraguay, the Middle East, Australia and the US.  
A substantial number of people travelling to endemic regions 
are also infected each year. 
 In a recent article by Dr Anthony Fauci and Dr David 
Morens
(4)
 from the US National Institutes of Health, dengue 
was identified among the most important infectious diseases 
globally. The authors highlighted the widespread appearance 
of dengue in the continental US as a real possibility, following 
increased frequency of infections along the Texas-Mexico 
border and in Puerto Rico. Dengue has also been identified 
recently in Australia. 
 The nearest competitor to Sanofi Pasteur is believed 
to be GlaxoSmithKline, which reported Phase 2 data with its 
tetravalent dengue vaccine in 2005.
(1)
WHO, DengueNet; World Tourism Organization
(2)
WHO, Flavivirus Laboratory Reference Center, Mahidol University, Thailand
(3)
WHO, State-of-the-art vaccine research and development, WHO/IVB/06.01
(4) 
JAMA, January 9/16, 2008 – Vol 299, No.2, Dengue and Hemorrhagic Fever  
– a Potential Threat to Public Health in the United States
DeVelOPmeNts iN 2007
   100% seroconversion rate to all four dengue 
virus serotypes in Phase 2 trials
   Sanofi Pasteur increased its projections for 
the dengue vaccine market to $1.5bn
40% of world’ s  
population is at risk  
of dengue fever 16
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Chimerivax™-West Nile
ChimeriV ax™ 
-West Nile
2007 West Nile virus activity in the US  
Over 201 cases 101-200 cases 1-100 cases zero cases
West Nile virus activity
West Nile virus causes seasonal epidemics in  
North America from summer through autumn.  
The disease epidemiology is similar to that of  
other mosquito-borne infections and follows  
a pattern of periodic large epidemics with 
intervening years of lower incidence. This  
pattern is seen in both the US and Canada  
where cases and fatalities are monitored  
throughout the season.
West Nile virus activity in the US 
Number of cases and fatalities
Fatalities Cases
284 264 100 119 177 124
4,156 4,269
3,623
3,000
2,539
9,862
Source: CDC reports
Source: CDC reports
 02 03 04 05 06 07 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
17
Section 1: Business review
Chimerivax™-West Nile
Business
We have the most advanced vaccine in development against 
the West Nile virus and, following the collaboration we 
announced in November 2007 with Sanofi Pasteur, we believe 
we now have the best partner in place to enable us to bring  
this vaccine to market as quickly as possible. 
 ChimeriVax™-West Nile is the third vaccine we  
have developed using our proprietary ChimeriVax™ technology 
and is the third that we have partnered with Sanofi Pasteur. 
Under this agreement Acambis is continuing to perform  
all development work, up to and including filing a licence 
application in the US, with funding from Sanofi Pasteur.  
We received an upfront payment of $10m (£5.1m) from  
the collaboration in 2007 and are eligible for pre- and post-
marketing milestone payments of up to $70m (c. £35m),  
based on product approval and sales in the US, plus royalties  
on net sales. We would earn further milestones and royalties  
if the vaccine were developed for markets outside the US.
Science
In an initial Phase 2 trial in healthy adults ChimeriVax™-West 
Nile elicited an immune response in 98% of subjects 28 days 
after a single vaccination. We are currently testing the vaccine  
in the target population in subjects aged 41-64 years and  
65 years and above. The aim of the study is to compare the 
safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of ChimeriVax™-West 
Nile against placebo in the target population. We expect to 
report data in mid-2008 and are planning to initiate a Phase 2b 
dose-ranging trial later in 2008. 
Opportunity
The West Nile virus was first identified in the US in 1999.  
Since then, it has spread across the continental US, resulting  
in more than 27,500 cases and more than 1,000 deaths.
(1)
 
Experts believe it is established as a seasonal epidemic in  
North America that flares up in the summer and continues  
into the autumn. 
 About one in 150 people infected with West Nile virus 
will develop severe illness. The severe symptoms include high 
fever, headache, neck stiffness, stupor, disorientation, coma, 
tremors, convulsions, muscle weakness, vision loss, numbness 
and paralysis. These symptoms may last several weeks and 
neurological effects may be permanent. Up to 20% of the 
people who become infected have symptoms such as fever, 
headache, body aches, nausea, vomiting, and sometimes 
swollen lymph glands or a skin rash on the chest, stomach  
and back. Symptoms can last for as short as a few days, 
though even healthy people have become sick for several 
weeks. Approximately 80% of people who are infected  
with the virus will not show any symptoms. 
 The CDC has identified those aged 50 and above as 
being most at risk of severe West Nile virus-related disease.
(2)
 
In the US, this population totals more than 87 million people.
(3)
 There is currently no human vaccine for the 
prevention of West Nile virus-related disease and no specific 
treatment. Our ChimeriVax™-West Nile vaccine continues  
to be the most advanced West Nile vaccine candidate in 
development. Data from Phase 1 trials have been reported  
by Crucell N.V . and Vical Inc. but neither is progressing its 
programme further. The NIH is conducting a Phase 1 trial.
(1)
CDC
(2)
Ibid
(3)
Population Division, U.S. Census Bureau
DeVelOPmeNts iN 2007
   Collaboration agreement signed in November 
2007 with Sanofi Pasteur 
    Phase 2 trial ongoing in target population 
aged 41- 64 and 65 and above
Since 1999, the US  
has had more than  
27 ,500 cases of West  
Nile-associated disease 
and over 1,000 deaths 18
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
ACAM-CDIFF™
aCam-CDiff ™
Reported deaths involving Clostridium difficile 
in the UK
MRSA-related deaths C. difficile-related deaths
01 02 03 04 05 06
1,214
1,204
1,416
1,215
1,804
1,416
2,238
1,599
3,757
2,099
6,480
2,150
The number of deaths involving 
Clostridium difficile continued  
to rise between 2005 and 2006 
(by 72%), while deaths involving 
MRSA levelled out, according 
to figures released by the Office 
for National Statistics in 
February 2008.
Source: Office for National Statistics
C. difficile virus activity
Reporting of C. difficile cases in the UK has been  
mandatory since 2004. In all other EU countries,  
reporting is on a voluntarily basis. The US employs  
a voluntary reporting scheme under the National  
Nosocomial Infections Surveillance system to  
monitor incidences of healthcare-associated  
infections and their associated risk factors  
and pathogens.
Trend in total reports of C. difficile in the UK 
Number of cases
Source: Voluntary surveillance of Clostridium difficile in England,  
Wales and Nothern Ireland, 2006
1,184
2,946
7,484
11,763
17,174
20,599
29,054
44,403
55,213
90 92 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
19
Section 1: Business review
ACAM-CDIFF™
Business
C. difficile is now the developed world’ s most common cause  
of hospital-acquired infection and Acambis has the only vaccine 
in clinical development. Given our strong competitive position 
and the current healthcare burden of C. difficile infections,  
our ACAM-CDIFF™ programme has the potential to  
transform Acambis. 
 The incidence of CDAD has increased significantly  
in recent years in both North America and Europe. The 
pharmaco-economic impact of CDAD-related treatments  
is now estimated to be costing the developed world’s 
healthcare systems more than $7bn a year. 
 We are targeting both a therapeutic and a prophylactic 
indication. The therapeutic indication offers the benefit of  
a quicker and more cost-effective route to market. We aim to 
prevent recurrence of disease in those infected with C. difficile, 
which typically occurs in 20% of cases despite antibiotic 
treatment. Commercially, the prophylactic opportunity is even 
more substantial but it is likely to require a more significant 
investment to bring our vaccine to market. For this indication, 
the vaccine could be targeted at people most at risk of CDAD, 
such as people aged over 65 years and those entering hospital 
or long-term care facilities. 
Science
C. difficile is an anaerobic spore-forming bacterium, present 
asymptomatically in approximately 60% of infants but only  
3% of healthy adults. It is from the Clostridium family of bacteria, 
which also includes C. tetani (tetanus). The C. difficile bacteria 
release two potent toxins: A and B. When the natural flora of  
the gut is disturbed, usually as a result of antibiotic treatment, 
the bacteria can multiply and secrete the two toxins, which 
cause gastrointestinal pathologies in humans known collectively 
as CDAD. Current treatment includes the use of one of two 
antibiotics – metronidazole or vancomycin – but there is 
considerable concern about the bacteria’ s ability to become 
resistant even to these antibiotics. In a recent report, vaccination 
was identified as the most logical strategy for combating CDAD 
as it could break the cycle of antibiotics being both the cause  
of and treatment for the disease.
 Our vaccine uses a toxoid-based approach, which  
has been used extensively in licensed vaccines against tetanus, 
diphtheria and whooping cough. T o date, we have successfully 
completed Phase 1 clinical trials in approximately 200 subjects 
and have seen seroconversion rates to the two toxins of up  
to 100%. Our confidence in a therapeutic vaccine is, in part, 
predicated on the experience of three patients who had suffered 
multiple relapses over a period of years but recovered after 
receiving our vaccine.
(1)
 
 During 2007, we successfully completed formulation 
work with the vaccine and plan to initiate a proof-of-concept 
trial towards the end of 2008, which will provide data within 
12-18 months of starting the trial. 
Opportunity
Hospital-acquired infections caused by C. difficile bacteria are 
an increasing problem in many developed countries, including 
the US, Canada, the UK and other EU countries. It is estimated 
that C. difficile causes at least 360,000 cases in the US alone 
(based on an assumed infection of 1% of the hospital 
population each year
(2)
) with annual costs to the healthcare 
system of $3.2bn.
(3)
 In the EU, assuming a population of  
about 460 million people, the healthcare costs of CDAD  
are estimated to be around $4.4bn per year.
(4)
 
 The emergence of a hypervirulent strain of C. difficile, 
NAP1/027, in 2002 further highlighted the importance of 
tackling CDAD. The new strain produces 20 times as much 
toxin as the previously known strains and is associated with  
a high incidence of severe disease.
(5)
 In Quebec, Canada 
where this strain is widespread, the mortality rate from  
C. difficile infections rose to around 17%.
(6)
 There are several therapeutic products in 
development to treat CDAD, including new antibiotics, 
antibodies and toxin binders. To our knowledge, Acambis  
is the only company to have a vaccine against C. difficile  
in clinical development.
(1) 
Sougioultzis et al, Clostridium difficile Toxoid Vaccine in Recurrent 
C.difficile-Associated Diarrhea. Gastroenterology, 2005; 128: 764-770
(2)
CDC
(3) 
O’Brien et al, The Emerging Infectious Challenge of Clostridium 
difficile-Associated Disease in Massachusetts Hospitals: Clinical and  
Economic Consequences. Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology.  
Nov 2007;28(11):1219-1227
(4) 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. ECDC Summary  
of CDAD infection, 2005-2007
(5)
 Warny et al, Toxin production by an emerging strain of Clostridium  
difficile associated with outbreaks of severe disease in North  
America and Europe. Lancet 2005; 366: 1079-84
(6) 
Pepin J, Valiquette L, Cossette B. Mortality attributable to  
hospital-acquired CDAD during an epidemic caused by  
a hypervirulent strain in Quebec. CMAJ. Oct. 25 2005;  
173(9): 1037-1042
DeVelOPmeNts iN 2007
  Vaccine formulations with improved 
stability profile identified
  Plan to initiate proof-of-concept testing  
in 2008
The annual cost of  
CDAD-related treatments 
is estimated to be $3.2bn 
in the US and $4.4bn in  
the EU 20
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
ACAM-FLU-A™
aCam-flu-a ™
Source: CDC: Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, June 29, 2007/Vol. 56; 
Mair et al, Universal Influenza Vaccination: The Time to Act Is Now, Biosecurity 
And Bioterrorism: Biodefense Strategy, Practice, And Science, Volume 4, 
Number 1, 2006; Molinari et al, The annual impact of seasonal influenza in  
the US: Measuring disease burden and costs, Vaccine 25 (2007) 5086-5096; 
Meltzer et al, The Economic Impact of Pandemic Influenza in the United States: 
Priorities for Intervention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, 
Georgia, USA; James Newcomb, Economic Risks Associated with an Influenza 
Pandemic, Bio Economic Research Associates; testimony before the United 
States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, November 9, 2005.  
Influenza epidemics occur every year. It is difficult to 
assess the overall burden of seasonal influenza as it is  
a combination of healthcare burden, loss of productivity 
and the associated economic impact. Vaccination is 
seen as the principal method for reducing the burden of 
influenza. Each year a new vaccine must be developed, 
produced and distributed because immunity against 
influenza viruses, whether acquired by natural infection 
or immunisation, is typically transient due to the virus’s 
ability to mutate and evade pre-existing immunity. 
Vaccine effectiveness varies from year to year, depending 
on the degree of antigenic similarity between circulating 
influenza virus strains and those that are included in  
the vaccine, as well as the recipient’ s age and their 
immune status.
    1st generation 2nd generation 
    (egg based) (cell culture) Universal
 Effective against all influenza strains x x 
 Effective for more than one year x x 
 Rapid and cost-effective manufacturing process x  
 Suitable for stockpiling or pre-pandemic use x x 
 Can be administered year-round x x 
estimated influenza impact in the us
  Seasonal influenza Pandemic influenza
Cases 15 million-60 million 38 million-90 million
Hospitalisations 55,000-431,000 314,000-734,000
Deaths 8,000-68,000 89,000-207,000
Associated economic impact $12-87bn $88-206bn
Benefits of a universal influenza vaccine approach Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
21
Section 1: Business review
ACAM-FLU-A™
Business
The world’ s largest vaccine market – influenza – is estimated  
to be worth $2.2bn today and is projected to grow to $4bn  
by 2010.
(1)
 The market is expanding even further through 
preparations for a pandemic outbreak. 
 Acambis is using a highly innovative universal vaccine 
approach based on M2, one of the three proteins on the 
surface of the influenza virus, to develop a vaccine with 
significant benefits over existing vaccines. ACAM-FLU-A™ is  
a universal vaccine against all ‘A’ strains of the influenza virus, 
which means it has the potential to be part of the seasonal 
vaccination programme, a pre-pandemic vaccine administered 
prior to an outbreak or a pandemic vaccine stockpiled for use 
when a pandemic strain emerges. ‘A’ and ‘B’ strains cause 
annual epidemics, while only ‘A’ strains cause pandemics.  
We are also investigating a universal influenza ‘B’ strain vaccine 
and improved recombinant vaccines. 
 ACAM-FLU-A™, which is protected by extensive IP , 
was developed using technology licensed from VIB that was 
invented by Walter Fiers, Emeritus Professor of the VIB 
Department for Molecular Biomedical Research at the  
University of Ghent, Belgium.
Science
Currently influenza vaccines target two of the three proteins 
expressed on the surface of the virus – haemagglutinin and 
neuraminidase – to generate protection. The third protein,  
M2, is hidden by the dominant proteins and is not well 
recognised by the human immune system. However, unlike 
haemagglutinin and neuraminidase, which change regularly,  
M2 is highly conserved across all influenza ‘A’ virus strains, 
making it an ideal target for a vaccine. 
 M2 is one of the most discussed new approaches for 
influenza vaccination. With our ACAM-FLU-A™ vaccine, M2e, 
the extracellular domain of the M2 ion channel protein, is made 
more visible to the immune system by expressing multiple 
copies on a hepatitis B core. The vaccine is intended to elicit 
protective, strain-independent immune responses to all ‘A’ 
strains. Such an approach would overcome the drawbacks  
of existing vaccines, such as annual reformulation, time-  
and capacity-constrained egg-based production and the 
inability to stockpile in advance of an epidemic or a pandemic.
 In a Phase 1 trial, we evaluated the vaccine’ s safety 
profile and ability to generate an immune response in humans, 
and tested the effect of adjuvants on the immune response.  
The trial results demonstrated that ACAM-FLU-A™ is well- 
tolerated and immunogenic. Immune responses were seen  
in all vaccinated groups, with the highest immune responses 
occurring in the group vaccinated with ACAM-FLU-A™ plus 
an adjuvant, QS-21 Stimulon.
(2)
 In this group, 95% of subjects 
seroconverted. 
 In parallel with the Phase 1 trial, we also conducted  
a pre-clinical study to test whether an M2e-based vaccine 
could protect against the Vietnam 2004 strain
(3)
 of H5N1  
avian influenza (bird flu). The H5N1 virus was lethal in the 
placebo-treated group, whereas 70% of those in the group 
vaccinated with the M2e-based vaccine from the same 
influenza strain were protected.
Opportunity
Influenza is a major global threat, resulting in an estimated  
250,000 to 500,000 deaths every year.
(4)
 Immunity against 
influenza viruses, whether acquired by natural infection or 
immunisation, is typically transient due to the virus’ s ability  
to mutate and evade pre-existing immunity. 
 Pandemic influenza vaccines, primarily targeting  
avian H5N1 viruses, are being stockpiled for emergency use. 
However, there is no certainty that the next pandemic strain 
will evolve from H5N1 and the efficacy of these vaccines may 
also be negatively impacted by continual mutations in 
circulating H5N1 strains. 
 Most of the major pharmaceutical companies have 
invested heavily in the influenza vaccine field. 
 We believe our approach is highly competitive and 
that this important vaccine can be developed most rapidly  
and effectively by a large pharmaceutical company, particularly  
one already well-established in the influenza arena. We are 
exploring the potential to partner the programme in parallel 
with continued development of the vaccine.
(1)
Datamonitor
(2) 
QS-21 Stimulon
®
 adjuvant is an investigational adjuvant (immune stimulant) 
provided under an option agreement with Antigenics Inc., which has  
recently been converted to a non-exclusive licence and supply agreement
(3) 
The Vietnam 2004 Clade 1 avian influenza virus has been used  
by manufacturers to develop and produce pre-pandemic  
vaccines http://www.who.int/csr/disease/avian_influenza/ 
guidelines/recommendationvaccine.pdf
(4) 
WHO: http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs211/en/
DeVelOPmeNts iN 2007
In spite of vaccination 
programmes there are 
250,000 to 500,000 deaths 
from influenza every year 
worldwide
   First company to publish human clinical trial 
data with an M2e-based vaccine
     Phase 1 study of ACAM-FLU-A™ showed  
the vaccine is well-tolerated and can generate 
a robust M2e antibody response
     Pre-clinical challenge model shows  
M2e-based vaccine can protect against  
H5N1 avian influenza 22
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Herpes simplex virus
herP es sim Plex 
Virus
2000 2015
1.8
2.5
The cost of incident HSV-2 
infections in the US 
US$ billions
Source: Fisman DN, Lipsitch M, Hook EW 3rd, and Goldie SJ. 
2002. Projection of the future dimensions and costs of the  
genital herpes simplex type 2 epidemic in the United States. 
Sexually Transmitted Diseases 29:608-22
Despite widespread and increasing 
transmission of genital herpes, the economic 
impact is not easily understood. The 
economic costs include not only the direct 
medical costs associated with diagnosing  
and treating the infection, but also long-term 
productivity loss due to affected quality  
of life and mental well-being. 
Source: Szucs TD et al. The estimated 
economic burden of genital herpes in  
the United States. An analysis using  
two costing approaches
41%
18%
2%
39%
Cost of medication 
Physician consultations and lab testing
Hospitalisation fees
Production loss   
The breakdown of the estimated economic burden 
of genital herpes in the US
£1.2bn in 1996 US dollars Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Herpes simplex virus
23
Business
As part of our strategy to create additional value by delivering 
one IND a year, we have taken into pre-clinical development  
a vaccine against genital herpes, one of the world’s most 
widespread sexually transmitted infections.
(1)
 Genital herpes is caused by the herpes simplex virus 
and in the US alone an estimated 40 to 60 million people are 
already infected.
(2)
 Acambis has licensed in an exciting new technology 
from Harvard University. It was developed at Harvard Medical 
School by a team led by Dr David M. Knipe, Higgins Professor 
of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics and Chair, Harvard 
Virology Program. We brought in this high-value vaccine 
programme as part of our strategy to expand our portfolio by 
targeting submission of one IND a year.
Science
The vaccine, known as dl5-29, incorporates two gene deletions 
that render the virus incapable of making copies of its DNA 
genome. This means that it does not produce further virus 
when it infects ordinary cells, nor does it become latent.  
Harvard Medical School has previously conducted extensive 
pre-clinical trials and has shown that the vaccine: 
 
   induces strong HSV-2-specific antibody and  
T -cell responses;
   can protect against challenge with a wild-type HSV-2 virus;
   greatly reduces the severity of recurrent disease;
   provides cross-protection against HSV-1; and
   is unable to revert to a virulent state or to become latent.
 During 2008 and 2009, we will undertake further 
pre-clinical development work, with a view to submitting  
an IND application in 2009 to start initial clinical trials. 
Opportunity
There are two types of HSV . HSV-1 mostly causes oral 
infections (cold sores), while most genital infections are caused 
by HSV-2. HSV is characterised by a lifelong, latent infection 
that can cause recurrent disease.
(3)
 About 20% of infected 
people are diagnosed as having genital herpes. Out of the 
remaining 80%, 20% will be asymptomatic and 60% will be 
undiagnosed, contributing to the further spread of the infection 
through subclinical transmission.
(4)
 There is no licensed vaccine 
to prevent or treat herpes. Existing antiviral medications can only 
shorten and prevent outbreaks during the treatment period.
(5)
 
The level of infection and disease varies in different regions  
of the world. Herpes continues to spread across all social, 
economic, racial and ethnic groups and results in recurrent 
disease as well as new infections. In rare cases, it can lead to 
blindness, encephalitis and neonatal infections. The disease 
can be particularly severe in people with HIV infection. In the 
US, HSV-2 is one of the most common sexually transmitted 
infections, with an incidence of one to two million infections 
and 600-800,000 clinical cases per year. Prevalence in people 
aged 30 to 40 years is about 30% and, overall, prevalence is 
higher in women than in men.
(6)
 A US study estimated the cost 
of infections to have been $1.8bn in 2000 and projected that 
this would rise to $2.5bn by 2015.
(7)
 GlaxoSmithKline’ s Simplirix
®
 is the most advanced 
vaccine in development and is currently undergoing Phase 3 
clinical trials. Data from two initial Phase 3 trials revealed  
that 73% of women who were seronegative for both HSV-1 
and HSV-2 were protected against apparent disease but  
that the vaccine was not protective for men or HSV-1 
seropositive women.
(8)
 We believe that our approach can be highly 
competitive based on comparator pre-clinical trials conducted 
by Harvard Medical School and the National Institute of Allergy 
and Infectious Diseases. The studies showed that while dl5-29 
vaccine was as effective in preventing the infection and 
reducing the frequency of recurrences as the comparator 
vaccine candidate, dl5-29 elicits higher neutralising antibody 
titres and HSV-2-specific T -cells responses.
(9)
(1) 
JAMA, August 23/30, 2006 – Vol 296, No. 8, Xu F. et al. Trends in Herpes 
Simplex Vitur Type 1 and Type 2 Seroprevalence in the United States
(2)
WHO
(3)
CDC
(4)
Ashley RL, Wald A. Clin Microbiol Rev. 1999; 12:1-8
(5)
CDC
(6) 
www.census.gov; Malkin JE. Epidemiology of genital herpes simplex  
virus infection in developed countries. Herpes. 2004;11(suppl 1):2A-23A.,  
CDC, 2004
(7) 
Fisman DN, Lipsitch M, Hook EW 3
rd
, and Goldie SJ. 2002.  
Projection of the future dimensions and costs of the genital  
herpes simplex type 2 epidemic in the United States.  
Sex Transm Dis. 29:608-22
(8)
GSK’s website
(9) 
Hoshino Yo et al, Comparative Efficacy and  
Immunogenicity of Replication-Defective,  
Recombinant Glycoprotein, and DNA Vaccines  
for Herpes Simplex Virus 2 Infections in Mice  
and Guinea Pigs, Journal of Virology,  
Jan. 2005, Vol. 79, No. 1, p. 410-418
reCeNt DeVelOPmeNts
In the US alone, 40 to 60 
million people suffer from 
genital herpes and there  
are an estimated one to  
two million new infections 
every year
   Exclusive licence from Harvard Medical School
   Initiated pre-clinical studies
   T argeting an IND application in 2009 24
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
ACAM2000™
aCam2000™
Under the ACAM2000™ warm-base 
manufacturing contract with the US 
Government, Acambis will:
  Establish a US-based manufacturing 
capability for ACAM2000™ at Canton  
and Rockville;
  Deliver against CDC orders for a  
minimum of nine million doses of 
ACAM2000™ per annum from year  
three of the contract onwards; and
  Undertake activities to maintain the  
product licence. 
1.
2.
Warm-base manufacturing facilities
1. Canton facility
  47,000 sq ft bulk manufacturing/ 
purification facility
  27,000 sq ft GMP storage and support facility
  Reactivated 2001-2003
2. Rockville facility
  58,000 sq ft lyophilisation and fill/finish facility
  Acquired in 2005
  Expansion programme to establish 
commercial-scale production 25
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
ACAM2000™
Business
Acambis is recognised internationally as the world’ s leading 
producer of smallpox vaccines. We have supplied over 200 
million doses of our ACAM2000™ vaccine to governments 
around the world for emergency-use stockpiles, the vast 
majority of them to the US Government for its Strategic  
National Stockpile. 
 In August 2007, ACAM2000™ became Acambis’  
first licensed product and the first biodefence vaccine to be 
approved since 9/11. As there is no commercial market for  
the vaccine, it was developed under contracts with the US 
Government, which established a biodefence programme after 
the terrorist attacks of 2001. The success of our ACAM2000™ 
development programme is testament to the co-operation 
between Acambis, the CDC, the FDA and HHS to meet the  
US Government’ s need for a stockpile of a licensed, second-
generation smallpox vaccine. 
 Having produced a stockpile of more than 195 million 
doses of ACAM2000™ for the US Government, in April 2008 
we signed a ten-year contract with the CDC to secure 
ACAM2000™ production and licensure for the long term.  
This $425m (c. £212m) warm-base manufacturing contract 
requires us to supply doses, provide a ready US-based 
production capacity, maintain the product licence and conduct 
post-licensure pharmacovigilance activities. The revenue  
stream from sale of doses under this contract underpins  
our manufacturing assets and provides free cash flow  
for investment in our pipeline.
Science
ACAM2000™ vaccine was licensed by the FDA for active 
immunisation against smallpox disease for persons determined 
to be at high risk for smallpox infection. It is a single-dose 
vaccine administered percutaneously. It was derived by plaque 
purification from Dryvax
®
, the first-generation calf lymph-
produced vaccine that was extensively used in the smallpox 
eradication programme, and is manufactured in Vero cells using 
modern cell-culture techniques designed to comply with current 
manufacturing standards.
Opportunity
We developed ACAM2000™ under a contract with the US 
Government, which remains our principal customer for the 
vaccine. We have previously supplied our vaccine to several 
other governments and are continuing to pursue further 
contracts outside the US. However, these orders have typically 
been much smaller than the US Government contracts and, 
given the unpredictability of the market, we treat further orders  
as upside in our planning.
 The focus of our smallpox programme is on delivering 
the US warm-base manufacturing contract we were awarded 
in April. The structure of the agreement makes it a highly 
valuable contract that will generate cash to invest in our R&D 
pipeline and support our manufacturing infrastructure, which 
enables us to leverage these valuable assets for manufacturing 
other vaccines in our pipeline. 
 Under the terms of the US Government contract,  
we will establish a US-based manufacturing capability for 
ACAM2000™ by transferring elements of the production 
process that were performed through third-party facilities  
to our Canton and Rockville facilities. 
 We will achieve an attractive return on this investment 
through the sale of at least nine million doses per annum 
between years three and ten of the contract. The structure  
of the contract allows the CDC to purchase up to 39 million 
doses in contract years five to ten, should the need arise.  
This would increase the headline value of the contract to 
around $660m. The doses are procured on a fixed-price  
basis and make a significant net contribution to the business. 
DeVelOPmeNts Of 2007
   In May 2007, the FDA’s Vaccines and Related 
Biological Products Advisory Committee voted 
unanimously in favour of ACAM2000™’s safety 
and efficacy
   ACAM2000™ (Smallpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, 
Live) vaccine was licensed by the FDA in 
August 2007
$425m ten-year warm-base 
manufacturing contract 
awarded to Acambis by  
the CDC in April 2008 26
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Financial review
Financial review
Financial review
During 2007 , we successfully 
implemented a Group-wide 
restructuring that will reduce  
our functional costs by  
£7m per annum from 2008.
Elizabeth Jones 
Chief Financial Officer 27
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Financial review
The commentary reflects 2007 numbers unless otherwise 
indicated. The discussion of operating costs excludes the 
one-off restructuring costs recorded in 2007. 
The main sources of revenue in 2007 were milestone 
payments from the ChimeriVax™-JE partnership; 
remaining work performed under the MVA3000 contract, 
which continues to be wound down; and delivery of  
2.7 million doses of ACAM2000™. 
Revenue in 2006 was higher due to higher sales  
of ACAM2000™ (10 million doses); higher levels of 
MVA3000 activity; and Vivotif
®
 product sales by BPC, 
until the business was sold in September 2006.
Cost of sales: this reflects the costs for programmes 
included in revenue and certain operating costs for our 
manufacturing facilities. 
gross loss includes one-off restructuring costs.
r&D: partnered in 2007, ChimeriVax™-JE and 
ChimeriVax™-West Nile programme costs are now being 
shown in cost of sales. The R&D spend is now at more 
normalised levels as 2006 costs included significant 
expenses for Phase 3 ChimeriVax™-JE trials; 2006 was 
net of £1.2m credit following a settlement with Novartis.
Higher 2006 sales and marketing included BPC costs; 
this business was sold in September 2006.
Higher 2006 administrative costs included aborted 
acquisition costs and costs for MVA litigation. 
2006 operating income includes settlement with 
Novartis for ARILVAX
®
 and the sale of BPC business.
restructuring costs of £4.1m include a £1.1m  
non-cash charge for share options. Other costs are  
cash costs. 
The reduction in cash during 2007 was a result of our 
continuing investment in R&D to advance our pipeline.
t rade and other receivables: the change in the 
balance at the end of 2006 and 2007 reflects amounts 
owing by the US Government for shipments of 
ACAM2000™ doses that we made in the fourth quarter 
in the last two years. In 2006 we shipped 10 million doses 
compared to 2.7 million doses shipped in December 2007. 
inventory reflects work-in-progress and finished goods 
of ACAM2000™.
Current liabilities comprise: £10.8m accruals and 
deferred income (2006 – £6.6m), including £5.7m  
(2006 – £nil) relating to deferred revenue from milestone 
payments received in 2007 from Sanofi Pasteur; and  
our overdraft of £3.5m (2006 – £3.6m). 
non-current liabilities includes deferred revenue of 
£5.2m (2006 – £nil) and other financial liabilities relating  
to future payments for the Rockville fill/finish facility, 
payable until 2017.
    2007  
   2007 Restruc-  
   Business turing 2007 
   performance costs t otal 2006 
   £m £m £m £m
 Revenue 9.5 – 9.5 30.9
 Cost of sales (10.6) (1.2) (11.8) (14.6)
 Gross (loss)/profit (1.1) (1.2) (2.3) 16.3
 Research and  
 development costs (22.1) (2.0) (24.1) (37.0)
 Sales and  
 marketing costs (0.5) (0.2) (0.7) (2.6)
 Administrative costs (4.5) (0.7) (5.2) (8.6)
 Other operating income – – – 14.7
 Operating loss (28.2) (4.1) (32.3) (17.2)
 Net finance income     1.0 1.3
 Pre-tax loss   (31.3) (15.9)
 Taxation     – (0.6)
 Loss after taxation     (31.3) (16.5)
Income statement highlights
Balance sheet highlights
     2007 2006 
     £m £m
 non-current assets   31.2  28.3
 Current assets    
 Cash and liquid investments   20.9  34.4
 Trade and other receivables   7.7  17.5
 Inventory   1.2  1.5
 Other current assets   0.2  0.6
        
 liabilities      
 Current liabilities   (18.9) (15.6)
 Non-current liabilities     (7.0) (1.6)
 Net assets     35.3  65.1 28
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Financial review
Other events of 2007
MVA-related litigation settled
In July 2007, Acambis and Bavarian Nordic reached a  
global settlement ending all legal disputes between the  
two companies on matters relating to smallpox vaccines  
based on the MVA virus. 
US voluntary delisting and deregistration
On 5 September 2007, we completed our voluntary  
de-registration from the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  
We had announced in 2006 that we intended to terminate our  
US listing and registration with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as they were no longer in shareholders’ best 
interests. We voluntarily delisted from NASDAQ on 21 December 
2006 and terminated of our American Depositary Receipt facility 
on 14 February 2007. Our operations and ongoing obligations 
under the LSE listing are unaffected by this process.
The following list specifies risks and uncertainties relevant  
to Acambis’ business. It is not exhaustive. These risks have 
been qualified by reference to factors that affect the majority  
of businesses in the biotechnology sector and those specific  
to Acambis.
General industry risks and uncertainties
  The biotechnology industry is intensely competitive  
and competitors may have superior products and  
R&D capabilities.
 Ethical issues may impede the development of products.
  Vaccine companies are subject to significant government 
regulation, particularly in the US and the UK, which imposes 
significant additional costs and restrictions on a company. 
A company’ s failure to obtain regulatory approval for  
products may adversely affect its business.
  Vaccine candidates may fail and licensed products may  
be withdrawn from the market.
  Issues with safety and efficacy may affect Acambis’ ability  
to bring a product in development to market.
  The success of Acambis’ products is dependent upon  
their acceptance in the market.
  Forecasting inaccuracies could damage Acambis’ 
performance.
Risks and uncertainties relating to Acambis’ business
  The successful development of several of Acambis’  
products is dependent upon the performance of third- 
party collaborators.
  Acambis is reliant on a contract with the US Government  
for a significant proportion of its revenue. 
  Acambis needs to establish and validate manufacturing 
processes at two of its facilities before it can deliver doses  
to honour the contract with the US Government.
 US Government contracts are immediately cancellable.
  Whilst Acambis has sufficient working capital to fund its 
operations for at least the next 12 months, if the fundraising 
is successful; if it is not able to obtain further funding for its 
research projects in the future, the development of its 
products could be significantly impeded.
  Inability or failure to maximise and protect its IP could  
harm Acambis’ business. 
  Inability or failure to in-licence or out-licence programmes 
may adversely affect Acambis’ strategy for growth.
  Acambis may not be able to deliver on its pre-clinical  
strategy of submitting one IND a year. 
 Litigation may affect Acambis’ business. 
  There is significant competition for qualified employees  
with industry experience, which could affect Acambis’  
ability to recruit and retain employees.
  Loss or damage to Acambis’ facilities could materially 
adversely affect its financial results.
  Acambis may not be able to obtain adequate insurance 
coverage against product liability or other claims.
  Acambis’ operating results may be negatively affected  
by exposure to foreign exchange and other economic  
risk factors.
  Acambis is currently undergoing a tax audit by the US IRS, 
as described in note 20.
A fuller explanation of risks and uncertainties can be found  
on the Group’ s website at www.acambis.com.
Risk factors Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
29
Section 1: Business review
Risk management report
Risk management report
In our 2006 Annual Report we identified four major risks to Acambis. The table below sets out how we performed against those  
risks during the year.
2008 risk analysis
On page 06 of this report, we have provided as KPIs the milestones we aim to achieve in 2008 with our vaccine R&D 
programmes. The table below summarises the risks and uncertainties associated with achieving those milestones and  
the actions we are taking to manage or mitigate those risks. 
ChimeriVax™-JE fails to meet safety or immunogenicity 
endpoints in paediatric trials. 
 
 
 
 
ChimeriVax™-West Nile fails to meet safety or 
immunogenicity endpoints in the ongoing Phase 2 trial. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A further Phase 1 trial of ACAM-CDIFF™ is required  
prior to the Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial that we plan  
to initiate in 2008. This may lead to erosion of our  
first-to-market advantage. 
 
 
 
 
 
We are unable to partner our ACAM-FLU-A™ influenza 
vaccine on commercially acceptable terms. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We fail to make the expected progress against the  
timeline for FDA approval of in-house manufacturing  
of ACAM2000™ to meet contract deadlines for  
delivery of doses in year three of the contract.
ChimeriVax™-JE is being tested for the first time in infants  
and children as all the trials to date, including the pivotal Phase 
3 trials, involved adults. We have no reason to believe the 
results will differ from the excellent safety and efficacy profile 
demonstrated by the vaccine in our other trials.  
 
This vaccine is also being tested in the target population  
for the first time – in this case, in the elderly. Data to date  
in younger adults have indicated that this vaccine – as with 
other ChimeriVax™-based vaccines – is well-tolerated and 
immunogenic. We have split the trial into two age cohorts, 
which gave us additional safety data in 41-64 year olds before 
testing the vaccine in over 65s.  
 
During 2007, we undertook reformulation work with the 
vaccine, which has already been tested in 200 subjects in 
Phase 1 trials. As this work did not alter the active components 
of the vaccine, we believe a further Phase 1 trial is unnecessary. 
We believe that, at most, the regulators might ask us to test 
the vaccine in a small safety cohort at the beginning of the 
trial, which should not significantly impact our competitive  
lead or projected R&D expenditure.  
 
In January 2008, we published positive data from a Phase 1 
human clinical trial and pre-clinical challenge model with our 
ACAM-FLU-A™ vaccine. With these data in hand, we are 
exploring the potential to partner the programme at this stage, 
in parallel with continued development work. Leading vaccine 
companies have already shown significant interest in the 
programme. If no commercially attractive partnership is 
forthcoming on the basis of these early trial results, we would 
consider investing in the programme further ourselves to take 
it to through to conclusion of a proof-of-concept trial. 
 
The critical activity to achieve delivery of doses to the CDC in 
contract year three is validation of our fill/finish facility at Rockville 
and submission of a BLA supplement to amend our product 
licence. We have established an experienced team at our 
facility and work towards this goal is progressing well.
 risK COmmeNt
ACAM2000™ was licensed by the FDA on 31 August 2007. 
 
The contract structure for ACAM2000™ warm-base 
manufacturing was agreed in November 2007 and we  
were awarded a contract in April 2008. 
 
The restructuring was successfully implemented and the 
expected savings to the business in 2007 were achieved 
without negatively impacting performance. 
 
This did not occur in 2007. As the goal of Acambis’ business 
is to develop innovative new vaccines, this is an ongoing risk 
to which we will continue to be exposed.
Failure to obtain timely licensure of ACAM2000™. 
 
Failure to obtain an ACAM2000™ warm-base  
manufacturing contract. 
 
 
Failure to reap the benefits of the restructuring announced  
in March 2007. 
 
 
One or more products in development fails to achieve  
the desired safety or efficacy outcomes.
 risK COmmeNt 30
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Corporate Responsibility report
Corporate Responsibility report
Introduction
Between 2004 and 2006, we underwent annual audits by 
GoodCorporation, an independent corporate responsibility 
verification organisation. This assessed the effectiveness of  
our policies and procedures in 60 corporate responsibility  
areas in relation to five key stakeholders: employees, 
shareholders, customers, suppliers and the community. 
 We were able to demonstrate year-on-year 
improvement during this time and are confident that this 
established a strong baseline for our performance in areas  
of importance to our key stakeholders. During 2007, we 
Health & Safety: reported accident rates  
per 100 employees
(1)
2005
2006
2007
4.84
1.65
Acambis 14%
Industry average 13%
Acambis 27%
(1)
Industry average 16%
Employees: turnover rate 
2006
2007
Environmental impact: carbon dioxide equivalent emissions 
(millions of kilograms)
(2)
2006
2007
Gas 2.5
Electricity 5.0
T otal 7.5
Gas 3.0
Electricity 5.6
T otal 8.6
0
assessed on which areas of our business it would be  
most pertinent to report going forward, taking into account  
the type of information requested by shareholders and  
related advisory or measurement agencies, such as the 
Association of British Insurers, EiRIS, the FTSE4Good  
index and PIRC.
 The result is this report, which focuses on how we  
are managing key Corporate Responsibility-related risks to  
our business. Further information on these areas is provided  
on the Corporate Responsibility section of our website  
at www.acambis.com/cr.
 
(1)
The US Department of Labor reports that the reportable accident rate 
for companies of Acambis’ size is eight per 100 employees. 
 
(2)
All CO
2
 calculations were made using the carbon dioxide calculator 
available from the National Energy Foundation website.
2006
2007
23%
31%
Employees: percentage of roles filled through  
referrals by existing employees
(1) 
By December 2007, employee turnover had returned to normalised 
levels and stood at 14% for the last four months of 2007. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
31
Section 1: Business review
Corporate responsibility report
2008 Corporate Responsibility update
Employees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Industry relationships 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Community
Our ability to recruit  
or retain key employees 
is affected by the 
significant competition 
for qualified employees 
with industry 
experience. 
 
 
 
Acambis is reliant upon 
a contract with the 
CDC relating to its 
smallpox vaccine for  
a significant proportion 
of its revenue stream. 
A breakdown in our 
relationship with the 
CDC could negatively 
impact the programme 
and our revenues. 
 
The success of several 
of Acambis’ products  
is dependent upon  
the performance  
of third-party 
collaborators.  
A breakdown in our 
relationships could 
negatively impact  
these programmes. 
 
If Acambis were not 
able to obtain adequate 
funding for its products 
and research, the 
development of 
products could be 
significantly impaired. 
 
 
 
Ethical issues  
may impede the 
development  
of products.
Environmental impact 
concerns could 
negatively affect 
Acambis’ corporate 
reputation.
In spite of increased competition for employees with vaccine-specific 
experience, we have retained our key employees. We saw some 
increased attrition around the time of our reorganisation in 2007  
but our employee turnover rate had returned to an average of 14%  
for the last four months of 2007, in line with industry averages.  
We have also successfully built a new manufacturing team at our 
Rockville facility and been able to attract highly-qualified individuals  
for leadership roles. During 2007, we continued to improve on our 
engagement with employees by introducing an employee survey. 
 
Our relationship with the CDC is very important to us. This is a long-
standing relationship, dating from 2000, that has a proven track-record  
of success. When defining and finalising the ACAM2000™ warm-base 
manufacturing contract, we worked very closely together, including 
holding weekly conference calls. Having finalised the ACAM2000™ 
warm-base manufacturing contract in April 2008, our relationship with  
the CDC is now focused on the operational aspects of delivering on  
the contract. We ensure we have the necessary relationships in place  
at the operational and management level, as well as within the US  
political system, to address issues should they arise. 
 
We have numerous relationships with third parties that are important  
to individual programmes. The most important of these is our relationship 
with Sanofi Pasteur, with whom we now have three vaccine programme-
related partnerships. We have relationships at both the management  
and operational levels, from the CEO down, and have established Joint 
Steering Committee structures to manage project-specific interactions.  
 
We recognise the value of good communication with investors  
and ensure that management meets regularly with shareholders to 
discuss our progress and strategy. We continue to adhere to the high 
standards of disclosure established in the UK and seek to enhance  
our communication practices year-by-year by applying best practices  
in pertinent areas. For instance, we publish a “comply or explain”  
table in our Annual Reports to summarise our performance against 
corporate governance regulations and have established this Corporate 
Responsibility report. 
 
As a vaccine developer, we operate within a rigorous and highly regulated 
clinical and pre-clinical testing system, and we are very conscious of 
ethical concerns in this area. We apply a strict framework and rigorous 
standards, including oversight by internal and external ethical review 
committees. We do not have any particular risks in this area to highlight  
at this time.
The biotechnology industry is generally recognised as having a relatively 
low impact on the environment. This year, we have included in this report 
our CO
2
-equivalent impact from operational energy consumption, which 
illustrates why we do not consider our environmental impact to be a 
significant risk to the business. During 2007, our overall CO
2
 
impact 
increased as we established a second manufacturing facility. Acambis  
is committed to reducing CO
2 
emissions wherever possible.
 staKehOlDer Key risKs COmmeNts 32
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Board of Directors
Board of Directors
Dr Peter Fellner
Chairman and Chairman 
of the Nominations 
Committee
Over 30 years’ experience in the 
pharmaceutical and biotech sector
Peter Fellner, aged 64, was 
appointed Non-executive Chairman 
on 1 October 2006. 
 Peter was Celltech Group plc’s 
CEO from 1990 to 2003 and oversaw 
its growth to become the UK’s 
largest biotechnology company.  
He served as its Chairman from 
2003 until its acquisition in 2004  
by the global biopharmaceutical 
company, UCB SA. Before Celltech, 
Peter was CEO of Roche UK from 
1986 to 1990.  
 He currently serves as 
Chairman of Vernalis plc, Astex 
Therapeutics Limited and Premier 
Research Group plc. He is also  
a Director of UCB SA, QinetiQ  
Group plc, Evotec AG and  
Consort Medical plc. 
Acambis’ new 
management  
team is leading  
the turnaround  
of its business.
Chairman and  
Executive Directors Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
33
Section 1: Business review
Board of Directors
Ian Garland, aged 42, joined Acambis 
as CEO on 8 May 2007. 
 Previously, he was CFO of Arrow 
Therapeutics Ltd, having come from 
Amarin Corporation plc. From 1999  
to 2003, Ian was President and  
Chief Operating Officer of Celltech 
Pharmaceuticals Inc., which 
encompassed the US operations of 
Celltech Group plc. During this time, 
he achieved significant US sales and 
earnings growth, the approval of two 
US New Drug Applications and the 
divestment of several non-core 
businesses. Between 1995 and 1999, 
Ian held finance roles at Medeva plc, 
which was subsequently acquired by 
Celltech, and at Pepsi Cola, Inc., 
based in the US. From 1988 to  
1995, he worked at KPMG, 
specialising in the pharmaceutical 
sector, following qualification as  
a Chartered Accountant.
Ian Garland
Chief Executive Officer
20 years’ commercial experience 
within the pharmaceutical sector
Elizabeth Jones, 36, was appointed 
CFO on 25 September 2007, having 
held that role in an acting capacity 
since March 2007. She is responsible 
for all financial activities, investor 
relations and the corporate legal 
function.
 Elizabeth joined Acambis’ 
Finance department in April 1996  
and qualified as a Certified Accountant 
in 1997. In her previous role as Vice 
President, Financial Management, 
Elizabeth developed relationships with 
institutional investors and built an 
in-depth understanding of the Group’s 
business and operations. During her 
career with Acambis, she has been 
involved in many of the Group’ s major 
corporate transactions, including 
acquisitions, disposals and financings. 
She has served as Company Secretary 
since July 2002.
Elizabeth Jones
Chief Financial Officer
18 years’ financial experience
Michael Watson, 43, was appointed  
to the Board on 18 January 2007 and 
took up his duties as Executive Vice 
President, R&D on 26 March 2007. 
He heads R&D activities, including 
Clinical and Clinical Risk Management.
 Michael is a UK physician  
with a clinical background in 
gastroenterology and infectious 
diseases, and is a member of the 
Royal College of Physicians and the 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine. 
He has extensive vaccines experience, 
having previously worked for Sanofi 
Pasteur MSD for ten years. His most 
recent role was as European Director 
of Clinical and Epidemiology, which 
involved him in the development of  
a large range of vaccines. He led the 
team that developed and licensed 
Pediacel
®
 and he was the Sanofi 
Pasteur MSD European project team 
leader for Gardasil
®
. 
Dr Michael Watson 
Executive Vice 
President, Research  
and Development
12 years’ experience  
in the vaccines sector 34
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive  
Directors
Non-executive 
Directors
John Lambert, 55, was appointed  
to the Board of Acambis as a 
Non-executive Director on  
1 December 2006. The Board 
considers him to be an independent 
Non-executive Director. 
 John was President of Chiron 
Corporation’s global vaccines 
business from 2001 to 2005.  
Prior to that, he was President  
of Aventis Pasteur MSD, having  
joined the Aventis Group in 1987.  
His professional career began with  
Servier Laboratories, UK in 1972.
 John has also held important 
trade association positions on the 
Board of the Global Alliance for 
Vaccines and Immunisation in 2004 
and 2005, and at the European 
Vaccine Manufacturers Association 
between 2001 and 2003.
 He is chairman of Cambridge 
Biostability Limited and Novavax Inc., 
and vice president of Farma  
projects S.A.
John Lambert
Non-executive Director
30 years’ experience in the  
vaccines industry
Acambis’ Non-executive  
Directors provide  
a broad range of  
vaccines, financial  
and commercial  
experience.
The Directors who served during the year were:
Executive Ian Garland (appointed 8 May 2007), Elizabeth Jones 
(appointed 25 September 2007), Dr Michael Watson (appointed 
18 January 2007), Gordon Cameron (resigned 1 June 2007)  
and David Lawrence (resigned 6 March 2007). 
Non-executive Dr Peter Fellner, Dr Randal Chase, Alan Dalby, 
Ross Graham, Dr William Jenkins and John Lambert. The usual 
business address of all the Directors is Peterhouse T echnology 
Park, 100 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9PT , UK, except for 
Dr Michael Watson, whose usual business address is 38 Sidney 
Street, Cambridge, MA 02139, US. 
 In accordance with the Company’ s Articles of Association,  
Dr Peter Fellner and John Lambert will retire by rotation and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. Alan Dalby will 
resign from the Board of Directors, having served on the Board 
for ten years. In addition, Ian Garland and Elizabeth Jones,  
who have been appointed to the Board since the last AGM,  
will offer themselves for election at the AGM. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
35
Section 1: Business review
Non-executive Directors
Alan Dalby, aged 70, became a 
Non-executive Director of Acambis  
on 1 May 1998. Until 26 March 2008 
he was the Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director. The Board 
considers Alan to be an independent 
Non-executive Director but for a brief 
period from 1 May to the conclusion  
of the 2008 AGM he will no longer  
be considered independent as he  
will have served as a Non-executive 
Director for more than ten years. Until 
26 March 2008 he was Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee. 
 Alan was previously an Executive 
Director of SmithKline, a predecessor 
company to GlaxoSmithKline plc,  
and retired from the role of chairman 
of Reckitt Benckiser plc in 2001.  
Alan will resign at this year’ s AGM.
Alan Dalby
Non-executive Director
50 years’ experience in the 
pharmaceutical sector
Ross Graham, aged 60, was 
appointed to the Board of Acambis  
as a Non-executive Director on  
25 March 2004. The Board considers 
him to be an independent Non-
executive Director. He is Chairman  
of the Audit Committee. 
 Ross was most recently 
Corporate Development Director  
of Misys plc with board responsibility  
for corporate transactions and 
management of strategic alliances, 
having been Finance Director up to 
1998. He stepped down from Misys’ 
Board of Directors at the end of 2003 
after more than 16 years. Prior to his 
career at Misys, Ross was a Partner 
with Arthur Young, a predecessor firm 
to Ernst & Young, where he qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant. 
 He is also a non-executive 
director of Wolfson Microelectronics 
plc and Psion plc.
Ross Graham
Non-executive Director 
and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee
20 years’ relevant financial experience
Dr William Jenkins, 60, was  
appointed to the Board of Acambis  
as a Non-executive Director on  
1 December 2006. The Board 
considers him to be an independent 
Non-executive Director. William  
was appointed Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and the 
Company’ s Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director on  
26 March 2008.
 William has extensive  
experience in clinical research,  
product development and regulatory 
affairs within major pharmaceutical 
companies. Between 1992 and  
1999, he led Ciba-Geigy and then 
Novartis’ worldwide medicine, clinical 
development and regulatory affairs 
functions. Prior to that, William worked 
for Glaxo Wellcome plc from 1988 to 
1992 as Head of Worldwide Clinical 
Research. He had previously worked 
at the Medicines Division of the UK 
Department of Health, becoming 
Principal Medical Officer in 1986.
 William is active in the life-
sciences sector through his 
pharmaceutical consulting business 
and also currently serves as a 
non-executive director of several 
life-science companies, including 
Evotec AG and BTG plc.
Dr William Jenkins
Non-executive Director 
and Chairman of 
the Remuneration 
Committee
20 years’ experience in the 
pharmaceutical sector
Dr Randal Chase
Non-executive Director
20 years’ experience in the 
biotechnology and  
pharmaceutical sectors
Dr Randal Chase, aged 58, was 
appointed to the Board of Acambis  
as a Non-executive Director  
on 1 October 2004. The Board 
considers Randal to be an 
independent Non-executive Director.
 He is currently President and 
CEO of Immuno Vaccine T echnologies, 
a Canadian biopharmaceutical 
company listed on the Toronto Stock 
Exchange. He was President of Shire 
Biologics until its sale to ID Biomedical 
in 2004. Previously in his career, 
Randal was President of North 
American Vaccine, which was sold  
to Baxter in 2000, and President  
of Aventis Pasteur Canada. He  
has a PhD in biochemistry from  
the University of British Columbia. 
 Randal is currently Chairman  
of Medicago Inc., a Director of 
ConjuChem Inc., which is listed  
on the T oronto Stock Exchange,  
a Director of Bioject Medical 
T echnologies Inc., which is listed  
on NASDAQ, and a Director of 
Biotech Canada. 36
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Directors’ report 
Directors’ report 
for the year ended 31 December 2007
The Directors’ report on the affairs of the Group is presented below. The Group financial statements  
and Auditors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2007 are presented within this document.
Principal activities and business review
A review of the business and future developments of the Group, including KPIs (noted in the business review 
section on page 06), is set out pages 02 to 28. The principal activities of the Group are the research, 
development and manufacture of vaccines to prevent and treat infectious diseases.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Principal risks faced by the Group are discussed within the risk factors and uncertainties and risk management 
report sections.
Results and dividends
The loss for the year after taxation amounted to £31.3m (2006 – £16.5m). The Directors do not recommend  
a dividend for the year (2006 – £nil). In the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group generated revenues  
of £9.5m (2006 – £30.9m). Further details of the results for the year and future developments for the Group  
are set out in the business and financial reviews of 2007.
Research and development 
As discussed within the financial review, the Group incurred R&D costs of £22.1m (2006 – £37.0m) during the 
year, excluding restructuring costs. R&D costs have been expensed in the income statement in accordance  
with the Group’s accounting policy.
Directors and their interests
The Directors who served during 2007 are shown in the Board of Directors section. The interests of the Directors 
in the Company’s shares and options to purchase shares in the Company are shown in the remuneration report. 
At 31 December 2007, the Directors in office held an aggregate 105,794 shares, representing 0.1% of the 
current issued capital. None of the Directors had an interest in a contract of significance to which the Company 
or any of its subsidiary undertakings was party during the year.
Policy on payment of creditors
It is the Group’s policy that payments to suppliers should be made in accordance with those terms and 
conditions agreed between the Group and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have  
been met. At 31 December 2007, the Company had an average of seven days (2006 – five days) of purchases 
outstanding in trade creditors. At 31 December 2007, the Group had an average of 25 days (2006 – 36 days)  
of purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Corporate responsibility
The Directors recognise the importance of corporate responsibility and, as a result, have included a report  
on Acambis’ current activities in this area on page 30.
Financial risk management
As discussed in note 15 to the Group financial statements, the main financial risks arising from the Group’s 
activities and involving the use of financial instruments are foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk  
and credit risk.
Capital structure
The Company has in issue only one class of ordinary share.
Political and charitable donations
During the year, the Group made charitable contributions amounting to £8,000 (2006 – £15,000). Of this  
total £3,000 related to medical research (2006 – £1,000), £3,000 to national charities (2006 – £3,000), £2,000  
to local charities (2006 – £2,000), £nil to biotechnology-related education initiatives (2006 – £6,000) and £nil  
to international charities (2006 – £2,000). No political donations were made during the year (2006 – £nil). 
Employees participated in various charitable fundraising activities during the year in aid of local and  
national charities. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
37
Employees
Acambis seeks to involve its employees in its corporate objectives, plans and performance and in other relevant 
matters of interest to employees through various communication methods, including regular employee meetings. 
Employees of Acambis are not part of any labour unions. The Directors consider there to be a good relationship 
between employees and management. The Group is an equal opportunities employer and does not discriminate 
in the recruitment and promotion of staff, including applicants who are disabled. If an employee becomes 
disabled it is the policy, wherever practicable, to provide continued employment. All employees are encouraged 
to share in the growth of the Group, being eligible to participate in share option schemes.
Health, safety and environmental issues
The Group is committed to achieving high health, safety and environmental standards and aims for continuous 
improvement in health, safety and environmental performance. In the UK Acambis is a member of the British 
Safety Council. In the US Acambis is a member of the National Safety Council and contracts with Mount Auburn 
Hospital’s Occupational Health Service to provide medical surveillance and prevention and treatment of 
work-related injuries and illnesses, including administering appropriate immunisations. The Group has an 
excellent health and safety record. The Group seeks to minimise the environmental impact of its activities.  
Waste materials are recycled, where possible, and specialist disposal companies handle hazardous waste. 
Other information and AGM
Information regarding the substantial shareholders of Acambis is contained within the shareholder information 
section of this document.
Information regarding this year’s AGM will be advised separately.
Post balance sheet events
In April 2008, Acambis announced that it had been awarded a $425m (c. £212m), ten-year contract by the  
US Government agency, the CDC, to provide it with a warm-base manufacturing capability for its ACAM2000™ 
smallpox vaccine, which has been stockpiled by the US Government. Warm-base manufacturing entails the 
maintenance of an ongoing production readiness capability through annual production runs. Revenue and costs 
under this contract are expected to be recognised from 2008. 
Concurrent with the publication of this Annual Report, Acambis announced that it proposes to raise approximately 
£40m, net of expenses, by way of a Placing and Open Offer of, in aggregate, 37,715,811 new ordinary shares  
at 115 pence per ordinary share. The issue has been fully underwritten by JPMorgan Cazenove and Piper 
Jaffray. The issue and the proposed increase in the authorised share capital of the Company are conditional, 
inter alia, on the passing by shareholders of the resolutions at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company 
convened for 10.00 a.m. on 20 May 2008.  
Disclosure of information to auditors
So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors 
are unaware. Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditors are aware  
of that information.
By order of the Board
Elizabeth Jones
Company Secretary
23 April 2008
Section 1: Business review
Directors’ report 38
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 1: Business review
Corporate governance statement
The following statement describes the main principles of corporate governance and how they have been applied 
by Acambis.
Compliance with the Code of Best Practice
Acambis has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in the 
Combined Code published in July 2003 and updated in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council.
Statement of applying the Principles of Good Governance
Acambis has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by 
complying with the Code of Best Practice, as reported above. Further explanation of how the principles have 
been applied is set out below and, in relation to Directors’ remuneration, in the remuneration report.
The BIA Code of Best Practice
Acambis, as a member of the BIA, has also complied with the principles of the BIA Code as set out in the BIA’s 
Best Practice Guidelines on Financial and Corporate Communications and maintains and develops procedures 
to support compliance with its specific provisions. The BIA Code was introduced in 1999 and incorporated into 
the Best Practice Guidelines in 2006. It is obligatory for all BIA members and includes principles and provisions 
relating to corporate governance matters, access to external advice, confidentiality, dealings in a company’s 
shares and standards of public announcements. It is intended to operate by reference to the particular 
circumstances of bioscience companies in support of the Combined Code.
Internal control
The Board has applied principle C.2 of the Combined Code by establishing a process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group. This process has been in place since the start of 2000 and 
is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code re-published in September 
2005 – the Turnbull Guidance. The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system manages rather than eliminates the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurances against material misstatement or loss.
The Board regularly reviews the risks to which the business is exposed and the controls in place to mitigate 
those risks. It delegates the operational management of the business risk process to the Executive Directors. 
The Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and other senior management,  
has oversight of the day-to-day operational activities of Acambis and remains responsible for managing  
the risk reviews.
In compliance with provision C.2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal control. The Board’s monitoring covers all material controls, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls, and risk management. It is based, principally, on reviewing reports from management to 
consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, and whether any significant 
weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring. The Board also receives, 
via the work performed by the Audit Committee, regular updates from the Company’s Auditors in this respect. 
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report considering all 
significant aspects of internal control arising during the year. The dedicated internal audit function ceased  
during 2007 as a result of the Group’s delisting from NASDAQ and subsequent de-registration from the SEC. 
The Group is, therefore, released from requirements to comply with the detailed Sarbanes-Oxley provisions,  
and the internal control function is managed by the Group Financial Controller. The Audit Committee assists  
the Board in discharging its review responsibilities. Following delisting from NASDAQ, the Board considered  
the need for an internal audit function and determined that it was no longer required.
As of the date of this Annual Report, based on the assessment of the Board of Directors, there were no changes 
in the Group’s internal controls or in other factors that could have a significant adverse effect on these controls 
subsequent to the date of their evaluation.
Corporate governance statement Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
39
Going concern status
At 31 December 2007, the Group had cash and cash equivalents and liquid resources of £20.9m. On 23 April 2008, 
Acambis announced that it proposes to raise approximately £40m, net of expenses, by way of a Placing and Open 
Offer of, in aggregate, 37,715,811 new ordinary shares at 115 pence per ordinary share conditional, inter alia, upon 
the passing by shareholders of the resolutions at an EGM.
After making enquiries and taking into account (i) management’s estimate of future revenues and expenditure,  
(ii) management’s expectation, based on underwriting undertakings received, that Acambis will secure sufficient  
equity funding in the proposed Placing and Open Offer and (iii) management’s expectation that shareholder support  
for the relevant shareholder resolutions will be forthcoming at the EGM, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will have adequate financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Risk factors and uncertainties
Under the risk factors and risk management report sections we listed risks relevant to Acambis’ business. Please refer 
to page 28 for this list. A fuller explanation can be found on the Group’s website at www.acambis.com.
Comply or explain: Compliance with the Combined Code
The Combined Code (the Code) published in July 2003 and restated in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council 
incorporates the previous code (as published in 1998 by the Hampel Committee) and related guidance that had been 
issued since that date: the Turnbull Guidance; the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees; and various items of good 
practice guidance from the Higgs Report. The Code has been applicable for reporting years beginning on or after  
1 November 2003 and, therefore, was adopted by Acambis from our 2004 financial year. The overriding principle  
of the code republished in 2006 is that companies must comply with it or explain why they have not done so.
The Company complied with the Code for the whole of 2007.
Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee meetings during 2007
1
    Audit Nominations Remuneration
Director   Board  Committee  Committee  Committee
Dr Peter Fellner
2
   8/8  n/a  3/3  3/3
Ian Garland
3
   5/5 n/a 1/1 n/a
Elizabeth Jones
4
   2/2  n/a  n/a  n/a
Dr Michael Watson
5
   5/5 n/a  n/a  n/a
Dr Randal Chase   8/8  5/5  3/3  4/4
Alan Dalby
6
   8/8  5/5  3/3  4/4
Ross Graham
7
   8/8  5/5  3/3  4/4
William Jenkins
8
   8/8 n/a 3/3 2/3
John Lambert
9
   8/8 5/5 3/3 3/3
Gordon Cameron
10
   3/3  n/a 1/2  n/a
David Lawrence
11
   1/2  n/a  n/a  n/a
Notes
1 Meetings include scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
2  Dr Peter Fellner is Chairman of both the Board and the Nominations Committee. He was reappointed to the 
Remuneration Committee in March 2007, following a change to the Combined Code.
3 Ian Garland joined Acambis and was appointed to the Board on 8 May 2007.
4 Elizabeth Jones was appointed to the Board on 25 September 2007.
5 Dr Michael Watson was appointed to the Board on 18 January 2007 and joined Acambis on 26 March 2007.
6  Alan Dalby was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director until 26 March 
2008. He will resign as a Director at the conclusion of the 2008 AGM.
7 Ross Graham is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
8  Dr William Jenkins was appointed to the Nominations and Remuneration Committees in late January 2007. 
He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
on 26 March 2008.
9 John Lambert was appointed to the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees in late January 2007.
10 Gordon Cameron resigned from the Board on 1 June 2007.
11 David Lawrence resigned from the Board on 6 March 2007.
Section 1: Business review
Corporate governance statement 40
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
The role of the Board and its committees is described below.
The Board of Directors
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five independent Non-executive 
Directors. It meets, in person, at least six times a year, with additional meetings as required. The Chairman also 
meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present and the Non-executive 
Directors meet without the Chairman being present. During 2007, the Board met eight times. Alan Dalby was 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director until 26 March 2008, when Dr William Jenkins took on this role.  
The Board oversees and approves Acambis’ business and commercial strategy, major transactions, financial 
statements and operating and capital expenditure budgets, and monitors progress. The information provided to 
the Board includes strategic and operational reviews, management accounting summaries and specific reports 
that provide details in respect of the ongoing running of the business. The Executive Directors are fully involved 
with the management of the Group’s strategic direction. A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board 
exists and is available on the Group’s website. The Board is apprised of views of the investment community via 
biannual independent perception audits and weekly updates on analyst publications. All Directors have access 
to professional advice and training at the Company’s cost and to the services of the Company Secretary in  
the performance of their duties. The Board ensures that all newly appointed Directors receive a formal induction 
including, but not limited to, latest analyst reports, shareholder perception reports, Board and Committee 
minutes, meetings with senior management and internal corporate literature. Led by the Senior Independent 
Director, the Non-executive Directors meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the 
Chairman’s performance. The Board delegates the day-to-day responsibility of managing the Group to a number 
of committees, details of which are set out below. Written terms of reference exist for the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees. These were available during the year and are published on the Company’s website.
In December 2007, the Company conducted a Board evaluation exercise where each of the Directors 
completed a detailed questionnaire covering all aspects of the Board and its activities.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently consists of Ross Graham, Dr Randal Chase, Alan Dalby and John Lambert,  
who are all independent Non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Ross Graham. It examines and reviews,  
on behalf of the Board, internal financial controls, financial and accounting policies and practices, the form  
and content of financial reports and statements, and significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, 
compliance with corporate governance best practice and the appointment and work of the external Auditors. 
The Audit Committee reviews non-audit services provided by the external Auditors on an ongoing basis  
to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded. In advance of any non-audit service 
engagements, the Audit Committee reviews whether objectivity and independence may be impaired and  
where appropriate engages alternative external accountants. The Audit Committee reviews the type of service 
and fee level in this respect. The policy to ensure that the external Auditors do not provide prohibited services 
remains in place. The Audit Committee reports to the Board on these matters. The external Auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , have provided the Company written assurances under International Standard  
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) 260 ‘Communication of audit matters with those charged with governance’  
that they are independent accountants with respect to the Company, within the meaning of UK regulatory  
and professional requirements, and that the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and the audit staff  
is not impaired. The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the work of the Company’s Disclosure 
Committee, which is comprised of senior management and which considers and verifies all public 
announcements made by the Company.
Other Board members who may attend the Audit Committee meetings include the CEO and the CFO.  
The Audit Committee meets, as a minimum, four times a year and at least once during the year without  
any Executive Directors present. During 2007, the Audit Committee met five times.
Board and Committee reports
Section 1: Business review
Board and Committee reports Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
41
Section 1: Business review
Board and Committee reports
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises all of the Non-executive Directors and the CEO, and is chaired by  
the Chairman of the Board. It has responsibility for proposing to the Board any new appointments of both 
Executive and Non-executive Directors. The Chairman would not chair the Nominations Committee if it were 
dealing with the appointment of the successor to the Chairman. The Nominations Committee also reviews 
succession plans. The Nominations Committee met three times during 2007.
When appointing new Directors to the Board, it is generally the Nominations Committee’s policy to appoint  
an executive search agency to conduct an international search. The Board provides a role specification. 
Candidates are selected by the executive search agency, a shortlist is prepared from the agency’s selection. 
Interviews are conducted by Non-executive and Executive Directors as appropriate. The qualification for 
recruitment for Non-executive Directors includes a requirement that Non-executive Directors are free from  
any relationship with the executive management of the Company that could materially interfere with the  
exercise of their independent judgment. The CFO was confirmed in the role following a successful period  
as Acting CFO from 7 March 2007.
The Board considers all current Non-executive Directors to be independent, except for Dr Peter Fellner,  
who is Chairman of the Board, and Alan Dalby, who will have served ten years on the Board in May 2008.  
Although Alan Dalby was independent on appointment, under the Combined Code he will no longer be 
considered independent from 1 May 2008. Throughout 2007, Alan Dalby was independent.
During 2007, the Nominations Committee oversaw the appointment of Dr Michael Watson, Ian Garland  
and Elizabeth Jones.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the Non-executive Directors and, as of 26 March 2008,  
it is chaired by Dr William Jenkins. Prior to this date Alan Dalby was the Chairman. It determines, on behalf  
of the Board, the Group’s policy for executive remuneration and the individual remuneration packages for  
the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior management. The CEO may be in attendance at meetings,  
except when his own remuneration is being considered. The Committee met four times in 2007 and has access 
to professional advice in the performance of its duties. During 2007, the Hay Group assisted the Company  
in relation to remuneration generally and was appointed by the Remuneration Committee to undertake a review  
of the Directors’ and the Executive Committee members’ remuneration. The Hay Group does not have any other 
links with the Company. The CEO and the Company Secretary assisted the Committee in its discussions, except 
in relation to their own remuneration. The remuneration report is set out on pages 42 to 50. Information on the 
remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 27 on page 96. 42
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Remuneration report
The Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors’ remuneration are described below. The remuneration 
report relates to the 2007 financial year and subsequent years.
In accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, a resolution is being put to the 
Company’s shareholders at this year’s AGM to approve the Remuneration Committee’s report.
Those sections that our Auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , have audited have been specifically identified 
within this report.
Policy on Executive Director remuneration
The Remuneration Committee (whose members and terms of reference are set out on page 41) is aware that  
it must both attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre. Therefore, it aims to ensure that remuneration 
packages are competitive with comparable publicly listed companies and that they fairly and responsibly  
reward individuals for their contribution to the success of the Group, in order to align their interests with those  
of our shareholders. The Committee considers it to be appropriate that a significant proportion of Directors’ 
remuneration be performance-related through an annual bonus scheme and longer-term incentives.  
The performance conditions attached to these components have been structured such that they are  
specific to Acambis.
Components of Executive Directors’ remuneration
Basic salary and benefits
In determining the basic salary of each Director, the Committee takes into account, and intends to take into 
account in respect of future financial years, the individual’s responsibilities and any responsibility changes.  
Pay levels are set in the light of an independent assessment of market practices, by comparison with salary 
levels in a group of similar-sized biotechnology companies in the UK. For US-based Executive Directors,  
salary levels in companies of a size similar to Acambis Inc. are also reviewed. The Committee also takes into 
consideration the percentage increase awarded to all other employees when reviewing the Executive Director 
salary increases. Basic salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually.
Benefits offered to all Executive Directors comprise private healthcare, life assurance and permanent health 
insurance. In addition, Executive Directors may receive a car and mobile telephone allowance. In the event  
that Executive Directors are required to relocate or are assigned outside their home office, certain travel  
or accommodation benefits may be provided, which the Committee will determine on a case-by-case basis.
Annual bonus
Bonuses are non-pensionable and based on a percentage of basic salary. The maximum annual bonus is 125% 
of basic salary. 40% of the annual bonus payable will be deferred for three years in the form of Acambis shares 
under the Acambis 2006 Deferred Bonus Plan. The deferral is compulsory with no matching and will be lost  
on resignation or dismissal during the deferral period. This maximum percentage of 125% can only be achieved 
for significantly outperforming targets.
Bonuses are paid at the discretion of the Committee in recognition of the Directors’ contributions to the  
success of the Group. Objectives are set so as to be both challenging and realistic. The performance metrics  
on which bonus payments are assessed are a mix of short-term financial, product development and business 
development targets. Some of the objectives against which bonuses were measured in 2007 are set out  
on page 01.
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report  Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
43
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report
Long-term incentives
The Committee principally seeks to incentivise Executive Directors by offering participation in share-based 
long-term incentive schemes.
Executive Directors currently participate in grants of share options under the Acambis 1995 SAYE, ESPP ,  
the 2006A Plan, the 2006U Plan and the Acambis 2006 Deferred Bonus Plan. Grants made under the 2006U 
Plan may be in the form of Stock Settled Share Appreciation Rights, which operate in a similar fashion to share 
options. These plans and the performance conditions that apply to awards under these plans are described in 
more detail below. Up to and including the 2006 AGM the Group operated the 1996 Scheme and the 1999 
Plan. Details of outstanding awards made under these plans are shown on pages 47 to 49.
The Committee has a policy that balances short- and long-term remuneration, whereby Executive Directors 
receive an annual grant of options of up to two times basic salary per annum (granted in two half-yearly tranches) 
and 40% of any annual bonus is deferred for three years in the form of Acambis’ shares under the Acambis 
2006 Deferred Bonus Plan.
The Company continues to operate an HM Revenue and Customs-approved SAYE scheme and an ESPP ,  
which are available to all UK and US employees, respectively, provided they enter into savings contracts.
General performance conditions for Share Option Plans
Awards made to Executive Directors under the 2006A and 2006U Plans are subject to performance conditions 
comparing Acambis’ TSR with that of a group of other companies within the industry, as detailed on page 50. 
The Committee has chosen this group as being the most appropriate for Acambis. The composition of the TSR 
group will be further reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in 2008. The TSR condition seeks to align the 
interests of Executive Directors with the interests of shareholders by requiring superior relative TSR performance 
compared with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies before options can be exercised.  
The maximum allocation of shares would be achieved if Acambis were ranked in the upper quartile of the 
comparator group, being prorated down to a 30% allocation for a ranking at the median. No allocation will  
be made if Acambis’ ranking falls below the median. The performance condition is measured over a single 
three-year period.
For the purposes of the TSR calculation, the Company’s TSR and that of the comparator group will be averaged 
over the three months preceding the commencement of the period and the three months preceding a 
measurement date to ensure that results are not influenced by short-term volatility. TSR calculations are 
performed by an independent party.
Awards to Executive Directors under the 2006A and 2006U Plans, and any outstanding awards made since 
2003 under historical share option schemes (except for the SAYE and ESPP scheme) are subject to an 
additional performance condition that requires the Committee to be satisfied that there has been improvement  
in the Company’s underlying financial performance over the relevant performance period.
Executive Directors’ share ownership guidelines
The Company continues to operate a policy to encourage Directors to build and maintain a shareholding  
of 100% of salary, recognising that fluctuations in share price will cause the actual percentage to vary. It is 
envisaged that this shareholding will be built up over time through share purchases and through retaining  
a portion of net gains under the Company’s long-term incentive plans. 44
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Pension scheme
For each Executive Director the Company contributes 18% of basic salary into a personal pension scheme.  
No other benefits are pensionable.
Pension costs for each Director are shown on page 46.
Directors’ service contracts
Copies of the Directors’ service contracts are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office and  
for 15 minutes prior to and for the duration of the AGM at the location of the AGM. Details of the service 
contracts of those who served as Directors during the year are:
Director    Contract date Notice period
Executive
Ian Garland
1
   7 March 2007 12 months
Elizabeth Jones
2
   25 September 2007 12 months
Michael Watson
3
   18 January 2007 12 months
Gordon Cameron
4
    1 March 1997 12 months
David Lawrence
5
    8 July 2004 12 months
Non-executive
Dr Peter Fellner
6
   6 February 2006 3 months
Dr Randal Chase   1 October 2004 3 months
Alan Dalby    25 March 2005 3 months
Ross Graham    25 March 2004 3 months
Dr William Jenkins   1 December 2006 3 months
John Lambert
6
   1 December 2006 3 months
Notes
1  Ian Garland was appointed to the Board on 8 May 2007 and will face re-election as a Director of the 
Company at the 2008 AGM, having been appointed to his role since the 2007 AGM.
2  Elizabeth Jones was appointed to the Board on 25 September 2007 and will face re-election as a Director  
of the Company at the 2008 AGM, having been appointed to her role since the 2007 AGM.
3  Dr Michael Watson was appointed to the Board on 18 January 2007 and took up his post on 26 March 2007.
4 Gordon Cameron resigned from the Board on 1 June 2007.
5 David Lawrence resigned from the Board on 6 March 2007.
6  Dr Peter Fellner and John Lambert will retire and face re-election as Directors of the Company at the  
2008 AGM, being Directors who are retiring by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association  
of the Company.
All Executive Directors have rolling contracts with 12-month notice periods, in line with current best practice.  
On termination of the contract, an Executive Director would be entitled to basic salary and benefits for the  
notice period.
The Committee believes that, in the event of early termination of an Executive Director’s contract, it is appropriate 
to examine the specific circumstances of each case. Where appropriate, the Committee may agree to a phased 
payment of compensation over a fixed term. During this term, if the Executive Director were to find a new 
position the principle of mitigation would apply and payments would cease. The Committee does, however, 
reserve the right to make a payment in lieu of any period of notice. The Committee exercised its discretion to 
make payments in lieu of notice to both David Lawrence and Gordon Cameron upon their resignations in 2007, 
as set out on page 46. The Board has the right to consider the retention of share options of Executive Directors 
on their resignation.
Each Executive Director is subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following his or her appointment, 
and to retirement (and re-election) by rotation on a three-year rolling basis thereafter. 
The Company’s Articles of Association require that one third of all Directors retire at each AGM. This means that 
some of the Directors will be subject to retirement before they have served for three years.
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report
Remuneration report continued Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
45
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report
External appointments
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to take up non-executive directorships  
or public service appointments and that these can broaden the experience and knowledge of the Director  
from which the Company would benefit. Accordingly, subject to Board approval, they may accept non-executive 
appointments, as long as these are not likely to lead to a conflict of interest. They are also allowed to retain  
any fees paid under such appointments. During the year, none of the Executive Directors held other 
non-executive positions.
Non-executive Directors’ fees and terms
The Non-executive Directors’ fees are determined, and it is intended shall be determined in future financial  
years, by the Board on the basis of independent advice on current levels payable by similar businesses.  
Fees are reviewed periodically and were reviewed by the Hay Group in December 2007. Non-executive  
Directors are not eligible for and do not participate in pensions, incentives, bonuses or any similar payments 
other than out-of-pocket travel and accommodation costs in connection with the performance of their duties. 
Non-executive Directors’ fees comprise a basic fee plus an additional fee, if applicable, for chairing a committee. 
Consideration is given to the time commitment required of Non-executive Directors when setting their fees. 
Non-executive Directors’ fees are not dependent on specific meeting attendance nor linked to the number  
of hours spent on Group matters.
Non-executive Directors are expected to attend all relevant meetings of the Board and of any Committees  
of which they are members. Under the terms of their contracts, Non-executive Directors do not take any  
part of their fees in the form of Acambis shares. Non-executive Directors are entitled to their fees during  
any notice period.
The Board believes that it is in the Company’s best interest for Non-executive Directors to serve a minimum 
three-year term before retiring by rotation. Typically, they are expected to serve two three-year terms, although 
they may be invited to continue in office for a further period.
Directors’ interests in shares (unaudited)
The Directors who served during the year had the following beneficial interests in the shares of the Company:
     Number of ordinary 10p shares held at  Number of ordinary 10p shares held at
    31 December 2007 or resignation  31 December 2006 or appointment
Ian Garland   20,000 –
Elizabeth Jones
1
   10,086 10,086
Dr Michael Watson   10,000 –
Dr Randal Chase   10,000 10,000
Alan Dalby   5,000 5,000
Dr Peter Fellner   30,000 14,000
Ross Graham   20,708 6,128
Dr William Jenkins   – –
John Lambert   – –
Gordon Cameron
2
   292,413 292,413
David Lawrence
3
   9,900 9,900
Notes
1  Elizabeth Jones held shares in the Company at 31 December 2006, but was not a member of the Board  
at that time.
2 Gordon Cameron resigned from the Board on 1 June 2007.
3 David Lawrence resigned from the Board on 6 March 2007. 46
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Individually, each of the Directors beneficially owns less than 1% of the total issued share capital. As at 31 December 
2007, the Directors had no interests in shares of any other Group company. There have been no changes in the 
interests of the current Directors in the share capital of the Company since 31 December 2007.
The Executive Directors also have an interest as potential beneficiaries in the 74,751 ordinary shares held  
at 28 March 2008 by the Trustees of the Acambis Employees’ Trust.
Directors’ remuneration (audited)
The total remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2007 (shown below) comprised 
salaries, benefits, bonuses, pension contributions and Non-executive Director fees. During the year no Directors 
waived emoluments (2006 – £nil). The remuneration received by each Director who served during the year was 
as follows:
      Compensation  
   Basic    for loss  Total  Total  Pension  Pension
    salary/fees
9
  Benefits
10
  Bonus of office  2007  2006  2007  2006
Directors £’000  £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000
Executive:             
Gordon Cameron
1
  178 1  – 604 783  381  28  65
David Lawrence
2
  47 5  – 273 325  216  7 35
Dr Thomas Monath
3
 – –  – –  –  107 –  –
Dr Michael Watson
4
 138 34 88 – 260 – 25 –
Ian Garland
5
 204 5 103 – 312 – 36 –
Elizabeth Jones
6
 52 – 24 – 76 – 9 –
Total  619  45  215 877  1,756 704  105  100
Non-executive:            
Dr Peter Fellner 105  – – – 105 49  –  –
Dr Randal Chase 36 – – –  36  36 –  –
Alan Dalby  41  – – –  41 41 –  –
Ross Graham  44  –  – –  44  44 –  –
Dr William Jenkins  36 – – –  36 3 –  –
John Lambert 36 – – – 36 3 –  –
Michael Lytton
7
 –  – – – – 20 –  –
Dr Thomas Monath
3
  – – – – – –  –  –
Alan Smith
8
 –  –  – – – 58 –  –
Total  298  –  – –  298  254 –  –
Total  917  45  215 877 2,054 958 105  100
Notes
1  Gordon Cameron resigned from the Board on 1 June 2007. On termination, he received a payment  
of £604,000 (gross) as compensation for loss of office.
2  Remuneration paid to David Lawrence included a benefit valued at £5,000 (2006 – £5,000) in relation to 
provision by the Group of travel costs and accommodation. He resigned from the Board on 6 March 2007. 
On termination, he received a payment of £273,000 (gross) as compensation for loss of office.
3  Dr Thomas Monath became a Non-executive Director on 1 July 2006 and resigned from the Board on  
1 September 2006. Under the terms of his appointment as a Non-executive Director he did not receive  
any fees.
4 Dr Michael Watson was appointed to the Board on 18 January 2007 and took up his post on 26 March 2007.
5 Ian Garland was appointed to the Board on 8 May 2007.
6  Elizabeth Jones was appointed to the Board on 25 September 2007. The table above only includes her 
remuneration since that date.
7 Michael Lytton resigned from the Board on 11 April 2006.
8 Alan Smith resigned from the Board on 30 September 2006.
9  All Executive Directors, with the exception of Dr Thomas Monath and Dr Michael Watson, received a car 
allowance, which is included within ‘basic salary’.
10  Benefits offered to all Executive Directors comprise private healthcare, life assurance, permanent health 
insurance and mobile telephone.
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report
Remuneration report continued Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
47
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report
Directors’ interests in share options and performance conditions (audited)
The Directors who held office during 2007 held options to acquire ordinary shares of the Company under  
the 1996 Scheme, the SAYE Scheme, the 1999 Plan, the 2006A Plan and the 2006U Plan as follows: 
                   % perfor-
         mance
                  condition
    1 Jan       31 Dec    Earliest    met at
   Scheme/  2007 or      2007 or  Exercise  date of  Expiry  31 Dec
Director Plan appointment   Granted  Lapsed  resignation  price £  exercise  date  2007
6
 
Ian Garland 2006A
1
 – 22,900 – 22,900 1.31 16 May 10 16 May 17 100%
   2006U
1
 – 435,110 – 435,110 1.31 16 May 10 16 May 17 100%
  2006U
1
 – 240,000 – 240,000 1.25 1 Oct 10 1 Oct 17 100%
  SAYE
2
 – 10,000 – 10,000 0.96 1 Dec 10 01 Jun 11 n/a
Total   – 708,010 – 708,010  
Dr Michael Watson 2007U
1
 – 275,280 – 275,280 1.39 26 Mar 10 26 Mar 17  100%
  2007U
1
 – 150,000 – 150,000 1.25 1 Oct 10 1 Oct 17 100%
  ESPP
2
 – 4,395 – 4,395 1.12 15 Jun 09 15 Sep 09 n/a
Total  – 429,675 – 429,675    
Elizabeth Jones 1999
1
 10,000 – (10,000) – 2.73 n/a n/a n/a
   1999
1
 8,000 – – 8,000 2.46 15 Sep 08 15 Sep 09 nil
  2006A
3
 11,560 – – 11,560 1.46 31 Oct 09 31 Oct 10 n/a
  2006A
1
 – 10,490 – 10,490 1.25 1 Oct 10 1 Oct 17 100%
  2006U
3
 8,440 – – 8,440 1.46 31 Oct 09 31 Oct 10 n/a
  2006U
3
 77,400 – – 77,400 1.37 20 Mar 10 20 Mar 11 n/a
  2006U
1
 – 277,510 – 277,510 1.25 1 Oct 10 1 Oct 17 100%
  SAYE
2
 1,346 – (1,346) – 2.74 n/a n/a n/a
  SAYE
2
 2,791 – – 2,791 2.01 1 Dec 08 1 Jun 09 n/a
  SAYE
2
 3,203 – – 3,203 1.18 1 Dec 09 1 Jun 10 n/a
  SAYE
2
 – 6,000 – 6,000 0.96 1 Dec 10 1 Jun 11 n/a
Total  122,740 294,000 (11,346) 405,394   
Gordon Cameron  1999
4
 13,911  – – 13,911 3.33 1 Jun 07 31 May 08 100%
   1999
4
 30,545 – – 30,545 3.04 1 Jun 07 31 May 08 100%
   1999
4
 39,116 – – 39,116 2.33 1 Jun 07 31 May 08 100%
   1999
4
 27,469  – – 27,469 3.23 1 Jun 07 31 May 08 100%
   1999
4
 32,561  – – 32,561 2.76 1 Jun 07 31 May 08 100%
   1999
4
 43,350  – – 43,350 3.46 1 Jun 07 31 May 08 100%
   1999
4
 60,440  – (7,341) 53,099 2.73 12 Oct 07 11 Apr 08 88%
   1999
4
 78,538  – (26,155) 52,383 2.19 31 May 08 30 Nov 08 67%
   1999
4
 68,525  – (29,323) 39,202 2.51 12 Sep 08 11 Mar 09 57%
   1999
4
 183,502  – (111,340) 72,162 1.97 27 Mar 09 26 Sep 09 39%
   2006U
4
 233,225  – (116,613) 116,612 1.55 3 Oct 09 2 Apr 10 50%
   SAYE
2
 8,008 – (8,008) – 1.18 n/a n/a n/a
Total   819,190  – (298,780) 520,410
David Lawrence 1996
5
 10,989 – (10,989) – 2.73 n/a n/a n/a
   1999
5
 117,216 – (23,550) 93,666 2.73 12 Oct 07 11 Apr 08 80%
   1999
5
 42,808 – (17,654) 25,154 2.19 31 May 08 30 Nov 08 59%
   1999
5
 37,350  – (18,948) 18,402 2.51 12 Sep 08 11 Mar 09 49%
   1999
5
 100,000 – (68,613) 31,387 1.97 27 Mar 09 26 Sep 09 31%
   2006U
5
 127,096  – (109,238) 17,858 1.55 03 Oct 09 2 Apr 10 14%
   SAYE
2
 8,008  – (8,008) – 1.18 n/a n/a n/a
Total   443,467 – (257,000) 186,467
None of the Directors exercised any options during the year. 48
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Notes
1  The performance condition for these options granted under the 2006A Plan, the 2006U Plan and the 1999 
Plan compares the Company’s TSR to the TSR of a chosen group of pharmaceutical and biotechnology 
companies over a three-year period. A median ranking must be achieved before any part of the option may 
be exercised (30% of the option) and an upper quartile ranking must be achieved for the option to vest in full.  
If Acambis were ranked below the median level, the options would lapse. There is also a requirement before 
the option can be exercised for the Committee to be satisfied that there has been an overall improvement  
in the Company’s underlying financial performance over the performance period. There is no re-testing of 
performance conditions.
2 No performance conditions apply to the SAYE or the ESPP Scheme. 
3  These options under the 2006A Plan or the 2006U Plan have no performance conditions since these options 
were granted before Elizabeth Jones’s appointment to the Board. 
4  Following Gordon Cameron’s notification on 5 March 2007 to the Company of his intended resignation as an 
Executive Director on 1 June 2007, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to permit vesting  
of certain of his outstanding options in accordance with the 1999 Plan and the 2006U Plan. The rest of his 
options lapsed on resignation.
5  Following David Lawrence’s resignation from the Board on 6 March 2007, the Remuneration Committee 
exercised its discretion to permit vesting of certain of his options in accordance with the 1999 Plan and  
the 2006U Plan. The rest of his options lapsed on resignation.
6  Data in this column are intended to illustrate the percentage of the awards that would have vested at  
31 December 2007 based on the performance conditions applying to those grants. Should the awards  
have vested at 31 December 2007, a time apportionment factor could also have applied based on the  
period of time from the date of award to 31 December 2007, where the full three years to vest had not  
been reached. Data in the performance condition column for Gordon Cameron and David Lawrence  
illustrate the percentage of awards that vested on 1 June 2007 and 6 March 2007 , respectively. These  
data are unaudited.
All of these options were granted for nil consideration and are held over 10p ordinary shares in the Company. 
The market value of the options at the time of grant is as detailed in the ‘Exercise price’ column, with the 
exception of SAYE options, which are granted at 20% below market value, and ESPP options, which are 
granted at 15% below market value. The market price of shares at 31 December 2007 was 118.5p and  
the range during the year was 102.0p to 144.8p per share.
Further information on each of the Company’s share option schemes, including the number of options 
outstanding, exercise prices and exercise periods, is set out in note 24 to the financial statements.
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report
Remuneration report continued Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
49
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report
Long-term share incentive plan (audited)
Awards have been made to Executive Directors of the Company under the LTIP
1
 as follows: 
   1 Jan    Held on Value Award Vesting
Directors 2007  Vested  Lapsed  resignation vested £ date date
Gordon Cameron
2 
 86,704  – (86,704)  – – 24 Mar 04 n/a
   1,250 (1,250) – – 1,603 27 May 05 27 May 07
   157,077 – (52,311)  104,766 – 31 May 05 31 May 08
   91,751 –  (55,586) 36,165 – 27 Mar 06 27 Mar 09
Total 336,782 (1,250) (194,601) 140,931 1,603    
David Lawrence
3
 85,616 –  (85,616) – – 31 May 05 n/a
   50,000  –  (50,000) – – 27 Mar 06 n/a
Total 135,616  – (135,616) – –    
Notes
1  The exercise price for all awards made under the LTIP is £1 in total, for the exercise of any number  
of shares comprised in an award. All LTIP awards are held over ordinary 10p shares in the Company.  
Since the 2006 AGM, no further awards under the LTIP have been or will be made.
2  Following Gordon Cameron’s notification on 5 March 2007 to the Company of his intended resignation  
as an Executive Director on 1 June 2007, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to permit 
vesting of certain of his outstanding options in accordance with the LTIP rules. The price per share on  
vesting in the year was £1.28. The rest of his LTIPs lapsed on resignation.
3  Following David Lawrence’s resignation from the Board on 6 March 2007 all of his awards under the  
LTIP lapsed.
Deferred bonus plan (audited)
The DBP provides for part of a bonus to be taken in the form of shares, the entitlement to which is deferred  
for three years. Awards under the DBP are not performance-linked. All awards are held over ordinary 10p shares 
in the Company. Shares held under the DBP at 31 December 2007 by Executive Directors are as follows.  
Director  On appointment Awarded 31 Dec 2007 Award date Vesting date
Elizabeth Jones  2,330 – 2,330 20 Mar 07 20 Mar 10
Total  2,330 – 2,330 
Gains made by Directors on share options and LTIPs (audited)
The table below shows gains made by Directors from the exercise of share options and LTIPs. The gains are 
calculated as at the exercise date, although the shares may have been retained.
     2007  2006
      £’000  £’000
Gordon Cameron     2  15
Total gains on share options and LTIPs     2 15 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
50
Acambis’ TSR performance (unaudited)
Acambis’ TSR performance (share price growth plus dividends paid) is compared to a ‘broad equity market 
index’ comparator group over the past five years, as required by legislation. This comparator group comprises 
small-cap pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies developing products for human application and listed 
on LSE and AIM with a market capitalisation greater than £60m but less than £500m. This index has been 
chosen as the most appropriate form of ‘broad equity market index’ and because Acambis is a constituent of 
this sector. The composition of companies in this index is reviewed and subject to change each year and will be 
the subject of further review by the Remuneration Committee during 2008. For 2008 these companies are:
Abcam plc Hutchison China Meditech Limited
AGI Therapeutics plc  Meldex International Plc
Alizyme plc Oxford Biomedica plc
Antisoma plc Prostrakan Group plc
Ark Therapeutics Group Plc Proteome Sciences plc
Axis-Shield plc Protherics plc
BTG Plc Renovo Group plc
China Medical System Holdings Limited Silence Therapeutics Plc
Goldshield Group plc SkyePharma plc
GW Pharmaceuticals plc Vectura Group plc
The following table details the five-year rebased TSR performance of Acambis and its chosen index.
        Pharmaceuticals
     Acambis and Biotech Index
31 December 2002    0% 0%
31 December 2003    10% 84%
31 December 2004    -9% 43%
31 December 2005    -25% 73%
31 December 2006    -63% 59%
31 December 2007   -57% 21%
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report
Remuneration report continued Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
51
Section 1: Business review
Remuneration report
Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
TSR rebased to 100
On behalf of the Board
Dr William Jenkins
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 April 2008 
31/12/02
Acambis
31/12/03 31/12/04 31/12/05 31/12/06 31/12/07
Pharma and biotech peer group
0
50
100
150
200
250 52
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the  
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under the law, the 
Directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted  
by the European Union. The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state  
of affairs of the Company and the Group, and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Financial statements, including adoption of going concern basis
  In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 – make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 – state that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the EU; and 
  –  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume  
that the Group will continue in business.
  The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the  
financial statements.
  The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy  
at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4  
of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group 
and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
  The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website. The Company notes 
that UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information may differ from that  
in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board 
Elizabeth Jones 
Company Secretary
23 April 2008
Section 2: Financial results
Directors’ responsibilities
Directors’ responsibilities
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
52 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
53
Section 2: Financial results
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Acambis plc 
Independent Auditors’ report  
to the members of Acambis plc 
We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) of Acambis plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated 
and Company balance sheets, the consolidated and Company cash flow statements, the consolidated 
statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes. These financial statements have been 
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ 
remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the EU are set out in the 
statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be 
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members 
as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not,  
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this 
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether  
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report 
is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific 
information presented in the operating and financial review that is cross referred from the principal activities and 
business review section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we  
have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified  
by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the Combined Code (2006) specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on 
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate 
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 
financial statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the unaudited part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report, the Operational and financial highlights, the Chairman’s review, the ‘Q&A with  
the CEO’ section, the ‘Our strategy’ section, the ‘R&D overview’ section, the ‘Our R&D pipeline’ section, the 
Financial review, the Risk management report, the Corporate responsibility report, the ‘Board of Directors’ 
section, the ‘Non-executive Directors’ section, the Corporate governance statement, the Summarised Group 
statements, the shareholder information and the information contained in the borders from the Consolidated 
income statement onwards. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend  
to any other information. 54
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by  
the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.  
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the 
preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered 
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, 
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall 
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
  the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU,  
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its loss and cash flows for the year  
then ended;
   the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the  
EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended;
   the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements,  
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
  the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Cambridge
23 April 2008
Independent Auditors’ report  
to the members of Acambis plc continued
Section 2: Financial results
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Acambis plc     2007 2007 
   Business  Restructuring 2007 2006 
   performance costs Total Total 
  Notes £m £m £m  £m 
a Revenue   2 9.5 –  9.5  30.9
b Cost of sales     (10.6) (1.2) (11.8) (14.6)
 Gross (loss)/profit     (1.1) (1.2) (2.3)  16.3
 Research and development costs     (22.1) (2.0) (24.1) (37.0)
 Sales and marketing costs     (0.5) (0.2) (0.7) (2.6)
 Administration costs   3 (4.5) (0.7) (5.2) (8.6)
 Other operating income:         
 – Settlement of ARILVAX agreement   3 –  –  –  10.1
 – Profit on sale of business operation   3 –  –  –  4.6
 Operating loss   4 (28.2) (4.1) (32.3) (17.2)
 Finance income   3   1.4 2.0
 Finance costs   3   (0.4) (0.7)
 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation       (31.3) (15.9)
 Taxation – UK   5   0.5 (0.8)
 Taxation – overseas   5   (0.5) 0.2
 Loss on ordinary activities after taxation  
 attributable to shareholders       (31.3) (16.5)
 Basic and fully diluted loss per ordinary share (in pence)  6   (29.0)p (15.4)p
 
A statement of changes in equity is given in note 23.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated income statement. 
All amounts in 2007 and 2006 arise from continuing operations.
Consolidated statement of recognised income  
and expense for the year ended 31 December 2007 
     2007 2006
     £m  £m
 Loss on foreign currency exchange     (0.3) (1.8)
 Foreign currency exchange realised on sale of business operation    –  (0.1)
 Net expense recognised directly in equity     (0.3) (1.9)
 Loss for the year     (31.3) (16.5)
 Total expense recognised for the year     (31.6) (18.4)
There are no movements to be recognised through the parent company statement of total recognised income 
and expense in either 2007 or 2006.
The information below has not been audited
a Revenue b Cost of sales
   Following the agreement of partnerships 
with Sanofi Pasteur in 2007, cost of sales  
now includes costs previously recorded in 
R&D expenses relating to ChimeriVax™-JE  
and ChimeriVax™-WN.
 
Section 2: Financial results
Consolidated income statement/recognised income and expenses 
Consolidated income statement  
for the year ended 31 December 2007
ACAM2000™  
Chimerivax™-JE
Chimerivax™-West Nile
MVA
Other sources
50%
7%
17%
2%
24%
55
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 56
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2007
     2007 2006 
    Notes  £m  £m 
 Assets            
 Non-current assets            
 Goodwill    8  12.4 12.4 
  Other intangible assets    9  2.0 0.7
 Property, plant and equipment    10  16.2 14.6
 Financial assets: available-for-sale investment    12  0.6 0.6
         31.2 28.3
 Current assets          
 Inventory    13  1.2 1.5 
 Current tax assets       0.2 0.6
 Trade and other receivables    14  7.7 17.5
 Liquid investments    15  –  7.5
 Cash and cash equivalents    16  20.9 26.9
        30.0 54.0
 Liabilities          
 Current liabilities          
 Financial liabilities:          
 – short-term borrowings    17  (3.5) (3.6)
 – short-term financial liabilities    17  (0.1) (0.1)
 Trade and other payables    18  (3.1) (3.2)
a Accruals and deferred income       (10.8) (6.6)
 Income tax payable     20  (1.4) (2.1)
         (18.9) (15.6)
 Net current assets       11.1 38.4
 Non-current liabilities          
 Investment in Joint Venture    21 (0.3) (0.3)
 Non-current financial liabilities    17 (1.3) (1.3)
a Deferred income     (5.2) –  
 Liability for cash-settled share-based payments    24 (0.2) – 
         (7.0) (1.6)
 Net assets       35.3 65.1
 Shareholders’ equity          
 Share capital    22  10.8 10.7
 Share premium    23  98.2 98.0
 Other deficit    23  (3.1) (2.8)
 Retained deficit    23  (70.6) (40.8)
 Total shareholders’ equity       35.3 65.1
The financial statements on pages 55 to 97 were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 April 2008 and were 
signed on its behalf by Ian Garland, Chief Executive Officer.
The information below has not been audited
a Deferred income
Deferred income relates to cash, received under the Sanofi Pasteur partnerships, to be recognised as revenue in future periods.   Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
57
Section 2: Financial results
Company balance sheet
Company balance sheet at 31 December 2007
     2007 2006 
a    Notes £m  £m
 Assets            
 Non-current assets            
 Investments in subsidiaries    11  58.4  58.0
 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings     44.6 28.0
         103.0  86.0
 Current assets           
 Trade and other receivables    14  0.2  0.4
 Liquid investments    15  –  7.5
 Cash and cash equivalents    16  15.8  24.7
         16.0 32.6
 Liabilities           
 Current liabilities           
 Trade and other payables    18 (0.3) –
 Accruals and deferred income       (0.5) (0.6)
 Income tax payable       (0.1) (0.5)
         (0.9) (1.1)
 Net current assets       15.1 31.5
 Non-current liabilities      
 Liability for share-based payments    24 (0.2) – 
 Net assets       117.9  117.5 
 Shareholders’ equity           
 Share capital    22  10.8  10.7 
 Share premium    23  98.0 97.8
 Retained earnings    23  9.1 9.0
 Total shareholders’ equity       117.9 117.5
The financial statements on pages 55 to 97 were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 April 2008  
and were signed on its behalf by Ian Garland, Chief Executive Officer.
The information below has not been audited
a Company balance sheet
The Company information relates to Acambis plc, the holding company that owns the Group’s subsidiaries, the principal ones  
being Acambis Research Limited in the UK and Acambis Inc. in the US. The Company’s accounts are consolidated with those  
of the subsidiaries to produce the Group’s accounts.
The structure of the principal companies in the Group is as follows:
  100% Acambis Research Limited
Acambis plc  
  100% Acambis Inc. 58
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Consolidated cash flow statement
     2007  2006
      Notes  £m  £m 
 Operating activities            
  Loss on ordinary activities before tax       (31.3) (15.9)
  Depreciation and amortisation       2.9 3.8
a  Decrease/(increase) in working capital       19.4 (21.7)
  Profit on sale of business operations    3   –  (4.6)
  Other non-cash movements       1.4 2.4
  Net finance costs       (1.0) (1.3)
  Taxes paid       (0.3) (1.1)
  Cash flows used in operating activities       (8.9) (38.4)
  Investing activities          
  Proceeds from sale of business operation    3   –  9.0
  Purchase of intangibles    9   (1.4) (0.2)
b Purchase of property, plant and equipment    10   (4.8) (0.9)
  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment       –  0.5 
  Cash flows (used in)/from investing activities       (6.2) 8.4
  Financing activities            
  Interest element of finance lease payments       –  (0.4)
  Interest paid       (0.4) (0.2)
  Interest received       1.4 2.2
  Proceeds from issues of shares       0.4 –
  Capital element of finance lease payments       –  (6.5)
 Repayment of borrowings     (0.1) (0.1)
  Purchase of liquid investments       (5.8) (13.6)
  Sale of liquid investments       13.3 24.9
  Cash flows from financing activities       8.8 6.3
  Decrease in cash and cash equivalents       (6.3) (23.7)
  Net foreign exchange difference       0.4 (2.2)
  Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 1 January   16  23.3 49.2
  Net cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 31 December  16  17.4 23.3
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated cash flow statement.
The information below has not been audited
a Increase in working capital
Working capital includes trade receivables. These were higher at 31 December 2006 due to delivery of 10 million doses of ACAM2000™ 
in December 2006 compared to 2.7 million doses delivered in December 2007. 
b Purchase of property, plant and equipment 
During 2007 Acambis invested resources in the build-out of the Rockville fill/finish facility.
Consolidated cash flow statement  
for the year ended 31 December 2007 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
59
Section 2: Financial results
Company cash flow statement
        2007  2006 
    Notes  £m  £m
Operating activities            
Loss on ordinary activities before tax       (1.4) (6.2)
Increase in working capital       (16.1) (27.6)
Other non-cash movements       1.1 7.8
Net finance costs       (3.5) (7.2)
Taxes paid       (0.4) (1.3)
Cash flows used in operating activities       (20.3) (34.5)
Financing activities          
Interest received       4.0 7.0 
Proceeds from issues of shares       0.4 –
Purchase of liquid investments       (5.8) (13.6)
Sale of liquid investments       13.3 24.9
Cash flows from financing activities       11.9 18.3
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents       (8.4) (16.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January    16  24.7 42.5
Net foreign exchange difference       (0.5) (1.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December    16  15.8 24.7
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Company cash flow statement.
Company cash flow statement  
for the year ended 31 December 2007 60
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Acambis plc have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations that have been adopted for use  
in the EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.  
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis as modified by the 
revaluation of available-for-sale investments, except for derivative financial instruments, which have been 
measured at fair value. The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values  
are rounded to one decimal point of the nearest million (£m) except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires  
the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date  
of the financial statements and of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates  
are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or action, actual results may ultimately  
differ from those estimates.
Changes to accounting policies
IFRS 7 ‘Financial instruments: Disclosure’ and the complementary amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation  
of financial statements – Capital disclosures’ have been adopted. IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures relating  
to financial instruments. This standard does not have any impact on the classification and valuation of the 
financial instruments. All other accounting policies have been consistently applied to all years stated.
Critical accounting policies
Within the accounting policies noted below, management judge those relating to revenue, share-based 
payments and taxation to be the critical accounting policies of the Group. These include key judgments  
that management have made in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and are those that  
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. They may also contain 
key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet 
date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities 
within the next financial year.  
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements include and consolidate the financial statements of Acambis plc and each  
of its subsidiary undertakings. Intra-Group transactions and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation. 
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies 
generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The existence and effect  
of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether  
the Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred 
to the group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.  
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and 
liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.  
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets 
acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets  
of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are 
eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. 
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the Group.
Notes to the Group financial statements  
31 December 2007 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
61
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
1 Accounting policies continued
Going concern
At 31 December 2007, the Group had cash and cash equivalents and liquid resources of £20.9m. On 23 April 
2008, Acambis announced that it proposes to raise approximately £40m, net of expenses, by way of a Placing 
and Open Offer of, in aggregate, 37,715,811 new ordinary shares at 115 pence per ordinary share conditional, 
inter alia, upon the passing by shareholders of the resolutions at an EGM. 
After making enquiries and taking into account (i) management’s estimate of future revenues and expenditure,  
(ii) management’s expectation, based on underwriting undertakings received, that Acambis will secure sufficient  
equity funding in the proposed Placing and Open Offer and (iii) management’s expectation that shareholder support  
for the relevant shareholder resolutions will be forthcoming at the EGM, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group will have adequate financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Revenue
Group revenue comprises the value of sales of products and income (including withholding tax but excluding 
VAT and taxes, trade discounts and intra-Group transactions) derived from long-term contracts for research  
and manufacture of vaccines, collaboration agreements, royalties and contract research fees receivable from 
third parties in the normal course of business. 
Product sales
Revenue from product sales is recognised when, amongst other criteria, the risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred to the customer. This typically occurs on delivery of product to the customer.
Long-term contracts
Profit is recognised on long-term contracts when the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty 
by including turnover and related costs within the income statement as contract activity progresses. Revenue is 
recognised according to the extent of performance under the contract. In determining the degree of contractual 
performance, reference is made to the costs incurred in relation to the total estimated expected costs, as costs 
incurred are a fair reflection of the services performed to date.
The ACAM2000™ smallpox vaccine contract with the CDC awarded to Acambis in November 2001  
is a fixed-fee arrangement that required the delivery of products as well as a concurrent R&D programme.  
The two transactions are linked in such a way that the commercial effect cannot be understood without 
reference to the series of transactions as a whole. In accordance with IAS18 ‘Revenue’, this arrangement  
has, therefore, been treated as a single long-term contract, whose elements have not been accounted for 
separately. Revenue and profits are recognised according to the extent of performance under the contract,  
as described above. Manufacturing costs in respect of this contract are deemed to be incurred when the risks 
and rewards of ownership have been transferred, as described above; R&D costs are recognised as incurred.
Collaboration agreements
The Group’s collaboration agreements may include up-front and success-based milestone receipts and/or 
reimbursement for development and other expenditure incurred by the Group (typically including a mark-up  
on a cost-plus basis), as well as royalties for future sales of the product.
Up-front milestone receipts are typically considered to represent consideration for services performed over  
the entire collaboration arrangement. Where these services are performed by an indeterminate number  
of acts over the period of the arrangement, revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over that period,  
unless there is evidence that some other method better represents the stage of completion. Where elements  
of the arrangement are separately identifiable and the fair values are readily available, the recognition criteria  
are applied to the separately identifiable components of the arrangement.
Success-based milestone receipts are recognised when they are achieved.
Revenues arising from the reimbursement of development and other expenditure are recognised on an accruals 
basis, when the related expenditure has been incurred. 62
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements  
31 December 2007 continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Royalties
Royalties are recognised when the Group receives notification from its customers of product sales.
Contract research
Contract research fees are recognised in the accounting period in which the related work is carried out. 
Cost of sales
The Group has classified manufacturing costs and costs that are directly attributable to collaboration 
agreements, funded research and vaccine manufacture as cost of sales.
Pension costs
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme and makes contributes on behalf of all employees 
into the scheme based on a proportion of the employees salary.
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Internally generated expenditure arising from development (or from 
the development phase of an internal project) is capitalised if, and only if, it satisfies all of six specified criteria  
in IAS38 ‘Intangible assets’. It is management’s opinion that it is not possible to satisfy the requirement to 
demonstrate either the technical feasibility of a project or that it will generate probable future economic benefits 
until final regulatory approval has been obtained.
Restructuring costs
Costs associated with restructuring in 2007 include redundancy payments, professional advice costs and share 
option costs resulting from the cancellation of options. 
Share-based payment transactions
Employees (including Directors) of the Group may receive some remuneration in the form of share-based 
payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares 
(equity-settled transactions).
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date  
at which they are granted. Fair value is determined using a binomial option pricing model for the SAYE Scheme 
and the ESPP . The fair value of awards made under the 1996 Scheme, the 1999 Plan, the LTIP , the 2006A Plan, 
the 2006U Plan and the DBP is measured using a binomial option pricing model adjusted to reflect the TSR 
market-based performance condition. For all options and awards with a TSR market-based performance 
condition, the pricing model used follows similar principles to the Monte Carlo approach to value the award  
and takes into account the fact that TSR vesting and share price performance are not independent.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over  
the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees 
become fully entitled to the award (the vesting date). The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired and the number of awards that, in management’s opinion, will ultimately vest. The cost is allocated  
to R&D costs, sales and marketing costs and administration costs on the basis of headcount.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest except for awards where vesting is conditional 
upon a market condition. These are treated as vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition is 
satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. When options are cancelled any charge 
not yet recognised as an expense is included within the income statement immediately. 
Employees (including Directors) of the Group may receive share-based payment transactions that contain a cash 
element as a mechanism for settling a tax liability. Cash-settled awards are required to be remeasured at each 
reporting date and any changes in fair value are recorded in the income statement. 
In a profitable year, the dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the 
computation of diluted earnings per share.  Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
63
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements 
1 Accounting policies continued
The Group took advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS2 ‘Share-based payments’ in respect of 
equity-settled awards and applied IFRS2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that  
had not vested on 31 December 2004.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings  
in the Group is treated as a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services received, measured by 
reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the investing period as an increase to investment  
in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to equity.
Taxation
Any tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax, including UK corporation  
tax and foreign tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported 
in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is 
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts 
expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet  
date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and 
carry-forward of unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences and carry-forward of unused tax losses can be utilised:
  except where the deferred income tax asset or liability relating to the deductible temporary difference arises 
from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and,  
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
  in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint 
ventures, deferred tax assets or liabilities are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the 
temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary difference can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the 
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred 
income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that apply to the period when the asset  
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date. Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised  
in equity and not in the income statement.
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination 
over the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.  
The fair value of the consideration is determined by applying appropriate discounts to contingent and deferred 
consideration, to the level where the Group considers those liabilities will be payable. 
Following initial recognition, goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. 64
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements  
31 December 2007 continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Intangible assets
Separately identifiable acquired intangible assets are capitalised at cost except for those acquired from a 
business acquisition, which are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, 
intangible assets are not revalued. The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be either finite  
or indefinite. Where amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives, this expense is taken to the income 
statement. In the case of assets acquired relating to BPC, this was charged to the ‘Cost of sales’ line item  
until the disposal of the intangible asset at the time of the sale of the trade and assets in 2006.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment when a trigger event occurs. Useful lives are also examined on an 
annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. Useful lives are as follows:
  Software assets: three years 
  R&D technology: variable, depending on technology
  Distribution contract: 88 months
Amortisation for R&D technology is charged from the date that the technology is available to use in an approved 
product. Prior to the commencement of amortisation, such assets are subject to annual impairment reviews. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. 
Land and assets under construction are not depreciated. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis  
over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows:
  Freehold buildings: 39 years
  Leasehold buildings: 15 years or term of lease if shorter 
  Assets under construction: not depreciated
  Laboratory and manufacturing equipment: four to seven years 
  Office equipment: three to five years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes  
in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists and where  
the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written 
down to their recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of 
net selling price and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to 
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, 
the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Impairment 
losses are recognised in the income statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of the asset 
(calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item) is included 
in the income statement in the year the item is de-recognised.
The Group does not capitalise interest charges on loans to fund the purchase of tangible fixed assets. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
65
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements 
1 Accounting policies continued
Available-for-sale financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets depending upon the purpose for which the financial assets were 
acquired. Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition. 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified 
in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose  
of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Investments are initially recognised at fair value 
plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets 
carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed 
in the income statement. Financial assets are de-recognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the 
investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and 
rewards of ownership. Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
are subsequently carried at fair value. 
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets at fair value through profit or loss’ 
category are presented in the income statement within ‘other (losses)/gains – net’ in the period in which they 
arise. Dividend income from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in the income 
statement as part of other income when the Group’s right to receive payments is established.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value
adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement as ‘gains and losses from
investment securities’.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset  
or a group of financial assets is impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a 
significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that 
the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss 
– measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss  
on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss – is removed from equity and recognised in the 
income statement. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not 
reversed through the income statement. 
Investments in joint ventures
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes  
in the Group’s share of the net assets of the joint ventures, less any impairment in the value of the individual 
investments. The Group’s share of net profits and losses of joint ventures is included in the income statement  
net of interest and tax.
Inventories, excluding long-term contracts
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition are accounted for as follows:
Raw materials  – purchase cost on a first-in, first-out basis
Finished goods and work-in-progress –  cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing 
overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding  
borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs  
of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, less provision for 
impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence  
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 66
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Financial instruments
From time to time, the Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of sterling and foreign  
currency contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations and those in the form  
of yield-enhancing deposits to maximise interest rates. Such derivative financial instruments are stated at  
fair value with movements in fair value recorded in the income statement. The fair value of forward exchange 
contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The Group makes certain deposits for fixed terms (dual currency deposits), which, at the option of the bank, 
mature in either the original currency or are converted to another currency at a pre-agreed exchange rate.  
The Group considers that such arrangements contain an embedded derivative element, which is separated  
from the host contract and accounted for as a derivative financial instrument under IAS39 ‘Recognition and 
measurement of financial instruments’. This is initially stated in the balance sheet at cost. After initial recognition, 
it is measured at fair value with movements in fair value recorded in the income statement. A gain or loss arising 
from a change in the fair value of a financial asset or financial liability classified as at fair value through the profit  
or loss account is recognised in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or  
a group of financial assets is impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant 
or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the 
securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss 
(measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss  
on that financial asset previously recognised in income statement) is removed from equity and recognised in  
the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not 
reversed through the income statement. Impairment testing of trade receivables is described in note 14.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity 
of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown within current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
stated at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction cost) and the redemption 
value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares  
or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item,  
are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value  
of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction 
of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.  
Finance charges are charged directly against income. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
67
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements 
1 Accounting policies continued
Where the Group enters into transactions that meet the criteria for a sale-and-finance leaseback, the difference 
between the sale price of the asset and its previous carrying value is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term. 
Leases where the lessor retains the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis  
over the lease term.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past 
event, it is probable that costs will be required to be incurred to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate  
can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are discounted to present value where appropriate.
Foreign currency and translation
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). Transactions denominated 
in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency are recorded in the functional currency of the Group entity 
at actual exchange rates as at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the income 
statement except where financing of a foreign subsidiary through long-term loans and deferred trading balances 
is intended to be as permanent as equity. Such loans and intercompany balances are treated as part of the  
net investment and, as such, any exchange differences arising are dealt with as adjustments to reserves.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary and joint venture undertakings are translated into sterling at the 
exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and joint venture 
undertakings are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange. Exchange adjustments arising when 
the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiary and joint venture undertakings 
are translated into sterling are taken directly to equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange 
differences are recognised in the income statement as a component of the gain or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and 
liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Employee share trust
The Company recognises the assets and liabilities of the trust in its own accounts and shares held by the  
trust are recorded at cost as a deduction in arriving at shareholders’ funds until such time as the shares vest 
unconditionally to employees. The trust is a separately administered trust, funded by loans from the Company, 
whose assets comprise shares in the Company.
Future pronouncements
At the date of approval of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations, which have  
not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective:
IFRS2 (Amendment) ‘Share-based payment’, The IASB has published an amendment to IFRS2, ‘Share-based 
payment’ dealing with vesting conditions and cancellations. It clarifies that vesting conditions consist only  
of service conditions and performance conditions. Any other features of a share-based payment are not 
considered to be vesting conditions. Any such features would need to be included in the grant date fair value  
for transactions with employees and others providing similar services. It also specifies that all cancellations, 
whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment. The group will apply  
the updated standard from 1 January 2008; however, this standard is not expected to impact significantly 
the Group’s results. 68
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
1 Accounting policies continued
IFRS3 ‘Business Combinations’ (Revised) requires that all transaction costs are expensed and that all 
consideration is fair valued at the acquisition date with some contingent payments subsequently being 
remeasured to fair value through the income statement. This standard is not expected to impact significantly 
the Group’s results as it is applicable for business combinations on or after 1 July 2009. 
IFRS8 ‘Operating Segments’ replaces IAS 14 ‘Segment Reporting’ and aligns segment reporting with  
the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131 ‘Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related 
information’. The new standard uses a ‘management approach’ under which segment information is  
presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes. The Group will apply IFRS8  
from 1 January 2009. The impact of this new standard is not expected to result in a material change to  
the disclosure of segmental reporting.
IAS23 ‘Borrowing costs’ (Revised) removes the option in the original IAS23 of immediately recognising as  
an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use  
or sale. The expected impact is still being assessed in detail by management but it is not thought likely to  
lead to a material adjustment given the Group’s level of borrowings. The Group will apply IAS23 (Revised)  
from 1 January 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU. 
The amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ requires three balance sheets (at the end of the 
current period, the end of the comparative period and the beginning of the comparative period) to be reported  
if there has been a prior period adjustment. Certain other presentational changes of the income statement and 
statement of total recognised income and expenses are also required. The Group will apply this amendment 
from 1 January 2009 subject to endorsement by the EU. This standard is not thought likely to lead to a material 
change in the presentation of the Group’s results.
IAS27 ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’ (Revised) requires the effect of all transactions with 
non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control. This standard is not expected  
to impact the Group’s results significantly.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2007 but not relevant
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards are mandatory for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 but they are not relevant to the Group or Company’s operations:
  IFRS4 ‘Insurance contracts’;
  IFRIC7 ‘Applying the restatement approach under IAS29, Financial reporting in hyper-inflationary economies’; 
  IFRIC9 ‘Re-assessment of embedded derivatives’;
  IFRIC12 ‘Service concession agreements’;
  IFRIC13 ‘Customer loyalty programmes’; and
  IFRIC14 ‘IAS 19 – The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction’.
  Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
69
2 Segmental information
The Group’s primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographic segments. 
At 31 December 2007, the Group is organised on a worldwide basis in one business segment of vaccines  
and into two geographical areas of Europe and North America. Transfer prices between segments are set on  
an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. The Group’s geographical segments 
are determined by location of operations.
Geographical segment
The following table presents revenue and certain asset and capital expenditure information regarding the Group’s 
geographic segments.
  Europe   North America   Total Group
  2007  2006  2007  2006  2007  2006 
  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
 Revenue:            
 Sales to external customers  –   1.4  9.5 29.5  9.5  30.9
 Other segment information:          
a Total assets  29.6  46.7 31.6  35.6 61.2 82.3
 Total assets 29.6  46.7  31.6  35.6  61.2  82.3
 Capital additions:           
 Tangible fixed assets –  – 4.8 0.9 4.8  0.9
 Intangible assets  0.1  – 1.3  0.2 1.4 0.2
As the Company’s business is to invest in its subsidiaries, it operates as a single segment.
3 Income and expenses
i) Administration costs
   2007 2007 2007 2006
   Business  Restructuring   
   performance costs Total  
   £m £m  £m  £m
 Administration costs (excluding legal costs)   3.7 0.7 4.4  7.0 
 Legal costs   0.8 –   0.8  1.6
 Total administration costs   4.5 0.7  5.2 8.6
Legal costs represent costs in defending the IP litigation brought against Acambis by Bavarian Nordic, which 
was settled in July 2007.
ii) Restructuring costs
In March 2007, Acambis announced a wide ranging restructuring programme, following an extensive review  
of its operations and cost base. The restructuring aimed to increase the focus of Acambis’ resources upon  
key programmes and core operational capabilities and significantly lower its cost base. The amounts of  
£4.1m (2006 – £nil) shown in the “Restructuring costs” column in the income statement include a £1.1m 
non-cash charge in relation to share options, with the balance representing cash costs for redundancy  
payments and advice costs. 
The information below has not been audited
a Total assets
 This analysis shows the total of non-current assets and current assets split between the Group’s operations in the UK and the US.
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements 70
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
3 Income and expenses continued
iii) Other operating income 
Settlement of ARILVAX
®
 agreement
In September 2006, Novartis agreed to pay Acambis $19.0m (£10.1m) in cash to settle a dispute relating  
to the ARILVAX
®
 yellow fever vaccine.
Under the settlement agreement, Novartis paid $19.0m (£10.1m) in September 2006 to compensate Acambis. 
As a result of reaching the settlement with Novartis, an amount relating to the ARILVAX
®
 programme of £1.2m 
was credited to R&D costs in 2006. 
Profit on sale of business operation
In September 2006, Acambis sold the trade and assets of BPC to Crucell, as BPC was no longer a strategic 
asset for Acambis following the termination of the ARILVAX
®
 licensing agreement. The sale agreement and 
consequential termination of the product distribution agreement between BPC and Crucell resulted in Acambis 
receiving cash proceeds of $17.0m (£9.0m). Profit of £4.6m was recorded on disposal in 2006. 
iv) Finance income
        2007  2006
        £m  £m
 Interest receivable      1.4  2.0
 Total finance income      1.4  2.0 
Finance income earned on financial assets by category of assets, is as follows:
        2007 2006
        £m  £m
 Cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments     1.4 2.0
 Total finance income      1.4  2.0 
v) Finance costs
        2007  2006
        £m  £m
 On bank overdrafts      0.2 0.2 
 Interest element of finance leases     –  0.5
 Interest element of financial liabilities       0.2  – 
 Total finance costs      0.4 0.7 
vi) Staff costs
        2007  2006 
        £m  £m
 Wages and salaries      13.9 14.5
 Social security costs      1.0  1.1
 Other pension and 401k costs      0.4  0.5 
a Cost of equity settled share-based payments     1.5 0.5
a Cost of cash settled share-based payments      0.2  – 
 Total employee benefits      17.0  16.6 
The information below has not been audited
a Cost of share-based payments
  Under IFRS, an accounting charge is calculated to reflect the value of share options granted to employees. This charge is estimated 
using appropriate valuation models and is dependent on various factors and assumptions, including the expected life of the option and 
the volatility of the Company’s share price. In 2007, a charge of £1.1m was recorded on cancellation of options relating to the 
restructuring announced in March 2007. 
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
71
3 Income and expenses continued
The average monthly number of employees of the Group during the year (including Executive Directors) was: 
   UK  US 2007 2006
      Number Number  Number  Number
 Research and development    3  91 94  115 
a Sales and marketing    –   2  2 17
 Manufacturing    –   60 60  77 
  Administration    16  39  55  76 
       19 192 211  285 
The average monthly number of employees of the Company during the year (including Executive Directors) was:
     2007 2006
     Number  Number
 Administration      3  2
          3  2
At 31 December 2007, the Group had 206 employees (2006 – 263) and the Company had three employees, 
who were all Directors (2006 – two). The staff costs for the Company are shown in the remuneration report.
4 Operating loss
The following items are included in operating loss:
        2007  2006 
        £m  £m 
 Depreciation of fixed assets:          
 – owned      2.8 2.9
 – held under finance leases      –  0.3
 Cost of share-based payments (note 24)      1.7 0.5
 Operating lease charges for plant and equipment      0.1 0.1
 Operating lease charges for property      2.1 2.2
 Loss on disposal of fixed assets      0.1 –
 Repairs and maintenance costs for property, plant and equipment     0.6 0.4
 Exchange gain on foreign currency borrowings      (0.1) (0.4)
 Cost of inventories recognised as expenses      1.0 3.7
 Amortisation of intangibles in cost of sales      –  0.5
 Amortisation of intangibles in administrative expenses      0.1 0.1
The information below has not been audited
a Sales and marketing employees
2006 numbers included sales employees in the BPC business, which was sold in September 2006. 
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements 72
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
4 Operating loss continued
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services  
from the Company’s auditor and its associates:
         2007  2006
        £m  £m
 Fees payable to Company’s auditors for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements   0.1  0.1 
  Fees payable to Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:         
 – Other services supplied pursuant to legislation      0.1  0.2
 – Services relating to taxation      0.1  0.2
 –  Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered  
into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates     –   0.7
      0.3  1.2 
5 Income tax
Tax is charged on profits made in the country where each Group company is based. Major components  
of income tax expense for the year are as follows:
      2007 2006
Analysis of charge in the consolidated income statement     £m £m
 Current income tax      –   0.5
 Deferred taxation      –   0.1
 Income tax expense in the consolidated income statement     –  0.6  
 Income tax expense reported in equity      –   –
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to accounting loss before tax at the statutory income tax rate 
to total taxation for the Group is as follows:
        2007  2006
        £m  £m
 Loss before tax      (31.3) (15.9)
 At the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2006 – 30%)     (9.4) (4.8)
 Effects of:        
 Utilisation of tax losses      –  (1.3)
 Losses carried forward      9.3 4.6
 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes      0.4 1.3
 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates      0.3 0.2 
 Other timing differences      (0.3) (0.2)
 Adjustments to tax in respect of prior period      (0.3) 0.8
 Total taxation      –  0.6 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
73
5 Income tax continued
Movements in the deferred tax account are as follows:
     Deferred tax asset  Deferred tax liability
   2007 2006 2007 2006 
     £m  £m  £m £m 
 At 1 January   –  0.3  –  (1.7) 
 (Charge)/credit to income statement   –  (0.3) –  0.2
  Exchange differences   –   – –   0.3
a Disposed liability   –  – –  1.2
  At 31 December   –  –   –   –
The Company has no deferred tax balances.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.  
The Directors have determined that, as earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, undistributed  
earnings of the subsidiaries and joint ventures will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an 
intention to settle the balances net. No balances have been offset in the current or previous years.
The Group’ s US subsidiary, Acambis Inc., is currently undergoing a tax audit by the IRS. This is described in note 20.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
       2007  2006
        £m  £m
 Tax losses      24.9 14.7 
 R&D tax credit      2.3 2.1
 Short-term timing differences      (0.4) (0.7)
 Other      0.2 0.3
 At 31 December      27.0 16.4
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of tax losses because there is insufficient probability 
that they will be recoverable in the foreseeable future.
The information below has not been audited
a Disposed liability
The deferred tax liability that arose on the acquisition of BPC in 2003 was disposed of as part of the sale of the business in 2006.
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements 74
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
6 Loss per ordinary share (basic and fully diluted)
Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust  
(see note 23), which are treated as cancelled until the shares vest unconditionally with the employees. 
For fully diluted loss per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to  
assume conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Group’s potentially dilutive securities consist  
of share options and performance shares. As the Group is loss-making, none of the potentially dilutive  
securities are currently dilutive.
For basic and diluted loss per share, the weighted average numbers of shares used in the calculations  
are set out below: 
     2007    2006
      Weighted  Weighted 
    average  average 
    Loss number  Loss  number 
    £m  of shares  £m  of shares
 Loss attributable to the members             
 Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders   (31.3) 107,757,811  (16.5) 107,285,860 
 Effect of dilutive securities:             
 Options   –  – – –
  Adjusted loss   (31.3) 107,757,811  (16.5) 107,285,860
      
     Per share amount, pence
       2007 2006
 Basic loss per share             
 Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders      (29.0)  (15.4)
  Effect of dilutive securities:             
 Options      – –
  Diluted loss per share      (29.0) (15.4)
7 Parent company results for the year
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a separate income statement for the Company is  
not presented. The Company’s loss for the year was £1.5m (2006 – £6.4m). The Company had no recognised 
income and expenses other than its loss and, therefore, no separate statement of recognised income and 
expenses has been presented. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
75
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
8 Goodwill
      £m
 Cost at 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007      18.0 
 Amortisation at 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007     (5.6)
 Net book value at 31 December 2007      12.4
          
      £m
 Cost    
 At 1 January 2006      20.5
 Disposal      (2.4)
 Exchange movement      (0.1)
 At 31 December 2006      18.0
 Amortisation at 1 January and 31 December 2006      (5.6) 
 Net book value at 31 December 2006      12.4
Goodwill arose when Acambis Inc. was acquired in 1999 and when BPC was acquired in August 2003.
The goodwill associated with BPC was written off following the disposal of the trade and assets of BPC  
in September 2006 to Crucell.
Impairment testing of goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to the business as a whole.  
Acambis operates as a global business and does not have cash-generating units at a level lower  
than the Group as a whole.
During the year, the goodwill has been tested for impairment in accordance with IAS36 ‘Impairment of assets’. 
Value in use (being discounted cash flows on projects) is estimated to be in excess of current market value of  
the Group based on market capitalisation, which is significantly higher than the book value. As no reasonably 
possible change in estimates could, therefore, trigger an impairment, no detailed sensitivity analysis has been 
performed or presented in these accounts. No impairment charges have been made in the year.  76
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
9 Other intangible assets
    Software R&D
    assets technology Total
    £m £m £m
 Cost
 At 1 January 2007    0.7 0.5 1.2
 Additions    0.2 1.2 1.4
 At 31 December 2007    0.9 1.7 2.6
 Amortisation
 At 1 January 2007    0.5 – 0.5
 Charge for year    0.1 – 0.1
 At 31 December 2007    0.6 – 0.6
 Net book value at 31 December 2007    0.3 1.7 2.0
The Company does not have any intangible assets.
   Distribution Software R&D
   contract assets technology Total
   £m £m £m £m
 Cost
 At 1 January 2006   5.2 0.8 0.4 6.4
 Additions   – 0.1 0.1 0.2
 Disposals   (4.8) (0.1) – (4.9)
 Exchange movement   (0.4) (0.1) – (0.5)
 At 31 December 2006   – 0.7 0.5 1.2
 Amortisation
 At 1 January 2006   1.7 0.5 – 2.2
 Charge for year   0.5 0.1 – 0.6
 Disposals   (2.1) – – (2.1)
 Exchange movement   (0.1) (0.1) – (0.2)
 At 31 December 2006   – 0.5 – 0.5
 Net book value at 31 December 2006   – 0.2 0.5 0.7 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
77
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
10 Property, plant and equipment
 Freehold Short Manufacturing
 land and leasehold and laboratory Office Assets in
 buildings improvements equipment equipment construction Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
 Cost
 1 January 2007 10.3 11.3 7.5 3.0 3.4 35.5
 Additions – – – – 4.8 4.8
 Disposals – (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.4)
 Transfers 0.1 – 0.4 0.2 (0.7) –
 Exchange movement (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) (0.7)
 At 31 December 2007 10.2 11.0 7.7 2.9 7.4 39.2
 Depreciation
 At 1 January 2007 5.5 8.6 4.4 2.4 – 20.9
 Charge for year 0.7 0.6 1.2 0.3 – 2.8
 Disposals – (0.1) – (0.2) – (0.3)
 Exchange movement (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – (0.4)
 At 31 December 2007 6.1 9.0 5.5 2.4 – 23.0
 Net book value
 At 31 December 2007 4.1 2.0 2.2 0.5 7.4 16.2
 Freehold Short Manufacturing
 land and leasehold and laboratory Office Assets in
 buildings improvements equipment equipment construction Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
 Cost
 1 January 2006 0.6 23.4 8.5 3.0 4.0 39.5
 Additions – – – – 0.9 0.9
 Disposals (0.6) – – (0.1) – (0.7)
 Transfers 10.4 (10.2) 0.3 0.5 (1.0) –
 Exchange movement (0.1) (1.9) (1.3) (0.4) (0.5) (4.2)
 At 31 December 2006 10.3 11.3 7.5 3.0 3.4 35.5
 Depreciation
 At 1 January 2006 – 13.7 3.9 2.1 – 19.7
 Charge for year – 1.3 1.3 0.6 – 3.2
 Disposals – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
 Transfers 5.5 (5.5) – – – –
 Exchange movement – (0.9) (0.8) (0.2) – (1.9)
 At 31 December 2006 5.5 8.6 4.4 2.4 – 20.9
 Net book value
 At 31 December 2006 4.8 2.7 3.1 0.6 3.4 14.6
  Net book value of assets held under  
finance leases included above:
 At 1 January 2006 – 3.5 0.7 – – 4.2
 At 31 December 2006 – – – – – –
The Company does not have any property, plant and equipment. 78
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
11 Subsidiaries and joint ventures
Investment in subsidiaries
      Company
     2007 2006
     £m £m
 At 1 January     58.0 15.9
a Deemed capital contribution     0.4 0.2
 Additions     – 41.9
 At 31 December     58.4 58.0
In 2006 loans to Acambis Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary, with a value of £41.9m were capitalised.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Acambis plc and the  
following subsidiaries:
     Country of Parent %
 Company name   Main business incorporation company owned
 Acambis Research Limited   Corporate administration and sales England and Wales Acambis plc 100
 Acambis Inc.   R&D, sales and manufacturing US Acambis plc 100
 Smallpox Biosecurity Limited   Non-trading England and Wales Acambis plc 100
 Berna Products Corporation   Non-trading US Acambis Inc. 100
Joint venture
As described in note 21, the Group has an interest in a Joint Venture. Since May 1999, Acambis has performed 
a pre-agreed work programme on behalf of the Joint Venture. Costs incurred by the Group on behalf of the  
Joint Venture and corresponding turnover received from the Joint Venture have been included in the Group’s 
financial statements.
12 Financial assets: available-for-sale investment
      Group
     2007 2006
     £m £m
 At 1 January     0.6 0.6
 Revaluation surplus transfer to equity     – –
 At 31 December     0.6 0.6
This investment is sterling-denominated shares in Cambridge Biostability Limited, an unquoted UK company. 
The fair value of the shares are based on investment valuations in November 2007 and which the Directors 
believe appropriately reflect the fair value at the year end.
The Company does not have any available-for-sale investments.
The information below has not been audited
a Deemed capital contribution
 In the Company accounts options granted to employees of subsidiaries are treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary.  Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
79
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
13 Inventory
      Group
     2007 2006
     £m £m
 Raw materials     0.4 0.3
 Work-in-progress     0.2 0.5
 Finished goods     0.6 0.7
      1.2 1.5
The amount of inventory write-down recognised as an expense in 2007 was £1.9m (2006 – £1.1 m).  
This expense is included in the cost of sales line on the consolidated income statement.
At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006, the Company did not hold any inventory.
14 Trade and other receivables
    Group  Company
   2007 2006 2007 2006
   £m £m £m £m
a Trade receivables   5.0 15.4 – –
 Other receivables   0.1 0.1 – –
 Prepayments and accrued income   2.3 1.7 0.2 0.4
 Amount due from joint venture   0.3 0.3 – –
    7.7 17.5 0.2 0.4
Neither the Group nor the Company had a provision for impairment against trade receivables at 31 December 
2007 and 31 December 2006.
As at 31 December 2007 and 2006, the Group and Company had no trade receivables that were past due  
but not impaired. The trade receivables are all denominated in US dollars at 31 December 2007 and 2006.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the trade receivables mentioned 
above. Neither the Group nor Company holds any collateral as security.
The information below has not been audited
a Trade receivables
  Trade receivables at 31 December 2007 comprised principally the balance owed by the CDC for the delivery of 2.7 million  
doses of ACAM2000™. The balance at the prior year-end was higher following shipment of 10 million doses of ACAM2000™  
in December 2006. 80
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
15 Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise primarily cash and liquid resources, an overdraft facility, foreign 
currency contracts, current and non-current liabilities on the fill/finish facility and various items, such as trade 
receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. The main purpose of these financial 
instruments is to provide working capital for the Group’s operations.
The main risks arising from the Group’s activities and involving the use of financial instruments are foreign 
currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The Board reviews and agrees the Group’s objectives 
and policies for managing each of these risks. Details of the Group’s objectives and policies, both during the year 
and since the year-end, are set out below, along with numerical disclosures for each category of financial 
instrument. Except where indicated, these disclosures are indicative of the situation throughout the year.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has operations and trade in the US, with revenues, expenses and financing denominated principally 
in US dollars. Through these overseas operations, the Group is subject to foreign exchange risk, including the 
risk of fluctuations in the Group’s net investment in, and reported results from, the US trading subsidiary when 
translated into sterling. Management does not consider it necessary to put in place measures to hedge against 
such risk. In addition, the UK trading subsidiary enters into contracts in a variety of foreign currencies.
The Group had overall surplus cash funds throughout the year but had to determine in which currency to hold 
cash available for working capital and surplus funds. This was done with reference to anticipated future 
expenditure patterns and relative returns on funds held in different currencies. The Group’s current policy is to 
hold surplus funds in sterling over the long-term, to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in the Group’s net assets 
when reported in sterling.
During the year, the Group used dual currency deposits for sterling, euro and US dollar deposits, allowing an 
enhanced interest rate to be earned, which may, at maturity, be converted into sterling or dollars at the bank’s 
discretion at a previously agreed rate. The Group had dual currency deposits outstanding at the year-end of 
$1.0m (2006 – none), which matured in January 2008.
From time to time, the Group makes use of forward contracts in order to reduce uncertainty over the sterling 
value of anticipated US dollar receipts, thereby, reducing uncertainty over the level of the Group’s results when 
reported in sterling. Typically in 2007, the Group took out forward contracts only for known significant foreign 
currency transactions. The Group had no forward contracts outstanding at the year-end (2006 – forward 
contracts outstanding to buy dollars and sell sterling outstanding totalling £4.6m).
Where Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their 
functional currency, these balances are translated into that subsidiary’s functional currency. With the exception of 
gains and losses on those intercompany balances that are considered to be as permanent as equity and which 
are recorded in reserves, foreign exchange gains and losses arising are recorded immediately in the income 
statement. These amounts include euro- and sterling-denominated cash balances held in the US, US dollar- and 
euro-denominated balances held by the Company and a US dollar-denominated overdraft facility held by the UK 
trading subsidiary. In addition, the Group has other current assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies that the Board does not consider to be significant. The Company considers the factors affecting the 
Group when making decisions on which currencies to hold cash in. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
81
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
15 Financial instruments continued
At 31 December 2007, if sterling had weakened/strengthened by 5% against the US dollar with all other 
variables held constant, post-tax loss for the Group and the Company for the year would have been £1.2m and 
£1.3m, respectively (2006 – £1.0m and £1.1m, respectively) higher/lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange 
gains/losses on translation of US dollar-denominated intercompany loans from the UK subsidiary to the US 
subsidiary. The loss is slightly more sensitive to movement in the £/$ exchange rates in 2007 than 2006 because 
of the increase in US dollar-denominated intercompany loans in the UK-based subsidiary, whose functional 
currency is sterling.
Liquidity risk
The Board monitors the level of cash and liquid resources on a regular basis, and management monitors the 
level on a daily basis, to ensure that the Group has sufficient liquid funds to enable it to meet its commitments as 
they fall due. This is achieved through the production and review of cash forecasts, including sensitivity analyses. 
Approximately 60% of the Group’s cash and liquid resources are managed on a discretionary basis by a third 
party within strict parameters that have been set by the Board. The remainder is invested in managed funds or 
invested in bank deposits within the parameters set by the Board.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date, to the contractual maturity date. The 
amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months 
equal their carrying value as the impact of discounting is not significant.
2007    Within One year After
     one year to five years five years
    £m £m £m
 Trade and other payables    3.1 – –
 Bank overdraft    3.5 – –
 Other financial liabilities    0.2 0.9 1.0
 
2006    Within One year After
    one year to five years five years
    £m £m £m
 Trade and other payables    2.5 0.3 –
 Bank overdraft    3.6 – –
 Other financial liabilities    0.2 0.9 1.2
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations predominantly through cash and liquid resources generated through operating 
activities, from the issuance of equity shares, through financial liabilities and through an overdraft facility. It is the 
Group’s policy to invest surplus cash on deposit or in money market funds managed by professional money 
managers. The performance of the investments is reviewed by management on a regular basis to ensure that 
competitive rates of return are being achieved, subject to the Board’s requirement relating to the accessibility of 
funds and standing of financial institutions used. Management reviews regularly the financing facilities available to 
the Group to ensure competitive rates of interest are being obtained. During the year, the Group invested in cash 
deposits that accrued interest dependent on foreign currency rates. No deposits were outstanding at the year 
end (2006 – sterling interest rate dependent deposit of £5.0m, valued at £5.0m). 82
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
15 Financial instruments continued
The table below shows the impact on post-tax loss if interest rates on borrowings had been 1% higher/lower 
with all other variables held constant.
     Group  Company
    2007 2006 2007 2006
Increase/decrease on post-tax loss   £m £m £m £m
 Currency-denominated borrowings   – – – –
 Sterling-denominated borrowings   0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3
 US dollar-denominated borrowings   0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2
The movement in post-tax loss would have occurred mainly as a result of higher/lower interest income on 
floating rate deposits.
The following table sets out the carrying value, by maturity, for each financial instrument that is exposed to 
interest rate risk.
   Group   Company
2007 Within One-two  Within One-two
 one year years Total one year years Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
 Floating rate:
 Cash 10.2 – 10.2 7.0 – 7.0
 Bank overdraft (3.5) – (3.5) – – –
 Fixed rate:
 Short-term deposits 10.7 – 10.7 8.8 – 8.8
 
   Group   Company
2006 Within One-two  Within One-two
 one year years Total one year years Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
 Floating rate:
 Cash 6.0 – 6.0 4.2 – 4.2
 Bank overdraft (3.6) – (3.6) – – –
 Fixed rate:
 Short-term deposits 20.9 – 20.9 20.5 – 20.5
 Liquid investments 2.5 5.0 7.5 2.5 5.0 7.5
Credit risk
The Group’s main customers are the US Government and Sanofi Pasteur. Management assesses the credit risk 
as low for both these customers. There are no other significant concentrations of credit risk. 
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial 
instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers. For 
banks and financial institutions, the Board sets parameters over the ratings that such institutes must meet. 
These parameters include the requirement that the institutions used must have a minimum rating of Aa2 
long-term or P-1 short-term. A maximum investment with any one counter party is set. This limit was reduced 
from £20m to £5m in December 2007 (2006 – limit of £20m). Customers are assessed on their financial position, 
reputation and past experience. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
83
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
15 Financial instruments continued
The tables below shows the credit limit and balance of the major counterparties at the balance sheet date: 
    31 December 2007  31 December 2006
Group   Credit limit Balance Credit limit Balance
   £m £m £m £m
 Barclays Bank plc   note 1 7.1 note 1 12.5
 The Royal Bank of Scotland   note 1 10.6 note 1 12.5
 Citizens Bank   5.0 3.3 20.0 1.8
 US Government   note 2 4.4 n/a 15.0
 Sanofi Pasteur   note 2 0.5 – –
 
    31 December 2007  31 December 2006
Company   Credit limit Balance Credit limit Balance
   £m £m £m £m
 Barclays Bank plc   note 1 7.1 note 1 12.5
 The Royal Bank of Scotland   note 1 8.7 note 1 12.2
Notes
1  Cash held by banks may be invested by them into other financial institutions or with managed fund accounts 
with more than one underlying counter party. The credit limit for each counter party is £5m (2006 – £20m).
2  Owing to the nature of the Group’s current customers, management has agreed that it is not necessary  
to set credit limits.
Capital risk management
Management monitors the level of funds, comprising ordinary shares and overdrafts, using cashflow forecasts  
to decide when additional funds need to be raised to ensure that the Group has sufficient liquid resources  
to continue the investment in its R&D pipeline. It is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Financial liabilities
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are all denominated in US dollars.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
There is no material difference between the book values and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and 
liabilities as at 31 December 2007, due to short maturity. Fair values have been calculated by discounting cash 
flows at prevailing interest rates.
In accordance with IAS39, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be 
separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. Dual currency deposits 
contain an embedded derivative that is fair-valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses 
passing through the income statement as hedge accounting is not available. There is no difference between the 
book and fair value of derivative financial instruments outstanding at the year end (2006 – none outstanding).
  84
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
16 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement:
 
    Group  Company
   2007 2006 2007 2006
   £m £m £m £m
 Cash and cash equivalents   20.9 26.9 15.8 24.7
 Bank overdrafts (see note 17)   (3.5) (3.6) – –
    17.4 23.3 15.8 24.7
The weighted average interest rate received in the year was 4.6% (2006 – 3.3%) for cash at bank. Short-term 
deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, the weighted average maturity 
being nine days (2006 – six days) and have earned interest at a weighted average of 5.4% (2006 – 4.8%).
The Group had cash and liquid resources of £20.9m at 31 December 2007 (2006 – £34.4m). Of this amount, 
deposits with an original maturity of more than three months of £nil (2006 – £7.5m) have been classified as liquid 
investments. The majority of these resources is invested in managed funds or on bank deposit, denominated  
in sterling and US dollars. Approximately 49% of the Group’s cash and liquid resources is available for use  
within a day’s notice (2006 – 17%), with the remainder being invested on deposits of up to two months.  
The Group had £3.6m of restricted cash on deposit at the year-end (2006 – £0.2m), of which £3.5m  
(2006 – £3.6m) relates to the overdraft as described in note 17. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
85
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
17 Financial Liabilities
      Group
     2007 2006
     £m £m
 Current:
 Bank overdraft     3.5 3.6
 Other financial liabilities     0.1 0.1
 Total current financial liabilities     3.6 3.7
 Non-current:
 Other financial liabilities     1.3 1.3
The Company had no financial liabilities at 31 December 2007 (2006 – £nil).
Short-term borrowings
Until September 2006, the bank overdraft was underwritten by Novartis as part of the ARILVAX
®
 agreement. 
Following the signing of a settlement with Novartis in September 2006, this overdraft is now secured through  
an Acambis plc cash deposit with Barclays Bank PLC.
The overdraft facility was fully utilised at 31 December 2007 (2006 – fully utilised) and was renewed in September 
2006 until further notice.
During the year, an exchange gain of £0.1m (2006 – £0.4m) was recorded in the income statement, resulting 
from the revaluation of this US dollar-denominated facility.
Obligations under finance leases
The Group had a $40.0m (c. £21.0m) finance lease facility, which was paid off in December 2006, relating to the 
purchase and sale-and-leaseback of capital assets within its manufacturing plant. The Group had an option to 
repurchase all of the facility’s assets and this option was exercised in December 2006.
Other financial liabilities
In May 2005, the Group leased a fill/finish facility for c. £1.8m ($3.0m) upfront and a further c. £2.6m ($4.5m)  
in equal instalments between 2006 and 2017. The balance relating to the discounted value of future payments  
is £1.4m at 31 December 2007 (2006 – £1.4m). Of this, £0.1m is included in ‘current other financial liabilities’ 
(2006 – £0.1m), and £1.3m in ‘non-current other financial liabilities’ (2006 – £1.3m). 86
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
18 Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables
    Group  Company
   2007 2006  2007 2006
   £m £m £m £m
 Trade payables   3.0 3.1 0.3 –
 Other taxation and social security   0.1 0.1 – –
    3.1 3.2 0.3 –
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. 
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 25 days. For most suppliers, no interest is charged on 
trade payables. For those suppliers that do charge interest, the weighted average number of days from the date 
of invoice before interest is charged is 13. Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding balances at various 
interest rates. The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid 
within the credit timeframe.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair values.
19 Provisions
      Group
     2007 2006
     £m £m
 At 1 January     – 2.3
 Additions     0.5 1.6
 Utilised     (0.5) (3.7)
 Exchange movement     – (0.2)
 At 31 December     – –
In July 2007, Acambis and Bavarian Nordic reached a global settlement ending the legal disputes between  
the two companies on matters relating to smallpox vaccines based on the MVA virus and no provision remains 
at the year-end (2006 – nil).
The Company has no provisions.
20 Contingent Liabilities
The Group’s US subsidiary, Acambis Inc., is currently undergoing a tax audit by the IRS for the years 2003, 2004 
and 2005. The IRS issued its report in January 2008 but, owing to the complexity of certain issues including the 
Group’s intercompany transfer pricing, the Group expects that this process will continue during 2008.
Where the tax exposure can be quantified, the Group has made provision in its accounts for liabilities, including 
interest, expected to arise as a result of enquires by the tax authorities, although the final liability may vary from 
the amount provided. While the Group believes it has adequately provided for all tax positions, amounts asserted 
by taxing authorities could be greater than its accrued position. Accordingly, additional provisions on US federal 
and state tax-related matters could be recorded in the future as revised estimates are made or the underlying 
matters are settled or otherwise resolved. An estimate has also been made of the amount of tax that is expected 
to be recoverable from the UK tax authorities as a result of the expected changes to amounts chargeable to tax 
in the US and UK tax jurisdictions.
Given the commercial sensitivities surrounding the tax audit’s findings, the estimated net amount payable  
to the authorities has been included within income tax payable rather than being disclosed separately. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
87
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
21 Investment in joint venture
The Group has a 50% interest in the Pasteur Mérieux-OraVax joint venture, whose principal business is to 
develop, manufacture, market and sell immunotherapeutic and preventative vaccines against H. pylori infection 
in humans. The joint venture represents collaboration between two partnerships, Mérieux-OraVax SNC and 
OraVax-Mérieux Co., incorporated in Delaware, US. These partnerships were formed in March 1995 between 
the companies now known as Acambis Inc. and Sanofi Pasteur. The joint venture trades under the name of 
Pasteur Mérieux-OraVax and its accounting year-end is 31 December. The R&D budgets of the two partnerships 
are established by joint committees in which each of the parties has an equal participation and role. The parties 
pay approximately equal shares of the agreed budgets. The joint venture is being wound down.
The following information is given in respect of the Group’s share of the joint venture:
     2007 2006
     £m £m
 Loss before tax     – –
 Current assets     0.6 0.6
 Liabilities due within one year     (0.9) (0.9)
      (0.3) (0.3)
Given the nature of this joint venture as a collaboration between two partners, the following table provides  
an alternative analysis of the amounts shown above:
     2007 2006
     £m £m
 Share of cumulative amounts invested by the partners     14.7 14.9
 Share of cumulative losses incurred by the joint venture     (15.0) (15.2)
      (0.3) (0.3)
Additionally, at the year end, the Group is owed £0.3m (2006 – £0.3m) by the Joint Venture. This is included  
in trade and other receivables note 14.
22 Called-up share capital
      Group and Company
    2007  2006
   Number £m Number £m
 Authorised shares of 10p each
 At 1 January and 31 December   140,000,000 14.0 140,000,000 14.0
 Allotted, called-up and fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each
 At 1 January   107,374,227 10.7 107,351,407 10.7
 Exercise of share options   385,234 0.1 22,820 –
 At 31 December   107,759,461 10.8 107,374,227 10.7
All shares have equal voting rights.
As described in note 23, Acambis Employees Trustees Limited holds 74,751 shares, which will be used to 
satisfy awards made under the LTIP and the deferred bonus plan. Consideration of £0.4m was received in 2007 
through the exercise of share options (2006 – less than £0.1m). 88
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
23 Statement of Changes in Equity
      Group
   Share
  Share premium Retained Other
  capital account deficit deficit Total
  £m £m £m £m £m
 At 1 January 2007  10.7 98.0 (40.8) (2.8) 65.1
 Loss on foreign currency exchange  – – – (0.3) (0.3)
 Total income and expense recognised directly in equity – – – (0.3) (0.3)
 Loss for the year  – – (31.3) – (31.3)
 Total income and expense recognised  – – (31.3) (0.3) (31.6)
 Issue of new shares  0.1 0.3 – – 0.4
 Cost of share issue  – (0.1) – – (0.1)
 Credit in respect of employee share schemes  – – 1.5 – 1.5
 At 31 December 2007  10.8 98.2 (70.6) (3.1) 35.3
 
      Group
   Share
  Share premium Retained Other
  capital account deficit deficit Total
  £m £m £m £m £m
 At 1 January 2006  10.7 98.0 (24.8) (0.9) 83.0
 Loss on foreign currency exchange  – – – (1.8) (1.8)
 Total income and expense recognised directly in equity  – – – (1.8) (1.8)
 Loss for the year  – – (16.5) – (16.5)
 Foreign currency exchange realised on sale of business operation – – – (0.1) (0.1)
 Total income and expense recognised  – – (16.5) (1.9) (18.4)
 Credit in respect of employee share schemes  – – 0.5 – 0.5
 At 31 December 2006  10.7 98.0 (40.8) (2.8) 65.1
The amount shown in ‘other reserves’ relates to foreign currency translation. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
89
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
23 Statement of Changes in Equity continued
      Company
    Share
   Share premium Retained
   capital account earnings Total
   £m £m £m £m
 At 1 January 2007   10.7 97.8 9.0 117.5
 Loss for the year   – – (1.4) (1.4)
 Total income and expense recognised for the year  – – (1.4) (1.4)
 Issue of new shares   0.1 0.3 – 0.4
 Cost of share issue   – (0.1) – (0.1)
 Credit in respect of employee share schemes   – – 1.1 1.1
 Deemed capital contribution   – – 0.4 0.4
 At 31 December 2007   10.8 98.0 9.1 117.9
 
      Company
    Share
   Share premium Retained
   capital account earnings Total
   £m £m £m £m
 At 1 January 2006   10.7 97.8 14.9 123.4
 Loss for the year   – – (6.4) (6.4)
 Total income and expense recognised for the year   – – (6.4) (6.4)
 Credit in respect of employee share schemes   – – 0.3 0.3
 Deemed capital contribution   – – 0.2 0.2
 At 31 December 2006   10.7 97.8 9.0 117.5
At 31 December 2007, Acambis Employees’ Trustees Limited held 74,751 (2006 – 76,001) ordinary  
shares in the Company with a total nominal value of £0.01m (2006 – £0.01m). The cost of these shares  
of £0.2m (2006 – £0.2m) is shown as a deduction to retained earnings. The total market value of these  
shares at 31 December 2007 is £0.1m (2006 – £0.1m). All shares held by the trust have been allocated  
to LTIP and DBP awards and a charge has been made in respect of all of these awards. All costs relating  
to the administration of the trust are included within the accounts of the Company as they arise.
24 Share-based payments
Summary of share schemes in operation during the year
The Group had the following share-based payment schemes in operation during the year. All options have  
a three-year vesting period, except the ESPP , which has a two-year vesting period.
1990 US and 1995 US
No new options have been granted under these plans since 1999. Options have a ten-year life and no 
performance conditions. 90
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
24 Share-based payments continued
1996 Scheme and 1999 Plan
The 1996 Scheme and the 1999 Plan involve the grant of market-value share options to participants with 
exercise prices equal to the share price at the date of grant. The options are subject to a market-based 
performance condition (Acambis’ TSR performance against a comparator group). The options granted have a 
maximum contractual life of ten years, with the exception of all grants to employees made since 23 June 2006 
and grants made on 15 October 2005 and 28 October 2003 to employees, which have a maximum contractual 
life of four years. For all options granted after 1 January 2004 (to employees or Directors), performance is measured 
over three years and there is no retesting of the performance condition. Following the introduction of the 2006 
Option Plans, the 1996 Scheme and 1999 Plan will no longer be used for new grants. Further information 
regarding the operation of the Schemes is in the remuneration report.
SAYE Scheme
The SAYE Scheme is based on a three-year monthly savings contract. Eligible employees are granted share 
options with an exercise price of up to 20% below the share price at the time of the invitation. The options 
granted have a maximum contractual life of three years and six months, and vesting is not subject to the 
achievement of a performance target.
ESPP
The ESPP is based on a two-year monthly savings contract and eligible employees are granted share options 
with an exercise price of up to a 15% discount to the share price at the time of invitation. The options granted 
have a maximum contractual life of two years and three months, and vesting is not subject to the achievement  
of a performance target.
2006 Option Plans
The 2006A and 2006U Plans involve the grant of market-value share options to participants with exercise prices 
equal to share price at date of grant. Grants to Directors are subject to a market-based performance condition 
(Acambis’ TSR performance against a comparator group), which is measured over the three-year vesting period. 
Options granted to Directors have a ten-year life and options granted to employees have a maximum contract 
life of four years. Further information regarding the operation of the Plans is in the remuneration report.
2006 Deferred Bonus Plan
The 2006 DBP provides for part of a bonus for Directors and senior employees to be taken in the form of shares, 
the entitlement to which is deferred for three years. Awards under the DBP are not performance-linked. The first 
awards were made in 2007. Further information regarding the operation of the DBP is in the remuneration report.
LTIP
The LTIP involves the grant of nil-cost share options to participants. The options are subject to a market-based 
performance condition (Acambis’ TSR performance against a comparator group). The options granted have a 
maximum contractual life of three years and six months. For all options granted under the LTIP , performance is 
measured over three years and there is no retesting of the performance condition. Further information regarding 
the operation of the plan is in the remuneration report. Following the introduction of the DBP in 2006, the LTIP 
will no longer be used for new awards. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
91
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
24 Share-based payments continued
Options and deferred shares outstanding under all schemes are as follows: 
  1 January    31 December
  2007 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2007
Scheme  ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000
 2006U Plan  1,250 3,240 – (724) 3,766
 2006A Plan  77 61 – (36) 102
 SAYE  116 55 – (66) 105
 ESPP  97 93 – (75) 115
 DBP  – 53 – (9) 44
 1999  2,642 – (386) (1,185) 1,071
 1996  105 – – (70) 35
 LTIP  488 – (1) (339) 148
 1990 US
1
  14 – – (9) 5
 1995 US
2
  45 – – (45) –
 Total  4,834 3,502 (387) (2,558) 5,391
 Weighted average exercise price (£)  1.68 1.21 0.85 1.80 1.42
 
   1 January    31 December
   2006 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2006
Scheme  ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000 ’000
 2006U Plan  – 1,254 – (4) 1,250
 2006A Plan  – 78 – (1) 77
 SAYE  81 106 (2) (69) 116
 ESPP  75 77 – (55) 97
 1999  3,533 451 (21) (1,321) 2,642
 1996  200 3 – (98) 105
 LTIP  586 142 – (240) 488
 1990 US
1
  14 – – – 14
 1995 US
2
  127 – – (82) 45
 Total  4,616 2,111 (23) (1,870) 4,834
 Weighted average exercise price (£)  2.13 1.09 0.68 2.54 1.68
Notes
1 The OraVax 1990 Stock Incentive Plan.
2 The OraVax 1995 Stock Incentive Plan. 92
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
24 Share-based payments continued
The following table shows outstanding options, divided into ranges to help assess the number and timing  
of additional shares that may be issued and the cash that may be received upon exercise of those options. 
  Weighted average  Period exercisable under  Number outstanding
Year of grant  exercise price  normal circumstances  ’000
 1999  $1.68  2002-2009  5
 1999  £0.36  2002-2009  5
 2001   £1.26  2004-2011  132
 2001   £2.91  2004-2011  23
 2002   £2.33  2005-2012  64
 2002   £3.14  2005-2012  62
 2003   £2.58  2006-2013  59
 2003   £3.39  2006-2013  61
 2004   £2.73  2007-2014  147
 2004   £3.40  2007-2014  54
 2005   £2.41  2008-2015  353
 2005  £2.01  2008-2009  7
 2006  £1.57  2008  33
 2006  £1.18  2009-2010  43
 2006   £1.57  2009-2016  806
 2007  £1.12  2009  81
 2007   £nil   2010  148
 2007  £0.96  2010-2011  55
 2007   £nil   2010-2017  44
 2007   £1.30  2010-2017  3,209
 Total      5,391
The weighted average share price of the 189,000 options exercisable at 31 December 2007 was £2.21  
(2006 – 631,000 options at £2.65). They are split over the different schemes as follows:
     2007 2006
     Number Number
 1999     176,000 551,000
 1996     8,000 21,000
 1990 US     5,000 14,000
 1995 US     – 45,000
 Total     189,000 631,000
Financial details of share options
The Group operates an HM Revenue and Customs-approved SAYE Scheme in the UK and an ESPP scheme  
in the US.
Charge in the income statement
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS2, the Group has recognised an expense in respect of  
all grants under these plans made after 7 November 2002, which remained unvested at 31 December 2004.  
The Group recognised a total expense of £1.7m in 2007 (2006 – £0.5m) in accordance with IFRS2 of which 
£0.2m (2006 – £nil) related to cash-settled share-based payments.
For options exercised during the year, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was £1.09  
(2006 – £1.94). Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
93
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
24 Share-based payments continued
The weighted average fair values for grants made in the year are as noted in the table below. Grants made to 
employees and Directors under the 2006 and 1999 Plans are shown separately since different inputs have been 
used for these grants.
     2007 2006
Weighted average fair value     £ £
 2006U Plan (Employee grants)     0.43 0.37
 2006U Plan (Director grants)     0.39 0.42
 2006A Plan (Employee grants)     0.48 0.38
 2006A Plan (Director grants)     0.42 n/a
 SAYE     0.59 0.67
 ESPP     0.49 0.49
 DBP     1.37 n/a
 1999 (Employee grants)     n/a 0.47
 1999 (Director grants)     n/a 0.61
 1996     n/a 0.54
 LTIP     n/a 1.15
The assumptions used in the calculation of the fair values in the above table are:
  Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of the Company’s share price: 
–  over the three years prior to the grant date for employee grants under the 1996 Scheme, 1999 Plan  
and 2006 Plans, and all grants under the SAYE Scheme, DBP and LTIP;
 –  over the four years prior to the grant date for Director grants under the 1996 Plan, 1999 Plan and 2006 
Plans; or
 – over the two years prior to the grant date for all grants under the ESPP .
 A zero dividend yield assumption has been used in the calculation of these fair values.
2006 Plans, DBP , 1999 Plan, 1996 Scheme and LTIP
The fair value of shares awarded under the 2006 Plans, DBP , 1996 Scheme, 1999 Plan and LTIP is calculated 
using a binomial option pricing model adjusted to reflect the TSR market-based performance condition where 
applicable. The awards were calculated using the following assumptions:
2006U Plan (Employee grants)
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     1.32 1.46
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     1.30 1.46
 Weighted average volatility (%)     41.4 32.4
 Weighted average correlation (%)     n/a n/a
 Weighted average expected life (years)     3.5 3.5
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     5.1 4.9
 
2006U Plan (Director grants)
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     1.30 1.55
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     1.30 1.55
 Weighted average volatility (%)     40.1 35.5
 Weighted average correlation (%)     5.5 5.0
 Weighted average expected life (years)     4.0 4.0
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     5.2 4.9 94
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements 
31 December 2007 continued
24 Share-based payments continued
2006A Plan (Employee grants)
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     1.31 1.46
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     1.31 1.46
 Weighted average volatility (%)     41.4 32.4
 Weighted average correlation (%)     n/a n/a
 Weighted average expected life (years)     3.5 3.5
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     5.1 4.9
2006A Plan (Director grants)
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     1.28 n/a
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     1.28 n/a
 Weighted average volatility (%)     40.2 n/a
 Weighted average correlation (%)     5.3 n/a
 Weighted average expected life (years)     4.0 n/a
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     5.3 n/a
Deferred Bonus Plan
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     1.37 n/a
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     nil n/a
 Weighted average volatility (%)     41.5 n/a
 Weighted average expected life (years)     4.0 n/a
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     5.2 n/a
1999 Plan
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     n/a 1.93-197
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     n/a 1.93-1.97
 Weighted average volatility (%)     n/a 31.8-37.6
 Weighted average correlation (%)     n/a 4.0
 Weighted average expected life (years)     n/a 3.5-4.0
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     n/a 4.5-4.6
1996 Scheme
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     n/a 2.11
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     n/a 2.11
 Weighted average volatility (%)     n/a 31.6
 Weighted average correlation (%)     n/a 4.0
 Weighted average expected life (years)     n/a 3.5
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     n/a 4.5
LTIP
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     n/a 2.19
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     n/a –
 Weighted average volatility (%)     n/a 30.8
 Weighted average correlation (%)     n/a 4.0
 Weighted average expected life (years)     n/a 3.0
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     n/a 4.5 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
95
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
24 Share-based payments continued
The 1996 Scheme, 1999 Plan, the LTIP and grants to Directors under the 2006 Plans have a TSR market-based 
performance condition, such that the Company’s TSR over the performance period will be compared with the 
TSR of the comparator companies on the date of grant. The maximum number of shares would vest if Acambis 
were ranked in the upper quartile of the comparator group, being prorated down to a 30% vesting at a ranking 
of the median. No shares would vest if Acambis’ ranking fell below the median. The fair value of options under 
the 1996 Scheme, 1999 Plan, LTIP and the 2006 Plans has been adjusted where appropriate to take into 
account this market-based performance condition using a pricing model based on expectations about volatility 
and the correlation of share price returns in the group of comparator companies and which incorporates into the 
valuation the interdependency between share price performance and TSR vesting.
For the options granted under the 1996 Scheme and 1999 Plan prior to 1 January 2004 where the TSR 
condition is retested at the end of year four (if not met at the end of year three) and/or at the end of year five  
(if not met at the end of year four), a three-year-and-six-month’s vesting period has been used to approximate 
the impact of the retesting condition on the fair value. This retesting condition applies to a limited number  
of option grants and does not apply to new option grants.
SAYE and ESPP grants
The fair value of options granted under the SAYE and ESPP scheme is calculated using a binomial option pricing 
model with the following assumptions:
SAYE
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     1.28 1.58
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     0.96 1.18
 Weighted average volatility (%)     41.0 33.0
 Expected life (years)     3.3 3.3
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     5.2 4.9
ESPP
     2007 2006
 Weighted average share price (£)     1.32 1.84
 Weighted average exercise price (£)     1.12 1.57
 Weighted average volatility (%)     46.9 25.9
 Expected life (years)     2.1 2.1
 Weighted average risk-free interest rate (%)     5.8 4.7
The liability in respect of cash-settled equity share-based payments at the year-end is £0.2m (2006 – £nil).  
The intrinsic value at the end of the period for which the right to cash had vested was £1.0m (2006 – £nil). 96
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
Notes to the Group financial statements
31 December 2007 continued
25 Financial commitments
i) Lease commitments
The minimum lease payments under operating leases are as follows:
      Group
    Land and buildings  Plant and machinery
   2007 2006 2007 2006
   £m £m £m £m
 Total commitments under operating leases:
 Due within one year   1.9 2.0 0.1 0.1
 Due within one to five years   6.1 7.7 – 0.1
 Due beyond five years   6.4 7.1 – –
    14.4 16.8 0.1 0.2
       
      Company
    Land and buildings  Plant and machinery
   2007 2006 2007 2006
   £m £m £m £m
 Total commitments under operating leases:
 Due within one year   0.6 0.6 – –
 Due within one to five years   2.3 2.3 – –
 Due beyond five years   5.9 6.5 – –
    8.8 9.4 – –
During the year, the Group received £0.1m under an operating lease agreement relating to land and buildings 
(2006 – £nil). The Group will continue to receive £0.1m per year for the next four years.
ii) Capital commitments
 a At the end of the year, capital commitments relating to the purchase of tangible assets contracted but not 
provided for were £0.7m (2006 – £2.4m).
iii) Pension arrangements
The Group provides pension benefits to all Directors and UK employees on a defined contribution basis.  
The Company operates a self-administered, HM Revenue and Customs-approved pension scheme for  
former UK Executive Directors, the ownership of which is in the process of being transferred to a former  
Director. The normal age of retirement for UK staff is 65 years. In the US, the Group offers a ‘401k Savings  
and Retirement Plan’ for all employees. The Group pension cost (including 401k costs) for the year was  
£0.4m (2006 – £0.5m). At the year-end, the Group owed £0.2m (2006 – £nil) to the pension schemes.  
This amount is shown in the balance sheet under ‘accruals and deferred income’.
The information below has not been audited
a Capital commitments
  Capital commitments outstanding at the year-end and prior year-end primarily relate to build-out costs of our manufacturing facility at 
Rockville, MD. Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
97
Section 2: Financial results
Notes to the Group financial statements
26 Post balance sheet events
In April 2008, Acambis announced that it had been awarded a $425m (c. £212m), ten-year contract by  
the US Government agency, the CDC, to provide it with a warm-base manufacturing capability for Acambis’ 
ACAM2000™ smallpox vaccine, which has been stockpiled by the US Government. Warm-base manufacturing 
entails the maintenance of an ongoing production readiness capability through annual production runs. Revenue 
and costs under this contract are expected to be recognised from 2008.
Concurrent with the publication of this Annual Report, Acambis announced that it proposes to raise approximately 
£40m, net of expenses, by way of a Placing and Open Offer of, in aggregate, 37,715,811 new ordinary shares  
at 115 pence per ordinary share. The issue has been fully underwritten by JPMorgan Cazenove and Piper Jaffray. 
The issue and the proposed increase in the authorised share capital of the Company are conditional, inter alia, 
on the passing by shareholders of the resolutions at an EGM of the Company convened for 10.00 am on  
20 May 2008.
27 Related-party transactions
For the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group has included turnover of £nil (2006 – £nil) in respect of costs 
incurred in performing services for the Pasteur Mérieux-OraVax joint venture and a loss of £nil (2006 – £nil) within 
its Group financial statements. At 31 December 2007, the amounts the Group owed to the joint venture 
amounted to £0.3m (2006 – £0.3m).
Amounts owed by the joint venture to the Group at 31 December 2007 were £0.3m (2006 – £0.3m).
In 2007, the Company settled transactions on behalf of subsidiaries of £6.7m (2006 – £16.6m). The 
intercompany balances outstanding at 31 December are detailed on the Company balance sheet. In 2007  
the Company charged £nil to subsidiaries relating to management charges (2006 – £nil) and charged £2.8m  
to subsidiaries relating to interest (2006 – £5.4m).
The capital contribution arising on share options of the Company awarded to employees of its subsidiaries is set 
out in note 11.
Directors’ remuneration, interests in share options and transactions
Full disclosure of Directors’ remuneration, interests in share options and transactions is given in that part of the 
remuneration report that is required to be audited. Aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share 
options were £nil (2006 – £0.01m).
Key management compensation
The remuneration received by key management personnel, including the Directors, is as follows:
     2007 2006
     £m £m
 Salaries and short-term employee benefits     1.8 1.5
 Post-employment benefits     0.1 0.1
 Compensation for loss of office     1.2 –
 Share-based payments     1.3 0.4
      4.4 2.0
Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including all Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Key management’s interests
No Director or key management personnel had any disclosable related-party transactions with the Group during 
the year. 98
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 2: Financial results
Summarised Group statements
Summarised Group statements
31 December 2007
Selected financial information
The following selected financial information for each of the fiscal years in the five-year period ended  
31 December 2007 has been derived from Acambis’ audited Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements for the two-year period ended 31 December 2007 are included elsewhere  
in this Annual Report.
      Year ended 31 December
  2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
  £m £m £m £m £m
  IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP
 Statement of operations data:
 Turnover (revenues)  9.5 30.9 40.9 85.5 169.1
 Cost of sales  (11.8) (14.6) (27.6) (35.0) (98.4)
 Gross (loss)/profit  (2.3) 16.3 13.3 50.5 70.7
 Research and development costs  (24.1) (37.0) (34.1) (29.3) (19.9)
 Sales and marketing costs  (0.7) (2.6) (2.6) (2.8) (1.3)
 Administrative costs including costs relating to settlement of BTG  
 agreement, restructuring, and Canton plant impairment  (5.2) (8.6) (7.7) (5.5) (11.9)
 Other operating income:
 – settlement of Canton agreement  – – – 10.2 –
 – fair value of shares received for grant of licence  – – 0.4 – –
 – settlement of ARILVAX agreement  – 10.1 – – –
 – profit on sale of business operation  – 4.6 – – –
 Operating (loss)/profit  (32.3) (17.2) (30.7) 23.1 37.6
 Non-operating income  – – – – 0.9
 Finance income  1.4 2.0 4.0 4.8 2.1
 Finance costs  (0.4) (0.7) (1.0) (0.9) (1.0)
 (Loss)/profit before tax  (31.3) (15.9) (27.7) 27.0 39.6
 Taxation  – (0.6) 0.7 (7.3) (3.9)
  (Loss)/profit for the year attributable to  
equity holders of the parent  (31.3) (16.5) (27.0) 19.7 35.7
 (Loss)/earnings per ordinary share (basic)  (29.0)p (15.4)p (25.2)p 18.5p 34.5p
 Basic number of shares – weighted average  107,757,811 107,285,860 107,211,367 106,300,080 102,823,221
 (Loss)/earnings per ordinary share (fully diluted)  (29.0)p (15.4)p (25.2)p 18.1p 34.0p
 Fully diluted number of shares – weighted average 107,757,811 107,285,860 107,211,367 108,649,389 104,393,147
       
      At 31 December
  2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
  £m £m £m £m £m
  IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP
 Balance sheet data:
 Non-current assets  31.2 28.3 39.8 40.5 40.3
 Cash and liquid investments  20.9 34.4 68.0 101.8 125.2
 Current assets (excluding cash and liquid investments)  9.1 19.6 25.6 21.6 30.5
 Current liabilities  (18.9) (15.6) (46.8) (47.6) (96.9)
 Non-current liabilities  (7.0) (1.6) (3.6) (8.8) (12.6)
 Share capital  10.8 10.7 10.7 10.7 10.6
 Shareholders’ equity (net assets)  35.3 65.1 83.0 107.5 86.5 Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
99
Section 3: General information
Shareholder information
Shareholder information
Substantial shareholdings
The shareholdings in the table set out below represent the shareholdings amounting to 3% or more of the 
ordinary share capital of the Company that had been notified to the Company in accordance with Sections 
198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 at the time of publication of the 2007 and 2006 Annual Reports.
The figures in the column entitled ‘2006 Annual Report’ do not necessarily represent the current shareholdings 
or percentages held by the respective shareholders.
   As at 21 April 2008 2006 Annual Report
   Number of  Number of  
   shares held Percentage shares held Percentage
AMVESCAP PLC   30,380,637 28.19 31,175,065 28.95
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.   17,245,139 16.00 11,186,455 10.39
Legal and General Group plc   7,509,893 6.97 7,315,855 6.79
F&C Asset Management plc   5,198,913 4.82 5,198,913 4.83
As far as is known to the Directors, the Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another 
corporation or by any other government, and the only shareholders directly or indirectly owning more than  
10% of the Company are shown in the above table. All shareholders have the same voting rights.
Analysis of share register at 21 April 2008
      Percentage 
   Number Percentage of Number of issued 
Shareholding   of holders total holders of shares share capital
1-1,000   1,253 58.01 627,265 0.58
1,001-5,000   579 26.81 1,353,056 1.26
5,001-100,000   240 11.11 5,269,246 4.89
100,001-500,000   60 2.78 15,015,498 13.93
500,001-1,000,000   10 0.46 8,281,794 7.69
1,000,001 and over   18 0.83 77,212,602 71.65
    2,160 100.00 107,759,461 100.00
US record holders held approximately 4.59% of the issued share capital of ordinary 10p shares. 100
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Nature of trading market
Comparative market price information
Acambis shares are traded on the LSE under the symbol ‘ACM’.
The following tables set out the high and low closing mid-market prices for Acambis’ shares.
      Shares
     High Low
Calendar year     Pence per ordinary share
2003     396.0 207.5
2004     371.0 244.3
2005      283.0 203.5
2006 First quarter     229.3 194.8
  Second quarter     192.8 132.0
  Third quarter     179.3 127.0
  Fourth quarter     173.3 94.8 
2007 First quarter     142.8 102.0 
  Second quarter     144.8 117.0 
  Third quarter     125.8 105.0 
  Fourth quarter     138.5 122.0
       
      Shares
     High Low
     Pence per ordinary share
Monthly high and low prices (for the last full six months) are as follows:  
October 2007     138.5 122.0
November 2007     137.5 117.8
December 2007     128.8 108.0
January 2008     132.3 114.0
February 2008     123.3 109.5
March 2008     125.8 111.0
As of 21 April 2008, the mid-market price of an Acambis share was 115.2p. The number of outstanding ordinary 
10p shares at that date was 107,759,461.
Comparative dividend information
Acambis has never paid any cash dividends on its shares and does not anticipate paying cash dividends  
for the foreseeable future.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of AGM, including details of the time, date and location of the meeting, will be posted to shareholders 
with a copy of this Annual Report.
Memorandum and Articles of Association
A copy of both the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company has been filed with the  
Registrar of Companies. The Memorandum contains the fundamental provisions of the Company’s constitution. 
The Articles contain the rules for the internal management and control of the Company.
Documents on display
Certain documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection at the registered office  
of the Company.
Section 3: General information
Shareholder information
Shareholder information continued Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
101
Section 3: General information
Abbreviations and definitions
The following abbreviations are used throughout this document:
1996 Scheme Acambis 1996 Approved Share Option Scheme
1999 Plan Acambis 1999 Share Option Plan
2006A Plan Acambis 2006 Approved Share Option Plan
2006U Plan Acambis 2006 Unapproved Share Option Plan
ACAM2000™ ACAM2000™ (Smallpox (Vaccinia) Vaccine, Live) vaccine
AGM Annual General Meeting
AIM Alternative Investment Market
Baxter Baxter International Inc. or subsidiaries thereof
Bharat Biotech Bharat Biotech International Limited
BIA BioIndustry Association
BLA Biologics License Application
Bavarian Nordic Bavarian Nordic A/S
BPC Berna Products Corporation
BTG BTG International Limited
CDAD Clostridium difficile-associated disease
CDC US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
C.difficile Clostridium difficile
CEO Chief Executive Officer
CFO Chief Financial Officer
CSO Chief Scientific Officer
DBP Deferred Bonus Plan
DHHS US Department of Health and Human Services
DNA Deoxyribonucleic acid
EGM Extraordinary General Meeting
EPS Earnings per Ordinary Share
ESPP Employee Share Purchase Plan
EU European Union
FDA US Food and Drug Administration
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GMP Good Manufacturing Practice
GSK GlaxoSmithKline
HPA UK Health Protection Agency
HSV Herpes simplex virus
IAS International Accounting Standards
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IMS Interim Management Statement
IND Investigational New Drug
IP Intellectual Property
IRS Internal Revenue Service
JE Japanese encephalitis
KPI Key performance indicator
LSE London Stock Exchange
LTIP Acambis Share Incentive Plan, Long-Term Incentive Plan
MA Massachusetts
MD Maryland
MRSA Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
MVA Modified Vaccinia Ankara
NIH US National Institutes of Health
R&D Research and development
SAYE Save-As-You-Earn
SAYE Scheme Acambis 1995 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission
TSR Total Shareholder Return
WHO World Health Organization
Abbreviations and definitions 102
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 3: General information
Glossary
Glossary
Antibodies  any of various blood proteins used by the immune system to identify 
and neutralise foreign objects such as viruses and bacteria
attenuated vaccines bacteria or viruses than have been genetically weakened to make  
 them less virulent and useable as vaccines
BLA a marketing authorisation application in the US for a biological  
 medicinal product; it comprises pre-clinical, clinical, manufacturing  
 and quality data for a biological agent
bulk manufacturing the first stage of vaccine production, which produces large quantities  
 of material for purification
chimeric about a virus or ChimeriVax™ technology, defined as being a new  
 combination of replication genes from the yellow fever virus and   
 structural genes of a different flavivirus
clinical trials/clinical development testing of a new product in humans to collect data on aspects  
 of the product’s profile, including safety, efficacy, immunogenicity  
 and dose regimen
efficacy the extent to which a drug or vaccine is effective
encephalitis inflammation of the brain
endemic restricted or peculiar to a locality or region; a disease that  
 is well-established within a given locality or region
fill/finish the process of putting freeze-dried vaccine material into a vial  
 or appropriate equivalent and labelling accordingly
flavivirus a virus belonging to the family of Flaviviridae, spread by ticks and  
 mosquitoes. This family includes West Nile virus, dengue virus,   
 tick-borne encephalitis virus, yellow fever virus, Japanese encephalitis  
 virus, Murray Valley encephalitis virus, etc.
GMP good manufacturing practice, representing formal standards  
 of facilities cleanliness, process, quality controls and documentation  
 set out and periodically monitored by the main medicines control  
 agencies, to which a company has to conform in order to manufacture  
 a medicinal product for human use
immunogenic related to or producing an immune response
immunogenicity the ability of a vaccine to generate an appropriate immune response
inactivated a vaccine that has been developed through inactivating (killing)  
 a virulent organism with either formaldehyde or beta-propiolactone
latency the ability of a virus to lie dormant within a cell
lyophilisation the process of removing water via application of a vacuum, used  
 as a drying method for long-term preservation of vaccines in a solid  
 state and for long-term storage of live vaccines
Pandemic an epidemic that spreads through human populations easily and   
 sustainably across a large region after a disease new to the population  
 emerges and the agent infects humans, causing serious illness Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
103
Section 3: General information
Glossary
percutaneously about any medical procedure where inner organs or other tissue  
 is accessed via needle-puncture of the skin
Phase 1 the first in a series of human clinical trials, used to determine whether  
 the new potential vaccine is likely to cause any adverse reactions,  
 usually in healthy adults. Phase 1 trials of vaccines can also provide  
 initial insight into the product’s immunogenicity. Studies are normally  
 conducted on a volunteer group of tens of people
Phase 2 the second phase of the human testing of new vaccines. It is normally  
 the point at which the effect of different dose levels and regimes is  
 tested, as well as further testing of the safety and immunogenicity  
 profile of the vaccine. Studies are usually conducted on a volunteer  
 group typically numbering in the hundreds
Phase 3 the third phase of the human testing of new vaccines and the  
 final phase before licence application. An extensive safety and  
 immunogenicity database is built and the efficacy of the vaccine  
 is tested through agreed end points. Trial group sizes are typically  
 in the thousands at this stage
Phase 4 also known as a post marketing surveillance trial. Phase 4 trials involve  
 the safety surveillance (pharmacovigilance) and ongoing technical  
 support of a drug after it receives permission to be commercialised
purification the second stage of manufacturing, involving a process to remove  
 the growing medium from bulk vaccine material, leaving only the  
 larger quantities of vaccine generated
regulatory authorities the government bodies that assess, license and control the  
 development, clinical testing and production of vaccines.  
 They ensure that development and production occur within  
 the boundaries of and in accordance with national and  
 international legislation and guidelines
safety profile the types and numbers of adverse reactions that a normal, healthy  
 individual may experience following vaccination
seroconversion the production of neutralising antibodies in response to vaccination;  
 often used in vaccine trials as an immunogenicity marker based  
 on a defined increase in antibodies titres compared with  
 pre-vaccination base-line levels
titres the quantity of antibodies found in a patient’s blood
toxoid (vaccine)  a vaccine composed of toxoids that induce an immune response  
to the original toxins. Toxoids are bacterial toxins that have been 
weakened by a chemical (for instance, formalin) or heat treatment
Vero cell lineages of cells used in cell cultures
warm-base manufacturing ongoing production readiness capability to sustain a state of readiness  
 sufficient to enable an escalation of vaccine production
wild-type as first observed in nature 104
Acambis plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Section 3: General information
Company information and advisers
Company information and advisers
Acambis plc
Peterhouse Technology Park
100 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9PT, UK
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 275 300
Fax +44 (0) 1223 416 300
Email acambis@acambis.com
Website www.acambis.com
Communications and  
Investor Relations Department
Lyndsay Wright, VP , Communications and IR
ir@acambis.com
Company Secretary, registered office
and Group headquarters
Elizabeth Jones
Peterhouse Technology Park
100 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9PT, UK
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 275 300
Registered number – 2863682
Date of incorporation – 19 October 1993
Country of jurisdiction – England and Wales
Acambis US operations
Acambis Inc.
38 Sidney Street
Cambridge
Massachusetts 02139, US
Telephone +1 617 761 4200
Shareholder information
The share price is obtainable on Acambis’  
website at www.acambis.com.
LSE mnemonic – ACM
Reuters reference – ACM.L
Analyst coverage of Acambis
Blue Oar Securities Plc
Credit Suisse Securities (EUROPE) LTD
Deutsche Bank AG/London
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Jefferies International, Ltd
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
KBC Peel Hunt Ltd
Landsbanki Securities (UK) Limited
Lehman Brothers (International) 
Merrill Lynch
Nomura Code Securities Limited
PiperJaffray Ltd
UBS Limited
CORPORATE ADVISERS
Corporate broker   
JPMorgan Cazenove   
20 Moorgate   
London EC2R 6DA, UK
Legal advisers
Morrison & Foerster MNP
CityPoint
One Ropemaker Street
London EC2Y 9AW, UK
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Corporate Banking
PO Box 885
Mortlock House
Vision Park
Histon, Cambridge CB4 9DE, UK
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
West Yorkshire HD8 0LA, UK
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Abacus House
Castle Park
Cambridge CB3 0AN, UK Acambis is a leading vaccine company  
developing novel vaccines that address  
significant unmet medical needs or substantially 
improve upon current standards of care.
Financial results General information Business review
01 Operational and financial highlights
02 Chairman’s review
04 Q&A with the CEO
06 Our strategy
08 R&D overview
10 Our R&D pipeline
26 Financial review
29 Risk management report
30 Corporate Responsibility report
32 Board of Directors
36 Directors’ report
38 Corporate governance statement
40 Board and Committee reports
42 Remuneration report
Section 1
52 Directors’ responsibilities 
53  Independent Auditors’ report  
to the members of Acambis plc 
55  Financial statements 
60 Notes to the Group financial statements 
98 Summarised Group statements
Section 2
99 Shareholder information 
101 Abbreviations and definitions 
102 Glossary 
104 Company information and advisers
Section 3
About Acambis
We are headquartered in Cambridge, UK. The majority of our operations are based in the US, with R&D in Cambridge, MA and manufacturing facilities in Canton,  
MA and Rockville, MD. We are a UK public limited company with shares listed on the Official List of the LSE since 1995. At the end of 2007 we employed 206 people.
About this Annual Report
This is the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2007. It contains the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with  
UK regulations. References to the Group and Acambis throughout this document relate to Acambis plc and all of its subsidiary and associated  
undertakings. References to the Company are to Acambis plc, the ultimate holding company. For further information on Acambis, please visit  
our website at www.acambis.com.
“Safe Harbour” statement
Statements contained within this document may contain forward-looking comments, which involve risks and uncertainties that may cause  
actual events or results or the actual performance of the Company to differ materially from these reflected or contemplated in such forward-  
looking statements. In some cases, you can identify such forward-looking statements by terminology such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘could’,  
‘forecasts’, ‘expects’, ‘plans’, ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘estimates’, ‘predicts’, ‘potential’, or ‘continue’. Predictions and  
forward-looking references in this document are subject to the satisfactory progress of research which is, by its very nature,  
unpredictable. Forward projections reflect management’ s best estimates based on information available at the time of issue.
Definitions for abbreviations used throughout this document are provided on page 101.
Designed and produced by Merchant in collaboration with JohnstonWorks. 
This Report has been printed on Think4 Bright paper. This paper is fully recyclable and 
it has been independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC). The pulps used are 100% ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) and it is 
manufactured at a mill that has been accredited ISO14001 and BS EN ISO9001.  
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
. Acambis
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Business. Science. 
Opportunity .
Acambis Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Acambis plc
Registered in England No 2863682
